ABUJA – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Saturday asked Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to explain his role in the N33 billion corruption allegation as exposed by the House of Representatives. The party said the Vice President owes it as a personal moral burden, both as a preacher and Professor of law, to directly explain how the fund meant for the wellbeing of Nigerians suffering in the Northeast, was mismanaged under his supervision, instead of the lame attempts to dismiss the allegation and divert public attention from the scandal. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “Nigerians were thoroughly appalled to learn, from the House of Representatives, how Prof. Osinbajo, as Acting President, in June 2017, unilaterally pulled N5.8 billion from the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation, purportedly for emergency intervention on food in the North East, which has now turned scandalous. “Prof. Osinbajo should explain how, according to findings by the House of Representatives, all the six states of the Northeast failed to receive the emergency intervention for food security, for which a major part of the money was claimed to have been expended, under his direct supervision as Chairman of Board of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). “What has Prof. Osinbajo to say on the revelation at the public hearing conducted by the House of Representatives that there was no evidence the World Food Programme (WFP) received the 5000 metric tons of rice, which NEMA claimed to have bought and donated to WFP for distribution to victims of insurgency in the region? “What has our Vice President to say to the report indicating that four of the companies that supplied food items to the region financed their projects through N2 billion they each received as loan from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)?” PDP disclosed that it had information on how the presidency had been mounting pressure on the House of Representatives members to drop the investigation, insisting that Osinbajo’s action was self-serving and ostensibly conceived and executed in corrupt intentions. Meanwhile, PDP has cautioned Kaduna State governor, Nasir El-Rufai, over what it termed his unguarded comment, capable of causing religion and ethnic crisis. The party, which said the governor referred to its Vice Presidential candidate, Peter Obi, as a tribal bigot, described Obi as having a well known nationalist disposition and could not be associated with tribal bigotry. PDP advised el-Rufai to face the myriad of problems of Kaduna State, for which it maintained, the people had resolved to vote him out, and stop his attempt to further foul the nation’s political space by making comments capable of stoking religious and ethnic division in our country.