Janet Audu Nyajon is the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) candidate for Wukari 2 Constituency to the House of Assembly. In this interview with VICTOR GAI, Audu speaks on her plans for her constituency if elected. Excerpts: What motivated you to want to contest for the legislative seat of Wukari 2 Constituency in the Taraba House of Assembly? It is because of the level of poverty and deprivation of my people. I saw that there is the need for my people to be liberated. I also saw the need to develop my Constituency which has been deprived of all facets of development despite the resources we have at our disposal. I am talking about constituency allowances. Some Members would collect it without giving account of it. I am out to liberate my people from oppression and suppression. Why did you choose run on APGA political platform instead of the popular ones like the PDP or APC? I don’t think that APGA is a lesser or unknown party. APGA is well known. It is an older and popular political party with a strong base in the South East zone of Nigeria and l am from the North East zone. APGA is the ruling party in Anambra state. In fact, my Member representing Wukari/Ibi federal constituency is from APGA. We have a Member from Ussa who is from APGA but later defected to PDP. APGA is very strong in southern Taraba. We have a governor in APGA. What really made me to join APGA is because I have studied the manifestos of almost all the Nigerian political parties and I have discovered that APGA has the manifesto that hinges on what I want to do for my people. What are your plans to ensure credible representation of your people? If given the mandate, I would give priority to agriculture. I would ensure that fertilisers and farm inputs are provided. I will also ensure Youth empowerment. Let me tell you that Nigerian youths are active and productive. You only need to kick-start them with a little amount of money and they would perform wonders. I would also make sure that I create a scholarship scheme to enable the less privileged youths pursue their education. I would also give priority to women, especially orphans and widows in my Constituency. I would also promote sports activities, especially football which is the in-thing, just to foster unity among the youths. I would also drill boreholes in communities within my constituency. In addition to that, as a legislator who is saddled with the responsibility of lawmaking, l would initiate a Bill to stop the indiscriminate placing of bills on public signposts and billboards. There would be fines for violators of the proposed law. Also, I would sponsor a Bill, seeking to regulate and standardise the operation of private schools. That Bill would ensure that the minimum qualification for teaching in primary schools (i.e NCE) is adhered to as approved by the National Council on Education. And as a way of boosting my profession Journalism, l will sponsor a Bill that would compel Journalists to write reports of any event they covered. Do you have any sponsor? How do you intend to match the financial muscle of more established opponents in the other parties? God is my sponsor! I just came into politics. As far as I am concerned, I am out to win elections and not to defeat anybody. The primaries are over. We are now in the campaign period. Each political party has its candidate and we shall all meet on that election day. I am hopeful that I shall emerge winner. I know politics is capital intensive but there is a limit to which money would play a role in politics. You are coming from a male dominated society where women are socially and culturally disadvantaged. How do you intend to overcome this challenge and advance the cause of women as a Legislator? First of all, I want to call on Taraba women to participate actively in politics. They should take the bull by the horns just like I did. Can you imagine that in the House of Assembly, there is no single woman there out of 24 members of that parliament. We are not asking for a 50-50 chance, but at least there should be at least four women. It is alarming and disheartening that we presently have no woman among those lawmakers. We can do better than the men. So I am calling on women to embrace politics. I am coming in politics because the men have failed us. Let me assure you that I would do better than my male predecessors. I am not bothered and I am comfortable. With my experience as a journalist in the Correspondent Chapel of the NUJ in Taraba, where it is male dominated, I will make a lot of difference. I am well versed and comfortable in the male terrain. What are your chances in the next year’s elections? My chances are very bright! I am saying this without mincing words that my chances are very bright. I am hopeful that I would emerge the winner by God’s grace. What is your message to the electorate in your constituency? They should give me their votes and they will never regret they did. They should get their PVCs ready for the elections. Remember, INEC would only count their votes and not their prayers and wishes.