Lagos – After ending its previous 700,000 Euros-a-year contract (N150m) with German giants, Adidas in December 2014, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) opted to go with NIKE in a three-and-half-year deal, which will see the American sportswear company supply kits from April 1, 2015, until at least 2018. And when the NFF revealed in 2015 that it would earn $3.75m (N743m) during its three-and-half-year partnership with Nike and a $500,000 (N99m) bonus if the Super Eagles qualify for the 2018 World Cup in Russia among other perks, many did not weigh the revelation or the gravity of it. The contract was said to worth $750, 000 (148m Naira) in its first year and would rise to $1million (198m Naira) each year from 2016 till 2018. In contrast, England will continue wearing NIKE kit until 2030 after the Football Association (FA) secured a new contract that could be worth in excess of £400m. The FA had a contract with the sportswear manufacturer for three years and has now signed a 12-year contract extension, effective from August 2018. It is understood the deal is worth in the region of £400m – a baseline figure that could be added to significantly should performance-related bonuses be achieved. Though the Nigeria/NIKE deal is a minimal upgrade from the Adidas contract that ran out in December 2014 in which the German giants paid the NFF 700,000 euros (N150m) a year it is nowhere near the amounts being paid to other national teams and big name individual sports stars which means the deal isn’t worth celebrating considering Nigeria’s high profile in the footballing world. Before its deal with Nigeria, the sportswear giants signed a deal with the Football Federation of Chile (ANFP) worth $7 million per year – more than twice the South American previous kit deal with Puma. In total, Nike will pay the Football Federation of Chile $56 million for eight years. While South Africa will also earns $4 million a year in its deal with the American company which all dwarfs Nigeria’s earnings in the widely celebrated deal. Nike paid NIgeria $4million for World Cup sponsorship and for Super Eagles to wear their logo on their jerseys, but in a space of three hours NIKE made $255 million from sales of Super Eagles jersey to Nigerians globally. One wonders how the $4m sponsorship amount was arrived at. One remembers how thousands of fans flooded NIKE Town in London, as they rushed in to buy the newly launched Super Eagles’ Russia 2018 World Cup Kit. The queue was so long that it went round the corner and several steps away from the outlet. It was not only dark-skinned persons who were interested in laying their hands on the Super Eagles’ Russia 2018 kit, as white people were also seen on the queue. However, many of the ecstatic fans left disappointed, as the kit sold out in less than an hour after its official launch. And on Tuesday, November 20, Nigeria renewed their equipment partnership with Nike for the next four years, with an option for another four years. The new contract could see the NFF committed to NIKE until 2026, and comes in the wake of a successful partnership which saw the Super Eagles’ World Cup kit earn rave reviews across the world. “This four plus four deal is the best any African country has ever had with Nike,” Pinnick told the media, without going into figures but adding: “I can say it is about hundred percent better than anything else.” Shehu Dikko, the NFF’s Vice President and head of marketing, said that the new deal was a massive improvement on the previous one, and included the women’s and youth teams as well. “To start with, this new contract now encompasses not just supply of kit, but also base compensation, which was missing from the last contract,” Dikko began. “There are increased performance bonuses, and increased percentage royalties from sales of merchandise. “There is also specific provision made for the women’s team and the junior teams that was missing from the last contract. “And to avoid the situation we had recently with clearing our products at the port which led to our women’s team travelling without kit, Nike will now take the responsibility to deliver equipment door to door anywhere our teams are. “This shows the trust NIKE have in the NFF,” Dikko continued. Tina Salminen, Nike’s Regional Sports Marketing Director for Africa, expressed excitement at the new deal, with the previous one ending at the conclusion of the World Cup in July this year. “We are very honoured and excited to continue this cooperation with the NFF,” Salminen said. “I don’t think anybody had any idea how successful the Nigeria World Cup kit would be. It is the first football kit to ever win the London Design Award and we are very proud of that.” Salminen added that the current strip would run until 2020, when a new design will be launched: “Before Olympics 2020, there will be a new design. “The same designer who did the current kit will design the new one and he is already waiting to come up with something new and we at Nike cannot wait to see what he comes up with.” Meanwhile, as Nigerians are still reviewing both the previous deal and renewed deal, Pinnick and the NFF second vice-president, Shehu Dikkko have both expressed happiness over the soccer body’s extended deal with NIKE. Pinnick and Dikko were speaking on Tuesday in Asaba, capital of Delta State, after they signed what they tagged ‘a new, robust partnership agreement’ and ‘dawn of a new era’ between both organisations. We gathered that both parties see Tuesday’s contract as the real deal. The agreement is for four years at the first instance, with an automatic renewal clause that will take the marriage to the end of the 2026 FIFA World Cup finals. “We need to know where we are coming from to be able to appreciate where we are now. A few months after we came on board for our first term in office, I was told that we needed to buy jerseys for the National Team to play a football match. That was how bad it was, because the kit sponsor at that time terminated the contract. “So, I made contacts with some highly connected persons and worked hard to convince NIKE to come on board. “We were coming from a weak position but they made the agreement flexible for us. Today, we are happy we teamed up with NIKE because after we qualified and participated at the FIFA World Cup in Russia, the company was the one chasing us for a new improved contract,” Pinnick said at the contract–signing ceremony inside the Stephen Keshi Stadium. Dikko, who is also chairman of the NFF Marketing, Sponsorship and TV Rights Committee, said NIKE’s faith in Nigerian Football and its encouragement all the way have been heartwarming. “They never stopped believing in us and in our teams, and after they conducted their due diligence on everyone involved in the running of the NFF, they were very eager to sign this new deal as far back as when we returned from the World Cup in Russia. But we kept telling them to give us some time. “We are very happy because this new agreement comes with good money on annual basis, more supplies, improved qualification bonus for our teams, door-to-door delivery of kits, royalty for the NFF on jerseys sold and it has now been expanded to include our women national teams.” The new agreement is also flexible with regards to market situation, and performance of the National Teams. “We have a window for renewal of this contract in 2023 but most terms of the agreement as presently constituted would improve should the Super Eagles make a huge impact at the 2022 FIFA World Cup. “This contract brings a huge sigh of relief. Now, we do not have to worry about clearing kits at the ports because NIKE now has that responsibility to bring it to our door. “All the National Teams are now captured, we earn money on number of jerseys sold and a new kit will be designed for Nigeria prior to the 2020 Olympics Games in Tokyo,” Dikko added. After all said and done, one hopes that the new improved deal will really transform the country vis-à-vis the national teams, the players and the finances of the NFF.