ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari, has confirmed the appointment of the five chief executive officers and two executive directors of federal agencies. In a statement issued by the Permanent Secretary (General Services Office), Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Olusegun Adekunle, Buhari on Friday, enjoined the new appointees to regard their appointments as a call to national service and to carry out their responsibilities with uprightness, diligence and prompt response to the yearnings of the public. The president also charged them to bring their wealth of experience to bear in the discharge of their responsibilities. Two of the appointments are renewal for a second term in office. They are: Prof. Okechukwu Ukwuoma, Director-General, National Centre for Technology Management (NACETEM), for a second and final term of four years with effect from 22nd July, 2018. Chief Medical Director (CMD), Obafemi Awolowo, University Teaching Hospital, Ile-Ife, Prof. Victor Adebayo Adetiloye, for second and final term of four years, with effect, from 22nd September, 2018. The new appointments for an initial term of four years are: Abdul-Jalil Suleiman, DG, Directorate of Technical Cooperation in Africa (DTCA) with effect from 17th September, 2018, Chief Medical Director (CMD),University of Uyo Teaching Hospital, Dr. Bassey Emem Abasi, with effect, from 22 nd September, 2018. For Electricity Liability Management Company (NELMCO), Mrs. Mojoyi Oluwa Dekalu-Thomas, Executive Director (Liability Management), and Mrs.Chinedum Olisakwe-Lawrence, Executive Director (Corporate Services) for an initial term of four years with effect from 20th September, 2018. For Border Communities Development Agency (BDCA), Capt. Junaid Abdullahi (son-in-law to the President) has been appointed the Executive Secretary for an initial term of four years with effect from 22nd September, 2018. President Buhari, also confirmed the appointments of Folashodun Adebisi Shonubi, as Deputy Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria, with effect from 17th October, 2018 for a period of five years in the first instance. Banire Muiz Adeyemi, has been appointed Part-Time Chairman, Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), with effect from 17th October, 2018 for a period of five (5) years. Sule Yakubu Bassi, appointed Secretary as Nigerian Diaspora Commission, with effect from 19th October, 2018 for an initial period of four years. For Federal Judiciary Service Commission Senator Abba Ali and Mr. Mohammed Sagir as members (Non-Legal Practitioners), for an initial period of five years with effect from 24th October, 2018. For the National Centre for Agricultural Mechanization (NCAM), Ilorin, Kasali Muideen Yomi, Director/CEO Initial term of four years with effect from 28th October, 2018. For the Agricultural, Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI), Ilorin, Dr. Olufemi Ajayi Oladunni, Director/CEO initial term of four years with effect from 28th October, 2018. For the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency, Clement Onyeabo Nze as Director- General for initial term of four years with effect from 28th October, 2018. For Board of the Petroleum Product Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA), Clement Isong is to replace Mr. Thomas Obafemi Olawore as member with effect from 28th October, 2018. For National Salaries, Income, Wages, Commission, David Isho Nyikyaa, is appointed as Secretary with effect from 1st November, 2018. For Special Investigation Panel for Recovery of Public Property, Obinna Francis Ogwuegbu, as Secretary with effect from 2nd November, 2018. For Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo, Dr. Akinrinola Samuel Akintunde, Provost for an initial term of four years with effect from 6th November, 2018. For Federal Polytechnic, Ile-Oluji, Ondo State, Prof. Emmanuel Adebayo Fasakin, Rector For a second and final term of four years with effect from 6th November, 2018. For Nigeria Mining Cadastre Office, Obadiah Simon Nkom, Director-General/CEO, for an initial term of four years with effect from 12th January, 2019.