LAGOS – The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) yesterday stated that the country may not achieve the 30 per cent broadband penetration target by the end of 2018, due to some challenges. The regulatory agency, expressed the concern during a stakeholders’ “Broadband Engagement Forum” in Lagos. Speaking at the event, Mr. Bako Wakil, Head, Technical Standard and Network Integrity, NCC, , who is also the Alternate Chairman, Broadband Implementation and Monitoring Committee, said that the challenges militating 30 per cent broadband penetration include high Right of Way (RoW) charges and multiple taxation. Wakil cited other challenges as multiple regulation and delays in obtaining site acquisition permits. He said that in spite of the challenges, the commission was still determined in its pursuit of the target, as the country had achieved 22 per cent broadband penetration. According to him, “the National Broadband Plan (NBP) provides the roadmap and timelines to deliver a five-fold increase in broadband penetration, that is, from six per cent in 2013 to 30 per cent in 2018. Execution of the plan is to provide available, accessible and affordable broadband services to all citizens. The plan is to transform the Nigerian economy to a digital knowledge-based economy for national development.” Wakil said that the commission had engaged the National Executive Council (NEC) and the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), proffering solutions to the challenges. He noted that some governors were charging as high as N5,000 per linear metre for RoW, some charge N500, while the Federal Government charged N145. According to him, “Broadband infrastructure is critical for the socio-economic transformation of the country. In order to address the deficiency of infrastructure, the commission has licensed six of the seven Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos) to deploy broadband infrastructure across the country. In order to succeed, we urge you – State Executives – to consider our recommendations and mitigate the various challenges plaguing the effective penetration of broadband in the country.”