Lagos – Only seven countries, headlined by the USA and Germany, have been to every FIFA Women’s World Cup since its inception in 1991, and Nigeria is a member of that rarefied company. But the Super Falcons of Nigeria are the only member of that elite group yet to qualify for the 2019 edition in France. And by the looks of it, this will be the least straightforward of their journeys to reach the showpiece tournament. Three countries will qualify from Africa at the end of the Africa Women Cup of Nations (AWCON), which kicked off in Accra, Ghana on Saturday, November 17. Nigeria have dominated the tournament, and its two previous iterations, by winning eight out of 1o editions. In that time, they have only finished outside the top three once, in 2012 when they were beaten by South Africa in the semifinal and then lost to Cameroon in the third place match. Extrapolating from there, it would be only natural to assume that Nigeria will be a straightforward pick to finish in the top three at worst, and champions at best. The Super Falcons won the African Women’s Championship (AWC), now AWCON, in 2006, one of 10 continental titles they’ve won. This time around, they need to finish in the top three in Ghana to qualify for the World Cup next year. It is not that straightforward, however. Equatorial Guinea’s wins in 2008 and 2012, the only two titles not claimed by Nigeria, showed that a new force was emerging, and the sides will meet in the group stage this month. Rather than work towards staying ahead of the chasing pack, the Super Falcons appear to be heading in the opposite direction in recent times, but through little fault of the players themselves. Where other countries, especially South Africa, have been playing a glut of friendly matches, the Nigerians have only played one friendly in two years. For the whole of 2017 they were without a coach and did not play a single game. Their only preparatory matches building up to the AWCON was against two boys teams, one in Nigeria and another in Cote d’Ivoire, and another against the Ivorien Women’s league champions. To rub salt in the wound, the competition is being played in Ghana, where, and against whom; the Super Falcons have historically sweated for results. Ghana were the first-ever team to beat Nigeria, when Alberta Sackey’s goal in 2002 in Warri condemned the Super Falcons to an historic maiden loss. And two years later, the Super Falcons were just one penalty shootout away from missing out on the 2004 Olympic Games after two 0-0 draws in Ibadan and Accra. The Super Falcons have little margin for error in the group games, and even less as the event progresses. This time, Banyana Banyana have shown the way with their preparations and motivation, Cameroon have proven formidable opponents, and Ghana have home field advantage. Nigeria remain favourites going into the tournament, however, and it would be foolish to think that the Super Falcons are not one of the top three countries on the continent, even in a group that contains the match-ready South Africans. If the Super Falcons are to remain in that elite company with Brazil, Germany, Japan, Norway, Sweden and the USA, the team will have to look past their troubles, reach into the deepest reserves of their quality, and fight to the last. Thus that fight begins on Sunday, November 18 (today) with their opening Group B match against the Banyana Banyana of South Africa in Cape Coast. South Africa coach, Desire Ellis said she is pleased to be meeting Nigeria in the group stage, as her side seeks a first-ever qualification for the FIFA Women’s World Cup. Banyana Banyana, who have been runners-up in the continental championship on four previous occasions, have been pooled with the Super Falcons, Equatorial Guinea, and fellow Southern African side, Zambia for the tournament. It means Banyana will avoid tournament favourites Nigeria in the semifinals, if they make it that far, potentially boosting their chances of reaching the World Cup in France next year. “There was never going to be an easy group – all eight teams that have qualified are top quality, and we all know that to be the best, you have to beat the best,” Ellis. “We have been anxiously waiting for this draw to take place so that we take our preparations to the next level now that we know who we will face in the tournament.” Ellis added: “Nigeria has won this tournament a record eight times and they are the defending champions, so they will definitely be sensing victory against us. “But we are glad to be meeting them now and not later in the tournament because our last encounter ended in tears for us. “We lost 1-0 in the semifinal of this competition in 2016, and that denied us a chance to be at the World Cup. “Playing them in the first match is also a tricky affair because you have to be on top of your game from the first whistle, and any mistake they will punish you. “In any case, I always tell the players that the first fixtures of any tournament are very important as they set the tone for the rest of the competition. I believe we will be ready for them this time – we are much wiser.” Ellis however said her team is eager to repeat their 2012 win against the Super Falcons. She noted that the team has worked on a few things as it will be which team executes its plan well with her side looking to beat Nigeria like it did six years ago. “If we are not ready now, then there is a problem. We have worked on a few things and we have a plan. It is not just playing Nigeria, you are playing against the defending champions and you need to respect that. “When we get onto the pitch it will be 11 against 11, and it will be who executes the plan the best. We have beaten Nigeria before in 2012 in Equatorial Guinea. “In football, nothing is impossible. You need to have the belief, which I know we do, and you have to execute your plan really well. “We obviously have a plan for Nigeria and the plan has to be executed 100 per cent for us to get the result that we want. If we prepare well and execute our plan well, we will get the results that we want. Ellis who lost the Cup as a Captain 14 years ago added that pressure will always be there but there is no time to focus on the past since this being the first group match against the best team we don’t want to take chances. “That happened in 2000 in South Africa, we lost 2-0 and the game was abandoned due to crowd trouble. Pressure will always be there and there is no running away from it. It doesn’t matter how big or small the occasion. You don’t need any motivation playing against Nigeria. “The players realise what is at stake. Pressure is not just on me but everyone connected to the game. Meanwhile, Super Falcons assistant coach, Maureen Mmadu thinks her side remains the team to beat going into the championship, as she believes the Super Falcons already have their work cut out. “I think there is little or no argument that Nigeria is still the number one women’s football country in Africa and not only because the Super Falcons had won almost all the past championship,” explained Mmadu who also featured in four FIFA Women’s World Cup with Nigeria. “The truth is that we (Nigerians) embraced women’s football earlier than most African countries and that is why you have so much talent all over the country.” “The Super Falcons have many foreign-based players from the European leagues to the Chinese Super League (CSL) and this is their edge against other teams on the continent because the players give the coaches different options.” In the encounter against the South Africans, Super Falcons head coach, Thomas Dennerby will be relying on the experience of his players to do the havoc on the South Africans and go ahead to retain the trophy. With the presence of the continent’s Best Female Player of the Year, Asisat Oshoala; goals merchant, Rasheedat Ajibade and captain, Rita Chikwelu, the Super Falcons should be in their best form not only to beat the South Africans but also to go ahead and retain the trophy. The team which defeated Cote d’Ivoire’s Eleven Sisters de Gagnoa 4-0 in a friendly game in Abidjan on Monday, will also be relying on the skills of Desire Oparanozie and Francesca Ordega, who with Oshoala scored in the 4-0 demolishing of the Eleven Sisters de Gagnoa in Abidjan.