P/Harcourt – Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has directed the State Attorney-General to set up a Commission of Inquiry to ascertain the remote and immediate causes that led to the collapse of a private 7-storey building at Woji Road, Port Harcourt, the state capital. Governor Wike described the building collapse incident as a sad development, saying it has led to the painful loss of lives. He said: “I feel so pained that we have to face this kind of calamity at this time. I commiserate with the families that have lost their loved ones who came to seek their daily bread. “Government will do all it can to give them the necessary support. I have directed the Attorney-General of Rivers State to ensure that all legal steps are taken to do what is right within the ambit of the law”. The governor ordered the immediate arrest of the owner of the collapsed building, saying that the State Government would bring all culprits to book. “Whoever that approved this structure and those involved in the construction will face the law.  The government will take every necessary step to ensure that culprits are brought to justice. “Whoever is involved, from the owner or the contractor or the officials of the state, they will face the full weight of the law,” he said. Speaking when he led top government officials to the site of the collapsed building on Sunday, Governor Wike noted that all officials of the Rivers State Government who defaulted in their duties will be sanctioned. The governor was accompanied by his wife, Justice Eberechi Suzzette Nyesom-Wike and top government officials. He said: “Government will take steps to acquire this property.  We cannot allow this illegality. If you look at the master-plan of this area, a 7-storey  building is not allowed here”. Governor Wike, however, commended the construction giants, security agencies and non-governmental organizations for working with the Rivers State Government to carry out rescue operations at the site of the building collapse. It will be recalled that the 7-storey building at Woji road collapsed on Friday, with the Rivers State Government mobilising emergency services to rescue trapped persons. As at Sunday, 38 persons have been rescued, while six persons have been confirmed dead. The governor directed that rescue operations should continue.