Olufunso Amosun, wife of Ogun State governor and President of UPLIFT Development Foundation, on Wednesday, said the preoccupation of her foundation was for the citizenry, particularly the youths, to be gainfully employed and be self-sufficient in order to reduce poverty in the society. Speaking at the official opening ceremony of a week-long UPLIFT Youth Training and Beautification Programme at the Office of the Wife of the Governor, South-West Resource Centre, Oke-Mosan in Abeokuta, Mrs Amosun said the training was designed to train unemployed youths on beautification, which would enable them earn a living. She explained that the training was in its fourth edition and would run for one week after which outstanding beneficiaries would be selected to take part in the Christmas street beautification programme in December. She urged the participants to be focused and practice what they were being taught as this would help them start up their own outfit. “The beneficiaries will be exposed to the decoration skills through practical experiences that will assist them when they have their own personal career or contracts. I can perceive that the resource persons have impacted knowledge on them and they have proved it through the decorations they have done themselves,” the governor’s wife said. She encouraged the beneficiaries to put in their best, adding that the aim of the training was to complement the effort of the state government in boosting human capital development in the state. The UPLIFT Development Foundation president urged the participants to be good ambassadors of the foundation and distinguish themselves when they start their own outfits, encouraging them to always leave their contact at every event they decorate as this would enable them get more customers and jobs. Contributing, the lead resource person, Mrs. Abidemi Adeyemi, lauded the governor’s wife for giving youths the opportunity to learn the beautification skills, which if well harnessed would be profitable to the beneficiaries.