LAGOS – Difficult roads are often said to lead to beautiful destinations, but victims of Lagos-Ibadan Expressway accidents in Nigeria would beg to differ, same as the countless corpses that have been carted off the road if the dead could speak. When the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS) estimated that no fewer than 2,598 Nigerians died in road accidents between October 2017 and March 2018; a six-month period, many ascribed most of the deaths to accidents that occurred on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway during the period. But before we discount their stipulations though, the number of tragic stories recorded on the road in recent times speaks volumes on why such conclusions have been drawn. The story of a woman who died while commuting from Mile 12 Market in Ketu, Lagos readily comes to mind. The woman, a pepper seller in Abeokuta, who had gone to procure tomatoes from Mile 12 for her business boarded a bus from Ketu and met with traffic on the expressway. Others in the vehicle, who thought she was merely asleep tried to wake her up when she leaned on other passengers as if in sleep, but to no avail. Efforts to resuscitate her proved abortive and she was later declared dead. This is not to forget another tragedy that occurred barely three weeks ago on the same expressway when a luxury bus coming from the northern part of the country ran into a broken down truck at the Asese axis of the road. This was in the wee hours of the morning, and the accident claimed nine lives, the remains of who were later deposited at the Olabisi Onabanjo Teaching Hospital mortuary. On Tuesday, June 12, eight persons died in an accident, which involved a white Toyota Hiace bus and a blue Mack truck opposite Wichtech Roofing and Pipes on the same Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. 10 persons (five males and five females) were involved in the accident and five males and two females died on the spot while one female died at the hospital. These incidents are not isolated events. According to Chibuike, a driver who plies the road on his bi-weekly drive to Delta State, it is a “weekly wahala.” The number of deaths on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway are not mere materials for statistics, they are real people who have become the subjects of real tragedy. Too many lives have been unwittingly lost on the road. In an earlier report by Vitus Nwankwo Ukoji, an Information Retrieval Specialist at Nigeria Watch, and a Research Fellow at the French Institute for Research in Africa (IFRA-Nigeria); titled trends and patterns of fatal road accidents in Nigeria (2006 – 2014), Lagos recorded the highest number of fatalities (1,579 deaths from 620 events). The report further indicates that Nigeria is ranked second highest in the rate of road accidents among 193 countries of the world. The report categorised causes of fatal car accidents in Nigeria into human, mechanical, and environmental factors. Among the mechanical factors that lead to fatal car accidents are broken-down vehicles on the road without adequate warning, while environmental factors include potholes, and poorly tarred roads. This simply goes to say that much of the solution to the problem of road accidents lie with provision of adequate infrastructure, road project. But the Lagos Ibadan road project, while ongoing is one that has been on for so long that the presence of construction workers and machines has become a fixture on the road. Speaking with Tunmise Adeko, mother of two who works in Sagamu and resides in Lagos with her family, she shared some of her daily ordeals. “Just last week, a tyre from a moving vehicle on the other lane nearly broke my windscreen. I think the driver of the other vehicle hit a particularly deep pothole and his tyre came off. The tyre bounced over the concrete traffic divider to our side of the road and bounced on my car. I have never seen such a thing in my life, only on TV in cartoons. I kept swerving to avoid it. Thank God I wasn’t speeding and the road was not so busy at the time. Our side of the road was riddled with potholes and huge cracks, and the tyre kept bouncing. It was when I got to the office that my boss told me that the tyre eventually hit someone in another vehicle and the person died from the injuries. I had even concluded in my mind that my car would be a write off with the way the tyre kept hitting it and we were swerving. At a point I nearly hit the road divider because only the middle of that part of the road was motorable, the sides of the road were full of potholes and crevices, and it was that middle part of the road that was motorable that the tyre came to,” she said. Saturday INDEPENDENT embarked on a road trip on Wednesday morning to see the level of construction still ongoing. Coming from the Lagos end of the expressway, the first diversion we noticed starts from Ibafo around Oando Filling Station, before Asese. The diversion is basically from Ibafo, all through Asese. From that point on, there is access to the normal four lanes that the road is supposed to be. The next diversion starts at Car Park C all through Redemption Camp to FRSC Office, which means drivers maintain a two-lane, tedious ride. The road from that point on to Sagamu interchange is free of apparent hassles. Heading back to Lagos though was another nightmare. From Sagamu Interchange, you meet the first diversion at FRSC, just after Redemption Camp Youth Centre. Commuters must maintain two lanes all through to Car Park C. From there till one reaches Mowe, there is relative accessibility of the other lanes. However, from Mowe, where the new pedestrian bridge is being constructed, another chaos ensues. This time not just from ongoing construction but human factors as well, chief of which is the public buses popularly referred to as ‘danfo’. Underneath the bridge, though, the road is bad, even though there are signs of recent temporary fixes and patching of the road. That point is also a major bus stop, which contributes to the chaos. After Mowe, the next diversion is at NASFAT, around Asese. From NASFAT, all through to Ibafo, the road is in a sorry state, and passengers in the vehicle Saturday INDEPENDENT boarded spoke on many of such accidents that had occurred in that axis. The road is riddled with all sorts of cracks and potholes, which caused a 25-minute gridlock on the journey. This is coupled with the construction of another necessary pedestrian bridge at Ibafo. Things however pick up from MFM where the road is wider. From Ibafo, MFM, Kara, Magboro, up till Arepo, the road is about five lanes, but it is still not in a proper state. Driving on that stretch requires a lot of patience and attention. Further speaking, Adeko explained, “The potholes that have been filled and patched around Mowe actually reduced traffic in recent times, but I don’t think they can fill those ones around Arepo. As we speak, nothing has been done on that section of the road. Some of the cracks look like the road is splitting into two, like a piece of cloth that is splitting at the seams. “Sometimes, when I’m returning to Lagos from Sagamu, the traffic begins as far back as Youth Centre, all the way to Lagos. Though now that some patchwork has been done, the traffic now is mostly caused by accidents.” In a chat with a driver, Ajala (not real name), who operates an 18-seater bus from Berger to Ibadan, Iwo Road, Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered that he had been involved in two separate accidents on that road within this year. “The way me I dey drive be say I dey look far for my front, since na express. That day, I just dey drive, passenger no dey my motor, only me and another person, I don reach one big hole for middle of road around Toll Gate for Ibadan before I see the pot hole, but I no fit stop again. That thing chop N25,000 for my motor. My head hit windscreen that day. If you look well, the mark still dey there. All that nonsense wey dey sam they do the road, e never reach all that side.” Samuel, another driver whose route is Mowe-Ibafo to Berger shared that since he had started plying that route, there has been no time that the road had been good. “Me I think they have cursed this road. There is a demon that is drinking blood there. “But the road is good business sometimes,” he continued.  “Mowe/ Ibafo passenger, we dey carry N50, N100, N200. But any day accident dey, we dey carry N300, N500, and people go still enter because they no get choice.” At this point his comment was interrupted by another fellow at the car park who told him to keep quiet. “Instead of you to tell government to come and do road, you are saying rubbish. Don’t you know if the road is good, your motor won’t spoil quickly?” The interrupter said. He continued, “They are doing the road, it is just that they are slow. And they would stop for some time, and then all of a sudden we see them on the road again. It is as if they have no plan. They told us before that the road will be completed by 2017. Now they are saying 2019. I’m sure they will still say something else later.” When asked about the real cause of the frequent accidents that occur on the road, all the respondents fingered negligence on the part of the construction companies. Tunmise said, “The problem is majorly the diversions on the road. Sadly, the construction workers don’t put up proper signage to inform drivers of diversion. So if you are not used to the road, you just encounter the diversions all of a sudden. But in some areas, Julius Berger has a few signs up. The one I have really noticed is coming from Ibafo, just before the diversion that leads to Asese, on the way to Sagamu. But on other parts of the road, there are no signs or notices. Ajala on his part said “It is government’s work. Whether they put sign or not, they will still do wetin dem wan do.” Samuel on his part shared that he had noticed a few signs, but that was a long time ago. “They have carried it away. Now, if they want to do diversion, they just block the road.” Efforts to reach the two companies handling the road construction project, Reynolds Construction Company (RCC) and Julius Berger, involved quite a number of turnarounds. A couple of the officials claimed they no longer work for RCC, while Julius Berger officials referred Saturday INDEPENDENT to official spokesmen that were unreachable. However, a former member of the Presidential Monitoring Committee (PMC) on the project, shared his knowledge of the project. “RCC’s section of the road project starts from Sagamu Interchange to Ojo Interchange in Ibadan, while Julius Berger starts from Lagos down to Sagamu Interchange. The initial agreement was that the road project would end in 2019. “While Wale Babalakin’s Bi-Courtney was the initial contractor that was given the road, I believe that the problem they had was that they lacked finances. They had an agreement with the government that they would source for the funds, manage the road and make a recap of the capital invested. But the global recess problem in 2012/2013 affected that and they couldn’t get funds. “I would divide the problems of that road into two categories: lack of supervision and insufficient funding. “On the funding, the fault is from the government. The reason I said so is this. The contract was awarded at N195 billion. But we know the way Nigerians are, everyone wants to add theirs. So it has been reduced from the initial amount. What is involved now is a far cry from what was originally awarded for both Julius Berger and RCC. “Secondly, the project is going as slow as it is because it was not financed like when Jonathan was in government. I am not trying to be biased, but that is the fact. The former minister for works is an expert on the road. He put a lot of things in place, so that it is not easy for anyone to mess up the project. The current minister, Fashola, went to consult the Nigeria Institute of Engineering for the supervision, and that is the reason they are improving in some certain areas that was left behind, which was part of the contract. “The honest truth is that the contractors want to cut corners and manipulate, they don’t want to do what the agreement says because they want to maximise their profit. So if a supervising engineer from Federal Ministry of Works is not on top of his game, and they are compromising, you know what would happen.” When asked if the construction companies can meet the 2019 completion date, he said, “It is not feasible. What they would keep telling you is that the project is about 70% completed. But the physical reality doesn’t look that way. These were some of the issues I had with them before I left them.” On the cause of accidents on the road, he explained, “A lot of signage are not on that road, a lot of things are being done wrongly. We are saying we are underdeveloped, but foreigners are taking advantage of us. Anywhere in the world where such magnitude of construction is being done, there would be signage in place, which is not there. A lot of Nigerians lost their lives on that project. “Let me give an instance, when they want to close a road or make a diversion, has the Road Safety officials given them permission to do that? No one is monitoring all that. They would just close off some sections of the road. “Palliative measures were provided for in the contract, money was paid for that. Julius Berger is complying to some extent, though they have their own shortcomings on some other things like traffic management and logistics. RCC had a lot in place for accidents and rescue operations while Berger doesn’t have that. “Another problem is that the safety experts being employed by companies are not capable of managing such roads. And the reason such incompetent people are employed is because they can be paid lesser than the real professionals. You cannot buy experience. Such a person will have no relationship with the police and road safety officials. “The law is so clear on road diversion and others and I don’t think Road Safety gives permits to these contractors before they do the diversion and create hazards on the road. Has any of the contractors even been fined yet for causing road accidents or hazard on the road? All these oversights are creating more issues for the citizens that use the road. When an accident occurs, there has to be an audit of what caused the accident so that the company would be fined and they would know the lapses from their own end. But because they have some relationship with some people in government, that would let some people not do their jobs. That is Nigeria.” Tunmise further buttressed this point, “Every week, an accident is recorded on that road. This week has been a bit quiet but today is still Wednesday and we can only pray. So far, we have not had any this week, but as at last week, we had one on Monday at Mowe, so I got to work 9:30am, even though I left Berger at 6:20am . Most days are like that. If there was no diversion, I’m sure the accidents won’t be as much.” Further enquiries from residents of the areas like Mowe, Arepo, Abeokuta, Ibadan, Berger also revealed that many also ascribe the endless gridlocks and accidents to the religious institutions scattered along the expressway, but the former member of PMC said, “The religious institutions on that road merely cause gridlock, but the accidents are caused by the construction companies. If there is a diversion, what is the notice and signage made available? What are the palliative things being done on the road? They signed an agreement of palliative measures to be put in place pending the time the road would be fixed. “The problem with these foreigners that the contract was awarded to is that they feel superior, but the truth remains that the job has to be done the normal way. I am not aware of Road Safety issuing a fine on RCC or Berger at anytime. It is the right time for us to make Nigeria great, and it is Nigerians that will do it, foreigners will never do it for us,” he concluded. Adeko further shared his misgivings on Road Safety officials lacking in their duties. She said, “Road Safety officials are generally on a part of the road because of their office at Car Park C. Then sometimes, they are stationed around Mowe, and that’s only during the day, except there is an accident. When there is an accident, it seems they magically appear. On a regular day though, especially in the mornings, they are nowhere to be found. That’s where I pass everyday, we are really suffering.” On the details of the project, Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered through reliable means that what is actually being done on the road is not construction but correction. This lends some credence to Babalakin’s position recently, while delivering a lecture as a guest lecturer at the eighth fellowship conferment lecture of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) in Abuja. He said, “The road being constructed is completely inappropriate and outdated. It is the resurfacing of the 1977 road. It is a road that is inadequate to accommodate the geographic growth that has taken place since 1977.” He further explained: “The current road cannot contribute meaningfully to the development of road infrastructure. Julius Berger is completing a road that it will never and can never suggest or contemplate building in Germany. Our heaviest traffic road in Nigeria is being built without the necessary accompanying things that should be there.” With these troubling reports, what is the hope for denizens of and commuters on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway? Roads as an infrastructure are perhaps one of the most important things a government can provide its people. That’s because without roads, commerce grinds to a halt, and commerce is the heart of any successful economy. Nigeria needs its heart, and it is safeguarded by little things like the completion of a major road project like Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, a road that connects multiple states of the nation.