Lagos – Stakeholders in the Nigerian business sector have affirmed that the signing of the Free Trade Zone Treaty, Nigeria will derive the benefit of a single market for trade in goods and services, which allows for economics of scale, export of Nigerian goods and services, as well as accelerate the industrialisation process in the country. At a one-day conference on “Nigeria and the African Unions Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA), held recently at the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Lagos, Ambassador Chinedu Osakwe, Nigeria’s Chief Trade Negotiator and Director General, Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations, in his presentation, titled: “Nigeria in a challenging global economy: Challenge and Opportunity of the Agreement Establishing the African Continental Free Trade Area,” noted that the Free Trade Zone Treaty will improve market access for Nigerian exporters of goods and services. Ambassador Osakwe, who argued that the agreement will also serve as a dispute settlement mechanism, noted that “we did not previously have on the continent based on which Nigeria can litigate against other African countries that put barriers in the export of goods and services of Nigerian exporters”. He added that the pact establishing the AFCFTA is a platform for deeper integration in the global economy and beyond Africa. Also, Ambassador Ayo Olukanni, Director General, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and agriculture, said the AFCTA has become very important, not only for Nigeria, but also for the entire continent, because through that, “Africa is trying to create a huge trading area, so that we can increase inter-African trade which will allow members and the countries across Africa to trade with each other.” While noting that Tafawa Balewa, the first Prime Minister, in 1963, emphasised the importance of inter-trade among African countries, Olukanni added that “A common market in Africa will encourage inter-trade among member-states and bring prosperity, employment, as well as improve export of goods and services.” He said that “the larger the trading area, the more advantages we have in terms of trade, export and other establishments.” Commenting on President Muhammadu Buhari and the pact, he expressed optimism with the signal that the AFCTA is improvingly being democratised, adding that the whole process of democratization of the AFCTA involves more consultations and a deep knowledge of what is going to be the impact. “Nigeria must be part and parcel of the AFCTA agreement for the advantage of our country, people, job creation, increased productivity, especially the small and medium enterprises,” Olukanni said. “As President Buhari has correctly pointed out, first we have to get all the stakeholders to understand the terms of the agreement, identify the opportunities for them, ask them what their concerns are, and above all, have implementation plan for the game of the AFCFTA,” he said.