After grabbing a good number of awards including AMAA, Belinda Effah became one of the famous actresses that are looked out for in the social circle. Meeting the talented actress at a movie location in Abule Egba, Lagos and waiting behind the camera for her to finish a scene revealed that it is not all bed of roses. In this interview, she spoke with Ifeoma Ononye after she was given a 10 minute-lunch break about choosing acting career and how she will love to help people. I will say I am privileged to be behind the scene for the first time watching how a movie is shot. I have come to realise it’s no joke and it involves too many repetitions. How do you actors do it without getting bored? Well that is what I have been called in my life to do. I love every bit of it – no complaints at all. I’d do it over and over again. In my next life, I will do it one more time. I love it. But if it’s not your calling, you’d find it challenging. That is why when we involve people who are not professionals in the art, they complain because they think they just have to do the scene once and that’s it. The first take might not be the best; the second may not be it either. Sometimes it can be done 10 times to perfect a close up shot or a long shot. You mean the repetition I just witnessed is not even for a full scene but for a single shot? Exactly, what I am talking about is for a single shot. A scene is made up of several angle shots and one angle shot can take over 10 shots to get it right. Just for the master shot, we might end up taking over 10 shots. You have to do the same thing over and over again until the director is okay with it. So, if you do not understand all of that you will get frustrated. I have been on a location where people get frustrated, but I am like, “These ones don’t understand”. It is normal to me. And because I am a perfectionist, I don’t mind doing it over and over again. For instance, imagine an emotional scene where you are supposed to cry and after doing your best and the director asks you to do it again. Even in real life, it gets to a point tears will cease from your eyes after crying for too long, but in acting, you have to force those tears back to your eyes for as long as the director wants it. It is tedious, but I love it. Does it mean you don’t get tired or bored having to say the same thing several times? As a human being, I get tired physically and emotional drained on set, but I channel my inner energy. I have gotten to the stage where I know how to interpret each scene and I give each of them the energy that they deserve; maybe when the camera is not on me and I don’t invest my energy much. When did you tell yourself that this is the kind of life you want? I was a child when I made that decision. I was very young. I used to write poetry, I used to write short stories, I used to mimic people a lot and I used to love to be part of the drama department. I love this. This is my life. When did you get your first drama opportunity? I did some drama in church. But the first professional work for me is ‘The Room’. I played a significant role in the movie and it was shown on DSTV for a long time. It is actually a language movie. Did someone introduce you to the industry? Once I knew that this was what I was born to do, I put my ears to the ground to know where and when something was happening. Back in the days, nobody will give you an opportunity as a green horn. If you are not a known face nobody will gamble their lead role on you. I attended auditions. However, for ‘The Room’, I got it through referral. It had already been shot but Mnet didn’t like the production. So, they got another director who had worked with me to re-produce the movie. That was how I got the role. I also had a bit of an edge because I could speak the language, Efik. So, they called me and auditioned me and I got the role. You won the 9th AAMA as the Most Promising Act. Yes, I won a lot of awards with Kokoma, produced by Uduak Oguamanam, Emem Isong’s sister. I did Kokoma, which was a language movie and it earned me almost all the awards, AAMA, BON, NEA just name it. I won almost all the awards at that time. Tell us about your other career. You run a food company? Yes, I run a food company called Favour Right Foods: there is favour and it is the right food for you. Do you have branches now or is it still in one spot? We are expanding gradually. We started small, a kiosk by the road side because I wanted to inspire young people who look up to me that you can start small and grow big. If you don’t have the big funds, you can start small. This is the story of KFC and Amazon. So, go through the fire and the water, no immediate success. I have been through the fire in business. At some point, it wasn’t getting the right patronage even though it is food that people need daily, but that experience was moulding me into the kind of business woman I should be; that you don’t give up. Did you study theatre arts? I studied genetics studies and biotechnology. Back then, everyone wanted to be a doctor, engineer, so I chose my own course. But you already knew you will end up an actress so why didn’t you give theater arts a shot? I felt the acting talent came natural to me and there was no need to read it in school. But now I have a different mindset, I should have studied theatre arts. Genetics and biotechnology sound serious. Is it part of the reasons you went into food business because you know the nutritional technology in foods and how they react to the body? That is part of it and also the fact that I am a Calabar girl and we have good food. I just love our too many varieties, the veggies, fishes, sea food. Oh Lord, I grew up around good food and then coming to Lagos, I didn’t have access to those good foods anymore so I decided to bring Calabar to Lagos. Are you in a relationship right now? I will be delving into my private life if I answer this question. People know me for my movies; I don’t want to expose my private life to them. You know that once your private life is out there it is exposed to destruction. Let’s face it, a lot of people don’t wish you well. Some people want to feel they have control over your private life. This is the aspect I don’t want. I’d rather not say anything about it. Like my colleagues have just been flashing us with their weddings. (Laughs) Maybe my own will come as a surprise. You were phenomenal at one of the AMVCA red carpet. You showed up with an outfit and a long thread hairstyle that didn’t go down well with the media, was that deliberate? It is just me. I just woke up and felt I needed to express myself. That was just me being Belinda. You can’t predict me. Sometimes, I am your regular girl and at another time I am your eccentric and creative girl. Did the bad comment that followed bother you? Not really, my outfit reflected the African mind. I presented Africa to the world. But it only amazed me that it was non-Africans that appreciated it more. A lot of people had problems with the hairstyle, but let’s face it, women in the villages at some point do that kind of hairstyle. It is style. Style can be created to portray the mind of a people. I know that now we have Brazilian hair and wigs, but I wanted to remind people who we are. That African thick hair is our identity. I know that threading our hair has been faced off but it does not change the fact that we are Africans. A lot of people these days are living in denial, thinking they have become black Americans because they wear straight foreign hair and bleach their skin but that is not who we are. I am black and I am proud. Would you do that style again? Of course I will. At the last AMVCA, I pulled another African style. I love who I am. God has a reason for making me African and I am proud. Some say you are always cheerful and you hardly get sad, is that who you are or just the face you show people? That is my natural self. There is no negative energy here. A lot of people see more of negativity that the positive things God is doing in their life, but for me, I prefer to magnify more of the positivity in my life. There will always be challenges when you want to go to the next level of your life. I find solution to the challenge and I move on. Some people believe you were raised by a single mum, is that true? No I was raised by my mum and my dad and my siblings. What has fame do for you? Has it been more negative or more positive? I think it’s more positive. When you enter this career, you should be sure that your privacy has been exchanged. Whatever about you is seen by all. You are no longer seen as a human but a super human. They don’t expect you to be broke. They don’t expect you to buy food on the streets like roasted corn or roasted plantain. And I am a down to earth person and I love my local food. I love amala joint to eat. I am people’s person. Part of my dream is to help people. If I raise myself too much how will I help the common man on the street? People expect me to believe this larger than life but I am just trying not to change who I am. What other dreams do you have, like in five years? I just finished my first feature movie titled ‘Miracle’. You can check out our website at miraclethemovie.com. It’s my first movie and I did it in honor of God. I want to use it to give back to the society. The proceeds from the movie, I want to give it to charity. I want to give back to people that made me. People can make donations as they are led when they visit the sight. Is being featured in Hollywood also part of that dream? Every actress has a yard stick and Hollywood is that yardstick. If I am called to feature in Hollywood, I will be over the moon. That doesn’t mean to Nollywood. Nollywood is my core. I will never give up on it.