Lagos – Super Eagles technical adviser, Gernot Rohr,  has said that they wanted to win their 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against South Africa in Johannesburg on Saturday but that the 1-1 draw was a good outcome. Rohr, who employed a 3-5-2 formation, said after the game, “South Africa is a very good team. We knew it will be a difficult game. It was very hot, we arrived yesterday (Friday) morning without sleeping in the night and second half was very difficult.” “We started the match well. We struck the first goal and our tactics was okay. They had to come against our defensive block and it was difficult for South Africa. “We tried to score the second goal because we play to win all the time. Today we didn’t win; we did not want to take any risk because we knew a draw is just like a victory.” Super Eagles qualified for the Nations Cup having topped their group with 10 points from five games. However, South Africa coach, Stuart Baxter, who expressed disappointment at the draw, insisted that his team would fight to clinch the final qualification ticket when they face Libya in Sfax Tunisia in March 2019. Bafana Bafana, remain second in Group E following the draw with nine points. Qualifying for the 2019 Nations Cup depends on them picking a point off Libya in their last groiup game in March 2019 in Sfax, Tunisia. “I am disappointed and at the same time proud a little bit that we took four points off the Super Eagles,” Baxter said in his post-match interview. “The only goal we conceded so far was an own goal. I’m disappointed that we were not brave enough. I said it at half time that we gave them lots of problems when we played through the middle with our movements.” Baxter added: “We should have been braver especially in the second half, but it seems we were instead nervous. We were playing more long balls instead of running at them, but the fight goes on against Libya. “We couldn’t get into the game like I wanted. I wanted the wingers to get on one on one with their defenders, but it was not to be because of the blocked spaces.”