There is no doubt that stability has returned to the nation’s foreign exchange market since the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) began its intervention in February 21,2017. The apex bank have helped in eliminating the pressure on the FX market, ensured exchange rate stability and eliminated currency speculators. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, ANDREW UTULU and IKECHI NZEAKOR report. As at the end of July, 2018, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) so far has injected a total of $23.257 billion into the interbank segment of the foreign exchange (forex) market since it commenced its intervention in February 2017. The amount has, however, increased by $5.190 billion, to $23.257 billion as of August 8. The Naira exchange rate has remained stable since last year when the central bank commenced the forex sales. intervention in the past four months showed that while in April the central bank intervened with a total of $1.026 billion; May – $1.272 billion; June – $1.502 billion, the bank however reduced the amount of forex intervention in July to $970 million. According to the weekly FX sales by the central bank between February 21, 2017, and August 8, 2018, the CBN has sold the greenback to authorised dealers in a total of 97 sessions. The analysis of the dollar sales further showed that in 2017 alone, the bank intervened with a total of $15.043 billion and in the first seven months of 2018, it has pumped in $8 billion in the market. In April 2017, the CBN introduced a new exchange rate window, the Nigerian Autonomous Foreign Exchange Fixing Mechanism (NAFEX), commonly known as the Investors’ and Exporters’ (I&E) window. The I&E window and the interbank market have been seen as the main exchange rate windows utilised in foreign currency trading. “The total inflow through the I&E Window between April 2017 and July 2018 stood at $34.29 billion. Our analysis shows that the total inflow through the I&E Window in July was the lowest figure recorded since August 2017. “The favourable crude oil price offers support to the accretion to the external reserves in the short-term, despite the slowdown in foreign capital inflows,” FSDH Merchant Bank stated in a report. The total foreign exchange (forex) interventions by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) stood at $963 million in August, a report by Financial Derivatives, a financial market research firm, has shown. According to the report, the forex interventions have helped to stabilise the Naira against global currencies, especially, the dollar. At the parallel market, the naira started the period at N360/$, and inched up marginally, closing at N361/$ on August 28th. This can be attributed partly to the CBN’s intervention of approximately $963mn in the period. The naira also appreciated against the pound and euro to close at N464/£ and N412/Euro on August 28, 2018 from N474/£ and N415/Euro on August 13,2018 At the interbank foreign exchange market, the Naira started the period at N306.05/$, and depreciated marginally by 0.033 per cent to close at N306.15/$ on August 28th. The Naira depreciated by 0.050 per cent to close at N362.38/$ at the IEFX window from N362.20/$ on August 13th. Total forex traded at the IEFX window was $2.93 billion, compared to $1.73 billion in the corresponding period in July. I&E FX window impact The impact of the Investors’ and Exporters’ FX Window created by the Central Bank of Nigeria, on both the FX market and stock market has been positive and magical, which demonstrates how innovative financing  ideas can generate energetic inflows into the financial system and economy towards spurring growth. Innovation, the core of entrepreneurship, is one of the four major factors necessary for economic growth and transformation; others being infrastructure, education and technology. The I&E Window was established in April 2017 “to boost liquidity in the FX market and ensure timely execution and settlement for eligible transactions as stipulated by the CBN. The operating modality is on a willing buyer, willing seller basis. The exchange rates of the transactions are as agreed between Authourised Dealers and their counterparties, which engender transparency and liquidity. Eligible transactions to access the Window are Invisible Transactions (excluding International Airlines Ticket Sales Remittances), Bills for Collection, and Any other trade-related payment obligations (at the instance of the customer). The Invisible Transactions include capital repatriation, loan repayments, loan interest payment, dividends/income remittances and consultancy fees. Others are soft ware subscription fees, technology transfer agreement agreements, personal home remittances and other such other eligible invisible transactions including ‘Miscellaneous Payments’ as detailed under Memorandum of the CBN Foreign Exchange Manual. The permitted Invisible Transactions and Bill for Collection are eligible to purchase US Dollars sourced from CBN FX Window to Secondary Market Intervention Sales Wholesale (Spot and Forwards) only. In a circular, dated April 25, 2017, the CBN noted that, “supply of foreign currency to the Window shall be through portfolio investors, exporters, Authorised Dealers and other parties with foreign currency to exchange naira. The CBN shall also be a market participant at this Window to promote liquidity and professional market conduct.’’