Children see their parents the way they really are, away from the eyes of the world. The legendary author of Ogboju Ode Ninu Igbo Irunmale, (translated to Forest Of Ten Thousand Demons by Soyinka) late D. O. Fagunwa was one of the few African writers that was believed to had been a ‘spirit,’ judging by the slant of his novels that draw heavily on folktale traditions and idioms, including many supernatural elements. But his only surviving son, Diipo, in this interview with INDEPENDENT’s Yemi Adebisi, says his father was a normal man like anyone else though some of things he wrote were not fiction. He unveils the mystery behind his father’s death; the inspiration behind his works; the language and peculiarity of Yoruba culture. Excerpt: Tell us about yourself. I am the son of the late D.O Fagunwa, I am the only surviving son. We used to be two; I had an older brother, but he died few years ago, Are you also a writer? Yes, I do a bit of writing. As a matter of fact, I’m launching my novel on December 7 next year. It is going to be his 55th memorial anniversary and the novel would be dedicated to my father and mother. The anniversary would take place at the University of Lagos. What would you say you inherited from our hero, your father, D. O. Fagunwa? I was a little young when he died, but then I knew him enough, and from public opinion. People say things about him that are good, and I went through his work. I actually teach his work up to university level, and that also because we come from the same culture and are black. I was born in Oke-Igbo and he was born Oke-Igbo too. In terms of cultural background, we share the same. He was a great musician, he played organ very well and danced, we have a family drummer, and listening to family music influenced his writing skills. In terms of styles, I think I write a little like my father. I write in English, he does his in Yoruba. Culturally, in terms of writing project, he writes in other languages, while mine is in English. Some people nearly believed that he was a spirit with the way he wrote his books. Some of his writings are so mysterious when you read them, what do you think about that? He was a normal man like you and I, he was very ordinary, he sang great music, and he taught people. Indeed, he was creative and he gave time for creativity. He was also an observant person and was able to marshal his words well around those things he observed. Most of the things he wrote were actually the culture, the geography and environment where he grew up. He could actually pen down most of the experiences he had. Of course there is Igbo Olodumare not far from Oke-Igbo, there is Igbo Irunmale not far from Oke-Igbo and there is Oke Langbodo not far from Odo Oba, there is Agiju Idakeroro. There are quite a lot of them that excited mythology, which also is to nourish the creative skills in writing some of those words. He grew up in the village; you know Igbo Olodumare is part of the farmland he had to walk back and forth through to the farm everyday apart from school time to help his parents in the farm. Some of the things he wrote are actually not fiction, because I have been able to pin down some of these stories from his family members and his cousin who have testimonies to that effect. For instance, one of his stories, he was going to the farm with his sister Mary, and there was a huge rain and a flooding, and he swam across the water with his sister to the other side to go back home. My father and his sister went as far as the river and swam through and his sister confirmed that. Whether it is ‘abami eda’ or not is a different thing, but of course that experience must have stayed somewhere and triggered some creativity in terms of what he wrote in his latter life. Like I said earlier, some parents in Lagos and bigger cities don’t allow their children to speak Yoruba. This is a misnomer. Igbo Olodumare, Igbo Irunmale, Oke Langbodo, Agiju Idakeroro, and those things he thought about and his day-to-day experiences aided creativity and what he wrote. If you were to do a critic of D.O Fagunwa’s work with today’s world or Nigeria, what would you say? We have moved too far from where we started. His works started from 1938, and it was first published by CMS. CMS stopped the flow after two years because they were scared that it encouraged and nourished fetishism and a lot of their members who would be reading them, would be thinking of idols and creatures that were presented in there. They call us idol worshipers. I glorify traditional gods, so they stop publishing. Later, there was another publisher in London, Nelson Publishers Limited who took it up when they saw it, and that was how the flow started. The characters never had a car, you won’t see people with cars, only those walking to the farm. They were the likes of Iwin, Egbere and others. The same thing history created in Igbo Olodumare as at the time you get to Ireke Onibudo, you would start seeing colours like blue, metals. Ife Pataki was written in blue. Blue is a colour, and we have only three colours in Yoruba. By the time you get to Irinkerindo, you would see there is a development there in terms of modernity, with little use of cars. But in Adiitu Olodumare, there was the use of cars, police and doctors; these were more eligible. That was 1963. If it were now, the experience would be different, then you have to look at mobile phones, the use of computers, which he never had the opportunity to use. And because the society he lived in was in the forest, they were quite indigenous. Another question is the contemporary writers. Things are a little more complex, creativity now flows without complexity. Description now flows without complexity and the choice of words and metaphor now flows without complexity. That was an advantage for him and he was able to think like a storyteller. We are more scientific now because of the science fiction we have now, but because of the moonlight stories he used, and the style, he was able to fleshing it with his style, which was a village style of telling a story, it was a story that carried the children and everybody along. If I am to talk contemporary, I think it is more complex now, with the Christian traditions that are around now. Even now, how many people want to talk about Esu? Esu is not a Satan, so if you are writing a story and it is about Esu, and you are praising Esu, a lot of Christians won’t want to see that book. But my father could do that then, he could go and see Esu. But if you say now that some people went to see Esu, a lot of Christians and Pentecostals would not want to have anything to do with that. Do books written by your father suffer from piracy in Nigeria? I am not that sure. I started reading when I was in the primary school. Apart from that, production was virtually killed. Because Nelson London left, and it was taken over by Nelson Nigeria, later Evans Publishers took over. For whatever reasons, in the period Evans took over, not much was done. It was kick-started when Fama Foundation came. There was resurgence of interest, but by that time, the interest actually returned to the group I call the ‘old school’. It was the old hands who actually knew about Fagunwa, the children knew nothing much about him. Aren’t you planning to recreate his stories? It is not that we cannot recreate the stories, but the foundation, which I am a member, is thinking of creating that kind of volume whereby we can produce and introduce it in a fresh way to our children like animation, so that we can resell the stories like comics. I am working at the moment with a lady, she is a medical doctor and she is trying to do some of the works in animation. She wants to start with the story of Ologbo Ijakadi. We want it in animation so that it can be like any of the myths, so that our children can gradually be introduced to them and the comic would be done in Yoruba language. Most Yorubas don’t speak Yoruba any more, but Yoruba language won’t die, nobody would kill Yoruba language. It is only parents in Lagos and bigger cities that don’t allow their children to speak Yoruba. But when you go to the villages, people speak Yoruba, even the children. Lagos State government is now enforcing the use of Yoruba Language in schools. Yoruba is a language that is going through some metamorphosis, and as a country we introduce more of English words in the vocabulary than any nation of the world. When anybody wants to kill a people, you take their language and their culture away, like Nebuchadnezzar did. For instance, when you attend a nice party and you go in suit, they would serve the person on Buba and Sokoto before the person on suit, because we have lifted our culture to that level. But we still need to work hard to reclaim all. As a son of the respected hero, Fagunwa, what did you see in him that the world does not know, and has not been published? What some people say is that he was a mirage, that he was Iwin. My father died in an accident, but some people said it was Ogidigba that killed him. He was coming back from the north, Zaria to be precise, after doing an exhibition of his books, so he stopped over, he wanted to see Oduwale, his bosom friend. In fact, there was a gentleman Abu Bashorun who lives in Sagamu, who saw him on December 6, a night before he died; Bashorun is still alive. They drank together in a guesthouse where they slept, and the next morning, he was set to travel, and he was strolling along the bridge. While waiting, he slipped into the water and a barge rolled on him. He was wearing agbada and his trousers. People thought it was a natural death. As a matter of fact, the incident occurred very early in the morning and nobody noticed on time that he was inside the water. The strange thing was how he was found: it was the next day, two days later that they found him, because they were searching for him, and nobody thought that it was the barge that collapsed on him. It was when they spotted his agbada that they found him standing. He had his spectacles on and his cap. Psychology suggests that you hold on to the things you have till the end. He had his shoes on, which was dearer. The barge, which collapsed on him, could explain why his cap was still on his head, but people want to see him as not ordinary. But he was very much an ordinary man. In 1961, when Adiitu Olodumare came out, he read the edition personally to me and I was young then. Anybody that would read it to me now and have that level of perfection, the person would have to struggle, so anybody reading it to me must match his style. But that’s probably because he is the author. What do you do for a living? I used to be a lecturer in University of Ife, I am now into disability management and I am into elderly care and support. I do my own writing too.