Temidayo Akinsuyi, Titilope Joseph and Paschal Njoku Lagos / Abuja – The recent onslaught on the military by Boko Haram insurgents has compelled vocal Nigerians to call for the immediate sack of service chiefs to enable the government infuse fresh blood and ideas into the system, especially the anti-terrorism military campaign. Those who spoke with Daily Independent on Sunday decried the ceaseless killings going on in the country, saying the development had reached a point where the country’s security chiefs could no longer justify their stay in office. There have been cries over the killing of over 70 soldiers of the 157 Task Force Battalion in Melete, Borno State, by invading Boko Haram insurgents. Many of the soldiers were also injured while some undisclosed numbers were still missing. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said President Buhari must wake up to his responsibility as the commander-in-chief of the Nigerian armed forces by reviewing his parade. Speaking in a chat with our correspondent, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, said it was high time President Buhari exercised his powers as the country’s commander-in-chief by rejigging the country’s security architecture. He said: “Our position on this issue has been very clear. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has regularly challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to review his parade. In military terms, what that means is that he should rejig his command. “He should act as the commander-in-chief and rejig his command. What the PDP has always asked for is that the president should urgently review his parade and we believe he knows what that means.” Similarly, Yinka Odumakin, National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, told Daily Independent that the service chiefs should be removed immediately as they were of no use except if the Federal Government decided to keep them because of the 2019 elections. “Except keeping them for the 2019 elections, there is no use for their stay as they are killing the morale of officers who should have moved up in the various services. They should be removed immediately,” he said. On his part, Dr. Jay Osi-Samuels, National Chairman of the Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), said Nigeria’s military would continue to suffer embarrassing losses from insurgents if the entire military apparatus was not overhauled and the service chiefs sacked. According to him, “The service chiefs have long overstayed. They are overdue for retirement. Based on what is happening right now and what has been happening, they should be fired. “A serious-minded commander-in-chief should have fired these people a long time ago. “But more importantly, the entire security architecture of Nigeria needs to be rejigged because we cannot continue doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. “So, I believe that the service chiefs should be sacked now and a complete overhaul of our military architecture done. “These people are just there marking time. The so-called system that we have in Nigeria whereby the time you rise through the ranks to become the chief of army, air or naval staff, you have about two or less years to retirement. “It doesn’t augur well for our system because for any person at the helm of affairs in that kind of establishment, you have to meaningful impact and have reforms implemented, you need to be there for a minimum of four years or maximum of five years. “When you get to that position and you have less than two years to retire, it becomes a retirement posting. “What they do is how to amass wealth for their retirement. What you see is that they begin to carry out procurement of equipment that is not needed. “If you have the privilege of going to the military warehouse, you will see that equipment that were procured 30 years ago are still in their crates, they are not opened because of this policy because the person who purchases them does so to make gains. “By the time another person is appointed, he also wants to make gain and the cycle goes on and on. So, there is no continuity. “But if we can rejig the whole system where people get there by merit and you know that you have five years as minimum to spend, then you can begin to put plans in place to ensure that there is an overhaul of the military. “If we continue with the status quo, our military will continue to suffer from this embarrassing loss and families will suffer because of the incompetence of our military leaders and, of course, the president.” Over 40 opposition parties under the umbrella of Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) on Sunday also described as worrisome, the resurgence of Boko Haram attacks and killing of over seventy soldiers at a military base in Melete, Borno State. The CUPP in a statement on Sunday by its Spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, called on President Buhari to sack service chiefs; the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris; Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, and the Comptroller-General of Customs. The Coalition said they should be sacked on the grounds that they were at one time or another allegedly found playing politics with their offices instead of doing their official assignments with a high level of neutrality. The CUPP said increased attacks by elements of the Boko Haram and ISWAP on military facilities in the North East was a national embarrassment which needed to be stopped. Part of the statement reads: “From the attack in Jili in July where we reportedly lost over 200 soldiers to Zari in August, Mainok and Kekeno and now Melete, this is one attack too many. “We hereby call on President Buhari to salvage the last vestiges of honour left for his regime by immediately sacking the service chiefs, the Inspector General of Police, Chairman of the EFCC, and Comptroller-General of Customs. “This action will both raise the morale of our troops in the fronts that there are consequences for commanders who fail them and also give Nigerians and the international community the confidence that heads of security agencies will be neutral during the fast approaching general elections where the president and his party are headed for defeat. “A government that cannot fulfil the basic essence of governance as enshrined in section 14 of the 1999 constitution which is the protection of lives and property of its citizens, has completely failed and must be shown the way out using the power of the ballot come February 16, 2019.” SERAP Writes Buhari, Seeks Probe Of Military Spending Meanwhile, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), a human rights group, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to probe the spending of defence budgets between 1999 and 2018. In an open letter to the president at the weekend, SERAP asked him to use his “good offices and leadership position to urgently set up a commission of inquiry to investigate the spending of defence and military in order to promote transparency and accountability in the sector.” The group said the probe was necessary “to ensure that the funds meant for military operation are spent for that purpose and end the vulnerability and killings of Nigerian soldiers such as the reported death of several Nigerian soldiers in the recent Metele Boko Haram attack.” The organisation also urged President Buhari to “immediately refer to the International Criminal Court (ICC), pursuant to article 13 of the Rome Statute, all allegations of corruption in the spending of funds meant to purchase arms to empower Nigerian soldiers to fight Boko Haram, including the apparent diversion and sharing of the over $2 billion under the former government of President Goodluck Jonathan and approved spending by your own government.” According to the letter signed by SERAP Senior Legal Adviser, Bamisope Adeyanju, the organisation said, “We believe that referral of the cases to the ICC would serve as a deterrent and ensure that Nigerians, particularly those in the North-East of the country whose human rights including to life, to human dignity, and to an adequate standard of living have been violated are not denied justice and effective remedies. “Concern that several billions of naira allocated to the military to defend the country have neither contributed to improving the ability of Nigerian soldiers to fight Boko Haram and other armed groups nor provided the much-needed security, especially for Nigerians in the North-East of the country.” It further urged Buhari to “move swiftly to implement these recommendations as a way of demonstrating your government’s commitment to end the perception of lack of transparency and accountability in the spending of military budgets in the context of the conflict in the North-East and to ensure the safety and security of our soldiers and all Nigerians in that part of the country.” The letter continued: “The military’s inability to respond adequately to the Boko Haram insurgency suggests, among other things, a mismanagement in the spending of the country’s defence budgets. Establishing a commission of inquiry to investigate how defence and military budgets have been spent since May 29, 1999 would help Nigerians to know if the funds meant to defend the country and for purchase of arms to empower Nigerian soldiers to fight Boko Haram have been transparently and accountably spent. “The proposed commission should be led by a retired Justice of the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court of Nigeria. The activities of the commission must be open to the public and all those who have been responsible for the spending of the country’s defence and military budgets should be summoned to give a public account of how the money was spent. “Testimonies should be taken in a way that ensures that specific military operations are not disclosed and national security not compromised. The commission should make recommendations including on the prosecution of those found to have mismanaged and/or stolen public funds meant to fight Boko Haram. “SERAP is concerned that many cases of those alleged to have diverted and shared funds meant to purchase arms to empower Nigerian soldiers to fight Boko Haram have stalled. Given the continuing delay in the prosecution of such cases, and the need to send a strong message that corruption in the spending of funds meant to fight Boko Haram insurgents will not be tolerated, we urge you to immediately refer all such cases for investigation and prosecution by the ICC.”