Ayo Bada and INNOCENT OWEH Lagos, ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President, Bukola Saraki and Super Eagles former captain, Joseph Yobo, were among those who congratulated the team for qualifying for the 2019 Africa Cup Nations in Cameroon having missed the last two editions of the tournament in 2015 and 2017. Super Eagles qualified for the Nations Cup following their 1-1 draw with South Africa at the FNB Stadium, Johannesburg on Saturday. They topped their group E qualifiers with 10 points, one point ahead of second placed South Africa. With Libya third on seven points following their 8-1 mauling of Seychelles in Victoria on Saturday, South Africa must beat Libya or draw their last group game next March for them to qualify for the Nations Cup. The President in a statement signed by his spokesman, Femi Adesina on Saturday, stated that Buhari joins millions of Nigerians in commending the team for their qualification with a game to spare. The President, who praised the players for their sense of patriotism, also commended the coaching crew, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and the Supporters Club, Nigerians residing in South Africa, who turned out in great numbers to cheer the players, for a job well-done, and assures them of the unflinching support of the Federal Government going forward. Saraki, while congratulating the team on his Twitter page, wrote,“Congratulations Super Eagles on qualifying for AFCON 2019, you’ve made us all proud!” Also, the Peoples Democratic Party Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, was also not left. He wrote: “Congratulations Super Eagles on qualifying for the 2019 #AFCON. We will be here to cheer you to victory in the coming tournament.” Yobo, while praising the team, said, “It was a good one for the team after missing the last two editions. Qualifying for the competition with a match at hand is not an easy one and we must praise the players and the coaching crew. “The match was a tough one, but the players kept their heads and ensure their qualification which was good for them.”