Israeli police on Tuesday recommended charges be brought against the interior minister in a major corruption case. Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said there is an “evidentiary basis” that Aryeh Deri committed fraud and breach of trust, as well as millions of shekels in tax offenses and money laundering, and the disruption of court proceedings,according to Daily mail. Police have questioned Deri and his wife on suspicion of receiving illicit payments from businessmen. They deny any crimes were committed. Deri was previously sentenced to three years in prison for bribery, fraud and breach of trust in 2000 during his previous stint as interior minister in the 1990s. He served 22 months in prison but made a political comeback and retook the reins of the ultra-Orthodox Shas party in 2013.In better news for the beleaguered British leader, a leading pro-Brexit lawmaker acknowledged that the rebels haven’t mustered the numbers for a leadership challenge. Jacob Rees-Mogg is one of a group of Conservative legislators who have written letters calling for a no-confidence vote in the prime minister. They say the draft divorce deal would leave Britain tied to the bloc’s rules without any say in making them. The group has previously said it was confident of getting the 48 letters – from 15 percent of Conservative lawmakers – needed to spark a leadership challenge. “Patience is a virtue, virtue is a grace,” Rees-Mogg said Tuesday. “We shall see whether letters come in due time.” The draft agreement reached last week triggered an avalanche of criticism in Britain and left May fighting to keep her job even as British and EU negotiators raced to firm up a final deal before a summit on Sunday where EU leaders hope to rubber-stamp it. The 585-page, legally binding withdrawal agreement is as good as complete, but Britain and the EU still need to flesh out a far less detailed declaration on their future relations. May’s office said she would meet European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker in Brussels on Wednesday as part of work to finalize the declaration. EU leaders have largely welcome the deal, but Spain has expressed concerns, saying the wording leaves unclear how Gibraltar, the British territory at the southern tip of the Iberian Peninsula, would be dealt with. Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said Tuesday that his country would vote against the divorce agreement if Gibraltar’s future isn’t considered a bilateral issue between Madrid and London. Sanchez told a business forum in Madrid that Spain “cannot accept that what will happen to Gibraltar in the future depends on negotiations between the U.K. and the EU. It will have to be something that we define and we negotiate and agree between the U.K. and Spain.” If the EU approves the deal it needs to be passed by the European and British Parliaments. The parliamentary arithmetic looks daunting for May, and if lawmakers reject the agreement in a vote expected next month, the U.K. would face a political crisis, with Brexit day looming. Bank of England policymakers warned Tuesday that business concern was growing about the prospect of the country crashing out of the European Union without a deal. Chief economist Andy Haldane said Brexit uncertainty is the “single largest headwind” to the British economy.