Sarah Jack Lagos – Babajide  Olusola  Sanwo-Olu,  the Lagos State  governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC)  other candidates contesting on the platform of the party were officially endorsed by stakeholders of the Lagos Of Our Dreams project (LOUD) yesterday. The group also declared support for the President Muhammadu Buhari, the presidential flagbearer of the party as well as his running mate, Vice- President, Yemi Osinbajo. The organiser of the LOUD project,  Prince Bakare Mobolaji “commended the effort of all team members for their good work in building the Lagos of our dreams”. He  emphasised that his team worked tirelessly for Governor Akinwunmi Ambode in line with the agenda of the great party which made Lagos experience several changes in infrastructures and other social amenities. Bakare added that the loud project goals and objectives are set in accordance with good vision and mission of all progressives congress contestants. It is geared towards progress and development for the country and in the interest of the citizens alone. The LOUD team appeals to Nigerians to support a party that is full of truth and beliefs. “We are not going to promise good roads or better light because I know every governor know that these are basic things that the state needs.” “We are working towards a better tomorrow, a Lagos with skills, a state with empowerment and vision and all this can only be achieved if there is a leader that has this kind of vision” Bakare said. Bakare added that they will unveil various programmes and project in support of Sanwo- Olu in the coming days. He also said a unique flag-off of Buhari/Osinbajo campaign train will also be carried out alongside with press briefings and door to door sensitisation. Segun Dauda,  the representative of Sanwo-Olu, used the medium to remind all Nigerians that they should make a conscious effort to see that the journey to 2019 is a peaceful and orderly one where all parties and partakers will freely discuss their weight and justify their hopes on fair grounds. “The love for the country should be paramount, we should never agree to doubling the wealth of naysayers and bad wishes by comporting ourselves in the right direction” he said. The representative of  Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu Campaign Organisation (BOSCO), Afiz Kasunmu thanked the organisers for the initiative and urged Lagosians to support all APC candidates in the forthcoming elections. “This party has been great for years and nothing will stop us from doing good both in the federal and state level” “We are going to keep on informing people about our party with the use of social media and we will also go to grassroots where people do not have access to internet to inform and enlighten them of the good they will benefit from the party” He also said there is no disagreement between Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and  Sanwo-Olu, adding that both men are working towards the same goal which is to achieve victory for APC at the polls. “Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is the current governor and we give him our full support, there is no quarrel or disagreement between the present Governor and our team” he added.