Speaking on the planned of CBN, Dr. Augustine Eneanya, a senior lecturer at University of Lagos, told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that the threat by the Federal Government will not be effective until measures are put in place to reduce naira currency circulation. Eneanya said the step being considered by the apex bank is a misplaced issue and will be difficult to checkmate. According to him, “I think our government needs to prioritise issues that boarder on the general public. To be talking about out currency mutilation, have they considered the factors responsible and also the available alternatives to physical cash being in circulation? “Today, we still have hassles with getting cash from ATMs and there have been increasing records of technology failure in the course of making banking transaction on line. In some cases, there are deductions from bank customers’ accounts without refund, and if any victim of this ugly situation is lucky, it takes a very long time. Of course, this is not the first time this issue is being raised. So, I believe the enforcement of this law will be difficult Speaking further, he said Nigeria should emulate South Africa, Kenya, Egypt and other countries to fast track its technological drive which is a veritable option to cash handling. “We have to understand our environment and culture. Our people over the years like spraying money, and the number of people are more associated with dirty naira notes are the low class and those in the rural areas. “Take a car mechanic for an example; by the time he returns your car after repairs, the car will need a thorough wash because of the dirtiness. How do you think the money the same mechanics handles in the course of cash transaction be clean? What government should do is to improve on cashless policy and aggressively extend it to the rural areas. “Most traders use the currency nets for calculation by writing on then as pads. Education and enlightenment are very crucial because any law to punish offenders is formulated. “But they insist that defaulters will go to jail because of this law by CBN, then in a very short period of time, they should be ready to accommodate over one millions offenders in the prisons across the country,” Eneanya posited. Also speaking on the development, Prof. Jonathan Aremu, Consultant at ECOWAS on Common Investment Market and former Principal Economist at CBN, expressed worry over the unabated trend of naira mutilation. Blames and Solutions But he however, blamed the government for the cause. In his words: “The moment the citizenry begin to look at its currency as if it does not have, they will be treating it as waste paper. “The real cause of this mutilation is because the quality of our currency is of low standard. If you compare CFA currency of Benin Republic to that of Nigeria, you will discover that CFA quality is higher. “The fact is that there are some countries that also spray money or handle it roughly, but they don’t wear out easily as ours.  While I commend the concern of CBN, the truth is that spraying is not the real cause of the wear and mutilation.” Aremu called on the government to ensure that CBN upgrade the quality of our currency, saying that the value placed on any currency will determine how people handle or appreciate it. He advised that, ”CBN should begin to issue clean notes, especially N100”, and said that the apex bank should also look into issuing some new Naira notes in densely populated states like Lagos in order to make it more acceptable for use, and called for continuous enlightenment to educate traders on reasons and ways of preserving the notes. Mr. Clement Imudia, in his opinion said against the backdrop of the report that the Central Bank of Nigeria [CBN] charges commercial banks that return dirty and mutilated naira notes in exchange for new ones may have worsened the scarcity of new and clean notes. According to him,  “The fact that CBN charges 5 per cent of the total amount of dirty notes tendered by commercial bank in exchange for neew ones is worsening the matter.” Mrs. Catherine Oyegue, a civil servant, said the prevalence of dirty and mutilated naira notes was appalling, and that the N200 note was gradually becoming unfit like the N100 notes. She said many Nigerians have resigned themselves to the reality of possessing and transacting business with dirty naira notes. “I tell you, they are appalling. As someone that is conscious of her health, I am always scared of touching those notes because it is very glaring that those naira notes, particularly the N100 are contaminated,” said Oyegue. She said while the CBN had been sensitising Nigerians on the handling of the naira notes, there should be effective enforcement of relevant laws to curtail mishandling of the naira. A “Danfo”driver, who preferred anonymity, said the rejection of the defaced polymer notes and the dirty N100 notes by passengers is seriously affecting his business. He lamented that a day hardly passes by without arguments with passengers which sometimes resulted to fights because of dirty naira notes and faded polymer notes. “I think I prefer the paper naira notes to the polymer ones because it does not fade easily like the polymer. The only disadvantage of the paper note is that it gets torn easily,” he said.