YENAGOA – State School I, Otuasega, in Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, has been rehabilitated after Benny’s Development Initiative (BDI), a non-governmental organisation, intervened to restore the dilapidated public primary school building for children in the community. The school, located behind a church, was a dilapidated structure that constituted a threat to the children. It was gathered that apart from renovating the six-classroom primary school block, BDI, in collaboration with Afrihealth Optonet Association, also an NGO, reconstructed the community’s drainage system and restored power supply for Otuasega people. The efforts were essentially under the auspices of the Sustainable Citizen Participation (SCP) in Nigeria’s Niger Delta project funded by the United Nations Democracy Fund (UNDEF). The project seeks to spread development and provide a platform for the people to determine areas of community needs with a view to achieving sustainable development. Opia Beauty Benita, the Executive Director of BDI, said the journey towards the community intervention started on September 20, 2017, when the organisation held a town hall meeting at the Otuasega community town hall with stakeholders. At the meeting, she stated, a needs assessment process towards achieving a roadmap for the community’s development was carried out. She said: “They expressed themselves freely and debated on identifiable peculiar social needs of the community. They, thereafter, prioritised the needs for action. “Out of over 16 needs identified, the people settled for four of the needs under quick-win, medium term and long term considerations. The four items included the rehabilitation of State School I, a public primary school in the community, filling of the market environment, construction of drainage at appropriate sites, and restoration of power supply”. To give impetus to the consensus, a 20-member Community Consultative Committee (CCC) comprising equal number of men and women, with membership drawn from youth and women groups and Community Development Committee (CDC) were inaugurated to co-ordinate the implementation of the prioritised projects. On how the CCC mobilised efforts to deliver on its task, Opia said, “The CCC, immediately after the general meeting, held their very first meeting and charted ways forward on best way to achieve the targeted goals and objectives as agreed during the town hall meeting. “Some of the strategies included paying advocacy visits to key and well-placed and well-meaning indigenes of Otuasega community as a medium to interact with such personalities and appeal to them, making them see the need for a quick response to these development projects that are still laying waste in the community.” Also, as part of the strategies, the CCC worked in partnership with the Otuasega Community Development Committee (CDC) and also reported directly to the office of the chairman for transparency and accountability purposes. In addition, the CCC also constituted its leadership as part of the drive for self-governance and sustainability plan of the project. Opia, who expressed delight at the achievements recorded by BDI in the community intervention, stated that they faced some challenges while carrying out the project, but BDI was able to overcome the problems and guided the CCCs to achieve results. She commended UNDEF and Afrihealth Optonet Association for their invaluable support to help Otuasega achieve community development under the sustainable citizens’ participation project. Two members of the community, Mrs. Amiena Agiobu, and Marcus Ramoni, the youth president, thanked the NGOs for coming to their aid, stressing that the intervention had brought some relief to the community and its people.