The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has explained that it had not moved in to investigate the alleged bribery videos of Kano State governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, because he was still enjoying constitutional immunity from criminal prosecution. The videos published online depicted Governor Ganduje allegedly receiving millions of dollars in bribe from unknown contractors. A Kano court has prohibited the further airing of the videos. “The governor is still serving and constitutionally is covered by immunity. “Be that as it may, the matter is in the instance sub judice,” the EFCC posted from its Twitter handle on Thursday during a tweet meet organised by Tap Nitiative for Citizens Development, a public accountability think-tank. Reactions had trailed Governor Ganduje’s alleged indiscretion when the videos went viral online some weeks back. At least six of such videos have been published since the first clip was released on October 11. Daily Nigerian, an online-based publication, said it had up to 15 of such videos of Ganduje. When Tap Nitiative demanded further explanation because the EFCC moved against Ayo Fayose while he was the governor of Ekiti State, the anti-graft office said it did not usually “give out information on investigations.” It added: “Investigation of anyone for an alleged fraud remains a covert process.” The videos were recorded in 2017 in what Daily Nigerian described as a sting operation aimed at beaming the spotlight on the governor’s alleged penchant for contract racketeering. The governor has dismissed the videos as “cloned” and filed a lawsuit against the publisher of the online newspaper, Jaafar Jaafar. The Kano House of Assembly, which initially initiated a probe into the allegations and invited Daily Nigerian, suspended the process on Monday in deference to a court ruling over a suit to stop the probe. Daily Nigerian, the online medium involved in the matter, reported last month that President Muhammadu Buhari had ordered security agencies to probe the videos when they were brought to his attention, but the outcome is yet unknown. The president, however, praised Ganduje as a highly responsible governor during a visit to Paris earlier this month.