In response to the unacceptable perennial shortage of power in Idi-Araba, the Management of Lagos University Teaching Hospital in partnership with the College of Medicine Management entered into an Independent Power Project,which came on stream on the 1stDecember 2017. This initiative has brought succor to patients, staff and students and an improvement quality of life with the provision 24 hours power supply to the residences, hostels, offices and hospital facilities to the joy and admiration of all. However, this benefit comes at a cost and to avoid going back to the unpleasant status quo ante, the parents and students of the institution have agreed to managements proposal to pay the sum of N11,000 per session to cover the new cost of electricity in the hostels which they realized would enhance learning and add more value to their lives. The payment however will only be applicable to students that are accommodated on campus. This decision was taken at a forum convened by the management with the parents which held recently at the College premises to re-appraise the state of infrastructure and learning environment. A statement signed by the institution’s Provost, Prof. F E A Lesi, quoted him as saying that the parents agreed that government cannot do everything alone and were committed to partner with the College in any way to make their children’s environment more conducive for learning. The statement said the institution and the parents also agreed to collaborate with the Alumni of the institution to carry out minor renovation works in the hostels. According to the statement, the parents agreed with the Management of the institution on the need for regular dialogue to proffer solutions to pressing problems facing the College in the discharge of its mandate to provide quality world class education to Nigerians. “This is addition to the regular dialogue management has with students and their representatives. The students commended the management of the institution for the commitment to their welfare and learning,’’the statement added.