Lagos – There are indications that dwindling inflow from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) is taking its toll on Nigeria’s external reserves. As at the end of October, 2018, Nigeria’s external reserves declined by $2.31 billion to $42.00 billion, while it stood at $41.791 billion as at Tuesday, November 6, 2018. Aside the external reserves, the rise in the level of outflows has also continued to impact negatively on the country’s stock market. This fourth monthly decline in succession, according to analysts at FBNQuest Research team in its Good Morning Report for Wednesday, November 8, 2018, could be explained by changes in the sentiment of foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) in the wake of the headwinds driven by US monetary policy. “Previously a consistent buyer, the CBN has therefore become a source of foreign exchange at the investors and exporters’ window (NAFEX). For the last eight weeks for which the data is available (through to October 22 to 26), it has been the largest source of such inflows,” the report said. Reserves at end-October covered almost 16 months’ merchandise imports and nine months when we include services on the basis of the balance of payments to June 2018. This remains healthy cover by any criteria. The report, however, expressed it concerns in the likelihood of FPIs exiting the country totally. The analysts declared the idea as “a fanciful idea”, given the yields on offer and the oil price. “We estimate a fall to a little above $25 billion, the level of reserves in Q2 2016,” they said. However, some definitions are required for the sake of clarity. The Nigerian data are gross, cover just foreign exchange and exclude swap contracts. “The South African series show the international liquidity position. This measure includes gold and Special Drawing Rights (SDR), positions at the IMF of about $7 billion combined along with foreign exchange and deducts swaps and deposits arising from foreign debt issuance.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has stated that outflows from the market spiked by 125 percent in May. The NSE had also revealed a 3.45 percent decrease in foreign inflows to N62.06 billion ($172.3 million) in May. But analysts at CSL Stockbrokers Limited noted that, “Rising foreign outflows are not coming as a surprise to us.” They added: “Indeed, the recent rise in global bond yields, particularly in the US, continues to fuel sell offs in emerging and frontier markets. We note that the US Federal Reserves has hiked rates twice in 2018. “The Federal Reserves has also guided the markets to two more interest rate hikes in 2018.” With this in mind, they stressed that FPIs into the Nigerian market would remain muted as investors seek higher risk-adjusted yields elsewhere. “Inasmuch as Nigeria’s economic fundamentals continue to strengthen, (underscored by the prospect of higher GDP growth, easing of inflationary pressures, improved liquidity in the forex market, all of which are expected to support company earnings), we believe global uncertainties combined with a less attractive carry trade on a risk-adjusted basis will continue to undermine capital flows to Nigeria. “On the domestic front, election uncertainties in the run up to the 2019 elections also mean investors will stay on the sidelines, and this will weigh on activities,” CSL Stockbrokers Limited added.