AWKA – Akpo community in Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State is one of the communities crying due to abandonment by government. The community, which prides itself in rich cultural heritage is said to be on fringe of extinction because it is said to be one of the communities where government interventions have not taken root. To this end, the seven villages of Akpo community namely Agbaenu, Uhuala, Ogbor, Umueze, Amaife, Udoh and Ivoro are completely bereft of federal and state government presence as the community has relied on self-help since origin through the Akpo Development Association. The community has been very obscure such that many people found it rather difficult to differentiate Akpo from Akpu, a community in Orumba . Be that as it may, with the efforts of the community association people could access Akpo with ease because they worked relentlessly to bring the community to limelight. But Akpo community has not been fortunate with government projects. Apart from the Small Town Water Scheme by the United Nations Development Project (UNDP), the dearth of infrastructure and social amenities in the entire community could be likened to a state of emergency because the community is in dire need of interventions. Speaking further on the state of public institutions in Akpo community, the President-General Akpo Development Association, Godwin Ezeno said: “I can’t remember any project that exists in this community that was brought by the government. It has always been Akpo Development Association. The projects have always come from us including electricity, the community secondary school, and the maternity hospital, just mention it.” “We have roads and they were initiated by our people . The Amesi-Ogboji Road that is crying for attention now was constructed as far back as 1947. But up till now has not been tarred … “ The President-General further disclosed that by the year 2016, Akpo was the first community to invite Governor Willie Obiano where the whole community declared total support for the All Progressive Grand Alliance ( APGA ) adopting the Governor as their choice candidate for the 2017 Anambra Gubernatorial Elections . He said Akpo community gave the Governor Certificate of Endorsement and for the first time in 2017, APGA won all the votes in Akpo town. Ezeno stated that it was during the aforementioned visit that Governor Willie Obiano gave the first developmental project to Akpo community but the project according to him, has become an illusion. He said: “Please I will like you to illustrate this for me that the four water projects in Akpo community have no drop of water since it was instituted. We have complained amongst other things that we have not enjoyed any government presence and that we are in darkness despite of the electricity project that is in the town, initiated and executed by the town in 1987. We can’t do everything. These are the things that are supposed to be done by the government but because of our disposition to progress, we initiated that and brought it to the attention of the Governor that we didn’t have enough transformers. In his reply the Governor said oh the transformer is just like a low hanging fruit. That we are going to have that. We were happy. We followed it up. We applied for eight transformers and only four were approved for us. Till this moment, those transformers have not been installed since 2016, described as low hanging fruit.”