OSOGBO – Residents of State of Osun on Tuesday November 27, 2018 were joyous all through when Ogbeni Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was inaugurated as the fifth executive governor of the state. Oyetola’s inauguration marked the end of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola era of eight years of two terms service to the people of the state. Though, before now, some analysts had predicted that the new governor, Oyetola would actually succeed Aregbesola, who had appointed him as his Chief of Staff, coming from same political camp and being the livewire of the administration all through. It was a peaceful change of baton within the same political family and the first time in history of the state, when both the outgoing and incoming governors were physically present at such event. In the past, the outgoing governors were not present, as was the case in 2003 and 2010. The Osogbo City Stadium, venue of the inauguration, was filled to the brim. Several hundreds of people could not even gain access into the open field used for the event. Aregbesola’s reign in the state had been very controversial, especially on the issue of payment of salaries and pensions to workers and retirees. The administration was known to have introduced what it termed ‘Modulated Salary Structure’ when it faced challenges over inability to pay workers’ salaries. Though, the administration made its impact felt in virtually in all sectors of the state’s economy, especially in the provision of infrastructure and social services to the people. These were in areas of the primary school pupils, aged people, market and women, youth empowerment, agricultural revolution, massive road construction, calisthenics, security, communal peace, loans facilities to business operators, among others. Before handing over, several people had commended the ruggedness and vision of Aregbesola towards development of Osun State, especially the capital city, Osogbo. Gboyega Oyetola, who emerged winner from the Osun governorship election, took Oath of Office along with his deputy, Mr. Benedict Adegboyega Alabi, as administered by the State Chief Judge, Justice Adebola Adepele Ojo. Aregbesola, who was visibly happy as exhibited by his dancing, did not make any speech, but only welcomed dignitaries that graced the event. In his remarks, the National Leader of APC and former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, told the gathering that the inauguration was an indication that there was no other political party in the southwest, assuring that the ruling party would continue to have its way in the zone. Tinubu, while congratulating Aregbesola for handing over the baton of governance in the state to Oyetola, said it was a good thing that another Progressive succeeded him, a development, he said, made the event glorious. The APC leader assured the new government of the support of the party’s national leadership, even as he called on the APC family to come together for continuity because of the solid foundation that had been laid by President Muhammadu Buhari administration across the federation. Tinubu said the current administration was not shaky over intense criticisms being mounted by the opposition against the government, stressing, “We are not going back to selfishness, corruption and greed that had held our country back for several years. “We are not going back to forces, old scavengers and greed. Look at the 16 years of the past administrations by other party if they had laid a new foundation towards progress and development. Instead of privatisation, it was personalisation theory of greed that they gave us.” He also charged the new governor, Oyetola, to embark on the same pact that had given him the honour and power, saying, “we are solidly behind you.” President Muhammadu Buhari, who was represented by Boss Mustapha, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), appealed to politicians across parties not to see the 2019 general elections as a declaration of war. “Our campaigns will not be declaration of war, but to take the country out of the current economic hardship,” he stressed. Buhari also urged all APC candidates in the elections to conduct themselves peacefully, eschew hate speech and avoid violence. The President, who congratulated the people of the state for the peaceful change of baton, also called on Nigerians to vote wisely during the election. “It is just 81 days to the general elections and I call on Nigerians to vote wisely by voting for APC,” the president said. Buhari also said he was committed to building a better Nigeria by building the economy, fighting corruption and protecting lives and property. He said Federal Government would continue to support the state in the area of infrastructure development. He also said that Osun would be one of the five pioneer states that would benefit from N55.1 billion basic health provision by December. The president, who stressed that Federal Government had launched ‘TradeMoni’ free loan programme in the state, said 30,000 petty traders would have access to the loan in the state. Buhari also said his administration would complete all the ongoing infrastructural projects in the state. In his inaugural speech, the new governor, Oyetola, assured the people of the state that the mandate given to him would not be wasted, adding that he would continue from where his predecessor, Aregbesola, stopped, learn from the past and sustain the tempo of development. Oyetola also assured that workers’ salaries and welfare would be given priority attention, stressing that economic summit would be organised to provide a compass with which to steer the ship of the state. According to him, “We are going to showcase Osun as a strategic location for industrialisation, sustain communal peace, develop Free Trade Zone and boost revenue base of the state. “We shall go on with massive investment in education, agriculture, health care delivery, road construction, creation of jobs for youths among others,” he added. Oyetola also assured President Buhari that his government would work hard to deliver Osun for his re-election come 2019. He pledge to extend hands of fellowship to other political parties for the success of his government in the state. Some important dignitaries present included royal fathers such as Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, Alaafin of Oyo, Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Larooye Olanipekun, Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba Abdulrasheed Olabomi. Other are theNational Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole; Oyo State governor, Senator Isiaka Abiola Ajimobi; Ekiti State governor, John Kayode Fayemi; Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu; Lagos State governor, Akinwumi Ambode and Kano State governor, Abdullahi Ganduje. Others are Senator Remi Tinubu; Speaker Of Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Obasa; Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, former Minister of State for Defence. Also present is General Alani Akinrinade, former Ekiti State governor, Adeyinka Adebayo, Chief Olusegun Osoba, Chief Adebisi Akande, Sole Akinwumi, among others.