Chief Dan Osi Orbih, Edo State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in this interview with FRANCIS ONOIRIBHOLO says Nigerians have already made up their minds to effect a change of government through the ballot box in 2019 because they are tired of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led government at all levels. Excerpts: How are you prepared to manage the influx of both retired Army Generals, other ranks and civilians led by General Idada Ikponmwen (rtd) that defected to your party, the PDP of recent? There is no doubt that Nigerians are tired with what they have gone through in the hands of the APC government in the past three years and some months and the present political osmosis we are witnessing is not just in Edo State, it is across the nation where people who are dissatisfied with the poor performance of the APC Federal and State Governments are coming back to PDP to effect a change come February Presidential, National Assembly Elections and State House of Assembly Elections. So, it is a welcome development for our democracy. You know in a democracy the only change that is recognised by law is through a democratic process and to achieve it you need all hands on deck. That is why we have thrown our doors open to those who are patriotic enough to see the need to stop the drifting ship of state to come over to us and join hands with us to effect the necessary change. In accepting them with open hands, how are you guiding against infiltration of possible spoilers? For us, we have been able to put in place some internal measures to check the character and behaviour of some of these people who have decided to cross over to join the train, but the most important thing is that we have very competent hands coming onboard to manage the party and to manage the government and in most cases, it is not the conduct of the passengers in a vehicle that matters, it is the conduct of the driver. We have a good driver in the person of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and we have a good party manager in the person of Prince Uche Secondus. I believe with this team we can do things differently and better for the good of Nigerians. As one of the major players at the Port Harcourt Convention, what was the atmosphere like soon after the emergence of Atiku Abubakkar as your Presidential candidate? The convention was a platform for PDP to showcase the improved internal democracy which has been put in place by the party. It was a platform to showcase to Nigerians our collective resolve to effect a change in the government of this country. To many outsiders, they were finding it extremely difficult to understand how about 12 persons can go to a national convention as aspirants and you pick a candidate and it was not going to affect the stability of the party, the unity in the party. But one thing I can tell you is that the party went into that convention and came out stronger and more united from the convention. So the convention was the first public signal to Nigerians that PDP is truly serious about stopping the drift the country is going through at the moment. There is no doubt that Nigerians with high expectations are looking up to the PDP as the alternative platform to bring to an end the present poor state of affairs in the country. So we were fully conscious of the expectations of Nigerians and we went into that convention with one mind that at the end of the day whoever emerged from the convention as the candidate will be the symbol of unity in the party, will be not just the flag bearer, and will be a symbol of hope for Nigeria. Nigerians are still apprehensive for the fact that there is serious fear that the 2019 elections may be rigged against the popular wish of the people? Well, I think there is a time for everything. The time has come when even the key players in this government are coming to a realisation that they have failed the people and the way to go is to accept the verdict of the election that will be coming in February 2019, and you cannot push the people to the wall. I believe in a democracy, the very issues that played out which brought about this government in a democratic process, they are playing out far more now under this regime and what Nigerians are looking up to is the day the elections will come and they will express their will freely through the ballot box and whatever the outcome of that exercise should be respected by all. I see a situation where the people will not just only vote but they will be waiting to ensure that their votes count and they will wait and ensure that their result from their unit is the actual reflection of what has taken place in their unit. So it is not an election people will vote and go to sleep, Nigerians are anxious to put an end to the killings that we are experiencing in the various parts of this country, Nigerians are looking forward to a situation where there will be improvement in the state of our roads because today, nobody can travel from one part of the country to another without spending hours on the roads, because the roads are bad. Nigerians are waiting anxiously to put an end to this government so that we can reverse the situation we are facing as a nation. All the things that hold us together as a nation are being eroded by the actions and policies of this government. This government in their clannish appointment has alienated critical sections of the country from being part of the government of the day. So, there are so many reasons why Nigerians cannot wait any day longer to effect a change in the government of this country through the ballot box. So it is not an election that one or two INEC officials will sit down irrespective of what the people are saying through their votes they will just say no we are going to declare a winner in the election even if the person is not the winner of the election. So I want Nigerians to be optimistic that if we all resolve and say that ‘enough is enough’, we have the will to ensure that our votes count. Your party’s National Chairman Prince Uche Secondus while receiving a delegation from the EU did say that INEC remains a problem and cannot be trusted; do you have further things to say on this? Well, the chairman has spoken, whatever he has said is on behalf of the party. There is no doubt that Nigerians are in indeed concerned over the conduct of elections that have taken place under the APC Federal Government, gradually they have been trying to erode the independence of INEC, trying to make INEC an organ of the APC Federal Government. I think these are the concerns expressed by the national chairman of our party who is saying that INEC must live up to the expectations of Nigerians and they must be ready and prepared to conduct free and fair elections. Don’t you think the present unending crisis in APC may affect the conduct of next year’s election? The unending crisis in APC should consume APC, it has nothing to do with the conduct of next year election. Already there are states where they will not be able to field candidates and the Supreme Court has come clearly to say they cannot benefit from their stupidity and that is where we are today. They have not been able to manage themselves as a political party and I do not think Nigerians should expect them to manage the economy or manage the nation better than what they have been able to exhibit in their internal management as a political party. So, the unending crisis should consume them. Today, it is clear that what Adams Oshiomhole exhibited as the governor of Edo State he has taken it to the national level in the management of the party and he has totally destroyed whatever he met by the time he took over as chairman of the party. Well, I think one is not surprised, do not forget that in the Garden of Eden, when Adam ate the forbidden fruit, things were never the same again, just as when Adams Oshiomhole assume the position of chairmanship of APC, APC has never been the same again and it will never be the same. So, we are watching events playing out in the political arena, we are also very satisfied with the efforts the party leadership are making towards ensuring a resounding victory by the party in the coming elections. You stated earlier that your party is prepared to handle the Influx of defectors, how prepared are you to avoid ruffling feathers? Our party today is like a market where you see all characters coming to buy and sell, we are watching very closely and we are managing the situation very well, what I can tell you quite frankly is that we have come out stronger in the past few years because clearly Nigerians have been able to witness the difference between us and the present APC government and they now appreciate us more. Those who left the party for reasons they gave at the time they were leaving have found out that with the APC they are doing worse things than they ever experienced while they were in PDP, so most of them are coming back home and the party leadership has exhibited exemplary leadership qualities by receiving them like the prodigal son, receiving them in droves without any ill feelings of their defection from the party in the past. I think that this is very keen, it has come to show clearly that to rescue Nigerians from the hands of the APC nothing should be spared in bringing all those who believe in the need for Nigeria to work again, they are coming to the PDP, seeing it as viable platform that can make Nigeria work again. I think that is the spirit. What advice will you have for the South Eastern people over the picking of their son, Peter Obi as the running mate to your presidential candidate since some people are still agitating? Our party is different, a decision has been reached, our President-in-waiting has after due consideration and consultation exercised his right of choice of his running mate and in coming Vice President and you will agree with me that his choice was welcome across board, even members of the APC and other political parties applauded his choice and to that extent, I think we have a responsibility to come together and rally round the ticket and ensure that we win next year election. So, I do not think what you are saying is true because for us in the party we are already working towards how the winning team of Atiku/Peter Obi will put together a very effective campaign programme that will deliver the votes for the party at the next election.