Bearing in mind the depth of anomalies in the petroleum industry, some legal professionals have joined the legion of voices in the country to remind its leadership of the urgency to endorse the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB), and rescue the industry from its current tradition of losing N3 trillion annually. The legal practitioners made the call at a Roundtable on Nigeria’s Petroleum Industry Reforms by the Nigeria Bar Association. All the discussants, including lawyers and oil and gas experts, said assenting to the bill would create efficient and effective governing institutions with clear and separate roles for the petroleum industry. While giving a background to the Petroleum Industry Reforms, Osten Olorunsola, one of the experts that drafted the PIGB, disclosed that the group would meet to harmonise all demands to the presidency. He, however, expressed concern about the possibility of getting the bill ready for presidential assent. “So we will be meeting to harmonise these issues and get it back to the national assembly for retransmission to the president. I would not say how long it will take the House to finalise the process because I don’t think it has to go through the long legislative process, but I want to believe that whatever delay we experience before May 2019 it will be with the president. But the fear is that if we fail to get it done right now it will be a whole lot of new process again,” he said. Olorunsola also spoke on the Petroleum Host and Impacted Communities Bill, which covers all the concerns expressed by the host communities. In his presentation, Gbenga Biobaku, Senior Partner, Gbenga Biobaku & Co, said the bill would establish a framework for the creation of commercially oriented and profit driven petroleum entities that would ensure value addition and internationalisation of the petroleum industry. He said assenting to the bill “will eliminate uncertainty in the Nigerian petroleum industry; stimulate growth and investments; significantly improve investors’ confidence and demonstrate seriousness about implementing reforms; strengthen governance and transparency; result in more effective regulation; unlock substantial resources, which will be available for further growth of the industry; result in improved performance and accountability by the commercial entities as well as refocus attention to frontier exploration.” According to him, it will also promote transparency and accountability in the administration of the petroleum resources of Nigeria and also create a conducive business environment for petroleum industry operations. Speaking further on the key principles of the bill, the legal practitioner pointed out that it would also ensure clear separation of roles; promote distinct accountabilities; ensure simple and clear line of sight; allow for focused operation, transparency and good governance, full coverage of the value chain, minimal interference and elimination of cross subsidisation risks. Speaking on the benefits of an independent regulator, he said it would allow for a strengthened governance and improved transparency in decision making and leading to more effective regulation. Biobaku also observed that the bill would create a strong competent board with mainly non-execs; enable the commission to give reasons for its decisions and to respond within a specified timeframe. He said: “The bill prescribes a procedure for public hearing prior to the issue of regulations; the setting up of a Commission to present midyear and annual reports of its operations to the minister and make available its annual report and audited financial account on its website before of March 31, every year. Speaking on the benefits of new commercial structure, he pointed out that it would ensure enhanced revenues to the federation through robust cost management and disciplined collection processes as well as give room for robust governance, performance and engender bottom line mind sets. Others include focusing on strategic interests, in particular cost management; enhancing funding capacity by creating a financially capable entity with the ability to source independent (non-budgetary) financing for JV operations; rationalizing portfolio to smaller, more manageable entities as well as minimising/elimination of cross subsidization. On his part, Joe Nwakue of ZERA Advisory & Consultancy, who spoke on Review of Proposed Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill (PIFB), said it would establish a progressive fiscal framework that encourages substantial and progressive investment in the petroleum industry thereby balancing rewards with risk and enhancing revenues to the Federal Government of Nigeria. He added that it would also institute a forward looking fiscal framework that is based on core principles of clarity, dynamism, neutrality, open access and fiscal rules of general applications as well as provide clear distinction between legislative aspects of the fiscal regime and negotiable aspects of contractual obligation. Nwakue added that the fiscal bill would establish a framework that expands the revenue base for the government while ensuring a fair return for the investors, simplify the administration of petroleum tax as well as promote equity and transparency in the fiscal system. Calling on the current National Assembly to leave a legacy by producing a bill that will reverse the negative growth in the industry lately, he said the imperative to pass a new fiscal bill was obvious, stressing that the proposed bill in its current form would benefit from the suggestions made to ensure “we have a legislation that ensures a win-win for all stakeholders and takes the industry to the next level.”