Lagos – Oil marketers under the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) and Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association (DAPPMA),  yesterday appealed to the Federal Government for prompt payment of over N800 billion outstanding subsidy debts owed to save marketers from total shut down of operations. The duo made the appeal in a joint interactive session with journalists on Sunday in Lagos on the need for government agencies saddled with the payment to expedite action on same with a view to saving their members from closing shop It would be recall that the Senate Committee on Petroleum (Downstream), in its resolution last month directed the Ministry of Finance and Debt Management Office (DMO) to hold a meeting with the oil marketers and other stakeholders to agree on the grey areas and report back within one week. But, Mr Cement Isong, the Executive Secretary, MOMAN, appealed to government to hasten payment of the outstanding debts of fuel imports subsidy arrears owed them (marketers) as the continued non-payment has severely affected their access to credit from banks. According to him, the major challenge the Nigerian downstream petroleum sector is facing is the non-payment of the long outstanding fuel subsidy to oil marketers. “We appreciate the efforts of the National Assembly and the Federal Executive Council in approving payment but the non-payment creates a significantly negative impact on the operational efficiency of the downstream sector of the oil industry, thereby placing a severe strain on its efforts to continually invest in infrastructure and raise industry standards. We hope that the debts will be paid in full to the oil marketers as soon as possible,” he said. Speaking, Olufemi Adewole, the Executive Secretary, Deport and Petroleum Products Marketers of Nigeria, said the processes highlighted for payment by the government were inimical to the operations of their businesses. He said: “The processes they have highlighted is killing their businesses. Immediately the banks read in the media that the National Assembly had approved, they went to court, got injunction and seized our assets.” According to him, 60 per cent of marketers have been forced out of business as banks have taken over their depots, assets and properties due to their inability to pay back monies borrowed to import fuel. He said many marketers were forced out of business, while others are struggling to survive due to the government’s inability to settle the subsidy arrears, saying the development is threatening investment in the downstream subsector. The DAPPMAN scribe said, although, the Federal Government has earmarked money to clear the debts, the marketers were yet to be paid. “The debt has had very adverse effects on our operations. I am aware of two depots that have been forcibly taken over by banks because they got injunctions from the courts. They did so the moment they heard that the National Assembly approved payment of the debt to marketers. Unfortunately, as at today the money was yet to get into our accounts.” He said the other challenge is that many of the marketers have laid off more than 90 per cent of their staff because of financial constraints. Adewole, however, said that the government has promised that part of the money would come as promissory note and cash saying the information gathered was that the government may pay only in promissory note. Sen.Kabiru Marafa, Chairman of the committee, said the oil marketers had earlier submitted a bill of N650 billion but government later reviewed the bill to N429 billion and eventually gave an approval of N386 billion. However, the N386 billion  approved  by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) came with a condition that subjected its implementation to the appointment of an international audit firm that would comprehensively review and ascertain the veracity of the claims by the oil dealers.