Sarah Jack Lagos – Chief Sunny Onuesoke, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain has expressed confidence that Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa would outrun other contenders from the opposition political parties in the 2019 governorship elections. Giving the assurance during a dinner he organised in Warri at the weekend for selected Urhobo leaders in oil and gas communities, Onuesoke  said  Okowa and PDP loyalists in the state  have absolutely nothing to fear about in the 2019 election  as the people are wiser and more convinced that the governor has no rival  come 2019 . He said the governor’s re-election in 2019 would be a smooth ride based on his giant strides in education, provision of infrastructure, empowerment, health, security, industrialisation and economic revival of the state among others. Onuesoke maintained that the various developmental initiatives and empowerment programmes for which the people of Delta State has benefited speaks volume of a man who should be trusted and not those engaging on empty promises and politics of deceits. The former governorship aspirant argued that since assumption of office, Okowa has taken bold initiatives to reduce unemployment in the state with Skill Training and Entrepreneurship programme, STEP, and Youth Agricultural Entrepreneurs Programme, YAGEP, under the SMART AGENDA development blueprint, adding that he was recently crowned as ‘The Roadmaster’ in view of his landslide achievements in  infrastructural development. According to him, “the Okowa administration has revived moribund industries like Bendel Steel among others to boost the economy of the state and thousands of youths have been trained and equipped to own their businesses in Delta state. “With the productive engagement of the younger generation, incidents of youth restiveness, pipeline vandalism and all forms of economic sabotage and criminal tendencies have reduced. Okowa ‘s populist policies have endeared him to Deltans. “He is a leader with tremendous goodwill across the three senatorial districts of the state. Okowa has no rival. He will emerge victorious in the 2019 governorship elections.” He stated that the opposition parties n Delta State that would have given Okowa little challenge are busy fighting within themselves on who will bear their party’s flag,  stressing that the infighting within the opposition parties in the state has made it easier for the governor to win in 2019. Onuesoke emphasised that the people have seen government attending to their needs and the people he said are in total support towards returning the winning governor.