Samuel Ogidan and Dele Moses Abuja / Ilorin – Senate President Bukola Saraki on Wednesday called on the presidency to institute a judicial inquiry into the “how and when” the principal suspect in the deadly bank robbery attacks in Offa, Kwara State, on April 5, 2018, Michael Adikwu, died. According to Saraki, the death was disclosed by the police. Saraki, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, noted that the new disclosure by the police has vindicated his earlier claim that the suspect had been murdered in police custody and that the investigation was politically motivated to implicate him, Governor Abdulfatai Ahmed and a few others. The Senate President said that the inquiry would help to thoroughly examine and interrogate how the investigation into the robbery incident was conducted by the police and whether the investigation followed the normal process and complied with global best practices. He added that the police needed to confirm why it took them so long to make the disclosure about the death of the principal suspect after they categorically denied it at the time he (Saraki) disclosed the information and it was reported in the media. Saraki said, “It should be recalled that when we mentioned it that the principal suspect had been murdered and that investigation into the Offa robbery attack was politically motivated and targeted at implicating me and other individuals, the Police Public Relations Officer, Moshood Jimoh, said: “Michael Adikwu is in police custody. You know that he is the one that led the killing of 22 people. The fire arms that were carted away, he is helping the police in the investigation to recover them. There is a state in the South-West where they kept him. I can’t mention the state. It is in one of the South-West states’. “The fresh facts have now thrown more light into why there had been inconsistencies in the various statements by the police. The police initially told the Attorney-General of Kwara State that the principal suspect was alive and they only later reluctantly disclosed that he died in the course of arrest. How can a suspect confirmed to be in custody now be said to have died in the course of arrest? This contradiction shows a deliberate attempt to cover up something. “It is obvious that the police have orchestrated the information they give to the public on the Offa robbery only to tarnish the image of the Kwara State governor and myself. We are calling for a public inquiry to probe the issues of extra-judicial killing, the cover-up of this killing with the aim of framing up some individuals for political purpose and politicising of criminal investigations. The facts need to be laid bare. “The inquiry may help to further document and define the terms of handling of suspects in police custody and how to prevent extra-judicial killing of suspects, for whatever purpose. There is need for transparency in investigations into all cases and our methods should comply with global standards. We should discourage situations where police politicise investigations and deliberately set out to frame some individuals. “With the facts on ground, the issues that should be unearthed by the inquiry include: when exactly did the suspect die? How did he die? Why was the police denying the facts of his death when they knew he had died? At what point did the police leadership knew of the death? Why are the police covering up the facts? We believe the answer to these questions will help the country to address the issue of human rights abuse, extra-judicial killing, manipulation of criminal investigation to achieve political end, deliberate attempt to cover up some facts and how skewed investigation of crime can impact on successful prosecution of suspects.” Saraki stated that now that the police have commenced prosecution of the remaining suspects in court, there should be diligent and prompt prosecution so that justice can be transparently done to both the victims of the Offa robbery and the accused persons. It would be recalled that the court was informed on Wednesday that Michael Adikwu, ring leader of suspected robbery gang arrested in connection with bank robberies and killing of people in Offa town, Kwara State, is dead. The court was informed of this development when the suspects were arraigned before a High Court in Ilorin. Adikwu was charged to court as the first defendant alongside five others: Ayoade Akinbosun, Ibikunle Ogunleye, Salawu Azeez, Adeola Abraham, and Niyi Ogundiran. Kalmadeen Ajibade, the Attorney-General of Kwara State, while making an oral application for leave to amend the charge sheet, said the police had declared Adikwu dead. He explained that his office, through the state Director of Public Prosecution, contacted Force Headquarters, Abuja, on phone, for the release of Adikwu for the trial but was told by Abba Kyari, the leader of the police team investigating the case, that the suspect had died. Ajibade submitted that in view of this development, the prosecution would need to amend the charge sheet to remove the name of Adikwu, who was the first defendant on the sheet. He also said that since the remaining five accused persons were yet to contact their lawyers who would represent them in the case and their offence being a capital one, it was desirable that an adjournment be granted to enable the suspects secure counsel. The suspects told the court that they were each served a copy of the charge with attachment of list of witnesses the prosecution intended to call and their (suspects) confessional statement on Monday. The suspects said they had not been able to contact their lawyers since Tuesday, being a public holiday. Justice Halima Salman noted that the evidence of the death of Adikwu was not yet before her court but granted the leave to amend the charge and adjourned till November 30 to enable suspects to be represented by their counsel. Speaking with newsmen after the court proceedings, Ajibade said Adikwu’s confessional statement was available and disclosed that his office had written the police to officially provide evidence that the suspect was dead.