Shehu Sani, senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial district, in this interview with CELESTINE OKAFOR ruled out any possibility of settlement of the dispute between him and his state governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai.  Sani, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs also spoke on his defection from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the People’s Redemption Party (PRP) and other issues. Excerpts: In your letter of resignation from the APC recently, you gave a few reasons for your exit to the PRP among which was alleged impunity in the APC. At what point really did you begin to observe some of those lapses? The APC was originally founded on the hope that it will reshape the direction of the country. APC exists as a convergent of forces to uproot the PDP and rescue the country. It was seen to be a vehicle for giving Nigeria a new sense of hope and direction. But the party now took over political power and that ended the cohesion and solidarity within the party. This evolved into infighting between the executive and the legislature and members of the party and also between the party and its members. Now the immediate former national chairman, Chief John Odigie Oyegun, laid the foundation for the destruction of the party. The crisis in the party started with the problems with its members in the National Assembly and the presidency. Now it also moved to the issues of the party congresses whereby Oyegun and others wanted tenure extension. And when they couldn’t get it, they now corrupted the congresses. For example, in my own state Kaduna, there were no congresses. The governor (Mallam Nasir El-Rufai) and his aides simply went and wrote the names of the delegates they wanted for the party. And if you are not one of those they wrote their names, there is no way you can get any hold in that system. But now when Comrade Adams Oshiomhole came after the elective convention, he inherited that crisis. And then we told him that we are on our way out of the party, but he insisted that we should remain in the party that he was determined to address those grievances and restore the party to order. Now, when my colleagues defected in July, l couldn’t join in the defection because of three things: one is that there were interventions by Mr President, Comrade Adams Oshiomole and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to press on me to remain in the party and that the issues will be addressed. Secondly, l made wide ranging consultation in my own senatorial constituency to hear their own views on whether l should leave the party or not. The overwhelming majority of my people insisted that l shouldn’t leave at that time. Now the third aspect of it is that l don’t want to leave simply because l want to be seen to be joining the bandwagon. And so l remained. Now again, when the party primaries came, it was self-evident that a number of promises made were not fulfilled. One of those promises was that there was going to be a direct primaries. Because of that, the National Working Committee (NWC) got into conflict with the governors. So the governors were given the options to do either direct or indirect primaries. That became a problem. And it also came to the open that the governors were united in their determination that things must be done in their own way. So the governors have made it impossible for the party to truly act as a progressive party. They were determined to do things differently from the party’s determination to give powers to the members of the party. So in Kaduna, l was the only one cleared by the National Working Committee to stand for the election. And afterwards, the governor insisted that l should not be the only one to be cleared because the governor has already programmed his aide for that my seat in the senate. Therefore it was manipulated. The governor relocated from Kaduna to Abuja where he moved from Adams Oshiomhole’s office to the presidential villa and pressurized, compressed and blackmailed the president do his own bidding. That was what actually happened. So your defection was actually a protest to all those occurrences? It was because President Buhari has demonstrated his apparent weakness and vulnerability in terms of his capacity as leader of the party. And you can see the protests, the chaos, the mayhem that attended the party primaries and now the revelations that are coming in about what actually happened. So the mess of the primaries simply vindicated some of us, that it wasn’t a free and fair contest. It was a game of money. And at the end of the day, l had to tender my resignation and joined the People’s Redemption Party, PRP. Why PRP? Why not PDP where some of your colleagues senators defected to? I couldn’t have joined the PDP because l don’t want to move from one foster home to another. When people leave the APC and say they’re going home, they’re going to the PDP because the place is actually their home. And l have gone to my own home which is the PRP, the party founded by late Mallam Aminu Kano and a party which our parents were members of, and also which we were very proud of their history and heritage. It is strongly believed by most people that the contention over who becomes the next governor of Kaduna state in 2019 between you and governor El-Rufai, was the reason for your lingering bitter political feud. Is this assumption right or wrong? Well, since 2015, there has not been love lost between me and governor El-Rufai. He says that we differ both politically and ideologically. He is a product of the establishment. Out of the 16 years of the PDP, El-Rufai used 13 years as a beneficiary and a leading figure in the system. I have never been a member of the PDP. So a person like him has no moral right to criticise or attack the PDP because he benefitted from the PDP. Secondly, he manipulated and engineered the APC at the state level to persecute me as a person through illegal suspension. And then thirdly, thugs associated with his government attacked my office several times, l mean physical violence! Fourthly, he tried to frame me in a murder case to the point of writing directly to the judge which we got hold of the paper. Fifthly, this was a man who openly called for violence. He called on people to unleash violence on me. And then he so much attaches himself to the presidency and name-drop the President in whatever he is doing. You can see how he even moved bulldozers to demolish the house of Senator Hunkuyi. So we were virtually at war with each other. And it was that crisis in Kaduna state which led us to establish a faction of the APC which is aimed at giving our own supporters a platform to challenge the government of governor El-Rufai and his anti-people policies. Now he became such an arrogant and destructive ruler in the state. He has jailed journalists who write against him. He has jailed academics who spoke against him. He tried to bring in anti-preaching law that will stifle clerics who have been speaking against him. He has marginalised a section of the state. He has sacked thousands of civil servants and teachers and he has demolished their houses. He has made the APC so unpopular in Kaduna state such that it has reached to a point where the party is being seen as a leper. He has driven so many members of the party out to other parties using the mask of president Buhari. And Buhari appears to be unable to tackle him. But we know it is a question of time before that governor will betray Buhari. What gives you the impression that a staunch loyalist and an ally of the president as governor El-Rufai will do that? Governor El-Rufai has a history of betraying people who helped him at one time or the other when he has finished using such people to achieve his selfish desires and interests. He has done it to Atiku Abubakar who practically made him in the beginning. He has done it former President Olusegun Obasanjo. He has done it to me. And he will do it to President Muhammadu Buhari after he has used the president to succeed in his re-election bid in 2019. He is an ingrate. He is always like that. That is the basis of my quarrel with him. In the last seven months, l have been in court with him. He sued me for defamation for N3billion and l also sued him for N5billion. We are still in High Court Kaduna. So you can see the level of bitterness and the divide that exists between me and governor El-Rufai. And it was just issues that arose before the President, Adams Oshiomhole and others on the need to address the problems and they promised to address them. But they were unable to do it. So l satisfied my conscience in the sense that my people are pleased with me that l have done their bidding and the result has turned out that it is those people that they believed in that will betray them. So l can tell you that the problems we had in Kaduna was unaddressed. The same thing happened in the case of Kano, Bauchi, Rivers, Kogi, etc. So the fire in APC started from Kaduna and then moved to other states. At the beginning of this dispensation in 2015, we are aware that there was this mutual rapport, this understanding between you and the governor to reach an accord on all matters. Can you tell us the untold stories of that understanding and the circumstances of your parting of ways? First of all, l must tell you that in the primaries building up to the 2015 elections, he never supported me. I was not his candidate for the senatorial primaries in 2015. And l defeated his candidate in the 2015 elections. For that, we went on to win the election. But issues started when he demonstrated right from day one, that he simply want to work with the person l defeated. He chose also to work with fellow senators from other senatorial zones in the state and not with me. So it started right from that very time. I can tell you that the last time l saw him face to face as me and you are sitting together now, was during his swearing in on May 29, 2015. Since that time, l’ve never seen him anywhere, not even on the street of kaduna or anywhere. That is the level of the division that exists between us. He has never called me on phone and l’ve never called him. Do you foresee a situation where there can be a rapprochement between you and the governor now or in the future? There can never be a rapprochement between us! If there was, it could have happened when l was in the APC, not now that l am no longer in the party. So our own interest now is how we can uproot him from Kaduna state because he has become a cancer, an affliction to the people of Kaduna state. Governor El-Rufai is creating a lot of problems in Kaduna state. We have never been more divided as a state in terms of Muslims and Christians and people of different ethnic background as we now are under his government in Kaduna state. That is not in the interest of peace for the state and for the country. So right now, we are operating on different frequency. While he is on short wave, l’m on medium wave. And while l’m on medium wave, maybe he is on FM wave. I am aware that President Muhammadu Buhari has made several presidential efforts to reconcile you and governor El-Rufai. What was the outcome of that truce initiative? Well, it very clear that President Buhari cannot control El-Rufai. Mr President is totally incapable of calling him to caution, if not, a number of things would not have happened. El-Rufai has no respect for President Muhammadu Buhari. He is simply using the president. And he will turn against Buhari but not now. He will do so after he has gotten what he wanted from the president which is second term. When Buhari is no longer of political value to him, he will turn his back on the president. If he can turn his back on the former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, turn his back against former President Olusegun Obasanjo; turn his back against former presidents Umaru Musa Yar’Adua and Goodluck Jonathan, nothing will make the case of Buhari different. All these personalities are his bosses. Then you can predict what is ahead. So l am of the belief that Buhari will not know his friends and his enemies until when he is out of power. One day president Buhari will sit down in his living room, watching the television and seeing how those people he hold in high esteem, people he so much respect and believe in, people who have so much benefitted from him, will turn against him. I am very certain that this will not happen later but sooner. And l am also very confident that APC will not last beyond Buhari’s presidency. If at this very time when Buhari is alive as a sitting president you can see how state governors and the national chairman of the party are exchanging crossfire and are at war with each other publicly and neither the president nor anybody can call them to caution. This is to show you what will happen when Buhari’s time is up as a president. APC will either restrict itself to a regional party either in the South West or it will seize to exist as a political party. Right now, there is so much chaos and confusion, disorder and anarchy in the APC. Are you aware that you are believed by most people including your former colleagues and leaders in APC as an inconsistent person on account of your regular attacks and occasional praises of president Buhari and the APC. It is believed too that you often  act based on when is convenient for you and not necessarily on the basis of principles. Your critics easily refer to your famous “Sheltox and deodorant” theory approach by government in fighting corruption and also your alleged turn-coat praises of Mr President when you were promised senatorial return ticket before the primaries? Recently you began to criticize the president again on the issue of Asset sale now that you have defected to PRP (Peoples Redemption Party). Are your critics right or wrong? But l have never retracted that my statement on the floor of the senate that they use the approach of Sheltox and deodorant to fight corruption. Have l retracted it? Labour was to proceed on an indefinite strike action recently before that strike was called off. If both labour and government reached an agreement and government decides to violate it and then labour resumed the strike, what is wrong with that? So if l voice my criticism of president Muhammadu Buhari and his government and policies and then there was a commitment to address those issues which l raised about the party, and then those commitments were not addressed and l simply continued from where l stopped or relapsed, what is wrong with that? If l was critical of the APC and the government when l was in the party, but there was an understanding that those issues will be addressed, l don’t know whether the expectation was when there were violations of the agreements l should also keep quiet? All things which l said never have for once been faulted. Are there areas President Buhari has failed or achieved? Of course, there are. The president has recorded achievements in some areas and also failed in some areas. You can’t say that he has failed in every aspect. It’s not possible. He came into office and the violence we have seen in Abuja, Kano, Kaduna and in other places unleashed by the Boko Haram group was intense. But you and l can see how the insurgent groups were reduced to a certain level. That is an achievement. We can also say that the image of the country globally has far improved than it used to be. As l am talking to you now as a member of the PRP, l can still say all that about the president’s achievement. So it does not change anything. But there’s also apparent failure within his government which shows that there are grey areas of corruption that have not been addressed. There are also grey areas of insecurity that has not been addressed. They are my views and not what somebody should define for me. And to criticise the government, l don’t have to be in PDP because l also have issues with them. The PDP’s performance in the power sector for 16 years was a complete waste. So it doesn’t mean if you are not with Buhari you are with PDP for you to be seen as an opposition. The failures of Buhari and the rot of his regime does not cleanse the PDP of what they have done when they were in office. We have to emphasize that PDP has failed and APC is failing. And if the PDP now say that they are going to start from the beginning, well that’s a different thing. But it does not clean their history. You can’t say because l’m in or out of APC l should not be critical of Buhari. That’s not the case. I was in APC and not in PDP as a critic of Buhari.