Lagos – Human Right Organisations at the weekend gathered at the Presken hotel in Maryland to celebrate one of their own, Comrade Rauf Aregbesola, the outgoing Governor of the state of Osun for his successful completion of his eight years in office as the governor in the state. The also used the occasion to present to the public a coffee, table book titled; ‘Liberty and Revolution:  A Renaissance Power and Politics,’ a book put together as a Reflection on the eight years of Aregbesola, as Governor of the state of Osun. The activists as a way to show their satisfaction to the excellent performance of Aregbesola said that they were happy that he did not join other politicians who are known for fraud and all other vices, stressing that he has not be accused of any fraudulent activities in his eight year tenure. Adewale Adeoye, Executive Director of Journalist for Democratic Rights (JODER) said that they are glad that he  was able to survive the eight years of trauma and the intrigues that were planted for him. “many of us that were his traditional friends are proud that he has not been accused of corruption, he has not build houses in  UK or anywhere abroad, we are proud that his children are not living a life of opulence,  we are proud about his personal discipline, we taught there is need to celebrate him, that he had made us proud, “That is why we have put together this forum, not on a party basis, but people coming from all works of lives to show that we appreciate him. it is a kind of a farewell message. We try to put up a coffee table book to show some of the things he has done, a kind of graphic narration. In Nigeria we are very poor in documenting history, most of the things that happened 20 years ago, we can’t find it. We need to document these eight years for posterity, for future generation to have a future material to know how he ran that state for eight years,” he added. Femi Aborishade, human rights lawyer who is also a friend of Aregbesola described him as a honest politician who means well for the ordinary people. “ I see him as someone who does not belong to the categories of looters. I am happy that in spite of the challenges been faced by the government of Osun state nobody has pointed to houses built by him either in Osun state ,in other states in Nigeria or abroad, nobody has told us he has foreign accounts and the rest, he is someone who does not believe in accumulations of wealth. I think he is an example for future politicians particularly the youths in terms of his honesty, in terms of his devotion in implementing povert reducing programmes,” he said. Aborishade noted that governance in Osun state under Aregbesola is unique compare to the past governments in the state and compared to governments of other states of Nigeria. And it stands out. “It stands out for one major reason, he has been able to implement what we call income redistribution programmes which are the most important ways of reducing poverty” he said.