Samuel Ogidan and Idongesit Ashameri Abuja / Uyo – Following the sealing of Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly by officers and men of the Nigeria police, the upper chamber of the National Assembly on Wednesday ordered a thorough investigation into the action with a view to ascertaining reasons behind the development. Coming under Order 43 of the Senate Standing Rules, Albert Akpan (PDP-Akwa Ibom North-East) alleged that the sealing of the state House of Assembly by the police was meant to pave way for the impeachment of Governor Udom Emmanuel. Addressing newsmen shortly after the plenary session, Akpan noted that five out of 26 lawmakers in the state who claimed to have sacked the Assembly leadership were trying to impeach the governor by causing trouble in the state. The lawmakers noted that since the former governor of the state, Goodwill Akpabio, defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC), strange vices had engulfed the state. “There were no cases of armed robbery, kidnappings and criminal activities in the state until the defection of my leader, Senator Godswill Obot Akpabio, from PDP,” he said. The senator, who alleged that the crisis in the state was orchestrated by the APC to disrupt peace in the state ahead of next year’s elections, had earlier moved a motion on the police sealing of the Assembly. He informed his colleagues that over 1, 500 policemen invaded the premises of the House of Assembly on Wednesday and sealed it, thereby preventing the lawmakers from carrying out their legislative duties. The lawmaker, who said that the reason behind the invasion was still not clear, prayed the Senate to invite the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, to explain the development. He added that IGP should order his men out of the Assembly complex so that the state lawmakers could have access to their offices and the chamber to discharge their legislative functions. Akpan said: “Mr. President, I want this Senate to direct the Committee on Police Affairs to investigate the police seal of Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly. The Senate should first order the vacation of the Assembly complex by the police. “According to what I heard and what I’ve seen, over 1, 500 policemen invaded and sealed the state House of Assembly this morning and they’re still there as I speak. “I want my colleagues to know that a threat to democracy in Akwa Ibom is a threat to democracy in Nigeria.” Contributing, Shehu Sani (PRP-Kaduna Central) described the sealing of the Assembly as “clearly ambiguous and an aberration which should not be supported by any senator because of politics.” Directing the Committee on Police Affairs to investigate the alleged sealing of the Assembly complex by the police, the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, while ruling on the motion, said: “What is wrong is wrong. It’s wrong for a parliament to be sealed by security agents. “We should not be partisan about it, but it’s necessary we allow the Committee on Police Affairs to investigate it because it’s still an allegation by a member which should be investigated.” Reacting to the development, while addressing newsmen in Abuja, the National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, lambasted the presidency and the APC for their plot to cause mayhem and forcefully take over control of Akwa Ibom State. Ologbondiyan, in a press conference, drew the attention of Nigerians to the looming danger, imminent violence, and breakdown of law and order in Akwa-Ibom State as well as other littoral states following attempts by President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC to forcefully take over control of these states. “As you may recall, two weeks ago, the PDP had cautioned the Buhari presidency and the APC on their exposed plot to instigate confusion and violence in Bayelsa State by destabilising the security architecture of the state and foisting a siege mentality on the entire oil rich South-South region. “Instead of retracing their steps, the Buhari presidency and the APC have continued to design heinous machinations and issuing threats of violent takeover of these states, for which they have now directed their arsenals particularly on Akwa-Ibom State. “Nigerians are all witnesses to volatile outbursts by the Buhari Campaign Organisation and APC leaders and their use of violent images and outright threats of war on Akwa-Ibom State. “Nigerians are invited to recall the violent and ominous outburst by the former governor of Akwa-Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio, who vowed that the APC would take over the state the same way Hitler overran Poland, swearing that ‘war shall see Warsaw and Warsaw shall see war’ in Akwa-Ibom State. “Given that this statement is the policy of the APC and the Buhari presidency against Akwa-Ibom and other parts of our nation, where they are not in control, the president, as chief security officer of our nation, never issued a reprimand nor has Senator Akpabio been pulled in for questioning by security agencies.” Also speaking, the Publicity Secretary of Akwa Ibom State chapter of PDP, Ini Ememobong, noted that APC was instigating crisis to isolate Akwa Ibom governorship poll in the 2019 general elections. He said: “The premeditated plan which is unfolding is in phases and we’ve said that severally, and the whole aim is to ensure that the security situation in the state is presented as that which the governor is overwhelmed because of his gentlemanly disposition to issues of state and governance, and when that happens, it will attract seemingly the attention of the Federal Government to come in the aid of the APC who are totally and absolutely unable to win any election.”