LAGOS – Makainti Baru,the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation(NNPC),yesterday says Nigeria needs oil price that does not fall below $70 due to its production constraints. Dr Baru spoke at a Global Business Leaders Panel Session on the sidelines of the 21st Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference (ADIPEC), held in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, He said: “We need price stability and we want to acknowledge the good gesture by Saudi Arabia.” Commending Saudi Arabia’s recent decision to announce daily crude oil production cut by one million barrels per day from December this year,the NNPC boss stated that the move would significantly stabilize the energy market. He disclosed at the panel discussion that NNPC would deploy cutting-edge technology to enhance its operations and maximize value across its businesses value-chain. The GMD, who joined world leader on the panel to discuss: “Creating forward-thinking strategies, supporting upstream operations and market diversification,” shared NNPC’s drive to use technology to deliver Nigeria’s future energy needs in line with anticipated global demand and population growth. He said the corporation was working towards utilizing technology for early detection of pipeline vandalized spots and quick response systems which would significantly save cost, reduce potential fatalities and safeguard the environment. “In terms of refining, digital technology will help us get more out of our crude which will mean getting the highest yield from our plants. We also need to utilize digital technology from the contracting end which will lead to improved designs in constructions thereby reducing cost and time,” the GMD noted. Baru said the oil and gas industry was mostly driven by technological improvements and environmental concerns, a development which has resulted in the changing dynamics in the global energy mix. He observed that while crude oil (which is still dominant) is projected to grow at a declining rate by 2040 favouring growth in natural gas, renewable energy in the longer term would account for 40% of increase in total energy demand by the same year. Dr. Baru said in its efforts to survive in the long run, NNPC would require strong investment and commitment to technological research and development even as he noted that corporation would continue to leverage on intelligent use of big database to expand its businesses. He said as the industry grows, International Oil Companies (IOCs) and National Oil Companies (NOCs) must be ready to embrace new technological initiatives as a means of offsetting expense escalation and furthering the cost and efficiency improvements they have already achieved. Also speaking, the NNPC Chief Operating Officer Downstream, Mr. Henry Ikem-Obih said the NNPC was ready for business and that Nigeria would keep up with the technological advancements within the global oil and gas industry.