The thrills of the annual MTV Europe Music Awards (MTV EMAs) is not just about who wins what diadems, but also about sterling live performances, red carpet fashion and remarkable speeches. For some of the performances, organisers have firmed up a star-studded lineup, with the addition of international pop sensations, including Little Mix, pop star and 2016 host Bebe Rexha, global superstar DJ/producer David Guetta and platinum-selling musician Jason Derulo. These artistes will be perform at the “2018 MTV EMAs”, which will broadcast live globally from Bilbao Exhibition Centre, Barakaldo, Biscay on Sunday, 4 November at 21:00 CAT / 20:00 WAT on MTV (DStv channel 130). Organisers have announced also that Latin Pop’s breakthrough star, Sofia Reyes will open this year’s red carpet pre-show with a performance, in addition to presenting an award during the main show. These artistes join previously-announced host and performer Hailee Steinfeld, Nicki Minaj, Halsey, Rosalía, Panic! at the Disco, Alessia Cara, Marshmello, Bastille, Anne-Marie, Jack & Jack and “Global Icon” award recipient Janet Jackson. In addition to Reyes, model Jourdan Dunn and actor Terry Crews are added as presenters, joining previously-announced stars Lindsay Lohan, Anitta, Debby Ryan, Ashlee Simpson and Evan Ross, and Netflix stars Michael Peña and Diego Luna. Representing the African continent at the awards are the six nominees for the Best African Act category; Davido (Nigeria), Tiwa Savage (Nigeria), Distruction Boyz (South Africa), Fally Ipupa (DRC), Nyashinski (Kenya) and Shekhinah (South Africa). They join 26-year-old Nigerian, Hauwa Ojeifo, nominated in the first MTV EMA Generation Change Award. A bold change maker who founded a movement of love, hope and support to give mental health a voice in Nigeria. Unfortunately, Ojeifo will not be attending the event, as she was unable to secure a travel Visa. MTV EMA 2018 will broadcast live today, Sunday, November 4 at 21:00 CAT / 20:00 WAT from Bilbao Exhibition Centre, Spain on MTV (DStv channel 130). 