Lagos – Amputee football is a disabled sport played with seven players on each team (six outfield players and one goalkeeper). Outfield players have lower extremity amputations, and goalkeepers have an upper extremity amputation. Outfield players use loft strand (forearm) crutches, and play without their prosthesis. After failing to attend the Argentina 2010, Russia 2012 and Mexico 2014 editions due to lack of funds and suspension over its inability to pay up its international affiliation fee which the current board of the Nigeria Amputee Football Federation (NAFF) took steps to pay off, the World Amputee Football Federation (WAFF) cleared Nigeria to attend the Mexico 2018 edition, alongside Ghana, Kenya and Angola as Africa Zone representatives. Twenty-four countries divided into six groups participated in the World Cup with Nigeria grouped in Pool E with Russia, Brazil and El Salvador while Ghana was in Pool B with France, Italy and Argentina. Kenya was grouped in F with the USA, Turkey and Iran, and Angola was in Pool D with Spain, Ukraine and Haiti. The games were held in Guadalajara, San Juan, Logos de Moreno and Chapala, the four major cities of the Mexican state of Jalisco. The Nigeria Amputee squad to the event was selected during the National Amputee Football Championship held in Abuja in June. The selected players were joined by other Nigerian amputees currently plying their trade in Europe. Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar donated a sum of N10m to the team to enable the players participate in Mexico. The Super Eagles also made a sizable donation to the team during the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier and stand in captain, Ahmed Musa urged well-meaning Nigerians to also lend support. Project coordinator of the tournament Fred Edoreh revealed that the team cannot afford to miss out for the fourth time consecutively after picking up a qualification ticket. “It will close the window of opportunities which the sport offers for the engagement of physically challenged persons in Nigeria.” Asides the Super Eagles, Atiku’s and Mikel Obi’s intervention, president of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick also offered assistance However, this year’s edition of the Amputee Football World Cup held from October 24 to November 5 has come and gone in Mexico with Angola emerging as year’s champion after beating Turkey 5-4 in a penalty shoot-out in the final. The match ended goalless after normal time, and the deadlock could not be broken in extra-time. The deciding shoot-out proved just as tense with both teams scoring from their first four penalties. At 4-4, Angola’s goalkeeper, Jesus, made a crucial save to deny Turkey. The African team, who finished as runners-up at the last World Cup, sealed their championship victory thanks to a winning spot-kick from Henio Guilerme. Kenya made it through to the knockout phase for the first time, eventually losing to Russia in the last 16. Nigeria’s Special Eagles failed to make the second round, after two defeats (Brazil 6-0; Russia 3-0) and one victory in the group phase (1-0 against El Salvador) Liberia and Ghana, who also qualified to play in Mexico, withdrew before the start of the tournament after Liberia reportedly failed to secure their visas on time, and Ghana faced financial difficulties. And with what the Special Eagles went through before the championship, sports loving Nigerians unanimously agreed that the team deserves all the accolades for taking part in the championship. In a bid to ensure their attendance, the Nigeria Amputee team launched a jersey sales campaign to generate funds to foot their bill to the championship. The initiative being jointly driven by Haggai Sports, a wholly Nigeria sports kit company, and the NAFF, was designed to appeal to the public for support through purchase of the team jersey from which about 20% of each sales was dedicated to the team towards raising about N30m needed to cover the flight ticket, visa fees and upkeep of 15 players and five officials to the World Cup. President of NAFF, Isah Suleiman, said the initiative became necessary following lack of response from government and corporate institutions after several months of appeals to support the team to the World Cup. “Kudos should be given to the players for their determinations to put the name of the country on the world map in the sport. “Kudos should also be given to those that rallied up support for the team which eventually made us to be in Mexico. “We thank them all for their support and we want the Sports Ministry to also come to the support of the team. “The Ministry should provide a level playing ground for us like other teams representing the country at major championships. “Perhaps, if we had gotten the Ministry’s support at the early stage, we would have done better than what we put up in Mexico”, said Suleiman. Michael Ishiguzo, one of Arsenal’s amputee team players, who sets up an online appeal on GoFundMe to raise 52,000£ for the team before they could participate at the World Cup in Mexico also lent his words. ‘These guys have worked so hard and several times they have missed going to the World Cup because it appears the government, the corporate community don’t care about them,’ Ishiguzo told BBC Sport. ‘I feel their pains. They have no support whatsoever. ‘They contributed their own funds to keep the sport, the team and their dream alive while also working hard to fend for themselves and their families. ‘Going to the World Cup was a big deal for them because it brought them to the global place.’ We’re not giving up on our dreams”, he said. Media Officer of the Special Eagles, Fred Edoreh, while praising the efforts of the team in Mexico, urged the Sports Ministry and sports lovers to give the team equal treatments to other national teams. “The amputees and other physically challenged persons are Nigerians, our brothers and sisters, and they deserve our encouragement and support to feel a sense of inclusion and belonging in our society. “This will also inspire and give hope to many other physically challenged people that they have a chance through sports to live meaningfully and contribute to the society and the uplifting the name of their country. “It should also be noted that there are prospects for sporting career for amputee footballers with a number of Nigerians already playing for clubs in England, Turkey and other places”, said Edoreh. Meanwhile, Suleiman in an interview said that the players and coaches deserve national honours because of their efforts in making the country proud. He stressed that the players put up tireless and determined efforts not only to travel to Mexico, but also braved several odds to play their matches. He said they were not disgraced and pointed out that fatigue was a key issue that affected the players in Mexico. “The team made me proud. All the players, the coaches and the officials; they all did well, given the fact that its their first time and due to the challenges they faced. “The fact that we also won one match, and only narrowly lost to USA in the classification match is a pointer to the efforts the team put in. “As it were, their inability to have a better performance was strictly due to fatigue that affected them because of their late arrival in the venue of the competition in Mexico.”