Chief Adesunbo Onitiri is an Estates Surveyor and Valuer; a Senior Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Estates Surveyor and Valuers  who has been in practice for about 42 years. He is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Lagos Central Senatorial District. In this interview with STEVE OMA-OFOZOR, he dwelled on the need to deliver Lagos State from the shackles of poverty with the endowed natural resources of the state and his plans for his senatorial district if elected. Excerpts: Why are in politics? Well, you know all beings are political animals and we are all politician. Fortunately, I was born into a political family. My father was a leader in the Action Group; one of the leaders that went to jail with Chief Obafemi Awolowo for the  treasonable  felony and he was sentenced to about five years imprisonment, while Chief Awolowo was sentenced to seven years then. These were the days of post independence when they were fighting for good leadership of this country, they wanted this country to be ruled by tested hands and dedicated patriotic Nigerians and that was what they were fighting for, but unfortunately the wrong people had always been ruling this country since independence and our problem is absolutely bad leadership, it’s not more of corruption, but more of leadership. If we have the right people to rule this country, this country will be turned around, for good for everybody. I believe I have the capacity to help turn things around and that is the reason I’m offering myself. You are going to contest against a candidate in the ruling party; do you think you have a chance? Yes, I surely have a chance, if you look at ACN now APC that was in power they were in the opposition party for many years; nothing is permanent except change. It is true that Lagos state has been governed by APC, ACN and AD for many years but this time around it is time for change; change the changer and change for good; enough is enough. They ruled Lagos state for so many years and let us try another party, that is my mission, I don’t follow people on a band wagon basis; I always want to see what changes we can bring and what innovations we can bring into governance. What are you presenting to the people to get their mandate? Good! You see, like I said earlier that the problem of this country is leadership; we need to get the right people to lead this country and lead well. Most of our laws are archaic, especially the criminal code; we need to change it, we need to modernise it; we also need to give the teenage masses sense of belonging; the youths – there is no employment for them – they want to see how we can create more employment for Lagosians; they want to see how we can pay the aged, the old ones some stipends; let them be able to get access their pension without hassles; let us see how we can bring in infrastructures into all the states, especially Lagos state. We have natural resources in Lagos; Lagos is surrounded by water, but we have not tapped the water resources. I want to go there and talk about “ocean economy.” How we can tap the ocean economy and create more jobs for the people and even better our transportation system. These are some of the things we need to look into. Also I want to see how we can make the tax have human face; governance is about real distribution of wealth; but know it is one sided to the rich; those who are rich in this country are super rich and the masses are becoming poorer and poorer that they now said the capital of poverty is in Nigeria, this is absolutely wrong we should let our people have access to all better things of life. In some country when you graduate from the university, immediately you have jobs, you have vehicles, you have descent accommodation. There can even be a law that anybody who graduates from the university from now on should have salaries until they get job; people should have access to descent accommodation; give them two bedroom flat, all the graduates once they come out of university let them have two bedroom flat, this country can afford it; also they can have access to health facilities at subsidised rate, so that there would be medical facilities for all, affordable medical facilities and there would be good transportation; Let us make a law to develop our agric system, the farming system, the fact our farm can produce employment opportunities for the masses; these are some areas that we need to do. The youths can be empowered through sport also. So, many Nigerians are good footballers, let us look at the areas of developing football in this country, so that the youths will have employment, you can send them out to Saudi Arabia to play football, send them to Dubai, send them anywhere and make good living, these are areas that I’m looking at and also I want to ensure that Lagos is given the better status. Lagos has served as Federal capital for many years, we need to ensure that Lagos state is given a better status in the Federation and it is entitled to certain benefits. Some of the oil producing states have special status and they are collecting their benefits from government apart from the normal distribution, so let Lagos State also get something. Are you now saying Lagos State is not getting the best even now that the state is in the ruling party? Yes! Lagos is still not getting the best; it is still being shortchanged, there is no Federal present. Federal presents are still not in, perhaps some oil producing areas; we need to spend the money from the resources to develop those areas. Why is it so? You see, Lagos state accommodates 60% of Nigerians; people migrate and come to Lagos state to search for greener pasture – to search for employment and other good things of life. So, the federal government should assist Lagos State to provide all the amenities to accommodate the people. If you look at the roads in Lagos presently they are so bad; you can’t get to anywhere in good time within Lagos – it takes one – two hours or more driving within Lagos because of bad roads; it is not good enough, it doesn’t make Lagosians productive. But why is federal you know running away from Lagos; people had thought Lagos state will be transformed when it is aligned with the ruling party? It is because they are looking at the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) from Lagos State; they think it was sufficient whereas is not sufficient. The IGR in Lagos is not sufficient to provide all the necessary required facilities needed; there should be federal presence as well. What is then present IGR of Lagos State? The present IGR is about N34 billion every month; but there is need to improve on that because the population of Lagos is huge and so many people are suffering. Lagos state is starving;  only few people are providing the facilities, whereas there should be federal presence so that we can take care of the rural areas in Lagos state. People only feel the presence of Lagos State Government in the Urban areas like Victoria Island; Ikoyi; but in areas like Agege; Alimosho people are suffering, they don’t feel the government’s presence. If you go round some of the areas in Lagos State, you will start wondering whether we have a government at all. So, we need to enact laws that will empower the local governments to function properly not to depend on the state; yes, there is need for true federalism for the local government to function properly.