Awka – The likelihood of the National Assembly taking over total control and supervision of legislative business in the Anambra State House of Assembly is not far-fetched following alleged shutting down of the legislative complex in Awka due to the confusion and rancour that greeted the impeachment of Rt.Hon.Rita Maduagwu as Speaker of the House by a two-third majority which thereafter produced Ikem Uzoezie as the new Speaker of the legislature in the state . The legislature in the last few weeks has witnessed what some people saw as democratic drama where members of the legislature split into two groups headed by the two parallel speakers respectively. While Maduagwu’s camp claims to have the authentic leadership of the House ,  Uzoezie’s faction maintain that the former Speaker remained impeached and has no locus standi to preside over the proceedings of the House . This situation climaxed when both leadership of the legislature told journalists at different fora that they were Speakers and that any impeachment motive or threat of any kind on either of them would be met with appropriate legal sanctions as the legislature was an independent organ of government. At this point, it was clear that anarchy has been set loosed upon the state assembly as lawmakers engaged themselves in war of attrition as discordant tunes rend the air giving an atmosphere of disharmony and disaffection in the 6th Anambra State House of Assembly . While many insinuate that the chaotic atmosphere of the state assembly was not merely to strip off Maduagwu of her speakership , but to pave way for the removal of the state governor or better still make the entire state ungovernable for him, other school of thought were of the opinion that the remote reason why the legislative complex was boiling was because some aggrieved lawmakers wanted to pay the Governor back in his own coin for not ensuring that they obtained tickets in the APGA primary elections . But in spite of these divergent views and opinions on why two parallel speakers have emerged, the fact remained that the legislature is in disarray as none of the factions was willing to surrender to the other . In contrast ,  the Clerk of the House Mr.Pius Udoh also in a counter press briefing , said there was no plenary at the legislative chambers on Thursday 15th November because the entire legislative complex was under lock and key and that staff of the legislature have been ordered to vacate the premises and report for the duty at the office of the Head of Service pending when issues were resolved . In the same vein , Chief Press Secretary to the Government of Anambra state Mr.James Eze in his opinion on  the crisis that erupted in the state assembly , said that from the information he gathered there was no swearing-in ceremony for any new Speaker and that the whole episode remained an unsuccessful  attempt to displace the Speaker . Eze said as it stands at the moment , there is no new Speaker in the Anambra State House of Assembly because the clerk had repeatedly said he didn’t swear Uzoezie in as Speaker and there is no evidence that the clerk is telling a lie . He stressed that if the clerk had taken Uzoezie on oath of office , then a new Speaker would have emerged but anything on the contrary meant that Maduagwu remained substantive Speaker of the Assembly . Rita Maduagwu in her reactions said vehemently that Ikem Uzoezie’s faction does not have two-thirds majority to carry out their failed mission and according to her, there was no impeachment offence read before members of the House . She said what they carried out was a kangaroo impeachment which meant that she remained the Speaker and there is nothing they can do about it stressing that her antagonists needed about two-thirds majority to be able to remove her or the governor from office describing them as nothing but honourable rascals . From the foregoing , it is obvious that the Anambra State House of Assembly is currently sitting on a keg of gun powder waiting to explode . Two parallel speakers have emerged . The police in Anambra has sealed the state assembly complex pending when there is a compulsory truce . The situation seems dicey and precarious but what happens to a state without functional legislature ?