Stephen Ubimago and  Innocent Oweh Lagos / Abuja – Former President Goodluck Jonathan has debunked a report by a newspaper that he was persuaded not to concede defeat in 2015 by some of his ministers, including former Finance Minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala. He described the claim as twisted logic. Responding to a report which indicated that those with him at the time he called President Muhammadu Buhari to concede defeat thought otherwise, Jonathan noted that such deduction was tantamount to stretching interpretative reporting beyond acceptable limits. He stressed that the writer willfully ignored the true account of what happened at that critical moment as clearly stated in the book “just to create mischief”. In a statement by Ikechukwu Eze, the former president’s media adviser, Jonathan further described the claim as a gross misrepresentation of what he wrote in his new book. He said, “Our attention has been drawn to a circulating story titled, ‘Jonathan: I was pressed to reject 2015 election result’, which erroneously claimed that some identified former aides and ministers of ex-President Jonathan advised him ‘not to accept defeat’. “The story, which was said to have been written from President Jonathan’s new book, ‘My Transition Hours’, mentioned the then Minister of Finance and Coordinating Minister for the Economy, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala; Attorney-General of the Federation and Justice Minister, Mohammed Bello Adoke; Aviation Minister, Osita Chidoka, as those whose advice was rebuffed by Jonathan. “This is obviously a gross misrepresentation of what was clearly stated in the book. “President Jonathan had maintained that he never consulted anybody over the decision to call and congratulate his opponent while the result of the 2015 presidential election was still being tallied. “Whereas the decision to concede defeat was one he took without any compelling, the former president is however grateful to those who were with him at that moment and many other Nigerians that shared in his conviction to put across the historic phone call. “For the avoidance of doubt, the former president in his narrative of his engagement with the mentioned key appointees at that critical time in the nation’s political history stated clearly that they were considering ‘sundry alternatives, but I was quiet in the midst of their discussion. “However, this was how The Nation chose to report the narrative: ‘Okonjo-Iweala, Adoke, Chidoka, Dudafa advised me not to accept defeat’. “It therefore beggars belief that the phrase ‘sundry alternatives’ could be interpreted to mean that the former president was advised by the identified personalities ‘not to accept defeat’. “We always say that the society will be better served if journalists keep their interpretative reporting within the limits of credible and constructive imagination.” Meanwhile, Jonathan has advised members of the public to beware of fake online copy of ‘My Transition Hours’, a book just launched by Jonathan on Saturday. In a statement issued by Ikechukwu Eze, the Media Adviser to former President Goodluck Jonathan on Thursday in Abuja, said that the online copy was not the same as the launched hard copy. “We have just been informed that a fake document contrived by mischief makers and being passed on as the e-version of the just-launched ‘My Transition Hours’, a book by Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, is now circulating online. “We advise the general public to ignore such publication as the chapters and contents are not the same as the book publicly presented two days ago in Abuja by the former president. “We note that the e-copy of ‘My Transition Hours’ is not being marketed, as such, the fake online version could only have been created by those out to deceive the unsuspecting public,” he said. Presidency Rejects Jonathan’s Corruption Claim Meanwhile, the presidency has rejected claims attributed to former President Goodluck Jonathan, in his book, ‘My Transition Hours’, that to the utter surprise of many, that there is more corruption in the country compared to when he left office. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, who took on the ex-president in a statement on Thursday said the claim was absolutely untrue. According to him, the facts on the ground today run contrary to his outlandish claim. Shehu said President Muhammadu Buhari, in pursuit of the war against corruption, had set a number of local and international records, one of which was to call judicial officers in Nigeria to account. Shehu said: “He is the first to set such a record. Not only that, this is the first time that top military commanders and service chiefs are brought to trial and convictions were achieved on account of corruption. “Also, this is the first time a ruling party is convicting high profile citizens, including former governors who are members of same party. “This is the first time the international community is acknowledging the efforts of a government of Nigeria in this regard as manifested by the selection of President Buhari by the African Union as the anti-corruption champion of the continent. “For the records, this is the first time a ruling party is investigating ranking officers of the administration, including some at the very top. “In addition to the many firsts recorded by President Buhari’s administration, the government has introduced a lot of changes, considering that the laws relating to the fight against corruption cannot reasonably be static. “In line with its aspiration to be ahead of the growing sophistication of corruption and financial crimes, the administration has initiated new legislations and proposed amendments to different sections of laws, among which are: the Money Laundering Prevention and Prohibition Bill 2017; Anti-Terrorism Prevention and Prohibition Bill 2017; Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit Bill 2017 (NFIU); Proceeds of Crime Bill 2017; Public Interest Disclosure and Witness Protection Bill, 2017, and the Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters Bill, 2017. “Owing to these efforts and support all of relevant stakeholders, NFIU Act has been passed and President Buhari gave his assent on July 18, 2018. The administration is currently working with the legislature for an expedited passage of the Proceeds of Crimes Bill to make the anti-corruption war more effective. “Nigerians should dismiss Dr. Jonathan’s hollow boast that he, not President Buhari, introduced schemes such as the Biometric Verification Number, Treasury Single Account, and the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPS). Of what use is the announcement of good policies without the will to implement them? “Since President Buhari assumed office, Nigerians are witnesses to the huge success recorded through the implementation of the TSA where some government agencies that had over the years remitted peanut amounts or nothing at all are now periodically pumping billions into government coffers. “Prominent among these remittances include the ones made by Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Nigeria Customers Service (NCS) and Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA).