Innocent Oweh and Oyeniran Apata Abuja / Lagos – The decision to slash the cost of JAMB, NECO, and BECE elicited mixed reactions from the public who were divided over government’s intention. In his reaction to the development, Professor Chidiebere Onyia, a former member of the Faculty of Education, University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), commended the gesture with a proviso that it would be part of the strategies for reforming and adequately funding public education in the country. In his remark on the gesture, he said: “My suspicion is that again it’s reactionary and shows a lack of deep understanding of the challenges facing our education value chain or how decisions like this may put pressure on other components of the value chain. “The question that is quite baffling is how can this policy decision address the current quality gap in the secondary or higher education systems? “So, more students can now afford to take UTME for the same carrying capacity availability in the tertiary institutions. “So, what is the value for this policy or is this a good feeling policy to set some agenda that cannot lead to any sustainable change in our education process and system?” He tasked the government to avoid kneejerk policies that do not reflect a thought process that could lead to improved quality of the nation’s school system, and appealed for a truce in the ongoing FG/ASUU faceoff. Alhaji (Dr.) Sakirudeen Tunji Labode, the immediate past President, Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), and Proprietor, Mueenat International Academy, tasked the government on adequate funding of the education sector at all levels. He said it was a good thing that the government was listening to the yearnings of the populace as the economic crunch continues to bite harder. Comrade Hassan Taiwo-Soweto, a rights activist and National Coordinator of Education Right Concern (ERC), said he was not moved by the announcement, describing it as a strategy to shore up the failing popularity of the regime ahead of the 2019 general elections. Taiwo, who submitted that the gesture may not have any impact on the education sector or improve the level of literacy among Nigerians, argued that learning was not just about examination fees but access and affordability. “Are there enough public universities for students to attend? No! So this is tokenism and meant to simply hoodwink voters again,” he added. Comrade Kazeem Labaika, President, Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools (ASUSS), Lagos State chapter, and Salami Adebanjo, National President, Michael Otedola College of Primary Education (MOCPED) Alumni Association, both commended the gesture as a positive response to the yearnings of parents who are feeling the brunt of the economic hardship in the country. In the same vein, Beatrice Akhetuanem, Ex-PTA Chairman, Queens College, Yaba, who lauded the development, warned against owners and principals of schools that might want to take advantage of the opportunity to demand more from parents. She cautioned Nigerians not to politicise the development, saying that if it had not happened now it could have come up at other times for the benefits of the masses. An educationist and head of Faith Champion Nursery/Primary School, Gbagada, Lagos, Dr. Tunde Elebute, appealed to the authorities of both JAMB and NECO to plan to manage the expected rise in the number of candidates that would apply for the examinations. He said adequate preparation must be put in place by the government to increase funding and carrying capacity of tertiary institutions in the country to absorb the influx. It would be recalled that over N7.8 billion net remittance by JAMB in the sales of UTME application forms in 2017 generated a lot reactions as Nigerians and lawmakers kicked against the use of the examination body for revenue generation. The decision to slash the cost of JAMB, NECO, and BECE application forms was taken at the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Meanwhile, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said council also approved 11 ecological interventions projects for N9.600,415,324 in Lagos, Oyo, Ondo, Cross River, Adamawa, Bauchi, Jigawa, Niger, ABU Zaria, Kaduna, and Abuja. The said projects are spread in Lagos Jetty and Shoreline Protection Facilities; flood and erosion control in Oyo town, Oyo State; erosion control of flooded areas/road improvement in Owo, Ondo State; erosion control of flooded areas in Akamkpa in Cross River; road and stem water defiance in Federal College of Education in Yola, Adamawa; road and bridges at Dutse Saki village in Buguru Local Government Area of Bauchi. Others are erosion control at Kazaure in Jigawa; intervention at Main Campus Phase II Site at Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, Kaduna; erosion and flood control at Kontagunra Local Government Area of Niger State; gully erosion and road improvement at Army Post Service Estate, Kurudu, Abuja, and erosion and flood control at Asharawa area council in Phase II in FCT, Abuja. Adesina said council also approved three industrial wastes combined incinerators for environmental friendly destruction of counterfeit and substandard regulated products. It was approved for NAFDAC at the sum of N267, 585,160. Another approval by FEC was the business plan for ECOWAS Biometric Cards intended to replace the current ECOWAS Travel Certificate. It is a contractor-financed project that will cost N14.7 billion. Minister of the Interior, Abdurahman Dambazzau, explained that the project was a recommendation of West African regional leaders since 2016 as the ECOWAS travel papers could easily be faked. The biometric cards were expected to be issued to about 13 million persons over the next 19 years. According to the minister, to make it easier for Nigeria, the project would incorporate her National Identity Number (NIN), with the hope that the new cards would help safeguard Nigeria’s borders. The Minister of State for Power, Works and Housing, Sulaiman Hassan, said council approved two memos. “The first one is the furnishing of the federal secretariat complexes in three states of the federation: Awka in Anambra State, Gusau in Zamfara State, and Yenagoa in Bayelsa State at the cost of N3.48 billion. “It is the duty of the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing to provide decent accommodation for federal agencies and other offices in various states of the federation to make their workings easier and more comfortable for better results. “So, these complexes have been completed and are ready for commission before the end of the year,” he said. The council also approved the rehabilitation of some broken down bridges in the North-East region that were destroyed by insurgents at the cost of N813, 458,132. According to the minister, “The first is on the road between Maiduguri, Dikwa, and Gamboru; the second is at the famous Limankara. “There is a bridge there that links Maiduguri to Dama, Goza, Honk, and Yola at the cost of N331.2 billion and the bridge in Gombe State at the cost of N304 million. “The total cost of the bridges’ rehabilitation is N813, 458,132. The contractor is the Army Corps of Engineers that have a limited liability company, Sappers Engineering Limited. “Why we gave it to Sappers Engineering is because of the security concerns, no civil contractor will want to go there insecure.”