The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) since July, 2016, has held its key interest rate at a record high at 14 percent, in what analysts see as efforts at tackling the menace of inflation, but which had persisted above the bank’s targeted single band. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the bank last week reinforced the tight monetary policy stance with all the eleven members present at the meeting voting to hold the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR), an anchor rate for banks’ lending to customers to enhance productive activities and economic growth, at 14 percent. Some analysts’ say while it is proper for the CBN to ensure price stability as its primary goal of monetary policy, this should not be at the expense of growth. This is because, according to them, high interest rate regime will cripple the economy and impact negatively on the real sector. For instance, Nigeria’s inflation rate declined for the first time in three months in October even as food-price growth accelerated, defeating the essence of CBN’s inflation targeting monetary policy approach. The consumer-price index, according to the National Bureau of statistics, (NBS) rose 11.26 percent from a year earlier compared with 11.28 percent in September. Godwin Emefiele, CBN governor, who may leave after his tenure early next year, has for almost half of his tenure embarked and maintained tight monetary policy ostensibly for foreign reserve accretion and inflow of foreign direct investments (FDI). But, the question being asked by some analysts is, who is really afraid of inflation and how has efforts to tame the monster yielded the much-needed growth, other than price stability. Justifying the recent outcome of the Cash Reserves Ratio (CRR) remaining unchanged at 22.5 per cent, liquidity at 30 per cent and Asymmetric corridor at +200 and -500 basis points around the MPR, Emefiele said, “The committee underscores that by holding its policy position constant, it has confidence in the various policies and administrative measures deployed by the Bank which have resulted in the moderation in domestic price levels and stability in the foreign exchange rate. “Thus, a hold position is an expression of confidence in the policy regime, given the gradual improvements in both output growth and price stability. “On this premise, the downside risks to growth and upside risks to inflation appear contained.” He said that the committee noted that the economy was on the right path but some key sectors continued to experience significant challenges. “The MPC, however, expressed concern about the tepid growth expectations and growing uncertainty in the global financial markets. “These uncertainties are arising from the poor reception of the Brexit deal by British politicians, continuing trade war between the U.S. and her major trading partners, as well as the commencement of U.S. sanctions on Iran.” Emefiele said that the committee believed that although the domestic economy was recovering modestly from recession, however, the recovery was tepid and efforts should be stepped up to strengthen aggregate output and demand. “In this regard, the committee urged the CBN to deepen and broaden access to finance to high employment elastic sectors with particular emphasis on small and medium scale enterprises. However, Sunday INDEPENDENT investigations show that while investors may fear inflation, the general condition in the country does not suggest any need for fears. In fact, the results of an inflation attitudes survey, (Q3 2018) conducted by CBN for the third quarter of 2018, shows that more Nigerians would prefer a high inflation rate provided that interest rates are low. The results released Monday specifically indicates that given a trade-off between inflation and interest rates, more respondents prefer interest rates to fall (28.2 percent of respondents), while inflation rate rises. Majority of the respondents were also of the view that it would be best for the Nigerian economy if interest rates went down. Economic analysts have urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to balance its price and output stances to ensure maximum employment and resource optimization. The analysts argue that the notion that policy should down weight the unemployment gap and compensate, in some sense, by responding more aggressively to inflation is substantially weakened in the empirically relevant case in which the relationship between the level of unemployment and the rate of inflation is relatively flat and inflation is buffeted by sizable “supply,” or cost-push, shocks. They further argue that caution should be exercised in the pursuit of strategies that focus heavily on stabilising inflation, while playing down on policies aimed at reducing substantially the unemployment gap. Specifically, CBN has maintained a hawkish policy stands in the past two years by leaving monetary policy rates stable at 14 percent all in order to rein in inflation, which from all indications, have stifled growth and resource optimization. The decision has continued to extinguish out manufacturers and small business owners who are forced to raise capital at prohibitive rate with the attendant pressure on production and employment creation. Their consensus is that price stability so far may have achieved to a level where growth should be pursued by the CBN, and that the continued steady decline in inflation rate for more than a year, until recently and rising consumer price index (CPI) counter the argument of continuous tight monetary policy stance even as high as 14 percent. They added that macroeconomic indicators like employment and job creation largely stimulated by small and medium scale entrepreneurs would continue to suffer, in spite of government’s efforts to manage it, if Nigeria remains a country with one of the highest interest rates in the world. They noted that developed economies like Britain, Australia, Canada and the United States have lending rates of less than 2 percent, which have inadvertently made them to equally have low inflationary rate. Friday Ameh, Lagos based analyst believes that holding the anchor rate at 14 percent means banks should not be blamed for charging above 30 percent as they will have to factor in the risk elements and cost of their funds, among others. Continuing, Ameh says, “This is contrary to the developmental approach promised by Emefiele as his regime has witnessed closure of many companies, particularly, the small and medium enterprises which are considered as engine for economic growth. “What should we remember him for as governor of the central bank, when loans are beyond the reach of small entrepreneurs and of what relevance is the fight against inflation, when even the National Bureau of statistics has acknowledged the fact that the CPI has defied all solutions. The implication is that inflation as it were is no longer relevant to Nigerians as much as the interest rates.” Razia Khan, analyst with standard Chartered Bank,London in an email response to Sunday INDEPENDENT inquiry on the outcome of the MPC meeting said, “We believe the MPC made the correct decision in voting unanimously to keep interest rates on hold.  While the recent decline in the oil price may exacerbate the risk of capital flow reversals, we expect any oil price correction to be short-lived.  Moreover, recent external borrowing is likely to provide more of a boost to FX reserves near-term. Of greater consequence is the outlook for inflation.  Despite concerns around pre-election spending, few monetary aggregates reflect the risk of sustained price pressures just yet.  The weaker starting point for the economy is also a factor.” CBN’s Economic Report for Third quarter published  last week on its website also gave credence to the fact that the bank continues to maintain its uncompromising efficiency at mopping up what it considers as excess liquidity to tame the monster, inflation. The report said that CBN “maintained a non-expansionary monetary policy stance in August 2018, aimed at further curbing inflationary pressure. Broad money supply (M3), on quarter-on-quarter basis, fell by 2.4 per cent to N33,607.64 billion at end-August 2018, in contrast to the growth of 2.0 per cent at end-June 2018. The development reflected, mainly, the 3.4 per cent decrease in domestic credit (net) of the banking system.” The Bank’s Monetary and Credit Developments policy stance also remained, largely, nonexpansionary in the review period. Consequently, broad money supply (M3), on quarter-on-quarter basis, fell by 2.4 per cent to N33,607.64 billion as at end-August, 2018, in contrast to the growth of 2.0 per cent and 5.2 per cent at end-June 2018 and the corresponding period of 2017, respectively. The development, according to CBN reflected the 3.4 per cent contraction in domestic credit (net), which more than offset the respective increase of 0.6 per cent in foreign assets (net) and other assets (net) of the banking system. Similarly, the banks continued to access the CBN’s Standing Facilities window to square up their positions either by borrowing from the standing lending facility (SLF) window or depositing excess reserves at the standing deposit facility (SDF) window at the end of each business day. Consequently, total request for the Standing Lending Facility (SLF) inclusive of Intra-day lending facilities (ILF) that was converted to overnight repo during the review quarter stood at N956.64 billion, compared with N3,960.24 billion in the preceding quarter.