CHIOMA UMEHA and IFEOMA ONONYE LAGOS – Nigeria is estimated to have one of the worst human waste management in the world. Asides the suspected increase in number of people using pit latrines, the water channels, like rivers, carnal and big waterways like the sea are potential toilets and dumpsites for some groups of Nigerians. In densely populated areas of developed countries, there are well-equipped toilets at every designated kilometer for public use. Nigeria is far behind in providing well equipped public toilets. This way, the gutters, carnal, which are created to channel water, are converted into public lavatories. The wastes make their way to the waters, which sometimes come back to the public for use. In a small community called Abule, located close to Oke Aro area in Ogun State, a family of six almost lost their third child to cholera in the first quarter of 2018. The building they lived in had just one functional toilet and it was operated solely by the landlady. They decided to create a second convenience behind the house by digging a pit latrine. For them, the pit toilet was their saving grace, especially on days when others had to resort to the surrounding bush for convenience. Largely used by the children, after doing their business, it was playtime for them with the water their parents left stored all around the house. The water of course became contaminated by fecal matter, and was only discovered long after three children had taken ill, with one nearly fatal. This is simply one family’s story in the millions unrecorded and unreported all around the country. It is one of the many scenarios that create breathing haven for deadly diseases like cholera that claim lives. In a report by United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund, UNICEF, on November 14, 2018, in Nigeria alone, 46.5 million people practice open defecation, making it the second highest ranked country in the world. Between 2008 and 2017, the creation of sanitation demand through Community Approaches for Total Sanitation in West and Central Africa has led to an increase of almost 25 million people living in open defecation-free communities. The case of Queens College, Lagos, where students got sick due to contaminated water is an example of how neglect and lack of proper human waste management can come back to bite us. The number of cases and deaths recorded in residential communities usually differ from that of IDP camps where the outbreak is seen as most dire. The camps are where more than 1.8 million people who are displaced as a result of ongoing conflicts are kept safe. In less than two years, Nigeria has recorded more cases of cholera outbreak than sensitisation, control and prevention. The reoccurrence of the deadly disease is fast becoming an annual ritual. In June 2017, the Nigeria Federal Ministry of Health notified the World Health Organisation of an outbreak of cholera in Kwara State in the western part of the country. The number of cases and deaths subsequently increased from the first week of May 2017. As of 14 June 2017, a total of 1,178 suspected cases and nine deaths (case fatality rate 0.8%) were reported. Four local government areas were affected, including Ilorin West (508 cases), Ilorin East (303 cases), Ilorin South (96 cases), and Moro (37 cases). In May 2018, cholera outbreak killed 12 people and infected at least 134 others in the northeast Nigerian state of Adamawa. More so, a report from Inter Press Service (IPS), came in on November 12, 2018 that the number of people who have been affected by cholera in northeast Nigeria has increased to 10,000. The disease is spreading quickly in congested displacement camps with limited access to proper sanitation facilities. One of the major causes of the outbreak pointed by the report is the congestion in the camps that makes it difficult to provide adequate water, sanitation and hygiene services. National Research Council (NRC) has continued to call on the local governments in Nigeria’s northeastern states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe to end the cycle of yearly cholera outbreaks. The council has warned that if more land is not urgently provided for camp decongestion and construction of health and sanitation facilities, Nigeria is steering towards yet another cholera outbreak in 2019. According to a medical consultant at Ifako Ijaye General Hospital, Lagos who prefers anonymity, gave a simple definition about the cholera disease. “Cholera is an infectious disease that causes severe watery diarrhea, which can lead to dehydration and even death if untreated. It is caused by eating food or drinking water contaminated with a bacterium called Vibrio cholera,” he said. The doctor explained that one of the reasons the outbreak is becoming frequent can be traced back to the live style of many people living in the suburb where there is little or no access to clean water. On why he thought people are subjected to open air defecation, he noted that the government has not done much in the field of providing public lavatories at strategic places. He stressed the fact that the citizens are human being and once they are pressed, they must find alternative to relieve themselves. The doctor’s remark reminded a visitor who came to see a patient in the hospital who gave his name as Mayoku Oye, how he stepped on freshly dumped faeces along the newly built Ozumba Mbadiwe walk way. “At first, I didn’t notice I stepped on the poop until I entered my car and I started getting an offensive odour. I started checking until I found out it was under my shoes. I was disgusted.  That shows how poor our discipline culture is. People, especially men pee anywhere at any time not minding who is watching. It’s like we no longer know what good manners is anymore,” he said. Investigations show that both adult and children in many of the low and middle-income communities in Plateau State indulge in the revolting practice of open defecation and general poor hygiene until recently. Many people in Riyom LGA, were still unschooled in basic hygiene practice when young Elizabeth, a 10-year-old pupil of Bangai Primary School, suffered from typhoid infection. According to Mrs. Victoria Gyang, Head Teacher, Community Primary School, Bangai Local Education Area in Plateau State, “Elizabeth survived severe abdominal pain, with liver and spleen enlargement that she gave up schooling. “Her poor guardian, a widow and farmer, is still clueless about how to meet her educational expenses.” Elizabeth, like many other children in Bangai, hardly has access to safe drinking water, hygienic toilet and soap. Even when they have access to clean water and soap, many children simply forget to wash their hands, despite regular demonstrations and monitoring. “Water used to be so dirty and unsafe in many places in this area,” said Gyang. “Hence, under these circumstances, it is very difficult to practise good hygiene.” UNICEF, in a recent communiqué presented at an event in Abuja warned that open defecation is a life-threatening practice, as contact with human waste can lead to diseases such as cholera, typhoid, hepatitis, polio and diarrhea. Inadequate or non-existent sanitation causes tremendous harm. The organisation explained that every day, 700 children under the age of five die from diarrhea-related diseases. The paper presented by the organisation further explained that the level of open defecation in West and Central Africa accounts for 14 per cent of the global open defecation rate. “Despite this recent success, the current rate of progress is insufficient to eliminate open defecation by 2030,” says Marie-Pierre Poirier, UNICEF’s Regional Director for West and Central Africa. “While UNICEF will continue to rely on proven strategies, new accelerators are needed to support local markets to deliver sustainable sanitation solutions at scale. Following the rise in demand for toilets, we will work with countries to enhance the engagement of the private sector to provide adequate and affordable sanitation products and services, including in isolated, often underserved rural areas.” UNICEF Chief of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH), Nigeria, Zaid Jurji, stressed, “Improving water and sanitation services as well as basic hygiene practices in Nigeria calls for a strong commitment from all partners – the government, the civil society, the private sector and communities. He added, “For Nigeria to achieve the global goal of providing access to safe water for every citizen by 2030, it needs to make water, together with sanitation and hygiene, a national priority. This goal is closely linked with three key results for the country – good health, environment sustainability and economic prosperity.” UNICEF, in collaboration with the federal, state and local governments, has provided safe water in the past five years to over eight million Nigerians living in rural areas. But, access to potable water, according to the world body, remains a challenge to the majority of Nigerians, especially those living in the rural areas. WASH is another organisation who has been pushing for cleaner water and sanitation for many Nigerian communities. According to Deputy Director of Child Right Information Bureau, Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, Olumide Osanyinpeju, in his opening speech at a press beefing held in Abuja, in June, 2018, the issue of safe water and sanitation has been in the front burner of development issues in Nigeria because it affects a major segment of our society, a lot of whom are children. “Water, Sanitation and Hygiene is very important in the life of a child. The Sustainable Development Goal 6 clearly emphasises the importance of clean water and sanitation. Water and Sanitation are essential for the survival and development of all children, while simple hygiene such as hand washing can save lives,” he said. Open defecation is not only done in suburb communities, highly populated market place and shops located on the streets are also guilty of this act. A research conducted by Saturday INDEPENDENT, revealed a shocking truth about most market sellers. In some street shops and market, a few women confided in our reporter that they have peeping buckets inside their shops. The bucket, which an unsuspecting customer may mistake as a normal bucket is used for defecation when the owner of the shop is pressed. The waste is then dumped in nearby gutters when no one is watching. Some of the women, who indulge in this act, explained that most of the public toilets in the market are not well kept and so they are afraid of contacting toilet infection. It was observed that most shop owners and landlords hardly make provision for toilet facilities and so most of the occupants have to find alternative which is open defecation. Throwing away these human wastes is popularly called ‘short put’ in local Nigerian slang. Many of the people who practice it may not be aware of the consequences of throwing their body waste in open environment. In communities, where a largely populated compound uses only one or two toilets, families also adopt the peeing bucket style especially in the wee time of the night when they cannot go outside to the toilet. They urinate in the buckets and dispose where ever, once the day break.