For Adams Oshiomhole, the embattled national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Robert Schuller’s book, ‘Tough Times Never Last, But Tough People Do’, may be appropriate here as all efforts to cow him by some of the state governors who lost out in the last primaries through the instrumentality of security operatives may have failed. Oshiomhole was last Sunday held hostage at the Department of State Security Service (DSS) at the behest of some governors and some forces in the party to force him to resign, but he stood his ground and rebuffed the pressure mounted on him to resign. The former labour leader, according to Cable News, an online medium, alleged that “a few important members of APC may be conniving with PDP because they preferred the impunity of the PDP era.” Governors Rochas Okorocha of Imo State and Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State are aggrieved over the APC primaries. They blame Oshiomhole for their inability to get the party’s gubernatorial tickets for their preferred candidates. Amosun has, however, said he does not have a hand in Oshiomhole’s invitation by the DSS. According to the chairman, he “saw DSS only once and it was a conversation, not an arrest or detention.” He said: “The conversation centred around APC primaries. The question now is whether or not it is the DSS job to interfere in a political party’s issues. And if there’s an allegation of corruption, it is the responsibility of EFCC and ICPC.” Oshiomhole said he was billed to travel abroad on Monday, but postponed the trip for a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari. He said he eventually left the country on Tuesday. Sunday INDEPENDENT gathered at the weekend that his arrival promises to be eventful for the party as President Buhari is said to be angry over the incident, which some analysts say is threatening the party’s chances in next year’s elections. Most of his associates, who spoke with Sunday INDEPENDENT at the weekend say the sudden ‘disappearance’ of the one-time labour leader and governor of Edo State, besides meeting his family, may have been contrived to make the lists of candidates submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) a fait accompli to forestall any change in the list of candidates, at least before the November 18 deadline to effect changes elapse. Sources close to the party’s national secretariat told the Sunday INDEPENDENT that part of the reasons for the trip was to ward off pressures from governors who were disgruntled over the outcome of the primaries. Essentially, Oshiomhole had made the decision to personally sign the nomination forms of the party’s candidates to prevent any other member of the APC from signing, with the intention that only he can approve any change to the list of candidates. However, with the pressure mounting, coupled with the attempt by some governors to force him to do their biddings, Oshiomhole went underground. The party had been enmeshed in crisis following the conclusion of its primaries with many of the losers locked in war with Oshiomhole. For instance, some governors, including Ibikunle Amosun, Rochas okoroacha, Abdulaziz Yari and Rotimi Akeredolu of Ogun, Imo, Zamfara and Ondo states respectively, who could not have their way in the primaries have been calling for the head of Oshiomhole who they claimed was responsible for their woes. In Ogun State, parallel primaries were held for the governorship election. While Prince Dapo Abiodun emerged through a direct primary mode of the election conducted by the Mohammed Indabawa-led APC electoral committee of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, Hon. Abdul-Kabir Adekunle Akinlade, emerged through the direct primary mode of the election conducted by the State Executive Committee. Results of the parallel primaries, which produced Abiodun and Akinlade, have, however, turned the state into a big political battle ground. While many of Amosun’s supporters vowed not to work for the electoral success of Prince Abiodun, who emerged as the party’s governorship candidate after the primaries supervised by members of the APC electoral committee sent by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, others have threatened to defect to other political parties to realise their ambitions. Also, 26 candidates of the party for the State House of Assembly election alleged that their names have been substituted by Oshiomhole, alleging mandate theft. In Zamfara State, similar situation took place with the governor organising his primary, which produced Mukhtar Idris, the state’s finance commissioner, who was announced winner of the primary, which held at the APC secretariat in Gusau, the state capital. Idris is Yari’s preferred candidate. All the APC primaries conducted in the state for the 2019 elections ended on a rancorous note. This made the leadership of the ruling party to dissolve the State Executive Committee (SEC) and set up a new panel to conduct fresh primaries. In fact, the faith of the candidates is still hanging following pronouncement by INEC that the party would not field any candidate for the elective positions in 2019. In Imo State, two candidates emerged as the party’s governorship candidate. They are Uche Nwosu, son-in-law to Governor Okoroacha and his former Chief of Staff, and Senator Hope Uzodinma. Okoroacha wants his son-in-law to succeed him, but the NWC sent the name of Uzodinma to INEC as the party’s candidate. Following the decision, Okoroacha and Oshiomhole have not seen eye-to-eye, prompting attacks on each other in the media. In Ondo State, Governor Akeredolu is unhappy with the automatic ticket given to Senator Ajyi Boroffice, his political foe, by Oshiomhole. He has been fighting to get the ticket withdrawn for his own candidate, Dr Tunji Abayomi. While the war of words persisted, President Muhammadu Buhari intervened by meeting the gladiators to ensure that peace reigns in the party, but the crisis continues to be aggravated with the governors attacking Oshiomhole. In his reaction to the attacks, Oshiomhole called the governors, who have been mobilising to get him removed, as emperors. He specifically described Mr. Okorocha as “an embarrassment” to the APC. Mr. Okorocha had last week, after meeting the President, said the party chairman is destroying the party with his method of handling party primaries. Mr. Amosun similarly attacked the party chairman, accusing him of injustice and fraud in relation to the APC primaries held in Ogun. But, Oshiomhole, according to online medium, Premium Times, accused both governors of imposition of candidates in their respective states. He explained that in the case of Imo State, the “NWC has met and we have upheld the result of the Gulak committee and we have prepared the name of Hope (Uzodinma) to be submitted to the INEC. “If Governor Rochas chose to relocate to the (Presidential) Villa and use the ground of Villa to try to intimidate me to create a dynasty, I will – even on one leg, but powered by the truth – uphold the best interest of APC members and indeed of APC people in Imo State.” Explaining the situation in Ogun State, he said Mr. Amosun went against the primary process. The chairman said the governor had called him to say that the Ogun APC was going to adopt consensus option, but he rejected it, insisting on direct primary. “Governor Amosun decided that he and his preferred aspirant will not participate in the primaries organised by the working committee and even tried to withdraw the security that was necessary for the primary panel. “At a stakeholders’ meeting, Governor Amosun decided to introduce the third element which didn’t feature in the resolution of the NEC, announced that Ogun State was going to adopt consensus and he proceeded to define what in his view constitutes consensus. “He announced somebody as the consensus governor, he proceeded to announce another man as the deputy governor, he went on to proclaim (himself) as the next senator and he said the current serving senator, Tejuoso, should step aside. “He also went on to announce that the second senator, also from Ogun State, will step aside, while another man will come in. Governor Amosun went on to announce another man, who will be the next speaker, and another one as the next deputy speaker. He also singlehandedly pronounced that of the eight House of Representatives members, seven will not return. According to him, only one will return. All these, he claimed, is a consensus. “However, Ogun State governor decided in his wisdom to conduct his own self help, I mean resorting to what you can call self help, by conducting what he called his own primary. The Secretary to Ogun State Government became the Chief Returning Officer and I and other NWC members were watching the Channels Television and we saw the Secretary to Ogun State Government proclaiming himself as the returning officer, and purported to have conducted primary.” The situation got to its peak last week when Oshiomhole at the behest of the governors reportedly got quizzed by the Department of State Security (DSS). According to an online medium, Cable News, Oshiomhole was grilled by DSS operatives for nine hours after some APC governors alleged that he received bribes during the party’s primary elections across the country. The medium said though nothing was established against him, the APC chairman was asked to resign during interrogation by the DSS. But, Oshiomhole resisted the pressure to resign, saying he would only do so if he loses the confidence of President Buhari. The APC chairman told the DSS that the president was in the loop of every action he took during the party’s primaries and would have objected if he had violated any law. “Adams Oshiomhole was arrested by the DSS, they didn’t show him any petition. It was alleged by some governors that he collected bribe during the primaries,” a source said. “He was told to resign and he told DSS operatives that he will resign if he loses the confidence of the president. He said everything the party did, he (Buhari) was in the know. “The irony, though, is that the cases of Lagos and Zamfara, in which he allegedly collected bribes from the governors, did not end in favour of the governors. So, what sense does that make?,” the source queried. Another source said the president expressed shock at the governors’ move, saying he was not aware of the development. “On Monday night, Oshiomhole met with the president and briefed him on what happened and the president was shocked. The president said he did not know about it and promised to look into it,” the source said. However, a source close to the party secretariat said that Oshiomhole still enjoys the confidence of some major stakeholders in the party, who were ready to stick out their neck to save him from the governors, who have been finding it difficult to get the support of their colleagues to boot him out of office. On the DSS intervention, the source said the security outfit has no business in interfering in the party’s internal affairs, adding that at the expiration of the INEC deadline for change of candidates, the national chairman will emerge from his hiding.