Temidayo Akinsuyi and Idongesit Ashameri Just as Akwa Ibom people were rolling out drums to celebrate the obituary of remnant of violence, kidnapping and politically-motivated killings and the restoration of peace to the entire state, insecurity graduated to the next level. As generally confessed in the state even by non-politicians, one achievement that the incumbent governor Udom Emmanuel has recorded which has gone down deep into the consciousness of everyone in the state, has been the restoration of peace and security to every part of the state. This partly explains why the Emmanuel administration penultimate week, declared a three-day fast, to thank God for the peace the state has enjoyed and to pray God to continue to grant peace to the state especially as the 2019 elections close in. Following Emmanuel’s success in restoring peace and security to the state, many who had fled homes and even those who never visited the state for fear of either being kidnapped or killed, had since resumed regular visits to the state. As related by the state Commissioner for Works, Mr Ephraim Inyangeyen, many who were initially scared to identify with the state due to election violence, relocated their PVCs back to the state. Then came a threatening remark; shortly after his defection to the APC, the immediate past governor of the state and senator representing Ikot Ekpene senatorial district, Sen Godswill Akpabio, whose tenure, according to Sen. Anietie Okon was characterised by wonton killings, kidnapping and political thuggery; threatened that 2019 would be likened to Adolf Hitler’s conquest of Warsaw in Poland. Though his colleagues, including Senator Ahmed Lawal got excited with the threat and described Akpabio as a nationalist and patriot, others, including Akwa Ibom Elders, leaders, political class, women groups and even the youths raised alarm in condemnation of the threat. Recalling the security tension in the state during Akpabio’s regime, the Deputy Governor, Mr Moses Ekpo described Udom Emmanuel’s second term bid as a pan-Akwa Ibom project, calling on Akwa Ibom people to rise above the Warsaw threat to maintain the existing peace in the state. But the ghost of that threat would not go away. The crises that rocked the State House of Assembly last week, opened up an opportunity for Akwa Ibom People to have an idea of what the threatened Warsaw was intended to look like. Perhaps, but for the prompt intervention of the police and other security operatives in the state, the averted crises would have been a prologue to Warsaw. One of the lawmakers who had earlier defected from the PDP to the APC, Daily Independent gathered, had first approach the Federal High Court Uyo Division, without any prompting to obtain an injunction against having his seat declared vacant by the political party which voted him into office, the PDP. Unfortunately the table turned and the Speaker, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Barr Onofiok Luke was issued an enrolled order conveying the judgement of the court, restraining him from further recognizing Idongesit Ituen of Itu State constituency as a member of the House. Aware of the court ruling and the impending outcome, the sacked Ituen was said to have hired thugs to prevent the house from sitting. The thugs barricaded the entrance of the assembly complex, chanting war songs.  Though this plot was earlier busted by the Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr Ini Ememobong, who in a press release the previous night narrated how the thugs planned to carry out the attack. Having repelled the invasion of the House by the thugs through a prompt action of the police who were already put on alert, a tensed sitting of the House however went on and seats of Hon Idongesit Ituen, (Itu)  Hon Nse Ntuen (Essien Udim), Hon Gabriel Toby (Ika/Etim Ekpo), Hon Victor Udofia (Ikono) and  Hon Otobong Ndem(Mkpat Enin) were declared vacant by the Speaker, in adherence to the court order. Shortly after the declaration, the affected lawmakers who had earlier tried to force their way into the plenary, leading to the destruction of the main entrance to the gallery, later held a factional sitting and elected for themselves, Mr Nse Ntuen of Essien Udim State constituency as a factional speaker. Reacting to their sack, the APC through her national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole accused the then Commissioner of Police, John Abang, who was deployed to the state less than a month ago, of supporting the PDP government in the state to carry out such act against the affected APC state lawmakers. Oshiomhole’s outburst was further demonstrated as the Inspector of Police, Ibrahim Idris immediately redeployed CP John Abang and replaced him with a new CP, Hyelasinda Musa Kimo. The redeployment of Abang further appeared to have confirmed the allegation that the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies are now appendages of the APC and used to execute the goals of the party. The case of Benue State where the police provided cover for eight lawmakers who attempted the impeachment of Governor Samuel Ortom is still fresh in the consciousness of Nigerians. In his reaction to this the publicity secretary of the State PDP, Ini Ememobong said, “We have had 6 Directors of DSS in 3 years, we are having the 10th Commissioner of Police in three years because when these people come, they meet a very peaceful Governor and don’t find the stories they heard to act as expected by the opposition and they get changed”. On Wednesday, 21 November, 2018, a combined team of the Police and the Civil Defence, in further demonstration of the publicly declared federal might and the dreaded Warsaw threat, commenced a 24 hour siege on the State House of Assembly complex, crippling activities within the complex and its environ. The siege also created a war zone situation within and around the House of Assembly Complex. Concerned that the state was sliding into a state of anarchy, the Senator representing Akwa Ibom East Federal Constituency, Sen Bassey Albert Akpan on Thursday, under an adopted order 42 and 52, reported the Police siege and seal off of the State legislature. The Senate therefore directed the police operatives allegedly laying siege and sealing off the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly to vacate forthwith or risk six months sentence as provided for by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Akpan  In his presentation had said said, “Mr. President, I was informed that the reason for the police action was to pave way for the disaffected five members of the State Assembly to impeach the speaker and governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel”. But the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, in his contribution, invoked the apt constitutional provision against the Police action done under the pretext of providing security and maintaining law and order. He said, “There is a law assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari which is called legislative Houses Act 2017. The law is still operational. “Its section 8 says, a member of the legislative houses shall not be obstructed or hindered from moving inside the chamber. Any member so obstructed the speaker of the Assembly can arrest and prosecute the person or persons and the person risks a fine of N100,000 or six months jail”. At this juncture, the Senate President, Bukola Saraki raised the gavel in confirmation and directed that the police should vacate the legislative complex or risk the wrath of the law. The Elders, the youths, the Civil Liberty Organizations and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) were not left out of those who raised alarm against the siege in the state legislature. Elders in Akwa Ibom under the aegis of Akwa Ibom Leaders Vanguard, in their reaction during a press conference alleged that the Federal government had concluded plans to fend ‘imaginary-crisis-like’ situation in the state so as to declare a-state-of- emergency. Speaking through its spokesperson, Senator Anietie Okon, the body said that, their accusation stemmed from the frequency of changes in the number of Police Commissioners posted and reposted in the last four days to the state. The Leaders Vanguard whose membership cuts across the three senatorial districts has Senators Emmanuel Ibokessien, Effiong Bob, Helen Esuene, Etang Umoyo, Chief Nduese Essein, Dr Emmanuel Ukpong, Mr. Ekpeneyong Enyinna, Prof. Emmanuel Onwudiokit, Mr. Peter Linus as members, among others, alleged that, these negative moves by the Federal Government towards Akwa Ibom people was a clear sign of desperation to give the state a bad name; to enable the APC-led Government at the Centre to carry out its plans of forcefully taking over the state, come 2019. The youths, under the umbrella of Akwa Ibom State Youth  Caucus in a press statement signed by Comrade Linus Effiong, State Publicity Secretary said; “Having been partnering with His Excellency, Governor Udom Emmanuel to create an egalitarian society where we are now enjoying preponderance peace, equality, dignity & harmony, we shall not fold our arms to see APC in their desperation to grasp power through forceful takeover, and worst still, using regimented youths and charlatans to cause political mayhem with the intention to have a replica of the Rivers State Saga, where one time CP Joseph Mbu was a willing tool in the hands of desperate politicians to advance their inordinate ambitions to the detriment of the masses against the ethics of security as apolitical non-partisan organization”. “The fact that the Speaker of AKHA, Rt. Hon. Onofiok Luke evoked the provision of section 109(2) which empowers him to declare vacant the seats of those infringed upon by section 109 (g) has not foreclosed the window & liberty to seek a redress in a court of second instance. However, the society is expecting the five lawmakers to responsibly do the needful rather than engaging delinquents and irate youths to cause brigandage in a State that is generally noted for prevailing peace”. Also lending a voice to the political tension in the state, Guild of Community Development Advocates under the auspices of Akwa Ibom State CSOs Forum called on the affected lawmakers to  conduct themselves with decorum and desist from acts capable of desecrating and detracting from the  sanctity of the legislature as a key institution of our democracy. “We also call on the Akwa Ibom State Assembly leadership to do the right thing always by applying principles of equality, fairness and justice in conducting the business of the House, irrespective of political leanings. With the recent flag off of political campaigns, it is important that all stakeholders avoid actions that could heat up the polity and potentially undermine the smooth conduct of the 2019 elections as well as disrupt the peace of the state. In a statement jointly signed by Chairman of the forum,  Mr Harry Udoh and Secretary Dr. Nsekpong Udoh, the NGO  further noted with displeasure that Akwa Ibom State has suffered a heavy turnover of Commissioners of  Police in recent years, a development which they considered  very unhealthy for security management in the state. Especially considering that there have been four such changes within the last 12 months. “Why the incessant and mysterious deployment and redeployment of Police Commissioners in the state? Could it be that there is an-ongoing search for a pliable police commissioner as the elections approach? Citizens of the state deserve explanations for the redeployment of a state Commissioner of Police, who has barely spent a month in the  state, under very suspicious circumstances”. “Finally, it has come to our notice that there is a grand design to redeploy the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mr. Mike Igini. It is clear that certain elements are not comfortable with a REC that has a pedigree of integrity and probity, and has expressed commitment towards the conduct of transparent elections. Civil society in the state frowns at any attempt to railroad the 2019 elections through any arbitrary change of Resident Electoral Commissioner. We call on the Federal Government to ensure that the previous tradition of INEC where Resident Electoral Commissioners and other key staff are redeployed only days to an election must not happen this time around. The Federal Government must guarantee the integrity of the forthcoming elections for the benefit of Nigerians” the statement read. Though the combined security team which held the Assembly Complex to ransom pulled out last Friday, the act has indeed instilled some sense of fear and apprehension in the people as APC bigwigs have continued to parade, Mr Nse Ntuen as their Speaker. But even more worrisome is the APC Federal Government’s response to the Akwa Ibom incidence which, many say, leaves much to be desired, especially as it concerns the reassignment and redeployment of the state CP.