The Nigeria Academic Think Tank has lambasted the Federal Government for allegedly being responsible for the circulation of the fake soft copies of “Transition Hours” a book written and recently by former Nigeria’s President, Dr.  Goodluck Jonathan. In a statement released by the group’s leadership on Tuesday, the group accused agents of the incumbent administration, of colluding with a former staff of the Goodluck Jonathan Foundation, to release after manipulation. It was learnt that the unfinished copy of the book was with one Thierry Nguofon, a former aide of Dr. Jonathan, before his dismissal from the foundation. Read full statement: Fake Soft Copy of “Transition Hours” and the Dirty Deals of APC -led Federal Government. Former President, Dr Jonathan E. Goodluck just launched part of the memoires of his sojourn in power particularly as captured in the “Transition Hours”, a 194-page book publicly launched in Abuja on Tuesday 20th November, 2018. “The book launch which many have seen, as the first attempt at clarifying the roles he played attracted statesmen from all over Africa and was essentially about his decision to do the unusual in Africa-concede power voluntarily. Obviously the book opened several cans of worms which many had ordinarily wanted closed, as It remains a historic fact that truth is  temporarily in bondage to falsehood.However,when truth comes forcefully the  earth gets shaken. Dr. Goodluck Jonathan is today an “Ambassador of Peace” of the United Nations. The first of such office to be held by an African person that is purely a civilian. The main question is weather the root of democratic governance can borrow a “wandering leaf” from the handling of power-transition as captured under these memories. Hardly had participants at the book  launch, or enthusiasts all over the world, who were rushing to the book stores a day after the launch to pick copies of the book, settled down for its reading, a purported electronic version of the book, began to fly. By the noon of Wednesday 21st November, various electronic platforms particularly the Social media applications such as WhatsApp and Telegram began to receive and circulate, the purported e-copy of the TRANSITION HOURS which in a matter of hours, was discovered to be fake as it differed from the published work to sabotage  the intellectual work of the author, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. Not only was the electronic version immediately discovered to be unauthorized  it was also carefully released  to  render useless the contents of the  original book and ultimately embarrass, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. Therefore as stakeholders in the Academic circle, and having been privileged to have been adequately represented at the public presentation of the book , we became worried, not only about the desperate attempt by those who were responsible for the criminal action of releasing  a FAKE version of the book, but also the implications of their nefarious action on intellectual property ownership, integrity and ultimately the desperation of the incumbent administration in Nigeria, whose agents, we eventually discovered were behind the manipulation of the book. We were appalled to behold two versions of the book emerging, the e-copy with a two hundred and fifty four (254) pages and the original with one hundred and Ninety four (194) pages. Our immediate and independent findings, using the instrumentality of our ICT Knowledge  immediately confirmed that  some agents of the incumbent APC administration had earlier before the due date of the public presentation of the book, had access to the unfinished copy of the  book with the aid of a former employee of the Goodluck Jonathan Foundation , one Thierry Ngoufan, who had earlier been sacked by the Foundation for committing several atrocities, while working at the foundation. In probing further, it was discovered that the said Thierry had acted as a mole within, for several months before his eventual dismissal by the Goodluck Jonathan Foundation. Therefore at about noon on Wednesday 21st November, the agents of the Federal government, armed with the unfinished copy of the “TRANSITION HOURS”already suspected to have been provided by the dismissed Thierry Nguofan, through a gmail account sent out the first copy of the  fake version of the Book, through an internet source domiciled with the Federal Ministry of Information, Abuja, after which the document began to be circulated across the social media platforms. It is very unfortunate, that the desperation of the Federal government and its agents, has gotten to the very point, that even after almost four years of handling over power, in such a manner unprecedented, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, is still being targeted for blackmail, and all sorts of attacks, by the incumbent administration. We need to remind Nigerians, that despite the various pressing national  challenges, which arose almost immediately after the presentation of the book, TRANSITION HOURS, the presidency and its handlers have dedicated virtually all their available time, to issues of personal attack on Dr. Jonathan, as a result of salient matters, raised in the book. We strongly believe that Dr Goodluck Jonathan recollections  provide the nucleus to some unresolved issues.iAll the questions raised in this book must never be left to fly with the winds. We are even more disturbed by the emerging fact that people are playing the games of power with this book rather than examining its essential ingredients that can lift the country out of the current confusion.It is not only disgusting but criminal that this administration is seemingly indicted in our current investigations. All fingers point to the fact the e-copy is a product of sabotage by the Federal Government while the copy launched is  the original. More importantly we are disturbed,that it is rather impossible to come to equity with soiled hands. One wonders while a government, who takes pride in sloganeering integrity, could resort to working with a sacked employee the of Goodluck Jonathan Foundation, to produce the fake version in order to create mass confusion. Can Nigerians now say  a government that engages in dirty activities like this, can be trusted to supervise a free election?
Nigerians, shine your eyes! Signed: Dr. Usman Aliyu ​​​​​
Coordinator Mr Olufemi Akindele Secretary