Dr Emeka Ononamadu, Enugu State Resident Electoral Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in this interview with PATIENCE OGBODO-IWUAGWU speaks on the readiness of INEC to conduct free and fair election, Collection of Permanent Voters Card (PVC) among other issues.  Excerpts: We have few weeks to the 2019 election, is the number of electorates that has collected their Permanent Voters Card (PVC) encouraging? Yes, in Enugu state we had over one million and nine hundred registered voters so far and substantial numbers have collected. We have less than 100,000 uncollected PVCs  and as the day roll bye, people are still coming to collect their PVC. The collection rate is impressive but we can step it up by more publicity and more sensitisation, also with more sensitisation of the citizens to understand the implication of not being able to collect their PVCs. I have said it times and over in Enugu and the National Commissioner has said it that you don’t have any business with elections except you have your PVC. So it’s a good encouragement for citizens to ensure they are collecting their PVCs for whoever that has not collected. Collection of PVC is not by proxy, it is collected by the person who registered because we want to forestall people  trying to have access to PVCs of other people in order to prevent them for not voting. We are ready in terms of conducting election, we have met all the deadlines so far. We have published as required by the law and we will keep publishing as we keep meeting all deadlines. The next is for the citizens and other stakeholders to also complement by meeting also their own deadline. At the moment, the display of final register in Enugu will start this week across all the 260 wards in the state. People will have to check in the ward they registered, check their names whether they were spelt wrongly, check their PVC to see whether they were typographic errors or others because those things can be corrected now before final voters register is being printed, with this we are finally ready for the 2019 general election.. Some Nigerians have expressed concern over malfunctioning of card readers which slowed down 2015 election, what measures is INEC putting in place to correct this? In the elections we have conducted from 2015 till today, off season election, you can understand that the level of challenges with card readers has drastically reduced and we have enhanced  the performance and the workings of the card readers to put paid with other minor issues that were reported against in 2015.  So, all the card readers have been enhanced with their three major features in terms of the thumb, in terms  of the capturing of photographs and every other aspect. We have enacted their functions against the 2019 general elections. I want to assure that card reader are not going to be problematic in 2019, what we are saying is that if you don’t have your PVC, you should be sure you are not going to vote. What is the commission is doing to avert snatching of ballot boxes in 2019? The advent of snatching ballot paper is becoming history in Nigeria. I think people are becoming wiser so they know that if you snatch ballot paper the election will be cancel and redone in a tighter security, where you wouldn’t have the opportunity to snatch the ballot box or papers. So, it will be a fruitless effort to go and snatch it, it doesn’t make any political or economic sense. Anybody who is interested in the development of this country, in the development of our democracy should not be thinking in that direction and i believe that Nigerians are more wiser and more knowledgeable now, most of them are not thinking in that direction but we have also put our plans intact, in terms of checkmating any madness around snatching of ballot boxes. Do you have any fear towards  2019 election? Election is in contention and in a contest. It is not usually so peaceful, everybody is forcing its ideologies to the electorates and it is their business for that ideology using laid down rules and regulations and in terms of contest, there  must be contest of course because election itself is a contest and the contest has to be ideas contesting with each other and sometimes, it appears to be a crisis but it is not a crisis, it’s a context of ideas. If you ask me, there is no war in the physical war between the 91 political parties, I have not heard crisis between two or three or more, sometimes a little contest happens between them but for me, I don’t have any fear because there has been contest in the past and we had very good election and there will be contest again and we will have a very good election. What are the strategies put in place to ensure credible and transparent election? We have made it open since January this year, we laid the down our plans, even to announce the date of election one year before the election so that everybody who is part and parcel of election would be ready. We have done the continuous voters exercise and make sure that it is inclusive to show you the level of readiness so we are going to display it so that Nigerians may have their claims and objection, we must make sure that the PVCs get to everybody except those who do not want to come and collect theirs and if that is ready, then INEC is ready and the next thing is to come to polling unit with our ballot papers and conduct the election. So,  it’s left for Nigerians to behave themselves in an orderly manner in order to give others the chance to express themselves so that credible election can  happen and we will go home building Nigeria as a country and a nation. Did all political party in the state comply with Submission of candidate’s deadline? For those who fielded candidates and conducted primaries, they have given us their submission and we have displayed it. So if you go to our office and our local Government offices, they are all there. What is your advice to politicians vying for offices in 2019? We want credible election and the best way to realise credible election is to play by the rules of election in Nigeria which is the electoral law. Don’t find short cut to it because if you don’t win today, it’s a lesson for you to put your house in order and win tomorrow, get your ideas to citizens, don’t overheat the polity because Nigeria  belong to all of us. Election will come and go but our country will remain so when  people play by the rules and ensure that others play by the rules, we will have a good election.