Abuja – Atiku Abubakar, the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), advised President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday that Nigeria’s limited resources should be used for her people and not donated to others, noting that the President’s profligacy was destroying the nation’s economy. Atiku, in a statement by his Campaign Organisation, said: “Recently, we had cause to counsel the Buhari administration to be more prudent with national resources after the government declared its intention to sell national assets built by previous administrations to fund their business as usual 2019 budget. “Apparently, rather than give heed to our pro bono patriotic advise, the Buhari administration is persisting in the financial profligacy that has seen them destroy a once thriving economy. “In the latest instance, the Buhari government has announced that it is making a $500,000 donation to Guinea Bissau, along with other material donations. “Our response is to ask why a nation that has been officially named as the world headquarters for extreme poverty, will donate her resources to others instead of using them to solve pressing domestic problems?” The PDP presidential candidate noted that this was the same government that was so cash-strapped that it had so far borrowed N13 trillion in three years, putting our economy in even greater peril. “How prudent is it to go about taking loans from whosoever cares to lend you money and then turn around to give out those same monies even when your own people are suffering the worst forms of poverty they have ever endured? “We call on the Buhari administration to cut their coat according to their cloth. These huge loans they are collecting, only to squander it, will be repaid by future generations and limit the nation’s ability to invest in projects that will Get Nigeria Working Again,” he said. Atiku noted that there were over a million Internally Displaced Persons in Nigeria, adding, “if you cannot adequately support your own people in dire need, what is the wisdom in crossing borders to support others?” The former Vice President said Nigerians had the moral authority to question this administration’s profligacy and imprudence, adding that he was part of an administration that paid off Nigeria’s entire foreign debt. “We are therefore concerned to see this government piling on debt and then squandering it away without any consideration for the needs of her own people,” Atiku pointed out.