Lagos – The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) said it had intercepted two helicopters in two separate containers billed for export. The service insisted that the seizure of the aircraft violated the provisions of the Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA). Addressing journalists in Lagos on Thursday, Comptroller General of Customs, Col. Hammed Ali (Rtd), said the helicopters were intercepted within the same period by officers and men of the Apapa command of the service. The Comptroller General noted that one of the helicopters, with registration number SN-BLI, which was intended for export in container number PONU7789246, was falsely declared as 388 bags of cashew nuts, adding that investigations were ongoing to fish out the owners of the helicopters. While reacting on the second aircraft, the Customs boss affirmed that the Cessna 182A imported from the USA, loaded in container number MRKU 4457663, was intercepted by officers of the command. He maintained that the aircraft was declared through single goods declaration number C130308 of 09/10/2018, adding that the owners of the helicopters failed to present an end user certificate from the Office of the National Security Adviser and approval from the Civic Aviation Authority (NCAA). Also speaking on the recent seizures of 40×40 feet containers laden with tramadol and other pharmaceutical products worth N7.318 billion, Ali disclosed that three suspects had been apprehended in connection with the seizures. He said: “In their desperation, importers of these items offered bribes to the tune of N150 million to my officers to effect the release of just one container with promises of even bigger sums to follow in the event that their first attempt succeeds.” The Customs helmsman further stressed that the seizure of dangerous drugs and aircraft demonstrated the service’s crucial contributions to national economic and security wellbeing. He added that the rejection of a N150 million bribe painted a picture of a reformed agency of government whose operatives are increasingly putting national security interest above themselves.