ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Wednesday declared an emergency in the nation’s education sector, following the mirage of problems it said have befallen the sector. It further resolved to set up an 11-man ad hoc committee to interact with players in the sector to unravel the issues, just as it proclaimed a one-week education summit scheduled for January 2019. These followed a motion brought before it by Hon. Ayodele Oladimeji on the need to reform Nigeria’s tertiary education system. The lawmaker told the House that the strategic importance of education cannot be over emphasized, being the fulcrum of national growth and development. Oladimeji noted that tertiary education was the platform for developing human capital for social economic and technological transformation and advancement of any nation. He further pointed out that Nigeria loses a minimum of N1trillion to education tourism annually because about 75,000Nigerians are currently studying in Ghana, Benin Republic, and Egypt, among others. The lawmaker was worried that the reason for their looking elsewhere was not unconnected with the dwindling quality of education in the country, thus making the nation’s graduates unemployable, stressing that no fewer than eight million graduates in the country moved into the labour market every year with the hope of getting jobs that are not available. He insisted that the nation’s educationl sector needs urgent reform failing, which it would continue to spiral down and Nigerians will continue to spend their hard earned foreign exchange in financing education. The motion, which enjoyed popular support of members and was adopted by the House, elicited serious concerns and debate by the lawmakers, who unanimously condemned the poor approaches employed towards solving the educational sector problems. Notable among the legislators who spoke passionately was Hon. Chika Adamu from Niger State, who apparently labeled government appointees and politicians as hypocrites, saying that they have continued to pay lip service to reforms in the sector, allow a monumental decay in the system while their children are schooling abroad. He addressed the Speaker Yakubu Dogara, who presided, saying that even him, the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, all the lawmakers in the National Assembly, as well as President Muhammad Buhari and his ministers, were all culpable in the matter. Adamu said that there was no sincerity in what politicians were planning for the sector, insisting that they must show cause that they are willing to reform the sector by sending their children and wards to public schools first. Also speaking, Femi Gbajabiamila, the majority leader, decried infrastructure decay in the sector, stressing that it was the worst problem confronting the system. Gbajabiamila stressed that it was not easy for teachers to teach well under the current infrastructural decay, adding that it also made learning difficult for the students. Sulaimon Lasun, the deputy speaker, also spoke condemning the abandonment of the sector, stressing that the education system in the country was in dire need of intervention and quick reform.