UYO – While birthday celebrations over the years have been considered as best opportunity to attract goodwill for the celebrator, a sharp contrast recently occurred as thirty Five widows drawn from various parts of the state, at the 35th birthday celebration of the Publicity Secretary of the People’s Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom State, Comrade Ini Ememobong went home with empowerment cheques of N100,000 each to expand their businesses. In like manner, 35 Indegent but qualified students of various higher institutions of learning, with between 3.5-4.00 CGPA from Ibiono Ibom Local Government Area of the state got scholarship awards from Ini Ememobong foundation. Still in the spirit of same celebration, the former president of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) took out time to acknowlege, appreciate and celebrate the 79 teaching and non teaching staff who taught and mentored him from secondary school to the university levels, cutting across the departments of Linguistics, History and International Studies and Faculty of Law of the University of Uyo. In partnership with one of his lecturers and mentor, Barr Goddy Umoh, Ememobong also used the celebration of his birth to reach out to 11 petty traders from Ikono local government area with business empowerment of N50,000 each. Before the event proper, he had visited Godly Liberty Home, an orphanage in Oron to donate gift items to the motherless children, he had also organized a reading session with appropriate incentives for participating students at Community Secondary school, Ikot Usen, Ibono Ibom LGA, to instill the culture of reading among the students. Copies of The world’s best selling book, Rich Dad, Poor Dad by Robert T. Kiyosaki were distributed to the students who were later given practical examples using everyday life to explain the whole concept of financial intelligence. Still to mark the 35th birthday celebration of Comr. Ini Ememobong, Nigerian Bar Association, Uyo Branch held it’s first Uyo bar advocacy round table on the subject; “Public Policy Advocacy: Tools and Tactics”, with Prof. Des Wilson of Department of Communication Arts, University of Uyo is the Guest Speaker. A moot and advocacy challenge was also organized to reach out and assist students of the faculty of law, University of Uyo to be better prepared for the future, as lawyers. The occasion of his birthday celebration also witnessed the official inuaguration of Ini Ememobong Foundation by Barr Chinonyerem Ini Ememobong and also a launch of the book “My book of quotations”, authored by the celebrator, unveiled and presented by the Vice Chancellor of the University of Uyo, Prof Enefiok Essien (SAN). Beyond giving empowerment grants and scholarship to widows and students, over 200 youths and other small scale business owners in Uyo also received free training on Google marketing skills and techniques. The one day free Google training programme was sponsored by the Ini Ememobong Foundation in collaboration with Regal Jurist as part of the Foundation’s initiatives to offer Akwa Ibom youths and other business owners the platform to leverage on the innovative products Google offers in technological advancement and digital marketing. Comrade Ini Ememobong, while addressing the participants said the essence of the training was to bridge the digital knowledge gap among youths and business owners in the state. He said his decision to empower the youths with basic skills was due to the fact that one major ways to detach Nigerian youths from running untoward errands for unscrupulous politicians was to equip them with life changing skills that would impact them and the society positively. “Yes, that you are here shows that you have the desire and willingness to learn new things. Akwa Ibom youths must ride to that faith of greatness and be counted among other youths in the global community. “And that’s why when my colleagues from the law school, called and asked me of what I was going to on my birthday, and I told to think of something, and immediately they mentioned Google training, I keyed into it. You must take this the training very seriously, because, one or two things you are going to learn from here can change your thinking for your entire life. From what I have seen here, it’s like you may want it to be a regular thing, so, we are going to form a community of youths that will look at the modalities for us to host a business summit for the youths of Akwa Ibom”. He said One of the beneficiaries, Miss Iniubong Umoren, a 500 level student of fisheries and aquatic environmental management in the University of Uyo, said that the training has opened her eyes to the vast opportunities offered by online marketing. “Since it is my discipline and I find pleasure in doing it, and I am very happy that God has brought me to discover my talent, I produce fish, package the fishes, sell it dry and fresh. I decided to attend the event because, I know I was going to benefit from digital marketing skills, because I have been trying to make my business go online, but, it’s not been easy, but by attending this programme today”, Umoren said, “ I know I, have gained a lot of knowledge into a digital market, it has improved my online marketing skills. I know it will add to my knowledge, it will also expand my coast. I t can also make me meet other people, other clients and friends that are interested in my business”. Presenting a lecture at Ibom Hall, venue of his 35th birthday celebration on “The concept of Humanization of Politics and other related issues”, the celebrator called on Akwa Ibom business inclined individuals to rather adopt a collaborative and not competitive mindset by transacting businesses in partnership, as only such complimentary approach to business can roundtrip the income and finances of the people. He also lectured the political class on the need to change the existing nomination processes of electing leaders, as such has consistently created room for violence and money bags to hijack electioneering processes in the country. Chronicling his weeklong event in his words of appreciation he said; “From the mooting competition, the accapella night, the games fiesta, the worship at Church of Christ oron and the visit to the orphanage,the opening of the barbers’ shop, the financial intelligence session with secondary school students, the online resources training, the lecture and empowerment, the medical outreach and the NBA dialogue- all these events succeeded without any hitch. I’m very proud of the huge capacity that was exhibited by the committee and secretariat”. The Speaker, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly who was chairman on the occasion of the 35th birthday celebration of his bosom friend and party’s image maker described his age as 35 impactful and eventful years on earth. While advising all in attendance to strive to realize God’s purpose in their lives and ask God to work according to such purpose, the Speaker added “Ini Ememobong’s purpose in life is that of affected humanity positively, even creation would conspire to cause you to succeed because you realized and are fulfilling your purpose in life. He has been investing in other people’s lives”. He advised other politicians in the state to rather devote their time, energy and resources to assist and empower others. “Political disagreement does not make you to think of evil ways to bring down others. That God has used you as a messager of destiny does not make you a god in anyone’s life. No one made himself. Don’t ever envy what God has done in another man’s life”. He advised