Temidayo Akinsuyi and Sarah Jack Lagos – In furtherance of her desire  to right the wrongs of governance in the country, Dr. Oby  Ezekwesili, presidential candidate of the Alliance Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN)  on Monday unveiled her manifesto and programmes for the 2019 presidential election with a promise to lift more than 80 million Nigerians  out of poverty and unlock prosperity for every Nigerian family if elected as the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Presenting  the manifesto at a press conference in Lagos, which she titled “From Poverty Central To Prosperity: How The ‘Oby’ Ezekwesili Presidency Will Lift 80+ Million Nigerians Out Of Poverty”, the BBOG co-founder said her government will be a total departure from what Nigerians have been subjected to in the last 19 years under the rulership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Oby who expressed confidence that she will win the forthcoming presidential election  described the document as a roadmap, adding that she has a dream of an inclusive and prosperous country where there is equality of opportunity for all. Ezekwesili who explained that the poverty narrative had been predominant owing to the consistent dearth of the right leadership to build the right capacities to empower the people said Nigeria is  blessed with great people, and a country with great potential like Nigeria should not be associated with high poverty rate. The former Vice- President of World Bank who identified inequality, infrastructural deficit, high rate of illiteracy and poor economic focus as some of the causes of high poverty rate said Nigeria needs a leader who would tackle all these to build a prosperous nation. She said her promise to lift 80million Nigerians out of poverty if elected was not an empty one, as she had a well thought-out plan to achieve it. Giving details of her blueprint, Ezekwesili said she would massively invest in human capital development of more educated citizens who would be economically empowered. Giving details of her blueprint, Ezekwesili said she would massively invest in human capital development of more educated citizens who would be economically empowered. She also said she would pursue a robust housing programme to deliver affording homes to most Nigerians in order to increase access. “Education and skills development of healthy Nigerian people shall be my number one priority. No matter what we do, we would never win the war on poverty without investing massively in human capital development”. “That is why in our ACPN government, education will be the new oil. Education will be the new economy. My vision for education is one that will nourish the mind and create a progressive society that competes globally. “ If our current and future human capital are not educated, they will most likely end up in poverty and our economy will lose the productivity that they would have added. We shall launch a root and branch reform of all the levels and phases of education. Early Childcare Education, Basic Education, Secondary Education”. On her plans for an affordable housing for  Nigerians, she said “We have big plans for housing development that includes a national housing program to reduce the cost of a starter home for families. In partnership with the private sector, we will reduce cost of these homes by 50% while increasing quality”. “Within my first 100 days, I would launch a Naija Home Competition that will call for the design of a standard, affordable Nigerian home design which will include two bedrooms, a living room, a bathroom and toilet, and a kitchen. At least 80 percent of the homes we will build will be low-cost housing whereby allocation is based on income. The recipients will be selected from a pool of qualified applicants through lottery”. “The Basic Nigerian Home will also allow us lay the foundation for a functional mortgage market that will expand property ownership to millions of Nigerians. Additionally, it will allow Nigeria to launch a dynamic local real estate and housing industry with firms active throughout the value chain from production of construction materials, building, sales to mortgages. It will be a massive boost to the economy, facilitate socioeconomic development and create jobs. You can see again, how everything we do links back to our central ambition to lift 80 million Nigerians out of poverty”. “ In agriculture, we want to achieve food security in our country. We will launch our One Product Per State initiative which will partner with states and the private sector to support farmers in states with a product in which they have comparative advantage. We would link it to our Manufacturing Value Added agenda to ensure that productivity of farmers is enhanced and they move up the value chain” she said. Oby who also   called for the deregulation of the oil sector to boost the country’s economy also alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari’s refusal to sign the Petroleum Industry Governance (PIG) Bill was an act of corruption and means to amass funds for himself. According to her, if  the sector had been subjected to the competition and discipline of the market, it would have aided the development and growth of the country. She further said that the N1.3 trillion disclosed by the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Ibe Kachikwu, that the Federal Government spends yearly on fuel subsidy was a waste of resources. She said this was almost the same amount that the current government spent on constructing roads, equipping hospitals with medicine, funding the universities and working on power. She said that in less than 20 years, most of the oil resources would have dried up and no use for governments to relying on them. “Another difficult reform which we are committed to implementing is the oil sector reform. When I read somewhere that the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Ibe Kachikwu, disclosed that the Federal Government spends about N1.3 trillion yearly on under-recovery, which is the new name that this government has given to fuel subsidy, I was astonished”. “It is stagnating our economy and impoverishing our people. Just imagine for a second how much good an ACPN government can do with an extra N1.3 trillion to spend on our mission to pull out citizens from poverty. It is not enough for the fuel subsidy to go; our government will also deregulate the entire oil sector, including the NNPC, and ensure it is subjected to the competition and discipline of the market. I have no interest in becoming the president of the NNPC when there are more important things begging for attention. Countries are moving away from oil. “So, how can a reasonable government be so bothered with signing oil licences when there is fire on the mountain? President Buhari is so interested in grabbing power and keeping it for himself that he has even refused to sign the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB).” Ezekwesili said she would drive prosperity in the country by giving the necessary support to start-ups and small-scale enterprises for massive job creation. “When I am president, we will set the vision; we will lead on policy; we will ensure smarter, better and clearer regulations; we will help correct important market failures; and we will, of course, invest in critical areas like developing the human capital to power our 21st century economy and leading the way on big ticket infrastructure”. “My mission is not just to change this APCPDP government, but more than that, we must disrupt the politics and governance of the status quo and quickly chart a new course for the future of our country. We have enough young people, many progressive men and women, who are signing up with our citizens’ party, ACPN, to unleash the principles of disruptive technologies to our politics for good”. “I have said it before and I will say it again: My government will prioritise support to our young people to unleash their creativity in the fields of new, smart, disruptive technologies from Artificial Intelligence to Quantum Computing to Big Data and the Internet of Things. The future is here already and we believe that technology holds the key to solving our poverty crisis, environmental disasters, low level of productivity and competitiveness, healthcare crisis, infrastructure decay, and even the corruption affliction” she said.