Abuja – Bola Ahmed Tinubu, National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, has said the APC was not perturbed over the emergence of Atiku Abubakar as presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He also described the strategic meeting Atiku and other stakeholders of the PDP were having in Dubai as a waste of time, adding that it would not change the perception Nigerians have against the opposition which held power for 16 years. Tinubu gave these remarks after a closed door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Wednesday. He said, “We do not fear such things, whether it’s in the jungle, or is in Dubai or is in Abu Dhabi, people are free to meet and strategise in any way they form, but we are not going back to the illusion of the PDP. “It is not possible, Nigerians will not do that. They say slow and steady wins the race, we inherited that from our forefathers and knowledgeable people. We can’t go back to the pit that we inherited for 16 years. They can strategise from anywhere but a leopard cannot change its skin.” Asked if he was in support for clamours that the party chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, be removed over disagreements in the primaries, he said, “no”, adding that the party supremacy ought to be respected at all times. “We all have to respect the party supremacy. You were all here when we had the congress, we elected the new executives, the convention we had it, the NEC was formed and we surrendered to avoid conflict, to avoid domination, to avoid abuses of power, we surrendered our rights, all rights to the National Working Committee headed by Adams Oshiomhole. “That the National Working Committee should set up electoral bodies to supervise various state congresses and elections. We signed off for it. So, if it is not in our individual favour, so be it. We gave three options, consensus, where there is no consensus because if you are more than two or three and you cannot agree to one candidate, you go to the next level. “The next level is the stakeholders’ delegate and you have to be supervised by the National Working Committee of the party, national election committee of the party. “That shows party supremacy or the freest option, the less cumbersome is to open direct primary, line up and count the number, 1, 2, 3. If you win, you win and if you fail, go home. “Then appeal committee was set up to listen to all appeals, internal mechanism for conflict resolution. It was there, you cannot turn round against that, you cannot turn against all of that. No. Party is supreme, party must be respected, abuses will not do it and anger will not do it. It is party politics, somebody will win and somebody will lose, too bad”. Meanwhile, Oshiomhole who also met with the president separately vowed not to be pressured into acting against his conscience over the crisis in the ruling party. He insisted that only three APC governors were unhappy with his running of the party while the majority are confident that he is doing his best. He maintained that he would rather obey his conscience than pressures to do what is wrong. The former Edo State governor said: “Let me say that if there is a choice between my conscience and what I believe is right and mortgaging that conscience in order to keep the job, I will have no difficulty resolving it in favour of my conscience.”