However, the presence of foreign insurers in the Nigerian market is another incentive expected to boost penetration, technical capacity and service delivery. According to the National Insurance Commission, no fewer than 12 foreign investors have ventured into the country to acquire new firms since 2014 and lately the Enterprise Group. The recent announcement by Enterprise Group, a Ghanaian based investment vehicle to enter the Nigerian market is another development in foreign investment into the country. “The Enterprise Group is vigorously pursuing its dream of entering the Nigerian insurance market to deliver outstanding business value to customers,” Group Chief Executive Officer, Keli Gadzekpo said. “Our dream is to enter the Nigerian market very soon. It is our dream. We are making progress on that, we have the money and very soon we will finish the transaction and let the public know about it. The Group is expecting a strong entry with the Life insurance business then the rest will follow later,” he said. Mr. Gadzekpo stated this when the company took its turn at the Ghana Stock Exchange ‘Fact Behind the Figures’ series’ in Accra. Enterprise Group, which comprises Enterprise Insurance Company, Enterprise Life, Enterprise Trustees Limited, Enterprise Properties and Enterprise Funeral Service in 2017 recorded a total net income of GH¢543 million. It has total assets worth GH¢1billion. Mr. Gadzekpo said the Group was embarking on acquiring digital capabilities, deploying mobile apps, customer relationship managing systems, a universal payment platform as well as active engagement with customers on various media platforms to enhance value proposition to customers. He said one of the group’s operational focus areas has been delivering excellent services to policyholders and contributors, for whom they were seeking to set a high standard of service delivery and ensure there was consistency in achieving that standard across the subsidiaries and branches. He added that the people-agenda would continue to be of paramount importance across all businesses within the group. “We believe that people drive the execution of our strategy and therefore, ensure that we create the required environment embedded in the right culture and engage them throughout their life-cycle within the business.” He said the group has achieved significant success in its five-year strategic growth target, which has been mainly driven by retail and marketing at the back of technology. “Part of our five-year plan is to grow organically and very optimistic with our trends. We are looking to deepen our share in the traditional markets like the General business. We think we have the potentials,” he said. The Commissioner for Insurance, Alhaji Mohammed Kari, said the Nigerian development plan, Vision 2020, described the insurance sector as a grossly untapped opportunity with low market penetration. He said that foreign investors, having noted the great opportunities, were attracted by the huge potential in the Nigerian insurance space “There were three foreign acquisitions in the sector in 2014; two in 2015; five in 2016; and two companies are now in progress,” Kari stated. Kari stated that the growth of the Nigerian insurance industry was hinged on the right products, innovation, prompt claims payment and healthy competition between local players and their foreign counterparts. According to him, the presence of foreign insurers in the Nigerian market is another incentive to boost penetration, technical capacity and service delivery. As a result of increased risk coverage in the country, Kari argued that there would likely be an increase in the minimum capital requirements and potential reduction in qualifying capital of insurance companies. He explained: “We expect this to lead to further consolidation and stability in the industry, which will subsequently create an influx of foreign investments. After such an exercise, we will have no reason to continue with the suspension of issuance of new operating licences. “For the period since that policy was introduced, there have been no local mergers and acquisitions, and I believe that the market has lost an excellent opportunity to strengthen itself from within. It is no surprise that big international players are taking a position in our market; they obviously see something you don’t. In the field of fair play there, is hardly more than a couple of indigenous companies that can compete with them.” The commissioner noted that Nigerian insurance institutions must review and where necessary, enhance their capital, risk management and governance in order to survive the interesting future ahead. Some of the challenges the local firms have been grappling with include dearth of human and financial capital, and unethical way of doing business, popularly called rate-cutting, among others. According to a report by the Marine Insurance Committee of the Nigerian Insurers Association, the country is being deprived of billions of naira as a result of the dearth of professionals in marine insurance in the country. This pushes most of the premiums coming from the highly risky business in the industry to foreign reinsurers. The commissioner stated that the situation called for the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, as a professional arm of the industry, to reinvent itself, update its curriculum to either adopt or adapt contemporary best practices for the overall benefit of the profession. Kari noted that the implementation of the risk-based supervision will restrict the business the insurance companies can do to the capital they have. By that the NAICOM means, companies that do have the specified capital will be exempted from doing blue chip businesses such as aviation, marine, and oil and gas, among others. “This has also informed the reason a lot of insurance companies are looking for foreign investors to assist in enhancing their capital in order to meet up with the emerging challenge. “It is worthy of note that these businesses rake in premiums worth billions of naira, but can result in claims worth billions of naira if a loss occurs. “Under the RBS, the insurance companies will no longer be able to hide under a consortium to underwrite bigger risks but will be restricted to just doing small insurances like motor, tricycle and other less risky businesses. “That also means that when the compulsory insurance policies are enforced, the firms with low capital will be exempted from benefiting from some of the potential businesses”, he said. Speaking on the RBS, George Onekhana, the Deputy Commissioner, NAICOM, explained that it was a tool used by supervisors in the allocation of resources to the examination of insurance entities, based on their risk profile and the effectiveness of arrangements made to manage relevant risks. “In addition to limiting the choice of insurers that receive attention, it also restricts the scope of work on select insurers to areas in which material weaknesses are perceived to exist,” he stated. While noting that it was important for the underwriters to face the reality, he said it would be wise to pay early attention to capital adequacy issues. As the economic power of the private sector businesses continues to grow, Onekhana said the number of laws regulating their activities would also increase. “In broad terms, these laws typically serve one of two objectives: to promote market competition and control the market power of financial institutions over customers, or to mitigate the adverse effects of business activity on individuals and other organisations,” he added.