Sarah Jack Lagos – Gbenga Ashafa, lawmaker representing Lagos East Senatorial District at the Upper House of the National Assembly has once again lauded President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment to seeing to the completion of projects. Ashafa, who is the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Land Transport, made his remarks during an oversight visit by the Senate Committee on Land Transport to the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology outreach learning centre in Kano at the weekend. In his remarks at the occasion, Ashafa who is very impressed with what he saw on ground said “Today’s oversight visit is in continuation of our comprehensive oversight coverage of the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology (NITT) which commenced with our oversight of the outreach learning centre Abuja, yesterday. In consonance with our supervisory responsibility, we are very particular about ensuring that all the monies appropriated for the further development of this institute are properly utilized.” Ashafa who was accompanied by Senators, Osinakachukwu Ideozu and Victor Umeh members of the Senate Committee on Land Transport were given a  tour of the project site by the Director General of NITT, Dr. Abimbola O. Odumosu. After Inspection of the project site, Ashafa  had this to say “President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment to execution of projects is nothing we have seen in recent times. Having gone round this project site, I can only that we are very impressed at the level of completion of this project made possible through frequent capital releases by this administration to ensure its timely completion. “It is important to note that this project commenced under the administration of President Buhari and same is being replicated in Ebonyi and Gombe. The Abuja outreach Centre commenced in 2007 but it was stalled due to inadequate capital releases. However within the past 3 years due to the determination of this administration (Executive & Legislature) this projects including the Abuja outreach centre have progressed at an impressive rate.” Ashafa further said “These centres that were duly appropriated for by this committee bring the number of outreach centers to Six. We therefore have NITT presence in Zaria, Abuja, Lagos, Port-Harcourt, Kano, Ebonyi and Gombe states, thereby covering every geo-political zone and ensuring that players in the transport and logistics industry across the country have the benefit capacity development made possible by this institute. In conclusion he said “For the economy to succeed, we must ensure that people, goods and services keep moving as safely and seamlessly as possible. A core part of this mandate rests on the shoulders of the NITT. With its presence in the six Geopolitical Zone coupled with efficient training personnel involved in the transport and logistics industry the NITT would be better positioned to achieve its mandate”