ASABA – A Non-Governmental Organization (NGO), Connected Development (CODE), has advocated that it is pertinent for government to have a transparent role in ensuring accountability of oil companies in order to make positive impacts on host communities. Rita Kigbara, Programme Manager of Selena’s Foundation, told stakeholders from Delta and Akwa-Ibom states at a workshop in Asaba, Delta State capital, on the need to equip participants on the role of government and the social corporate responsibilities of companies operating in the various communities. Speaking on the theme “Improving Transparency and Accountability In the Oil And Gas Sector and Promoting Agency for Host Communities,” the resource person emphasized the need to educate participants on their rights and those of their host communities on the responsibilities and mode of interacting with oil companies. She stated that is important the oil companies perform their Civic Social Responsibility (CSR) to their host communities, emphasizing that in Nigeria, the unaccountability of leaders has not helped to get the needed positive impact on the host communities. She also mentioned that it is evident to note that there are strategies for communities to engage oil companies in the bid to get needed development from the oil companies. “Communities can use several strategies to relay their desires through media and inviting them to community festivals as this would provide good means for them to listen to your complaints.” Another keynote speaker and member of CODE, Chambers Umezulike, said the essence of the training is to build participants’ capacity on oil governance, to strengthen their ability to engage the oil companies and government and understand the key and underlying issues in the sector. He expressed hope that at the end of the programme, participants should be able to collaborate, get themselves into buying into the project just as he charged them to keep their minds open to be able to grab the much they could. A participant from Akwa-Ibom State, Okon Akpanonwong, said he was impressed with the programme and which has educated him on the need for accountability of the oil companies and ways host communities can get needed impact on their various communities. A Delta participant and Secretary, Obodoegwa Community, Ndokwa West LGA, agreed that the programme is an eye opener and educative.