The 2019 Presidential Candidate for Young Progressive Party (YPP), Prof. Kingsley Moghalu, has alleged the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, of adopting his manifesto. This was contained in a press statement by Jide Akintunde, spokesman for Presidential Candidate, Professor Kingsley Moghalu and his ‘To Build A Nation’ (TBAN) movement.  Read full statement below: Daily Trust’s Misleading News Story That “Moghalu Backs Atiku On Privatising NNPC” The attention of the Presidential Campaign of Professor Kingsley Moghalu has been drawn to a news story published yesterday, Monday, November 26th, 2018 by Daily Trust, online, captioned: “Moghalu backs Atiku on privatising NNPC.”  This news story, especially the headline, is misleading, if not mischievous. The truth is that Atiku’s recent promise to sell 90% shares of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is an adoption of Moghalu’s detailed plan for repositioning the corporation, if elected president in 2019.  “My plan for the privatisation of the NNPC is distinct and detailed on how to make the NNPC a more transparent, efficient and profitable institution,” said Moghalu, the Presidential Candidate of the Young Progressives Party (YPP) and former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). “I have also been sharing with fellow citizens my plan for months, before Atiku issued his promise to sell 90% of NNPC shares without providing much more details.”  During his interview on Channels Television’s Business Morning, earlier yesterday, Moghalu restated his plan to partially privatise the NNPC. He said the government will retain either 49% or 51% of the national oil company, which will be managed by the private sector when privatised. He also said that the oil-producing communities will own 10% of the company, and that the NNPC share sale will be done transparently on the Nigerian Stock Exchange.  Moghalu has often restated his plan to privatise the NNPC since he first spoke publicly about it in March, while delivering the Bullion Lecture 2018 in Lagos. On the programme on Channels Television, Moghalu criticised the proposal of Atiku, wondering who he would sell 90% of the assets of NNPC to.  Moghalu has since become the thought leader and trend-setter in the 2019 presidential campaign. He was the first to release his campaign manifesto as a book, titled “Build, Innovate and Grow: My Vision for Our Country.” Following this, other candidates have managed to come up with campaign documents that many Nigerians have flawed for various reasons, including alleged plagiarism and the unrealistic political promises they provide.  Moreover, many of Moghalu’s policy ideas and campaign slogan “It Is Time” are now often used by other candidates since the campaign season officially opened.  However, Moghalu is confident that Nigerians will elect him as president in 2019 to enable him execute his plans as those adopting them do not have his vision for the country and the economy.