Lagos – Steely Nigeria battled their way into the Final of the 11th Women Africa Cup of Nations after a 4-2 penalty shoot–out defeat of Cameroon following a scoreless 120–minute attrition in Accra on Tuesday. The feat also guaranteed that Nigeria will maintain her record of appearing at every edition of the FIFA Women’s World Cup, when the world’s best teams gather in France next year summer. The Indomitable Lionesses played a clever, controlled game at the Accra Sports Stadium and certainly looked quite skilful against the Cup holders, but the experienced Super Falcons held them at bay, and when the defence got breached, goalkeeper Tochukwu Oluehi was there to keep things tidy. Lithe and sharp forward, Onguene came close in the 4th minute with a rasping shot, apparently from nowhere, which Tochukwu diverted, and three minutes later, the Lionesses were on the prowl again with a firm header, but Oluehi again was alert. In the 10th minute, Gaelle Enganamouit tested the Nigeria goal with a snap shot. Again Oluehi was aware. In the closing stages of the first period, Nigeria pushed forward a bit, but an attempt by Francisca Ordega to steal the ball from two defenders was fruitless, and Asisat Oshoala’s crisp shot was well saved. In the second half, the fit and technically savvy Cameroonians tried to pull strings from the midfield, only to meet their match in Halimatu Ayinde, Ngozi Okobi and Rita Chikwelu. Okobi wasted a glorious chance in the 54th minute and at the other end, Oluehi again came to the rescue, as Ngo Mbeleck’s chip appeared headed for the net. Both teams hung on in a tedious, tiring extra time, with players spending quality time on the floor. In the penalty shoot–out, Njoya Ajara and Raisa Feudjio scored for the Lionesses, with Onome Ebi and Rasheedat Ajibade netting for Nigeria, but Enganamouit’s effort was caught by Oluehi and after Oshoala scored to put Nigeria ahead, the tireless Ngo Mbeleck saw her kick fly past the goalpost. Defender Ngozi Ebere then put her effort firmly past goalkeeper Ngo Ndom to put Nigeria in the final and earn a ticket to the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup in France. The Lionesses can still qualify for the World Cup, if they win the losers’ final in Cape Coast on Friday. Meanwhile, the Minister of Youth and Sports, Barrister Solomon Dalung has praised the team for picking one of the three 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup tickets billed for France. Dalung congratulated the players for their hard fought victory describing the game as a nail biting semi final. “The match went into extra time and penalties and that showed how difficult it was for the girls to achieve success. The Super Falcons were determined and disciplined and qualified for the final through hard work, team work and their doggedness. “I am happy with the team and the technical crew for putting Nigeria on the global map once again with their qualification for the World Cup next year. “However, the final test comes on Saturday when they play the last and decisive game. They have won this competition a record eight times and I have no doubt that they will bring back the trophy to Nigeria.” Barrister Dalung is currently in Tokyo Japan attending a ‘Country Meeting’ with Tokyo 2020 organizers, where countries are expected to make final decisions on their participation at the next Olympics.