IBADAN – Dr. Olapade Agoro, the former Presidential candidate of the National Action Council (NAC) on Sunday in Ibadan has attributed the huge money paid to Boko Haram by the Federal Government as ransom in exchange for Chibok and Dapchi school girls as the reason the terrorists had upper hand over the Nigerian Army. Agoro, who stated this while reacting to the reported killing of over 100 Nigerian soldiers in Melete by members of Boko Haram submitted that impending danger ahead of Nigeria surpasses the forthcoming  2019 general elections. According to him, Nigerian leaders and the political class should urgently address the scourge facing the country, rather than talking about the 2019 general elections, saying that the Book Haram issue, in particular, has become a recurring decimal whenever a general election is approaching. The NAC’s former Presidential candidate noted further that since the Federal Government reportedly paid whopping sums of money to free Chibok and Dapchi school girls, the initial successes recorded by the Nigerian Army in the war against insurgency in the North East have suffered a setback. Agoro said that it is logical to think that the ransom reportedly paid to Boko Haram has given the terrorist group the much-needed money to purchase more sophisticated weapons to kill Nigerian soldiers. He also called on President Muhammodu Buhari to talk to the nation on the renewed aggression of Book Haram, saying that urgent actions are needed from the President. His words: “It is sad that Boko Haram mutilated over 100 Nigerian soldiers in the Melete attacks. Not only was the situation gory, sad and embarrassing, it borders on the nerves of the nation that the President, a retired General was reluctant to talk to the nation on the attacks. “It must be remembered that President Buhari moved the military command to Borno state three years ago, an action that led to Nigeria securing victory against Boko Haram by opening up the Sambisa forest. It is, therefore, logical to think that the ransom reportedly paid to Boko Haram have renewed the strength of the terrorist group “.