Lagos – When Rangers International FC of Enugu on October 21, 2018 won the Nigeria’s most prestigious cup tournament –the Federation Cup, the news was that the club achieved it after 35 years of wait. Invariably, it was an achievement worth memorable for the people of Enugu State in particular, the entire South East and Igbos in diaspora – Rangers being their traditional club. And of course the victory has returned the Flying Antelopes to the continental soccer scene once again for the CAF Confederations Cup. The continental competition no doubt, comes with lots of challenges which Rangers must be prepared for in good time before it kicks off anytime soon, just as it is a huge burden that must not be left with the club alone. Rangers no doubt, have an enviable record in Nigeria and Africa general talking about club football –winning the continental tournament when it was Africa Cup of Winners in 1977. After the 2015 season which nearly saw them relegated, Rangers won the 2016 Nigeria Premier League, their first championship since 1984; Closest challengers Rivers United needed Enugu to lose on the final day of the season, but Rangers won their game against El-Kanemi Warriors 4-0 to win the championship. Again, 2017 saw Rangers struggle, dropping into the relegation zone halfway through the season. They recovered, finishing 14th and keeping alive their streak of never being relegated from the top flight. Now, they have their first Nigerian Cup in 35 years in 2018 stunning Kano Pillars, by coming back from a 3-0 deficit to win the trophy on penalties. Ajani Ibrahim scored on a diving header two minutes into stoppage time to tie the game 3-3; Rangers played in the final five times from 1987 to 2007, never winning once. Against this backdrop, the stakeholders must go to the round table and jaw-jaw on the way forward if the victory means anything to them, rather than relaxing and believing that it is just the management burden. Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu is the traditional home of Rangers, does it befit an arena for international football that is one question that must be addressed – the stadium facilities are they still up-to-date? What about the players, do Rangers have the quality that can stand out in international tournaments, players that can redeem the eroding image of Nigeria presently in club football? What about the financial muscle of the club – will the state be willing to cough out good money that can match the spending powers of good league nations’ club as it is presently the case in North Africa, South Africa and some parts of East and Central Africa countries? Gbenga Ogunbote, Rangers coach interestingly has a very good track record in club management; he has taken Sunshine stars of Akure to the semi-finals of the CAF Champions Cup. While in Enyimba, he also showed class and gave them the ticket to the CAF Confederations Cup, where Enyimba only made it to the semi-finals. After the Pillars defeat he said, “It was a great game for the neutral. We thought we did enough with that late goal.” But, he will not achieve anything at the continental level without finance; there will be no magic he can perform if the resources are not there to work with. Emmanuel Jonathan, a Special Assistant to the Governor of Enugu State on New Media Matters going memory lane said that Rangers was founded in 1970 after the Nigerian Civil war and has maintained its position as the oldest football team in Nigeria that has never gone on relegation since its inception. Founded, financed and supervised by the Enugu State Government, the club has remained firm in making the Igbos proud. Founded with the spirit of “Ndi Igbo”, the Football Club is bound by a common philosophy; a culture and an attitude well characterized with “never say die “. Jonathan reminisced that it was indeed a good tiding for Rangers who had gotten to five finals of the Federation Cup in the past administrations of the state without clinching the cup, but within the period of Governor Ugwuanyi’s administration, the case is different as the club in 2016 broke a 32-year-old jinx by winning the NPFL in 2016 and also miraculously winning the 2018 Federation Cup. When the chips are down will Jonathan avail himself to let the Governor do the needful even as the his administration seem to have become good omen for Rangers local successes; but under his administration Rangers have staged several protests and strikes over nonpayment of salaries and allowances. It is of note that poor funding has been the bane of Nigerian clubs and that was witnessed in their 2016/2017 and 2018 continental performances that led to the dropping of Nigeria slot from four to just two. Sadly, Enyimba that could have lifted the slot once again for Nigeria could not reach the final of the Confederations Cup – it implies Rangers performance and Lobi in the CAF Champions will be key to Nigeria’s rating at the African level. Incidentally, Ex-Rangers Supporters in diaspora have before the Federation Cup final shown some supports with promises over time and are still there; one believes they will not renege on their supports. Anambra State among the five South Eastern States is one that has not hidden it support for Rangers from the administration of Peter Obi and with particular reference to the present Governor Willy Obiano. Obiano rolled out 20 buses to convey fans to Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba, capital of Delta State for the epic final – the club will definitely be counting on him for support which will go beyond calling on fans to fill the stadium. The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) also must join in the battle to ensure Rangers success without bias; Rangers will be representing Nigeria and not just Enugu State. The slide in Nigeria’s continental progress presently is even more shame to the apex football body as it tells on its ability to run the game. Otherwise, the experience from Rangers recent CAF Champions and Confederations Cup is still a sad tale to recall – a situation where players could not be fed by the club before an away game – outside Nigeria was not a good advertisement. In retrospect, Rangers as Nigeria’s champions had crashed out of the CAF Champions at the qualifying stage and dropped CAF Confederations Cup of the 2017 and also pathetically crashed out. The Flying Antelopes lost 3-0 (5-2 on aggregate) to Zesco United of Zambia in Ndola. The thrilling match, which was televised live, was staged at the Levy Mwanawasa Stadium on a Saturday, with Enugu Rangers arriving on the same day – so sad! Enugu Rangers players had staged a sit in back home – refusing to board a plane to Ndola as they demanded their owed bonuses. If somebody is listening, this is a script that must not be rewritten this time around. Ugwuanyi must not allow this to happen again under his watch even as the victory which took a very dramatic and miraculous manner according to his media aid has been taken a spiritual realm of God being with him in all things – it must be replicated on the lives of the players and the officials to bring more glories.