A head the 2019 general elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said last Monday that it has removed the names of 300,000 voters from the voter register. This is as it also announced that it would publish the voter register across the 120,000 polling units across the nation. Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC Chairman, who announcement of the delisting of the 300,000 voters, while receiving the ECOWAS pre-election fact-finding team in Abuja, no doubt jolted several Nigerians. This is because Nigerians had been going through harrowing experiences to get themselves registered, while a lot of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) are yet to be collected. Ironically, a lot of people till date have not been finding it easy to collect the all-important voting identity. This is as there had been allegations that the ruling party had been collecting and cloning people’s PVCs in return of money. Yakubu, in making the announcement last Monday, urged members of the public to assist the commission in purging the register of ineligible voters such as illegal aliens and underage voters. He said: “Between November 6 and November 12, we shall display the register of voters nationwide for claims and objections.” The INEC boss said the removal of the 300,000 names was to purge the voter register of some irregular registrations. Yakubu added, “For the registered voters, we have been cleaning up on our own with the help of the Automatic Fingerprint Identification System. As of last week before I travelled, I was told that over 300,000 names were dropped after the fingerprint system was used. “But, cleaning up the register is not just the responsibility of the commission, but the responsibility of every Nigerian and that is why the law says we should display the register for claims and objections, which will be done between November 6 and 12 in the 120,000 polling units nationwide. “And I will like to seize this opportunity to appeal to citizens to check when we display the register so that they can draw the attention of the commission to the prevalence of any ineligible persons so that we can further clean up the register.” The INEC boss, however, said the commission would not alter its election timetable, adding that the 2019 general elections were the best planned elections. Yakubu added, “We will conduct elections into 1,558 constituencies in 2019 made up of one Presidential constituency, 109 senatorial districts, 360 federal constituencies, 29 governorship elections, 991 state constituencies and 68 constituencies for the FCT for the area councils, the chairmen and councillors making a total of 1, 558 constituencies.” He said out of the 91 political parties, 88 were fielding candidates for the elections. The INEC boss said by November 9, the commission would publish the number of governorship and House of Assembly candidates. PDP Reacts Prince Uche Secondus, the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),  in a quick reaction, asked voters to troop out to their various polling booths to check their names as INEC begins the display of voters register at all polling units across the nation today. Secondus said that the desire to rescue Nigeria from the All Progressives Congress government would be meaningless if everything pertaining to voting was not sorted out ahead. Mr. Ike Abonyi, the media adviser of the PDP helmsman, in a statement, quoted Secondus as saying that the essence of the four-day display as stipulated by the Electoral Act “is to ensure that no voter is disenfranchised and this is the first step to avoid it.” He said, “Confirming the details ahead of the election is a mechanism put in place to reduce attempts by the electoral umpires to manipulate the system by saying that names of voters are not available. “By cross-checking, the voters wittingly would have begun the battle to frustrate rigging of the election. Secondus urged voters who notice issues with their particulars to cry out immediately by going to the electoral centres to complain for rectification. He alleged that part of the “rigging strategy of the APC working in agreement with some INEC staff is to doctor voter lists in the opponent’s strongholds to reduce their electoral advantage.” INEC Should Explain How The 300,000 Names Came About – Lecturer Dr Chester Agidi Aibangbe, a Mass Communication Lecturer in one of the nation’s Polytechnics, has reacted to INEC’s recent declaration that it has removed over 300,000 names from its voter register and the PDP’s response that the action is a plot to rig the election in favour of APC. The lecturer wondred why it has been difficult for the PDP to believe what ever the electoral umpire says. He said: “For God sake while can’t the opposition party believe INEC for once. Must they react to every action of INEC or the party in power? “When I heard the news, I gave INEC kudos. I said the action shows that the INEC is up to its responsibility because people die every day and it is normal for INEC to be updating the voter register from time to time. “If INEC removes or deletes 300,000 names out of the over 70 million registered voters from the voter register across the country, what offence has INEC committed?  I would have supported the opposition party if INEC had told the nation that it had removed or deleted over two million names from the voter register because such figures could make a difference in an election results. But, 300,000 is too small of a number to change anything. “However, I will want INEC to explain in detail how the 300,000 names came about, whether it was from multiple registration or through death, so that the minds of the opposition can be put at rest. “I know more names will be removed from the voter register before next year’s general elections because the voter register has not been displayed for claims and objections. “I will advise the opposition to exercise restrain pending when INEC will announce the final figures of deleted voters names from the register and that would be after the final display of the register. “I am not also blaming the opposition for raising such an alarm because they have to be proactive and they don’t want to be taken unawares. It is normal, it is all politics and God will see Nigerians through next year’s general elections.” INEC’s Action Is Surprising, Suspicious – Computer Expert Isong Eteh, a computer technologist, in his reaction, said: “It is surprising and suspicious hearing the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it has removed over 300, 000 names from its voter register with the level of distrust the electoral umpire has created in the minds of Nigerian voters and that may as well be the reason why the PDP has concluded that it is a plot to rig the election in favour of the ruling APC. “I really don’t know why it has to be so. But, in all honesty, I think it will do us good in saving us from national and global embarrassments if INEC convincingly explains to Nigerians why it acted so, because, they owe Nigerians explanations  on whatever they do. “INEC is being funded with Nigerians’ money and as such they should explain to us why taking such sensitive action in such critical time as now if they want Nigerians to believe in whatever they will be doing in 2019. To be honest, Nigerians, including me, are fast losing confidence in INEC. That is the truth.” Let PDP Substantiate Its Allegation – ADP Chieftain Chief Francis Nwaobiara Ekewuba, a chieftain of the African Democratic Party (ADP), in his reaction stated: “The nation is passing through difficult times and I do not think that it is proper for anybody to make utterances that will further overheat the polity. “The greatest expectation among Nigerians for now is a hitch-free general election in 2019. If the PDP is saying that the removal of 300,000 names from the voter register by INEC is a plot to rig the election in favour of APC, let them (PDP) substantiate this with scientific, cogent verifiable facts. “Again, if INEC has an ulterior motive, why is it that other political parties have not raised the same alarm which the PDP has raised” Or, are they saying that the 2019 election is just a battle between them and the APC? “Let us not give a dog a bad name just to hang it. We should all give INEC the necessary support and prayer for it to conduct a transparent election that will be acceptable to all.” Let PDP challenge INEC’s Action In Court – Activist Nzeh Cleopas Eberechi Onukwubiri, is the secretary, Mass Action Joint Alliance (MAJA) in the Owerri North Council Area of Imo Sate. On the removal of the names from the INEC register, he asked: “Who are the very 300,000 names INEC says it has removed from its voter register? “Are the voters those who have sympathy for PDP, or those of other political parties? Are the 300,000 names those who will definitely vote against the PDP? “The PDP should answer these questions, otherwise, I want to believe that they are crying wolf where none exists. “INEC has the statutory responsibility to conduct election for this country. So, the commission must have reasons for the action it has taken. If the PDP is apprehensive that it is a plot to favour the APC in the forth-coming polls.”