John Omachonu Presidential contest in Nigeria, in the almost two decades of our return to democratic practice, has always remained a two-legged horse race between the incumbent and a candidate from the major opposition party. In 2019, the story is not different as the contest is likely going to be between the incumbent; Muhammadu Buhari of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC and the major opposition party’s candidate, Atiku Abubakar of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP. While both of these top contenders have individually rolled out their action plans, many political analysts and commentators are picking holes in these proposed plans with severally, lambasting the APC candidate, describing his tenure as fraught with ineptitude, corruption and integrity issues, among others. The biggest problem, some of the analysts see in the next level document is the fact that it is still non-committal on issues of refineries, subsidy removal or the nature of the market economy. Similarly, they argue that Nigerians would like to know who Atiku is planning to sell the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to, following his avowed commitment to partial privatisation of NNPC. The curiosity is borne out of the chequred experience of Nigerians on the previous exercise, for which they are allegations of direct sales to the cronies of those in leadership then. Sunday INDEPENDENT spoke with some public commentators and political analysts to get their views on the issues being raised in various fora. Bismarck Rewane,chief executive of Financial Derivative, says Atiku, must tell Nigerians, who he is planning to sell the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to. Rewane said the idea is a noble one, but Atiku must tell Nigerians who he plans to sell to, else he may plunge the country into chronic capitalism. “I agree that he (Atiku) should privatise, but selling to who?” Rewane said in his response to a question by Channels TV ON Business Morning. “You must not just say you are going to sell, you must tell us how, and to who? “If you are going to have a voucher system like they have in India, where everybody in the public will have a voucher, then you can sell it. “It becomes rather than government owned, it becomes Nigerian privately-owned, and part of it you want to internationalise like what Saudi Arabia is doing. “But you see, it is a noble idea, but it stops short of the specifics, tell us who and who, and how you are going to ensure that it is not sold to your own cronies. “One of the big risks of privatisation is the Russian model, where you have chronic capitalism. If you have businessmen, who are in government like Donald Trump, you want to make sure that both the government and the people are protected from conflicts of interest.” Speaking further, he said, he likes what Buhari is saying about his plans, but the presidential candidates need to debate. He said the biggest problem he sees in the next level document is that it has not come out to say ‘we would sell those refineries’, remove subsidies, so we have a free market economy. He added that neither the Atiku nor the Muhammadu Buhari programme speaks on how to increase Nigeria’s labour productivity, considering the population growth. Aminu Saleh, a public affairs commentator described the happenings in the nation’s political space as very unfortunate, especially with ruling government’s inability to live up to its electoral campaign promises but has instead, resorted to propaganda; the same with which it swish-swashed its way into office. According to Saleh, under the APC, the situation has nosed-dived with poverty being the common man’s companion while insecurity has assumed a frightening dimension. “Buhari has no positive and implementable plans to salvage the issues and problems his administration has further plunged the country into”. Speaking on the comments attributed to Atiku, he said that in the true sense of it, it is high time the FG disengaged itself from involving in the management of some of these national assets and allow for genuine private investors to manage them. “The level of sleaze and malfeasance in the NNPC is not only mindboggling but worrisome to the sane minds. “If the next administration can effectively and genuinely address some of the observations so far raised in their action plan, it will be uhuru for the country and her people”, Saleh stressed. Usman Dan’Azunmi, a politician and an analyst, believes that the present administration has not provided true leadership in the real sense of it. Just like you have rightly raised, Buhari has failed to tell us how he intends to tackle the vexed issues of subsidies, refineries and alleged pervasive corruption, among others but has continued to spin tales of fighting corruption in the country, he stated. While the opposition candidate is dishing out factuals, which to every sane mind, speaks volumes of its preparedness to confront many of the observed lapses head-on but what are we given as its own policy plans; the same web tale they spun years ago and have continued to inundate the public with dirty propaganda aimed at again, misleading many gullible souls.