Lagos – The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo yesterday said that the present administration remains fully committed to the passage of the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB), saying the executive is working closely with the National Assembly to ensure its timely passage. Osinbajo, who was represented by Dr Ibe Kachikwu, Minister of State Petroleum Resources gave the assurance during his keynote address at the 18th international HSE Biennial conference, organised by the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) in Lagos. Besides, the Senate President, Buola Saraki, who was represented at the occasion by Senator Omotayo Alasoadura, confirmed that the upper legislature has taken notes of the grey areas of the earlier bill which was rejected by the President Muhammadu Buhari. The Vice President said that no discussion about the future of the oil and gas can be divorced from the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), which represents the most ambitious and comprehensive reform in decades of the oil and gas industry in Nigeria. He said that while there have been varied reactions to Mr President’s recent decision to return the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) to the National Assembly for slight amendments. Osinbajo said that resolving the security challenge in the Niger Delta remains on the front burner for this administration as we seek to create a peaceful business climate that will attract investors and bring massive development to the oil producing communities. He said that government is fully sensitive to the genuine agitations of the host communities for greater participation in, and control of oil and gas resources, the law and order element to the problem has to be tackled headlong to allow for a peaceful business environment. “The proposals in the host community bill currently undergoing review represent a paradigm shift in the relationship between oil and gas operators and their host communities. And the government in collaboration with state government and other stakeholders is fully committed to comprehensive reforms that empower the communities and move them from stakeholders to actual shareholders and partners in the oil and gas business. “This will result in the formulation of a comprehensive livelihood strategy and development plan for the Niger Delta to complement the efforts of the various interventions by the Federal Government though the Niger Delta Ministry (NDDC) and the amnesty program. “The Federal Government’s commitment to the ease of doing business was reflected in the Executive Order 1 signed on May 18, 2017. “The order had five main planks including: Transparency; Default Approvals; One Government; Port Operations and Entry Experience of travellers and visitors. As the mainstay of the Nigerian Economy, there is a dire need for ease of doing business in the oil and gas sector. “The current regime of multiple and sometimes conflicting regulators/regulations is a serious drawback on the ease of doing business in the petroleum industry. “While we continue to seek to resolve these conflicts using the instrument of law, I wish to remind the various agencies and ministries of their primary responsibility to promote efficient service delivery and serve as the engine room for driving the collective policy of “one government”. “I, therefore enjoin all the conflicting agencies to close ranks, finetune and improve cooperation and document their resolutions in binding MOUs that will ease the burden of over-regulation of the oil and gas sector,’’ he said. Osinbajo said: I am also pleased to announce to this gathering of Environmental experts that the government has fully commenced the clean-up of impacted oil spill sites in the Niger Delta.