Ado-Ekiti – The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Thursday stormed Ado-Ekiti and sealed off thirteen properties allegedly linked to Ayo Fayose, former governor of Ekiti State. The houses include a petrol station allegedly built on a piece of land belonging to the Ahammadiyya Muslim Jamaat at the popular Atikankan area of Ado-Ekiti. The anti-graft body’s sign on the palatial mansion painted in white colour reads: “Order from EFCC: This structure is under investigation, keep off”. Another affected property is located at Fajuyi Park, beside the old Mr. Biggs in Ado Ekiti, which was specifically designed as civic centre for event management business. Others are a two-storey building housing a bank at Okesa and the house which accommodates the radio station, Peoples Voice 104.1 FM, allegedly owned by the governor, and two houses located at GRA, all in Ado-Ekiti. The closure came barely one month after the state Ministry of Urban and Physical Planning sealed off a house allegedly linked to Fayose at GRA in the state capital. The EFCC operatives were said to have stormed the building about 10.35a.m to paste the restriction order. The EFCC and Fayose have had a running battle over the claim that the ex-governor benefitted from the sum of N2.99 billion from the arms fund allotted to the Office of the former National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki. Fayose was accused of benefitting from the huge amount to finance his re-election for the governorship seat in 2014. This led to the freezing of his accounts in Zenith Bank before being unfrozen by the court of law. In his official reaction, Fayose in a statement signed by his media aide, Lere Olayinka, said he had informed the public ahead of the EFCC’s usual blackmail and media trial. He said: “Just been informed that operatives of the EFCC in collaboration with the APC government in Ekiti are going about sealing houses of innocent people in the state, under the guise that the houses are linked to me. “This is another wild goose chase and the usual media campaign against my person. “It is only in our country that an anti-corruption agency will first go about sealing houses before determining the ownership, which can be done so easily by visiting relevant agencies. “I am, therefore, informing the public ahead of their usual blackmail and media trial. “None of the properties in question is owned by me and the records are there for anyone that is interested to see. “The EFCC is advised to stop going about looking for ways to malign my person just because of their hatred as a result of my uncompromising stands on national issues. “Even if the commission is being pressured from ‘above’ to persecute Fayose at all cost, it should at least do its job diligently to save itself from persistent embarrassment.”