Victor Otuya/Wilson Macaulay Warri – The Nigerian Democratic Evolution (NDE), a socio-political movement with a vision to assist in enthroning a stable democratic system in Nigeria, has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct free and credible election in Nigeria come in 2019. The Delta State coordinator of NDE, Francis Obule, who made this call during their elaborate meeting in Effurun, Delta State on Wednesday promised that the association would create more awareness and sensitize the electorate to vote and promote peace before and after the 2019 general elections. Obule said that INEC should not compromise in its duty but do the proper thing by conducting free and fair elections where a true winner emerges at the polls. He noted that now that parties have submitted their candidates’ list for various elective political positions, Nigerians are waiting for INEC to conduct credible elections win for the best candidate to emerge winner. Obule said that power belongs to the people and Nigerians are ready to vote and enthrone a credible leader but many are doubting whether INEC may not be influenced by the ruling APC. Obule urged INEC to emulate the Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, who recently conducted free and credible presidential primary election for the PDP in Port Harcourt. According to him “INEC should make sure that come 2019 everybody with voters card is allowed to cast his or her vote. Let our votes count. INEC should make sure due process is followed and a winner should be declared and given his mandate.” He also appealed to the loser to accept defect and congratulate the winner in the spirit of democracy like what happened in 2015 when the incumbent president congratulated the current president and relinquish power in 2015. Obule said that they are encouraging voters to get their PVCs ready so that they could vote the candidates of their choice, stressing that “you need the PVC to make the change and you also need the PVC to vote out a government that failed to fulfill its promise to the people and vote in government you can trust. “All we need is a president that can give us three square meals a day. All we need is a man that can make things work. We need a man that can render services to the people to make things better and alleviate poverty. NDE is working for the interest of all Nigerians. We are working to see that Nigeria becomes greater than the way it is now. We need a president that can turn the economy round for better whereby Nigeria will record growth and development,” he added. Also speaking at the occasion, the national coordinator, Ebipade Agbor, said that INEC should know that countries and international organizations are watching how INEC would conduct the 2019 general elections, adding that the rules and regulations guiding election must be implemented and obeyed by all. According to him, “There should be no manipulation of election results, there should be free and fair election in 2019. Nigerians should be free to come out and cast their votes to exercise their civic responsibility. INEC should conduct free and fair election for President, National Assembly, Governorship position and state house of assembly election should not be rigged in favour of any party or candidate,” he warned.