Lagos – After missing the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations in Equatorial Guinea and Gabon, Nigerians were skeptical in setting a target for the Super Eagles going into the 2013 edition in South Africa. The positions of most Nigerians were that the team should put up a good showing at the championship and must not necessarily win it. For example, heading into that 2013 edition, Emmanuel Babayaro, the team’s former goalkeeper, believed that Nigeria would do well but ruled out favourite’s tag of emerging champions due to what he called reorganization of the team. “Well, technically speaking I don’t think we are up to speed in that regard just coming out from missing the last edition; I think we will do well in the Africa Nations Cup; will we go far? Yes, I know based on our pedigree and who we are. “But will we win the tournament? I have my doubt on that .On a scale of 1-10, I will give us 7 to win, there is still something left out there. I think technically we are not there yet. Don’t also forget that after missing the last edition, a lot of reorganization has gone down with the team.” But at the end of the competition, the Super Eagles surpassed all expectations to win Nigeria’s third continental title after defeating Burkina Faso 1-0 courtesy of Sunday Mba’s first half strike. But that victory marked the last time Nigeria had participated in the Cup of Nation in the last four years. In fact, in the last four editions of the competition, starting from 2012, Nigeria participated in only one edition, which was that triumphant 2013 edition. Similarly, after missing out on the 2015 and 2017 editions in Equatorial Guinea and Gabon respectively, Nigerians may understandably be pessimistic of the chances of the country in Cameroon next year, more so with countries like Egypt, Mali and Senegal, as well as Algeria and Tunisia heading to the event. But just like the Stephen Keshi-tutoured side of 2013, a whole lot will at the same time be expected from the former champions with the renewed vigor and motivation in the team. The Super Eagles now, unlike the class of 2013, have virtually everything going for them, with a huge support from the NFF and locker room understanding unheard of in the team now commonplace among the players. There is a new optimism among the players, who have enjoyed cordial relationship with the NFF. To Victor Ikpeba, former forward of the team, the Super Eagles will be hard to beat by the time the competition gets underway in the summer of 2019. “If we get our transition right, we will be unbeatable in Cameroon We have to do well in Cameroon after missing out on two editions. We will be a threat in Cameroon with the qualities we have, but we must be ready.” Ikpeba noted that with some of the country’s best players like Mikel Obi and Odion Ighalo still to join the team before the competition, it is expected that the Super Eagles would be well fortified ahead of the Cup of Nations. According to Segun Odegbami, celebration over the qualification should be over by now while the coaching crew and the Nigeria Football Federation should start the process of preparing the players well ahead of the onerous challenge. “I expect them to know that the real job has just begun because we have gone beyond the level of mere participation. NFF should demand a comprehensive plan of action from the coaches and if we get it right now, certainly we can challenge for the cup next year,” he said. Adegboye Onigbinde toed the same line, asking that the euphoria that greeted the qualification should be now be replaced by quality preparations. “It is good that we qualify quite early. It has given us the chance to plan ahead and I want to say that the technical crew should start plans immediately if we must get it right before the competition starts proper.” Talking about adequate preparations, it is high time the coach worked on the team’s midfield. That department has been identified as the weakest link in the three-time African champions. Speaking moments after Uganda held Nigeria to a goalless draw in Asaba on Tuesday, Ikpeba said that there was a poor linkage between the midfield and the attack, urging the coach to work on the area, after which, Super Eagles would be unbeatable in Cameroon next year. “The transition of this team from the midfield to the attack remains the weakest link of the team. We are not quick enough,” he said. According to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT research, the bulk of the blames for why Odion Ighalo was finding it difficult to score for the national team was due to poor linkage between the midfield and the attack. For instance, in recent matches the team has played, Nigerian midfielders are muscled out by their opponents. When South Africa defeated Nigeria 2-0 in Uyo in June last year, the midfield trio of Ogenyi Onazi, Wilfred Ndidi and Oghenekaro Etebo showed obvious lack of understanding among themselves, which allowed the visitors to dominate proceedings in that vital area, leading to the defeat. When Nigeria played England at Wembley in one of the tune up matches before the World Cup, the Super Eagles struggled in the first half because the midfield did not click. The midfield trio of Mikel, Onazi and Joel Obi could not contain the England midfield. Due to their struggle, the forwards were starved of any meaningful supplies while the defence was under constant pressure as a result of lack of protection. Coach Rohr must use the remaining months before the Cup of Nations to unearth the right combo and balance in the Eagles’ middle. The emphasis must be on players, who will hold up play, open up space upfront and ensure that the strikers will not lack constant supply. This is the position of Joseph Dosu while he was celebrating Nigeria’s qualification for the biannual championship. “We should look at the players that will form a link between the defenders and the forwards. Such players must be ones that are capable of creating spaces in the middle and deny opponents balls and supply same to the strikers…” In Nigeria’s second group game at the last World Cup, Etebo played with Mikel and Ndidi in the middle and they contained their opponents. But analysts are of the view that the best combo for the team at the middle remained the captain, Ndidi and Onazi, while Samuel Kalu and Ahmed Musa will run the flanks. While this is still a postulation, there is a lot of time for the coach to find the right balance in the team’s middle. In the rear, while the central defensive combo of William Troost-Ekong and Leon Balongun has proven dependable, Rohr must unearth quality substitutes for the duo. This position is premised on the fact that several times either one or both of them cupped injury, it was alwaysdifficult finding the right balance in that position. Nothing stops the coach from trying out players such as Enyimba’s Ikuwem Utin, who was adjudged one of the best left backs in the 2018 CAF Confederation Cup. Speaking on the player after eliminating Enyimba, coach of Raja Casablanca, Juan Carlos Garrido, said of Utin: “Their defender, Utin, is very hard working and dutiful. He is a player for the future.” Meanwhile, some commentators, who spoke on the chances of the Super Eagles in Cameroon, have urged the technical crew to make certain positions open for grabs. To them, the goalkeeping department, for example, should be made competitive. Francis Uzoho, the Super Eagles current first choice, has severally shown nerve and analysts believe his decisions and timing in some vital situations remain suspect.  The NFF should ensure a clear and comprehensive training programme for the team ahead of the competition. Just like the NFF did during the World Cup where the entitlements of players and coaches were mapped out even before, it is imperative that the same thing is done ahead of the Cup of Nations.