Lagos – The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), yesterday said it would not compromise Health, Safety and Environment standards in the nation’s oil and gas industry in line with international safety requirements. The agency also said it would not leave any stone unturned to ensure that operators in the industry comply with set rules with a view to minimising inherent risks as well as evolve standards in the sector that can stand the test of time. Besides, the agency said it is considering stringent actions against the indiscriminate citing of gas stations in the residential vicinity and the activities of tanker drivers in the country. Dr. Musa Zagi, the Deputy Director, Health, Safety and Environment, Department of Petroleum Resources, disclosed this in Lagos at a pre-event press conference of the agency’HSE billed to hold in Lagos next week. The theme of the event is :’’Driving Sustainability in the Oil and Gas Industry through Improved Stakeholders’ Environmental Stewardship He explained that the conference serves to engender HSE awareness amongst stakeholders in the industry and still remains the biggest forum that brings HSE experts from both within and outside the country to share new ideas and experiences on HSE issues. Zagi, who doubles as the conference Organising Committee Chairman, disclosed stated that the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, will launch three policy documents on regulatory safety regulatory issues. “The policy documents will focus on ‘Environmental Guidelines and Standards for the Petroleum Industry in Nigeria (EGASPIN) 2018, Regulatory Guidance for the Management of NORM in the Petroleum. Industry: Abandonment, Decommissioning and Decontamination of Oil and Gas Installations and Occupational Health Guidelines & Standards for the Petroleum Industry in Nigeria”. He said the HSE conference will provide a platform for HSE professionals in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry and other interested participants (local and foreign) to meet and share experiences (local and foreign) relating to HSE issues arising from exploration & production, downstream and other related activities. “The aim is to promote and entrench a safe and environmentally sustainable oil and gas industry in Nigeria. The 18th edition of the International HSE Biennial Conference on the Oil and Gas Industry in Nigeria has been scheduled to hold from November 26 – 28, 2018 with the theme: “Driving Sustainability in the Oil and Gas Industry through Improved Stakeholders’ Environmental Stewardship.” Assessing the import of the 39 year old confab, Zagi said the previous conferences have led to several achievements which includes: Development of the Environmental Guidelines and Standards for the Petroleum Industry in Nigeria (EGASPIN), the emergence of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency and the subsequent establishment of the State Environmental Protection Agencies, the creation of the Nigerian Environmental Society (NES), establishment of the Environmental Sanitation Day, though it is no longer held in Lagos but still be held in some parts of the Country every last or first Saturday of the month. According to him, other benefits of the confab includes: establishment of the Ecological Fund which later formed the basis for the conceptualisation and establishment of the Derivation Fund for the Oil Producing States, and establishment and sustenance of the Health, Safety and Environment Management Systems by operators in the industry.