Budding Nigerian entertainment PR, brand manager and businessman, born Miracle Kelechi Chike but known in the entertainment industry as Yung Miraboi Mark has explained what motivates him as an entertainer while explaining to our reporter in chat how he left a relationship to focus more on his career. However, he admits he loves women so such and they have remained the source of inspiration. “Most of my friends wanted me to be a player (cheat) while some thought I was gay but I never explained what I have been through with girls. In my experience with women I have come to realise that money is all that matters to them. If you don’t have money you don’t matter much to them. But once you have money the world is in your pocket. I have come to know girls are all the same. That is why I have decided to make money first. I know I’m going be a father someday so I once told myself if women it’s all about money then it’s compulsory I have to make the money in this life. I challenge myself and it works for me but I came to know that money is not everything but my biggest motivation comes from them. They are the fire behind my passion to succeed” he said. Speaking further, Yung Miraboi Mark, who once accused singer, Zoro and his management of gypping him out of a deal said: “I can never be a cheater in my life and I’m ever ready to learn from anyone. Following the footsteps of my father I chose studying business management but I got influenced by friends who introduced me to the entertainment business. With the right connections and my good works I got influenced in becoming a PR and a business manager through the help of some of the Nigerian entertainment successful publicists like Emmanuel Nde, Kevin Eze, Dami Adenuga, HG2 Filmworks who are also my biggest motivators in the Nigerian entertainment industry. ” Continuing, he listed some of the people he had worked with in the industry, asserting that he had come too far to have any interest in schooling right now. “Moving forward to the entertainment industry, I had my first opportunity working with the the Nigerian musician, Sean Tizzle under the management of 715 Media Leakers. There, I got a lot of connections and worked with people like DJ Kaywise, DJ Bally, Cynthia Morgan, Small Doctor, HKN Music, AJE Filmworks, KS1 Malaika and more. To be sincere with you I cannot find schooling as interesting as this. I focus more on entertainment than my school. The Abia State-born aspiring entertainment artiste manager and businessman has dropped out of school, University of Portharcourt where he was studying marketting and hoping to continue at a university in South Africa at a convenient time. Yung Miraboi Mark was nominated at the Tush Award 2017 as Best Student Brand of the year. He has also been involved in the progress of some entertainment celebrities in Nigeria.