ASABA – AMIDST pomp and pageantry former President Chief Olusegun Obasanjo commissioned the 23,000 capacity Stephen Keshi Stadium ahead of the international friendly match between Nigeria and Uganda in Asaba, Delta State. Obasanjo, who was in Asaba, on a two-day state working visit where he commissioned some projects, including the Stephen Keshi Stadium built by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa-led government, observed that with the stadium, Delta State would continue with its winning streaks in sporting activities. The Stadium which the former President laid its foundation stone 16 years will host its first FIFA approved international friendly in Asaba today. Apparently excited with the quality of projects seen, the former President danced to the admiration of large spectators including the Asaba traditional council of chiefs who turned out for the commissioning exercise. While commending Governor Okowa for constructing such an edifice, he said that the stadium would also, provide avenue for people to exercise, saying, “whoever you are, whatever age you are, you must exercise, you must be fit.” He observed that the stadium would boost the economy of the state and urged Governor Okowa to add hostel facilities in the stadium for people to live in the stadium and have opportunities of training round the clock to enable them become future world champions. “Everybody needs a sound body. It is important to exercise no matter the age, position, society. Sports tourism promotes the economy and makes it strong too. The stadium should not only be for exercise but to discover the young ones to be the best by catching them young,” Obasanjo said. “We must catch them young, we have the facilities, we have to recruit those who will win, train them from young age,” he said, adding, “build a hostel where you will put people that you will train day and night and they will be going to school from the stadium and in whatever sports, Delta State will be the best.” Earlier, Governor Okowa has lamented the insinuation in some quarters that the stadium was a financial waste, reminding them that lots of business men benefitted during the Senior African Athletics championships and the Federation Cup final between Enugu Rangers and Kano Pillars. Other projects he commissioned include the dualised old Lagos/Asaba Road in Agbor, the dualised Owa-Eke/Owa-Alero road in Ika North East Local Government Area.