Otunba Adejare Rewane Adegbenro, an entrepreneur, in this interview with selected journalists speaks on the need for old people to allow the vibrant younger people to come up and get involve in governance. He also speaks on the need for the country to embrace parliamentary system of government as presidential system brought corruption and all vices on Nigeria. Seyi Taiwo-Oguntuase was there. Excerpts: What is your assessment on the state of the nation? I must confess that it has not been easy at all the way we see things since this government came to office. They try to do their best, but their best has not been enough because there is always room for improvement. In fact, one aspect that is getting everybody worried presently is the volume of lives that we have lost in this country in last three and a half years which is too enormous. Let us remember that President Buhari is just a single person. So, it is our collective responsibility to rally round him and his administration to help him succeed in all his efforts to make Nigeria better for all and sundry. Government should come out with more bold plans to stem these killings especially in the north. Then, the poverty aspect of it, many Nigerians are suffering now. And the government is doing their very best to see that the down trodden people are empowered with all sort of empowerment schemes and programmes and all that. Buhari should be commended for his administration’s efforts on agriculture which he is bringing back as the mainstay of our economy. We often blame the past administrations for our present woes. But I don’t want us to continue to engage in this buck passing and blaming game. When a government gets into office, they know what they want to do before getting into office. You just have to get down and do what you are around to do in office. If past administrations were blamed for the mess and they have accepted their faults, what else are we expecting from them? So, we should stop the blaming game and settle down to perform as expected. More importantly, we have not been able to tackle the education problems of our children. That is another area that constitutes problem for the country. When Chief Obafemi Awolowo was campaigning, I read his last campaign in the paper where he said that, those who make education of their children impossible would suffer for it sooner or later. And we are now realising it. And majority of those involved in killings and maiming are not knowledgeable, they are not educated, they take drugs. Sadly, majority of them are being sponsored by politicians. Majority of them, sadly are also not from this country. They are likely imported to destabilise this country and everybody is looking. What do you think is the solution to all these? I believe that it is the duty of the government to make sure that all our borders are secured. Let the government close the borders for about six months or so and see what would happen. Our borders are porous and that is why you see the influx of nationals of neighbouring countries like Niger Republic, Chad, Benin Republic and so on into Nigeria unchecked. Strangers just besiege Nigeria because of the impression that we are big with abundant resources to go round. They come here to do all sort of things. They may take over this country if given the opportunity to do so. So it is left to our government to look inward and see what exactly we can do to stop all this nonsense. Don’t you think that recycling of the old people is affecting governance in this country? Well, what I will say is that it is high time we adopted the system whereby the youth with younger and versatile brains to come up to rule this country. Let us now encourage the younger ones, who now have better ideas about how a country should be governed to come up and take the leadership mantles of this country. We should do the right thing and stop our engagement in blame game. As far as I am concerned, I want the old people to allow the vibrant younger people to come up and get involved in governance. When we have 40 years old people, who are already professors in this country, what else do you want 80 years old people to be doing in political offices? Let this older politicians take the back seat and handle advisory roles behind the curtains. After all they have been there since Independent! What else do they want? They should step aside and allow the younger ones to take the centre stage. Are the youth in your own view ready for leadership roles? That is the challenge now. Are the youth ready for service or are they still dreaming of riding bigger cars and living in big houses in Lekki or Victoria Island in Lagos or choicest areas in Abuja, Kano, Port-Harcourt or Enugu? Anybody who wants to rule this country must have in mind service to the people and not because of affluence. When you want to serve, you should remember your people are suffering and you want them to see you as a disciplined person. Your life style should be the type that every person around you would want to emulate. You have to serve as a role model in your immediate environment. The youth coming to office should be ready to eradicate the idea of long convoy to safe cost. What baffles me is that all of us travel abroad and we see what is obtainable there. We go to Britain, we go to America and we go to France. Where did we see what we are practising in Nigeria? The money that should be used in taking care of the masses is being squandered on the retinue of cars and aides. Everybody here would have police escort. There was a day I was in the train in Britain with Mr. Cameron. He just sat quietly by the window reading newspapers. And that has not taken anything out of his image as the leader of that great country. Nobody stood up for him. People still put the blame on the presidential system of government we are operating. Do you agree with that? I am telling you honestly, if we are asked to go for referendum now, I will mobilise and campaign for people to go for parliamentary system of government. It is this presidential system that has brought corruption and all other vices over us. We are wasting too much money and resources on the presidential system. We are not ripe for it. Even Britain, as advanced as they are, still practise parliamentary system. It is only in America that presidential system is in operation because they have passed through many stages before the system came to stay. We have not got to that stage. There is no discipline here in Nigeria. So, how do you want us to continue this presidential system? There is no amount of policies and manifestoes that can reduce corruption under the system. This is simply because the money involved in the system would make it impossible to stop corruption. The best we can do is to let Nigerians come out and decide. If I were the president today, I will come out and say, I have done my best and my best is not enough the way I look at it, and so I suggest we go back to the parliamentary system. And if Nigerians so divide over it, then, let us go to referendum. It is then that Nigerians will decide for whoever is on the seat whether we want the parliamentary system or presidential system. Sadly, we missed that opportunity. Some people just woke up and foisted the presidential brand on us. There was no referendum to decide that.