The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) yesterday charged the business community in the country to adhere strictly to global best practices, saying that this was the only way to be competitive globally. Osita Aboloma, the Director-General, SON, explained that complying with standards would also make business operators smile to the bank, while boosting consumer confidence on locally produced goods. Aboloma, who made the call at the Lagos International Trade Fair, however assured local and foreign investors of the agency’s unrelenting support to protect their brands from fakers and counterfeiters. He also tasked Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) on standards, pointing out that the agency would continue to create the enabling environment for SMEs to thrive. The SON boss enumerated transparent service delivery through placement of information on website for easy access; electronic services for key activities such as the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP) for locally manufactured products; the off-shore Conformity Assessment Programme (SONCAP) for imported products and Management Systems’ Certification as some of the key achievements of SON in the ease of doing business programme. Represented by Kabir Yusuf, a Director in the Director-General’s office (Lagos), stated that the agency’s activities were aimed at the protection of lives and property, promoting access to local and foreign markets for made-in-Nigeria products through improved consumer confidence as well as value addition to business in general. Recall that the standards body recently restated its commitment to assisting prospective investors in Nigeria through standards and quality assurance services. According to him, the organisation was fully committed to the Ease-of-Doing-Business initiative in Nigeria, which he said promoted transparency, openness, information dissemination and fast turnaround time in service delivery. The SON helmsman said the organisation had in place, requisite standards, processes and procedures, including human and institutional capacity development, product and management systems certification, testing and metrology services as well as fast tracking of import procedures among others to assist prospective Investors in Nigeria. He assured the business community of the organisation’s continued fight against the circulation of substandard and life endangering products in Nigeria to protect genuine investments, compliant businesses as well as Consumers in the country. Aboloma stated that SON has provided attractive exemptions for the importation of raw materials and machinery for production under the offshore certification scheme for imports into Nigeria (SONCAP). Conversely according to him, the organisation undertakes a mandatory certification of all locally manufactured products for local consumption as well as export, to provide a level playing field for all.