ABUJA – Dr Ibrahim Lame, a former Minister of Police Affairs, has said the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and other defectors to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bauchi State have justifiable reasons for dumping the All Progressives Congress (APC). Lame, a former governorship Aspirants in Bauchi State said that for any committed party man whose desire is to improve the living conditions of his people, it was heart rendering to watch the serial abuse, neglect and inhuman treatment the people of the state were subjected under the present administration of Governor Mohammed A. Abubakar. Aside whatever grouse Dogara and others may have nursed at the federal level, Lame believes that Gov Abubakar has through his leadership style done enough damage to party loyalty in Bauchi, to warrant recent exodus. But leaving the APC, he said is not an option for him and some others he said nurtured the party to success in the state, vowing to ensure its salvation and an end to the culture of impunity, barefaced lies and insincerity allegedly perpetrated by the governor. According to him, it is inconceivable to run away from a house one toiled to build. “This is what we are saying; we built this party. We want to reclaim it, rebuild it; we want to salvage this party. We don’t want to leave our party. We believe that Dogora and others have a point in leaving the party. But for somebody like me, I’m the founding father of APC in Bauchi. There’s no way I can leave. We will fight it to finish. It is either he is removed as candidate or he will not be the next governor of the state”. The APC chieftain said the choice of fielding the incumbent governor for the 2019 and losing the state to the opposition as a result, is a choice now before  President Mohammadu Buhari and the party at the national level. Asked whether members of the party will vote another party if the APC insist on fielding the incumbent governor, the former Minister vowed that Abubakar will not return as governor of the state and urged the party to act now to remedy the situation by dropping him. He accused the governor who he said is a beneficiary of the magnanimity of people of the state of turning himself enemy of the people through his discriminatory policies. Lame Said: “I was the interim secretary of the merger that brought the APC to Bauchi and Captain Bala Jibrin was a member of the interim management of APC. We all went  to Bauchi and built the party on the principle of justice,  fairness and on the need to establish democracy in Bauchi. Unfortunately, intruders who were looking for platform came into the party and by default, the present governor of Bauchi State who was not part of the process of the merger and the registration of the party, emerged and became governor. “We contested that victory, some of us contested that up to the Supreme Court. We stayed in the party thinking we will get justice and quality leadership in Bauchi, unfortunately that has not been achieved.” He said that there were fundamental violations of the last congresses of the party and which was equally contested up to NWC and Appeals Committee; a matter he said is still in court.