It is well established that improvements in education are associated with long-term improvements in economic performance. It improves the overall skills and abilities of the workforce leading to greater productivity and contributes to economic growth. However, successive governments in the last 19 years are yet to put forward a lasting solution to the challenge that has bedevilled growth and development of the public tertiary education sector. In this piece, OYENIRAN APATA, OLUWASEGUN KOIKI and CHRIS EBONG take a look at the sector and report: The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) for several years had been engaging the federal government on the need to reinvent the values and standards that were the hallmark of Nigeria’s first generation institutions. Nigerians nationwide within the week have raised concern over the lingering and age-long crisis between the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) bordering on the need for the federal government to fully fulfil an agreement it reached with the union since 2009 to restore the lost glory of varsity education in the country. Again, precisely 24 days ago as promises and Memorandum of Action (MoA) signed with the Federal Government again fell short of implementation, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) declared an indefinite nationwide strike. The union announced the strike on Sunday, November 4, 2018, at the end of its National Executive Council meeting held at the Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State. According to the union, the persistent failure to fully meet the demands of the unions as it concerns infrastructure renewal, payment of earned allowances, pension scheme among other demands formed part of the grievances with the government. Prior to this time, the union had carried out sensitisation exercises in all the six geopolitical zones of the country. The three months sensitisation exercise, according to the union, was to call the attention of the government, stakeholders and public-spirited individuals to prevail on the government to resume talks and address the issues raised by the union by making the university community in Nigeria better. As government for the umpteenth time reneged on calls by the union for facility upgrade in public universities to acceptable world standards and payment of allowances due to lecturers is not heeded, several thousands of undergraduates’, postgraduates, and diploma students risked another long period of lockout out of the university community nationwide. The recent strike which marked the 14th time the union had called out it members within a period of 19 years, gave cause for increased concern and led to a likelihood of an upward review in tuition at the 43 federal and 47 state universities. It would be recalled that On September 18, 2017 a conciliation held at the instance of the Minister of Labour and Employment with the leadership of ASUU and representatives of the Federal Ministry of Education, Budget Office of the Federation (BOF), National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission (NSIWC); office of the Accountant General (DAGF) and the President of NLC signed a memorandum of Action (MOA) resulting from the 2009 FGN/ASUU Agreement and the subsequent draft of the 2013 Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). The seven-point of dispute include funding for revitalisation of public universities, Earned Academic Allowances, Staff Schools, NUPEMCO and Pension Matters, Salary shortfalls, TSA Exemption and state universities. Using the federal constitution as a basis or argument, ASUU at the meeting had laid emphasis on the need to attach importance to education in national policies and minimize reliance on foreign concepts of development and advancement such as Bretton Woods Economic packages for developing and underdeveloped countries. The constitutional provision relied upon by ASUU is in Chapter 2 Section 18 which prescribes as follows: that (1) Government shall direct its policy towards ensuring that there are equal and adequate educational opportunities at all levels. (2) Government shall promote science and technology; (3) Government shall strive to eradicate illiteracy; and to this end Government shall as and when practicable provide; (a) free, compulsory and universal primary education; (b) free secondary education; (c) free university education; and (d) free adult literacy programme. In pursuant of the provision of the constitution, National President of ASUU, Prof Biodun Ogunyemi said at the declaration of the strike in Ondo, “Having waited patiently for action and meaningful negotiation with reasonable men using the principle of collective bargaining that ASUU at its NEC meeting of 3rd and 4th November 2018 at the FUTA, resolved to resume the nationwide strike action it suspended in September 2017 with immediate effect. However, a bold measure was taken by the government that led to the commission of a re-negotiation Committee headed by Dr. Wale Babalakin (SAN) hit the roofs recently as the union stated that it will no longer hold meetings with the committee due to the grandstanding posture of the committee’s chairman. Chairman, ASUU, University of Ibadan chapter, Dr. Deji Omole,  said Babalakin’s committee was rejected by the union because “he is an interested party pursuing a private university licence and will do everything to jeopardise public education funding”. According to him, ASUU’s first meeting with the Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr Chris Ngige, did not address the real issues which led to the strike. Speaking during an interview recently, Omole vehemently said the union would not allow public officers to destroy education in the country. The ASUU chief maintained that the three-week-old strike was aimed at ensuring a better future for the children of the poor just as he dismissed insinuations that the strike was politically motivated. “How can our strike be political when there are matters that you as governor signed into and you failed to fulfil your promises?” He accused the government of being political and thrifty with the truth by becoming untrustworthy, saying that the President and his deputy lacked justification to drive Nigeria’s public universities to be among the leading institutions in the world without making the same commitments other countries have invested in to their drive their education sector. He added: “Our leadership has shown consistent disrespect for agreements and this is why they can no longer be trusted by our union”.