Barrister Ifagbemi Awamaridi is the Lagos State chairman of Labour Party (LP). Awamaridi, also the party’s gubernatorial candidate in the state, spoke with JOY ANIGBOGU on LP’s preparedness for the 2019 general elections, among other issues. Excerpts: How has it been leading the Labour Party in Lagos State? I am the chairman of the party as well as its national leader. My group, Gain Changers, joined Labour Party as a platform according to a section of the party’s constitution, just like you have TUC and NLC as platforms in Labour Party. I controlled Game Changers all over the federation, although not all of them have been integrated into Labour Party. I emerged chairman of the party in the last convention and I am also the chairman of its Politics Think Tank, nick named ‘Elders Council’ of the party. I am also the Commander of Yoruba Front, as well as the Consultant to the National Chairman on Mobilisation and Publicity. I am currently the gubernatorial candidate of the party in Lagos State as at today. A cross section of the populace believes that LP is not popular in Lagos State. How do you intent to get victory in the 2019 election? Labour Party found its feet after the local government election in 2017. I will say that we have made a lot of progress after that election. We had the issue of factionalisation. I was able to mediate between the two factions of the party. In Lagos, we have been able to achieve relative peace. We had Mimiko returned the second time and I think we have been able to settle that issue. Lagos is one of the states in the country that did not have faction, in spite of the fact that Lagos was a catchment area for everybody. Is your party fielding candidates in all elective positions in the state? Yes, we have candidates in all elective positions, from House of Assembly to House of Representatives, Senate and the governorship.  We also have a presidential candidate. Why did your party decide initially to field a presidential candidate from Edo State when several parties are picking theirs from the North to be able to match the incumbent president? Labour Party is different. We are not looking at ethnicity here. We want somebody who has what it takes to win election, the person who has the muscle. We don’t understand when people say that it is their turn to produce a president. If other parties are doing that, we will not join them to do what is not right. We have not zoned our Presidency to the North. We will work with the best candidate that will give us electoral victory and that is where we are now. Is your party a member of Coalition of United political Party (CUPP)? We are not part of CUPP. But, that does not mean that we are going to foreclose the possibility of any alliance with other political parties. We will all go to the field initially and when we get there, we may look at the possibility of an alliance. Do you think that the presidential candidate that you want to present can stand the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari? The presidential candidate we wanted to present was one of the proponents of ‘Not Too Young To Run Bill’. He was somebody that had what it would take to stand even the incumbent president. Age is on his side and he is intellectually balanced. He supported restructuring and that is one of our cardinal points. Labour Party believes in restructuring.  In my group, we started the issue of restructuring in 1988. Nigeria cannot survive without restructuring. Since your party takes restructuring so serious, is it not possible for it to align with Atiku Abubakar, the former vice president and presidential candidate of PDP? In all honesty, I know that Atiku has been in the front line for agitation for restructuring since 2008. He has been consistent about the issue. But, it is not just talking about restructuring, but committed to it. The area of restructuring that they want to look at is like a slogan for people to talk about it. Everyone wants to flaunt restructuring. Are people really committed to it? There is nothing like one Nigeria and there was never anything like one Nigeria. One Nigeria was an arrangement by the Igbo leader who took over as a military man. He was revolted against by the Northerners who took over from him and those who took over from him refused to change the dictatorship, but continued to use it for themselves. Nigeria independence of 1960 was what made Nigeria.  There was Western Region; we had Northern and Easter regions. Each of them had their flags, Coat of Arms, High Commissions abroad. They were autonomous. The Western Nigeria was practising a bicameral parliament; Eastern Nigeria was practising a unicameral parliament. It was never one Nigeria. Anyone that referred to us as one Nigeria was either ignorant or fraudulent. There was Eastern Nigeria Constitution, Western Nigeria Constitution, Northern Nigeria Constitution and then we had a central constitution which talked about what the regions could do together. That was the spirit of Nigerian Independence Act, which made Nigeria a sovereign state. In 1963 the Mid-Western Region decided to leave the Western Region because it was very clear in the Western Region Constitution and Central Constitution that Nigeria was a confederation of autonomous nations. There was room for disengagement in it and that was why the Mid-West Region disengaged. With the disengagement of Mid-West Region from Western Region, Nigeria had four autonomous nations. It was very clear that the constitution provided for any nation which wanted to leave to exit. Western Region had been an autonomous nation before 1956. When the motion for our independence was moved, the people who had foresight voted for it, while those who were myopic kicked against it. You can see that they are not on the same page with us. But, some people were trying to use force us together. The moment the South starting moving motion for Nigeria independence, they became enemies to British, and British decided to punish them by making sure that if they get independence with the North, they would make sure that the North had access to power. Ironsi came in and suspended the constitution, abrogated a lot of things. I have a movement for the un-suspension of 1963 constitution. The only legal constitution that we have in Nigeria today is 1963 constitution. The military government used decrees to establish the military government and all those constitutions drafted by the military are illegal. That is why the 1963 Constitution will be un-suspended.  Restructuring is relevant for the continued existence of the nation as a united nation. What is your view on the recent travel ban on 50 top Nigerians who are regarded as high profile looters by the Federal Government? Buhari administration is fascist. It is an extremist government. Buhari does not want to deal with people who are not in tune with his principles. He did not just start now. Incidentally, when I was president, Action Plan of National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), I was very active in national issues, attacking his government. He tried to rusticate me, but it was not possible. When he was working with Idiagbon, they were operating a kind of parliamentary system. Idiagbon was operating like a Prime Minister. This government is not operating like a civil government. It is not like Jonathan’s government. This government is fighting war against the people. Every election that they are conducting now is like a war that they are fighting. But, it shouldn’t be like that. I witnessed the Ekiti election and I know what I am talking about. Police will arrest people in Ekiti and compel them to get APC leaders to bail them, therefore, psychologically forcing them to go into affiliation with the party. They are not there for election, but they use election to validate the war. The only thing that can solve the problem of 2019 is to face them war for war. But, is that what we want for ourselves? Nigeria is a democratic nation and should operate as such.