Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI in Abuja, speaks on some issues that will shape the 2019 general elections. He also addressed the issue of insecurity saying it is high time President Muhammadu Buhari live up to his responsibilities as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. Excerpts: The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has accused your party of dancing on the graves of our soldiers killed by Boko Haram insurgents in Metele, Borno state. What is your reaction to that? It is shameful that the APC has refused to accept its mistake and that of its governance. For us in the PDP, we are worried about the serial killings of our military men on the field and we have severally counseled the Commander-in-Chief to review his parade and as a retired General who studied strategy, we believe that he understood our consistent advice that he should review his parade but he has refused to do that. Rather, he has gravitated the Service Chiefs towards politics, bringing them to participate in campaigns and possibly engaging them to be used during the elections. It is known to every war strategist that if a Commander keeps losing his men on the field, there is a need for a parade review and it is possible that the Commanders have become war fatigued and weary. So, it becomes natural for the Commander-in- Chief to review that Command and bring in fresh thinking on the strategies to adopt. Rather than do that, the APC is trying to put the blame and responsibilities of their failure on others. That to us is unacceptable. Four years ago during the campaigns, the APC described the PDP as lacking direction and former President Goodluck Jonathan as clueless in solving the security crisis. Since taking over, is there anything you think the APC has done differently? Nothing has changed. In fact, the situation has gone from bad to worse under APC. I believe we deserve total apology from the APC because they have failed grossly in handling the security challenges which is one of the cardinal programmes of the Buhari-led administration. Before the 2015 elections, there was no local government that was under the control of Boko Haram but when the APC in their desperation wanted to tell lies so as to get the votes of Nigerians, they claimed that 17 local governments in Borno were under the control of Boko Haram. We challenged them then to name the local governments but they failed to do so. All you just need is to go to Google and search ‘When was Monguno rescued from Boko Haram?’ It comes out with the date. But since June 2015 that APC has been in control of government, consistently, our military formations are being attacked, our soldiers are being killed in their numbers and they cannot find any solution to it except to engage in blame game saying the country was messed up for 16 years. 16 years ago, Bola Tinubu was governor of Lagos state. 8 years ago, Rotimi Amaechi was governor in Rivers state. So, when you sit down and make these horrendous allegations about how the country was messed up 16 years ago, you are indirectly saying that Tinubu, Babatunde Fashola, Amaechi and others who are in APC also failed. So, I believe that APC deserves to apologise to Nigerians, our party and former President Goodluck Jonathan for their failure in ending insurgency and lack of direction in governance. There is fear among some Nigerians that this insecurity crisis, if not well managed and curtailed, might affect the 2019 elections, leading to its postponement. Is your party also nursing that fear? Our own is not about the fears as to whether the insecurity if not well managed will affect the elections, our worry is that APC and President Muhammadu Buhari, having failed Nigerians and looking at the handwriting on the wall that Nigerians are going to reject them at the elections, they are preparing themselves for institutional rigging, they are plotting to use INEC to rig the elections, they are also plotting to use the security agencies to rig and that is where lies the trouble. The expectation of the ordinary Nigerian is that Buhari has failed and he should allow himself to be put to electoral test by Nigerians so that they can decide his fate. But looking at the handwriting on the wall, they are now seeking for self-help and that will be totally unacceptable to Nigerians. The APC won the governorship election in Ekiti, Osun and only recently the Kwara bye-election. In all these elections, the PDP cried foul, accusing the APC of using security agencies and INEC to rig. Do you see a repeat of this in 2019 elections? Aside the Kwara bye-election, what happened in Ekiti and Osun was an abnormality. In Ekiti, it was a direct use of force and they set up ATM machines in virtually every of the polling units and were buying votes directly from the people. In Osun, it was use of force, bringing security agencies to accompany thugs to harass and endanger the lives of Nigerians and snatch ballot boxes and write results. These are some of the things our party went through in the hands of APC in Osun state. In the bye elections in Kogi, Bauchi and Katsina, it was more horrendous. In Kogi state, in the House of Reps bye election, no fewer than four people were killed. Here was a President who was elected in an election that was free, fair and credible conducted under a PDP-led government. Today, his government and his party are busy abusing the institutions of our democracy. That is very unfortunate. The Presidency said based on happenings across the country, President Buhari will be reelected by a wider margin compared to his votes in 2015. What is your perspective on that? That cannot happen except they want to engage in banditry . Looking at what is happening in the country today and the resolve across party lines, there is no way any right thinking Nigerian will want this present government to continue for another four years. The general feeling among Nigerians is that President Buhari must be voted out of office so I don’t know how anyone will come out and say he will be reelected by a wider margin. How that is possible still remains a mystery to me except they are confident that the elections will be massively rigged in their favour. Where will the votes come from? The goodwill Buhari enjoyed four years ago has vanished. Everybody who participated in bringing Buhari to power have all abandoned him. Even former President Olusegun Obasanjo openly declared that the nation cannot afford to reinforce failure. So, where will the votes come from? It is self-delusion of grandeur and that is what the APC and the presidency are engaged in. It has been alleged that some PDP governors are working underground for President Buhari’s reelection. Given what happened in 2015 when former President Goodluck Jonathan has admitted that some PDP governors worked against him, is your party investigating this current allegation? There is no basis for any investigation because we are confident that there is no governor in the PDP that will work for APC or President Buhari. We have a crop of very loyal, patriotic, committed and dedicated who are resolute in their quest to get this government out of power. There is the fears that the governors are afraid that federal might may be used to deny them reelection based on what they witnessed in Ekiti and Osun as you have mentioned. Is that not enough reason for them to be afraid? On the claims that the governors are afraid that the federal government might use federal might to deny them reelection, I make bold to say that there is no might that is as potent as the will of the people. It is that will that our party and our candidate, Atiku Abubakar are rallying with. We have witnessed it in this country before. In 1983, there was a Sunday Adewusi who was the Inspector- General of Police that supported the Shehu Shagari administration. Eventually, federal might failed and the will of the people prevailed. Former president Goodluck Jonathan was voted out of office and he willingly conceded defeat. Why didn’t he think of using federal might which was readily at his disposal then as the Commander-in- Chief ? It was the will of the people that prevailed. So, there is no federal might anywhere. Once the people have resolved and decided that they have had enough, no amount of federal might can stop them from carrying out their desires. Mind you, this will not be the first time that President Buhari will be voted out of office. When he came the first time in 1983, his colleagues in the military came together and booted him out of office. So, if Nigerians today resolve that they’ve had enough of him and they want to vote him out of office, no federal might can stop them. A lot of fuss is being made by the Buhari camp about the inability of your presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar to travel to the United States. Do you think this really matters? There is nothing to it. It is a storm in a tea cup and in the first place, if our presidential candidate is elected the President today, is he going to govern the United States of America? He is going to govern the Federal Republic of Nigeria. All these talks about going to America is the game of APC. The APC have nothing to offer Nigerians except scaremongering. They have not been able to deliver on the smallest of their promises to Nigerians. What we are passing through in the country today is unknown to us in the history of this nation. We have never been this hungry. We have never faced the kind of stagnation that we are facing under Buhari. We have never seen this kind of low purchasing power as we witnessed today. Virtually, everybody in the country have become one form of beggar or the other. Businesses are dying. The economy is nose-diving by the minutes and we have become the poverty capital of the world. They said they have created more jobs through rice production, why are Nigerians still eating foreign rice? It is all fabrication and deception by the APC and Nigerians are tired of hearing that. In three and half years, the only project initiated and completed by President Buhari is the unity rubber band. We have challenged them to name one project they have completed but they can’t. All they keep saying is that it is the projects abandoned by PDP. The last president from the stable of PDP, Goodluck Jonathan was called ‘Mr Infrastructure’. He was building schools, roads, rail systems and some of these projects were almost at the point of completion before he left office. The Buhari administration merely came in and put flowers on the projects, commission it and claim the glory. Yet, they are claiming that projects are abandoned. Nigerians have seen through these lies and fabrications and they have chosen to move their lives forward beyond the APC and President Buhari. Lastly, the APC is promising the South East the presidency in 2023 if they support President Buhari now. Do you think your party has countered that with the zoning of vice-presidential ticket to the region? Only one zone can produce the president in 2023, that is certain. But the intelligentsia group of President Buhari went to the South East and said if you vote for us now, you will get the presidency in 2023. The same intelligentsia group went to the South West and said if you vote for us, your region will produce the presidency in 2023. What do you make of that? Lies, deception, fabrications, beguilement and contrivances. They have forgotten that lies and propaganda may help you win elections in 2015 but it will not do the job for you after coming to power. Do they think Nigerians are fools? Nigerians across boards have resolved and they are unanimous across party lines that they will not support APC and President Buhari in 2019. The earlier they realise that, the better for them.