Temidayo Akinsuyi, Tony Ezimakor and Samuel Ogidan Lagos / Abuja – The presidency said on Wednesday that it was not aware that President Muhammadu Buhari had ordered a thorough investigation into the alleged invitation and brief detention of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, embattled National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS). An online medium had claimed that Oshiomhole, who has been having a running battle with some key stakeholders in the party following its recently concluded controversial primaries, was quizzed for over nine hours by DSS operatives over alleged bribery levelled against him by some governors of the party. Oshiomhole was said to have been freed following the prompt intervention of APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. It was also learnt that President Buhari, who was shocked by the development as he did not authorise it, had ordered a full investigation into the issue. However, when contacted, Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, said he was not aware that the president had ordered investigation into the matter. “I am not aware the president has said anything like that,” he told our reporter. Confusion pervaded the national secretariat of the party on Wednesday as report of the alleged quizzing of Oshiomhole by DSS operatives gathered momentum. A source at the secret service, however, claimed he was not aware of the development. The online medium had also claimed that following the damning evidence presented by his interrogators, the former Edo State governor was asked to resign his position as chairman of the party, a move that was reportedly rebuffed by the former labour leader. The development left staff at the party’s secretariat in a frenzy and confusion as many were seen discussing in hushed tones about it. Asked to comment on the development, Lanre Issa-Onilu, National Publicity Secretary of the party, told journalists that he had no information on the matter. He explained, however, that the national chairman of APC was out of the country on a private business. “We do not have any information on this rumour. More so, the chairman is not around in the country to confirm or deny this. As soon as we have any relevant information, you’ll be updated,” he said. Asked where the national chairman had gone to, Onilu said: “I do not have this information. I do know it’s a scheduled personal trip he could not make last week due to the November 2 deadline for the submission of candidates.” However, a source in the party told our correspondent that Oshiomhole was actually quizzed by the DSS. He said some aggrieved governors and some cabals in the presidency were behind the plot with the aim of rubbishing Oshiomhole. “Yes, I can confirm that the national chairman was invited by the DSS and he spent some hours there. “He was scheduled to travel abroad on Monday but he couldn’t go because he was with the DSS. “The governors who wanted him out are leaving no stone unturned to achieve their aim despite interventions from President Buhari and other key leaders of the party,” he said. PDP Accuses Buhari Of Concealing Corruption Reacting to the development on Wednesday, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) described the refusal of the presidency and the APC to confirm Oshiomhole’s encounter with the DSS as reprehensible. The party said it was privy to the pressure from the Buhari presidency on the DSS to let the party chairman off the hook for fears that the investigation would unearth the complicity of the presidency and other key APC members in the scam. The PDP, in a statement by its Spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “Information available to the PDP reveals that apart from the billions of naira he allegedly stole from the coffers of Edo State when he was governor, Oshiomhole is facing charges of allegedly collecting billions of naira bribe from some ministers and other APC sources in Adamawa, Rivers, Kano and Imo states to manipulate the 2019 electoral process. “This is in addition to allegedly collecting billions of naira from presidency sources to influence electoral officers, independent observers, and certain polling organisations ahead of the 2019 election, part of which was allegedly diverted for personal use of some APC leaders. “The PDP had always alerted Nigerians of the corruption allegation burden on the APC chairman and the continued official cover provided for him by the Buhari presidency, including stalling his investigation and prosecution by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over alleged stealing of billions of naira from Edo State coffers. “If the Buhari presidency has nothing to hide; if it is not complicit in the alleged scam, it should allow the DSS and EFCC a free hand to investigate and prosecute his party’s factional chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, particularly now that all issues are laid bare before Nigerians. “As long as the DSS and the EFCC are not allowed to put Oshiomhole into the dock, the Buhari presidency does not have the moral rectitude to speak on corruption. “This is especially as the involvement of the DSS shows that the corruption burden of the APC chairman has already become a security risk for our nation.” The PDP, however, cautioned that under no circumstances should the presidency escort Adams Oshiomhole out of the country, just like it did for the disgraced Buhari’s former minister of finance.