Lagos – Nigeria offers the most conducive environment for doing business in Africa despite the enormous challenges besetting it, Arjan Mirchandani, the chairman, Sona Group of Industries has said. Mirchandani,an Indian national,who  disclosed this in Lagos during the Diwali Indian  celebration,said the country would soon overcome its challenges  and occupy its place among the economically bouyant nations in the world. Describing  Nigerians as good ,dynamic and aggressive breed,the Sona Breweries  boss said  these attributes endeared  him to  Nigerian citizens than their Ghanaian and South African counterparts. He added:’’Nigerians need opportunity.They have the strength and focus to do so many things to sustain them.Given the opportunity,I can emply more Nigerians to narrow unemployment gap therein’’ He also said the company has no intent to leave Nigeria but would rather spread its tentacles with a view to  adding more value to the lives of Nigerians He recalled how Sona Breweries came to being in 1994 and confirmed that the company has impact the lives of local farmers through sourcing of Sorghum from them and employing more Nigerians to narrow the unemployment rate in the country. Speaking, President of Rotary Club of Lagos,R.K Gulati  explained that his group had collaborated with Geeta Ashram  since two years ago to help the less-privileged with eye problems. “Geeta Ashram has been running the free eye care programme since 1999. this is a noble programme for the elderly and the less priviledged in the Nigerian society. Every year  the eye camp is held at general hospital, Marina, Lagos where around 300 nigerians who  are unable to see and are not able to afford the cost of cataract surgery, are operated  absolutely  free of cost. Similar free eye camps are also held yearly in Kano at ECWa eye hospital where thousands have benefited  through this programme. Organising these free eye camps involves  lot of funds which Geeta Ashram  has been able to generate through donations received from the indian community and Indian corporate houses. The indian community believes that providing sight to the needy is most noble thing we can do for the host community. “In order to reach out to more number of people to benefit, Geeta Ashram joined hands with rotary club of Lagos Island and held free camp in Kano at ECWA  hospital Kano in September 2017 and October 2018 and 946 people benefitted through this programme. Another camp together with rotary club of lagos island was  held  at general hospital, marina, lagos and 259 people regained their lost vision. He also said the Club would partner with Tolaram group to   provide free artificial limbs to Nigerians,just as he said efforts are in top gear to arrest the spread of Polio in the  country through its social partners