Samuel Ogidan and Barnabas Manyam Abuja / Yola – Barely three months to the 2019 presidential election, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to a live, one-on-one debate with its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, on prominent national issues. The party also berated the president for neglecting the troops fighting insurgency in the North-East and reneging on his promise to “lead the fight from the front,” resulting in the vulnerability and killing of soldiers by insurgents. While advising the president to stop distracting the armed forces, the party disclosed that at the time the nation’s troops were being attacked by insurgents, service chiefs were attending the launch of President Buhari’s ‘Next Level’ campaign mantra, stolen from a foreign institute. In a statement by its Spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said, “Nigerians are aware that President Buhari has been mortally afraid of facing our candidate, Atiku Abubakar, in a general debate organised by independent bodies. “For this, the PDP grants him the liberty to choose a venue, date, and time convenient to him to face our candidate before a neutral panel.” The party said Nigerians would not accept representation, insisting that President Buhari must face its presidential candidate. “President Buhari must face Atiku Abubakar in person, as Nigerians are not ready to accept any representation, whosoever, from him. “If, as a commander-in-chief, Mr. President cannot face a political debate, how then can he vigorously engage international competitors? “Nigerians can now see why our nation has been under peril in the last three and half years,” the party said. Challenging Buhari to present his sectoral scorecards and his future blueprint, the PDP said: “President Buhari should be ready to face his failures and avail Nigerians of his sectoral performance scorecards, as well as, present his future blueprint, if any, to enable the electorate weigh him alongside our presidential candidate. “Mr. President should explain why he has been insensitive to the killing of citizens and soldiers by marauders and insurgents, particularly, given allegations that he has been distracting the armed forces by dragging them to participate in his re-election campaign. “Nigerians recall that at the time our troops were being attacked by insurgents, our service chiefs were attending the launch of President Buhari’s ‘Next Level’ campaign mantra, stolen from a foreign institute. “Nigerians await President Buhari to answer for the humongous corruption in his administration; why he has failed to fulfill any of his 2015 campaign promises and why he cannot show any key development project he initiated and completed in his three and half years in office. “President Buhari must be ready to face the over 40 million Nigerians who lost their jobs and millions more whose businesses have folded up due to his incompetence and harsh economic policies. He must face the victims of human rights violations, extra-judicial killings, illegal arrests and arbitrary detention under his administration. “President Buhari came to power through false promises and propaganda. Now, the day of reckoning has come and he cannot run away from his failures. “On our part, our candidate is ready to face President Buhari, one-on-one. He has his scorecard in governance and his blueprint for national rebirth; wealth creation, youth empowerment and building a prosperous nation, which has become dominant among the aspirations of Nigerians.” I Hold Atiku In High Esteem, Says Buhari Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has revealed that he holds Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in high esteem. Buhari made the disclosure on Sunday at the turbaning ceremony of the former vice president as the 7th Waziri of Adamawa at the palace of Lamido of Adamawa, Mohammed Barkindo Musdafa, in Yola. President Buhari who is the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) expressed profound joy at Atiku’s level of sportsmanship by sending him invitation for his turbaning ceremony. “I have high respect and high esteem for Atiku based on the long historical relationship and I wish him a successful turbaning ceremony,” he said. Buhari was represented on the occasion by Alhaji Mohammed Bello, Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He said the president also sent his greetings and appreciation to the 7th Waziri for sending a letter of invitation to him. Speaking at the occasion, the Lamido of Adamawa, said Atiku was honoured with the title of Waziri because of his immense contributions to the development of Nigeria, particularly Adamawa State, where his impact was felt in various sectors. “Atiku has also contributed greatly to unifying the people of Adamawa and providing useful advice to the emirate. “The position of Waziri, which is the highest in the council puts him in charge of administration of the emirate and is given to people who are educated, honest and God fearing. “It’s not hereditary and can go to anyone who deserves it.” While urging the new Waziri to continue to carry everyone along and unite the people of Adamawa for more development, Barkindo urged all other traditional title holders to and cooperate with the new Waziri. Also speaking, former President Olusegun Obasanjo commended Lamido for upgrading Atiku from Turaki to Waziri, adding that Atiku would surely not disappoint the emirate. “I assure you that he will carry out his tasks with dignity, respect, honour and you will be proud of him,” Obasanjo said. In his acceptance speech, Atiku expressed gratitude to God for the honour and thanked the Lamido and Nigerians for his various achievements in life. Atiku assured the emirate council and traditional institution of his commitment to continue to work for peace and unity of the emirate and the nation in general. The colourful turbaning ceremony was graced by dignitaries from within and outside the country including Senate President Bukola Saraki, Speaker Yakubu Dogara, former President Goodluck Jonathan, his vice Namadi Sambo as well as governors of Gombe, Taraba, Sokoto and Bayelsa states.