Tony Ezimakor and Paschal Njoku Abuja – The All Progressives Congress (APC) said on Thursday that it is going ahead to field Prince Tonye Cole as its governorship candidate for next year’s general election despite the ruling of the Supreme Court nullifying the congresses that produced the Rivers State executive of the party. The APC, in a statement issued in Abuja by Lanre Issa-Onilu, National Publicity Secretary of the party, said the decision was borne out of the fact that verdict of the Supreme Court has nothing to do with the candidature of Prince Cole or his running mate, Victor Giadom. The ruling party while maintaining that the candidature of the party flagbearer for Rivers State remains inviolate, added that the candidate has been processed in line with guidelines of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The statement reads, “In view of conflicting interpretations that have greeted the recent verdict of the Supreme Court on the contentions among our members in Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), it has become necessary to clarify that the Supreme Court’s verdict has nothing to do with the primaries conducted for the governorship and legislative positions in the state. “Therefore, the candidature of Arch. Tonye Cole along with his running mate, Hon. Victor Giadom remains inviolate. The list of our candidates for the governorship, National Assembly, and House of Assembly have been processed by the National Working Committee (NWC) according to the INEC guidelines. “Our party appreciates the support of the good people of Rivers State and their commitment towards the victory of our governorship candidate, Arch. Tonye Cole and other APC candidates at all levels in the 2019 elections. “A progressive leadership under the APC beckons and the people of Rivers State are poised to effect a change to move the beleaguered state to a path of progress and development.” Supporters of Senator Magnus Abe had gone on a wild celebration following the ruling of the Supreme Court but the party said the decision has nothing to do with the candidate of the party. Crisis Engulfs Party In Katsina, Buhari’s Home State Meanwhile, the intra-party squabbles rocking some state chapters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are threatening to tear apart the Katsina State chapter. Katsina is the home state of President Muhammadu Buhari. Consequently, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the APC have been dragged before a Federal High Court, Abuja, over alleged unlawful conduct of congresses at the ward, local government, and state levels of the party. The suit was filed by two governorship aspirants, Alhaji Garba Sani Dankani and Muhammad Sada Mainasara. By the suit, the plaintiffs are praying the court to nullify, invalidate and set aside the purported congresses claimed to have been conducted by the APC in all the wards and local government areas of Katsina State in May this year. Both gubernatorial aspirants are claiming that the Katsina State chapter of APC did not comply with any known law before coming to the wrongful conclusion that officers had been elected for the wards, local government areas in Katsina State. Ola Olanipekun (SAN) filed the suit on behalf of the plaintiffs. Against this backdrop, the plaintiffs are praying the court for an order restraining APC and INEC from recognising any person or group of persons from parading themselves as elected ward, local government area and state executives of the party pending the conduct of valid congresses in accordance with the provisions of the Electoral Act and the APC constitution. Also, they are seeking an order restraining both APC and INEC from recognising any person or group of persons parading themselves as elected officers in the ward, local government area and the state until valid congresses are conducted as stipulated by the constitution of the APC. Furthermore, the plaintiffs are praying for an order of court compelling APC to conduct congresses for the wards, local government areas and state levels of the party which must be observed and monitored by INEC in line with the provisions of the law. In addition, they are seeking an order restraining INEC from accepting anybody or group as nominated candidates for an elective office in Katsina State for 2019, until valid congresses have been held in line with section 85(3) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (As Amended). When the matter came up before Justice Folashade Giwa-Ogunbanjo on Thursday, counsel to INEC, Umar Buka, told the court that he was yet to file processes in the matter and pleaded for a short adjournment to enable him do so. The judge, who was not happy with the electoral body, however, fixed November 8 for hearing. Meanwhile, in an affidavit in support of the motion on notice deposed to by Alhaji Sani Dankani, it was averred that, “It was expected under the Guideline/Exhibit C that the ward and Local Government Congress Committee (W & LGCC) would proceed to set up and supervise the Local Organising Committee (LOC) that would conduct the congresses, in accordance with our party’s constitution and the provisions of the Electoral Act, 2010 (As Amended). “Under the Guideline/Exhibit C aforesaid, the Local Organising Committees shall be constituted by three persons from each ward in Katsina State or three persons from each local government areas of Katsina State as the case may be. “Contrary to the provisions of Exhibit C, the ward and local government congress committee (W & LGCC) of the defendant failed, refused and/or neglected to set up the local organising committee to conduct the congresses. “On the day of scheduled congresses, it was averred that neither members of the ward and local government congress committee (W & LGCC) nor person(s) purporting to be member(s) of any local organising committee was seen at any of the wards to conduct the congresses. “The congress was, therefore, aborted and could not hold and no official of the 2nd defendant attended the congresses,” the deponent stated. In addition, Dankani states: “That I know as a fact that no delegate(s) was elected on 5th May, 2018 or thereafter till date and that no ward executive member of the All Progressives Congress for Katsina State was equally elected on that day or thereafter, till date. “Notwithstanding the above, the Ward and Local Government Congress Committee (W & LGCC) submitted a list of purported elected delegates (members of Electoral College) and acclaimed executive committee members of the All Progressive Congress, Katsina State to the 1st defendant notwithstanding that no congress was conducted in all the wards within Katsina State. “That I know as a fact that various registered members of the APC in Katsina State, aspiring for various positions within the party and in the 2019 general election, met on 12/9/2018 and in a resolution reiterated the fact that congresses did not hold in all the wards, local government areas of Katsina State.”