Lagos – Looking at the last Group B match between Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea today at the ongoing 2018 Africa Women Cup of Nations in Ghana, the last Group F match of the last World Cup in Russia between Germany and South Korea will readily come to mind. Already eliminated and just needing to complete the mandatory three group matches before going back to Soul, South Korea had ‘almighty’ Germany to confront with. German, before the match, had three points in two matches and must win the match to stand any chance of making it out of the group that also had Sweden and Mexico. There was nothing left for South Korea except national pride but the Taegeuk Warriors had a different game plan. Going into the last minutes of the match and realizing that they must beat their opponents in order to remain in the competition, with the score still at 0-0, Germany threw everything into the match but failed to hold their back, exposing themselves to two quick counter attacks resulting to goals in the 93rd and 96th minutes for the Koreans. That win was marked as one of the greatest upsets in World football, as the defending champions went home rather shameful while the Koreans celebrated eliminating the cup holders deep into the night. Later today, Nigeria will be up against the already eliminated Equatorial Guinea. Incidentally, the scenarios are similar. Just like Germany, Nigeria are the cup holders and have one win; they must win the match to ensure a place in the knockout round of the competition, even with a World Cup ticket also at stake. Looking at the group standing shows Nigeria trailing leaders, South Africa, with three points and ahead of Zambia only on goals difference. South Africa have six points after wins over Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea. Zambia have three points after they whipped Equatorial Guinea 5-0 in the match-day one. While they were defeating the Guineans, Nigeria were losing 0-1 to South Africa. In the match-day two, South Africa walloped Equatorial Guinea 7-1 while Nigeria were four goals better of Zambia. Realising that Zambia will throw everything to beat South Africa should motivate Nigeria to go all the way against Equatorial Guinea. The Super Falcons have the requisite experience as 10-time winners to beat the Guineans and make light of their qualification. This is according to Francesca Ordega while speaking to SuperSport after the Zambia win. “We were disappointed in the first match because we did not plan to lose. But that is part of the game and as you can see today (against Zambia), we showed a lot of experience to beat them. We are going to carry it over to our next match against Equatorial Guinea,” she said. Meanwhile, Coach Thomas Dennerby must not be carried away by Nigeria’s big margin win over Zambia to underrate Equatorial Guinea. While analysts have concluded that the poor run of the Guineans is boiled down to their unpreparedness due to the circumstances surrounding their eventual participation, it should be noted that just like South Korea in the last World Cup, they have national pride to protect. Besides, as two-time winners, Equatorial Guinea won on the two occasions Nigeria failed to win the title in 2008 and 2012, even beating Super Falcons 1-0 in the semifinal in 2008. It is obvious that the Guineans will be up against Nigeria with the intention of dumping the defending champions out of the tournament, which will definitely be counted as a huge achievement. Observers are of the opinion that Coach Dennerby should start Rasheedat Ajibade ahead of Ngozi Okobi since star forward, Asisat Oshoala, should be a sure starter due to his influence on the field. Desire Oparanozie should retain her position as the arrow woman while Rita Chikwelu’s injury must be fully examined, otherwise home base star, who got the last goal against Zambia, Amarachi Okoronkwo, should start instead. On a good day, the forward trio of Oshoala, Ajibade and Oparanozie will obviously be a handful to the Guineans. The coach must tell the players not to expose the goalkeeper to unwarranted counter attack from Equatorial Guinea, especially if the goals were difficult to come. An expected win for Nigeria will most certainly put the country in good stead to march on even if Zambia, against all permutation, get the better of South Africa. This is because apart from goals difference, if the three countries end up on six points each, the matches involving them will be the deciding factor.