Residents of Kutunku Community in Gwagwalada Area Council, FCT, on Wednesday decried outrageous electricity bills in spite epileptic power supply by the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC). Some of the residents, who spoke in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), described the development as worrisome. According to them, issuing outrageous bills in spite epileptic power supply has hindered economic activities and social life in the area. Mr Joseph Gado, a resident of the area, said that electricity consumers in the community were given high bill bills in spite poor electricity supply. “The power supply is not more than twice in a week, and at the end of the month they will bring outrageous bills for us to pay. “How can AEDC be bringing between N7, 000 and N9,000 to a two-bedroom flat in a month when the supply is not stable. “We are being forced to pay for electricity we never consumed; this is extortion, we demand for transparency in the billing methodology,” Gado said. Mr Musa Bala, a landlord in the area, said all the electric poles, cables and other electricity facilities situated along New Kutunku Road that supplied the community were due for replacement. “Virtually all the transformers are dilapidated and can no longer continue to cope with the load on them. “From our feasibility study, more than 5,000  houses in Kutunku use one transformer, which is grossly inadequate,” he said. Mrs Sarah Tukurah, another resident of the community, urged AEDC management to install prepaid meters in all houses in the area. “The power supply is normally late at night, when everyone is asleep, and at the end of the month one will be given outrageous bills. “We want AEDC management to provide us with prepared meters so that we can have the value of our money,’’ she said. Respondind, Mr Fadipe Oyebode, the General Manager, Corporate Communications, AEDC, Abuja,  said the company did not bill its customers arbitrarily. “We bill according to the energy delivered and it is surprising to hear some of our customers complain about outrageous billings and shortage of power supply,” he said. Oyebode urged electricity consumers in the area to report cases of dilapidated equipment at AEDC’s Customer Care Offices nearest to them.