Lagos – The Federal High Court in Lagos has adjourned the case between MTN Nigeria and the Attorney-General’s Office over a $2 billion tax demand to December 3, 2018. The government, at the Federal High Court in Ikoyi, in the preliminary objection which it filed, asked the court to strike out the telecom giant’s case on a technicality, arguing that MTN’s right to go to court arose on May 20 when it received the first letter from the Attorney General’s Office. It stated that by filing in September, MTN’s court filing was outside the legally stipulated three-month period within which civil claims could be brought before a Nigerian court. The company’s legal team, led by Wole Olanipekun (SAN), said they would wait for the government to file a full reply to its suit. However, people familiar with the matter said the company would argue that its right to seek legal redress arose on August 20 when the public prosecutor made a “clear and unequivocal demand for payment from MTN Nigeria” and issued a 14-day deadline. Speaking after the court proceedings, one of the lawyers for MTN Nigeria, Fabian Ajogwu (SAN), said the company had filed an injunction asking the court to restrain the government from “disturbing or otherwise interfering with the business of the company.” He added that he was confident that all parties would “respect the powers and jurisdiction of the court.” In addition to the $2 billion tax demand from the Attorney General’s office, the telecoms firm is facing a separate legal fight with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) over allegations that it illegally transferred $8.1 billion from the country in breach of foreign exchange regulations, an assertion the company has denied. In early September, the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) had slapped MTN Group with a $2 billion tax bill, compounding the woes of the leading telecoms company. The tax bill demand came days after the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) ordered MTN Nigeria to hand over $8.1 billion that, it said, was illegally sent abroad. MTN, whose Nigerian business brings in a third of its annual core profit, or EBITDA, said its total payment of around $700 million over the 10-year period fully settled the amount owing under the taxes in question. Shares in MTN declined significantly since the apex bank in Nigeria issued its demand. According to Byron Lotter, a portfolio manager at Vestact in Johannesburg, “These are old issues that have been investigated and closed but now they are being reopened.” He added that it was possible MTN would be reviewing its presence in Nigeria. Vestact owns about 30 million rand worth of MTN stock. MTN, which has expanded in more than 20 frontier markets, including war-ravaged Syria and Afghanistan, called the latest demands by Nigerian authorities “regrettable and disconcerting.” It added: “We remain resolute that MTN Nigeria has not committed any offences and will vigorously defend its position.”