Presently, about 70 per cent of insurance business in the country goes abroad through reinsurance deals. The reason is not farfetched because foreign reinsurers have a stronger capacity compared to the local players. It would be recalled that NAICOM launched the first phase of the Marked Development and Restructuring Initiatives in 2009 to create awareness on the existence of five mandatory insurance policies in the country’ statutory laws. It plans to enforce the mandatory policies through the MDRI, with the objectives of driving insurance penetration and boosting the contribution to the country’s Gross Domestic Product. Market watchers observed that key offshore investors in insurance were spreading to Nigeria, noting that the industry will be better for it if the foreign investors have something beneficial to add to the local knowledge. He also noted that the Nigerian Content Act that provides that the country must give some business to indigenous firms also made it mandatory for the companies to have at least 51 per cent Nigerian ownership. He explained that the law was framed that way to create wealth and work for Nigerians. “So when we also want to create compulsory insurance, I don’t think we should give it to offshore companies. We are happy when they are investing; but we need to realise that after a few years, they will not be investing but will just be taking dividends out,” said one of the frontline insurance brokers who preferred anonymity. According to him, forcing all Nigerians to insure their group life with the foreign companies operating in the country is not appropriate, adding that foreign insurers need to sell value which they have brought to the table. “But if we are going to create a special market, let us create it for the local content guys; the issue is that it is the government that is creating compulsory insurance; it should not be creating it for offshore companies,” he added. Our source noted that the offshore companies coming in were good ones and that the local operators would learn from them, but they would also learn from the local insurers because many of the foreign investors coming into the country were burning their fingers. “They are seeing that things are not as easy as they thought; the terrain is different. When they are coming in, they are looking at the 180 million Nigerians, but now seeing that the 180 million people don’t want to buy insurance at all,” he said. Speaking on the effect of increase in Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in Insurance sector, expert defined this  as an investment made by a company or individual in one country in business interests in another country, in the form of either establishing business operations or acquiring businesses assets in other countries, such as ownership or controlling interest in a foreign company. Furthermore, experts explained that Foreign Direct Investment does not mean portfolio investment in which equities of the other company are being purchased, instead, it means the taking of effective control or at least substantial influence over the decision making of a foreign business, asserting that FDI is the process whereby residents of one country acquire ownership of assets for the purpose of controlling the production, distribution and other activities of a firm in another country. Broadly, foreign direct investment includes “mergers and acquisitions, building new facilities, reinvesting profits earned from overseas operations and intra-company loans”. Insurance is an equitable transfer of risk of a loss, from one entity to another in exchange for payment. It is a form of risk management which primarily was used to hedge against the risk of an uncertain and contingent loss. Insurance in India is a growing and flourishing industry with both international and national players competing and growing at rapid rate together with Banking and Real Estate, it constitutes 12.9per cent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in India. The insurance sector was liberalised in 2001. Even after the liberalisation of the insurance sector, the public sector insurance companies have continued to dominate the insurance market. They were enjoying 90 per cent of market share. FDI in Insurance sector would increase the penetration of insurance in India. FDI can meet India’s long-term capital requirements of fund the buildings and infrastructures. Aside from being a basic driver of monetary development, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) is a noteworthy wellspring of a non-obligation budgetary asset for the financial advancement of that country. The role of Foreign Direct Investment in the present world is noteworthy. It acts as lifeblood in the growth of the nations.  The wave of liberalisation and globalization sweeping across the world has opened many national markets for the international business. The insurance sector has the capability to raise long-term capital from the public as it is the only market in which people invest their money for a long period of time, say 30 years. An increase in FDI in the insurance sector would indirectly be a boom for any Economy. Discussing the effect of an increase in Foreign Direct Investment in his article, Prateeksha Gupta, stated some advantages from the increase of foreign direct investment in the insurance sector, using India as a benchmark analytics to include Increased Insurance Penetration, Level Playing Field, Increased Capital Inflow, as well as Job Creation. Others advantages, according to him, are Consumer Friendly, Benefit to the common man and actuaries being, and of course, having a positive effect on the Economy With the number of population, Nigeria requires Insurance more than some other countries. Be that as it may, the insurance penetration in the nation is less than one per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This is far less when contrasted with South Africa which has an insurance penetration of more than 10 per cent. Expanded FDI cutoff will fortify the current organisations and will likewise permit the new players to come in, thereby empowering more individuals to purchase life cover. More Foreign capital flows into the Economy will lead to demand for Nigerian naira in International Money Market. Effects on the Economy Due to the nature of the insurance business, which is to provide cover in the event of any loss, insurance companies are vital to any economy because disasters are inevitable. A recapitalised industry and the emergence of stronger and financially stable players will help stimulate business activities by increasing market penetration and also provide an indirect source of motivation and innovation for individuals and small businesses who know they are covered in the event of any loss. Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, the former Minister of Finance, said in 2016 at a conference organised by the Insurance Industry Consultative Council that a 0.33per cent increase in penetration can result to a growth of 0.5per cent in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the possibility of creating over 70,000 jobs.