LAGOS – Comrade Bode Ojabogun, Chairman, Egbe Omo Ilaje, Lagos state council, has raised the alarm over the increasing marginalisation of Ilajes in the state. Ojabogun, who spoke at pre-event conference of the celebration of Ilaje Day in Lagos, said his group’s source of livelihood, fishing is being encroached upon by the state government with attendant economic effects to the Ilajes. He also said the Ilajes are educationally deprived in the state, even as he lamented inadequate social amenities in areas occupied by them in Lagos that would add value to their lives. The population of Ilajes in Lagos is the region of 4.5million, while 3million is within the voting age Ojabogun said the Ilajes would use the voting strength to nip the increasing marginalisation of his group in Lagos, even as he revealed that Ilaje Council of Obas has been constituted to discuss and resolve conflicts among the people of Ilaje. He disclosed that the celebration was meant to showcase Ilaje’s gifts, oneness, cultures and traditions. He recalled that the Egbe Omo Ilaje, the apex socio-cultural organisation of the Ilaje nation was founded in 1939 at Ebute Neta in response to some hard-line postures of the colonial masters and repressive activities of other ethnic tribes in the old Lagos He explained that organisation’s objectives are to promote unity among the Ilajes subcultural grouping throughout the federation and beyond, protect and promote the interest and image of Ilaje in all ramifications, showcase the rich cultural heritage of the Ilaje people and serve as a platform for training future leaders. He added that the event will witness a series of colourful cultural activities. “For instance, there will be an awareness procession in Ilaje communities across the state on Monday, November 5-7, 2018 will witness a galaxy of displays at the church auditorium here on Friday November 9,there will be a Boat Regatta Competition/ Display at Majidun river bank in Ikorodu. “Then the big one, the grand finale will take place on Saturday, November 19, 2018 at NIS Gymnasium Hall, National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. So, you can see that we are in for an elaborate cultural fiesta never seen before in the state” He said Governor Akinwunmi Ambide, the Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu,Oba F.E.O Akinrunran, the Olugbo of Ugboland, Pastor J.T Kalejaiye and Ilaje sons and daughters would grace the occasion.