Abuja – The House of Representatives on Thursday found Mustapha Maihaja, Director General of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), wanting and recommended his immediate removal by President Muhammadu Buhari. In the report of the probe carried out by the House on alleged diversion of cash and relief materials worth N33 billion meant for IDPs in the North East, the House called for the reinstatement of all six directors sacked by Maihaja after assuming office as DG. The House, in its consideration, approved all recommendations in the report of the Committee on Emergency and Disaster Preparedness which investigated violation of public trust in the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). The lawmakers explained, while considering the report at the ‘committee of the whole’, that the special committee that probed NEMA established various financial infractions on the part of Engineer Maihaja. The Federal Government is believed to have lost a total sum of over N33 billion in the alleged fraud. The probe panel, headed by Ali Isah from Gombe, revealed that the huge loss was as a result of embezzlement and outright mismanagement by Mustapha Maihaja, who is the Managing Director and accounting officer of NEMA. “Consequently, the House recommended that the Director General of NEMA, Engr. Mustapha Yunusa Maihaja, be relieved of his duties by the president, commander-in-chief, Federal Republic of Nigeria, and be handed over to relevant authorities for prosecution.” The lawmakers noted that much of the funds stolen were from NEMA’s allocation from the ecological fund, approvals and releases by the Federal Government on North-East intervention, as well as cost implication on the 6779 metric tons of rice donated by the Chinese government to IDPs in the North East which was stolen. Other recommendations made by the lawmakers include reinstatement and payment of arrears of entitlements of six suspended directors of the agency. The probe report noted: “NEMA, Agric, Budget and Planning ministries should account for the stolen rice donated by the Chinese but did not get to the beneficiaries while the ICPC, EFCC and the police should probe further and prosecute where necessary. “ICPC, EFCC and police should investigate some officers of NEMA, Budget, Agric ministries to ascertain if there was multiple payment for demurrage and, where there is such occurrence, the affected officers should be prosecuted. “That all government officials involved in the approval, processing, release and diversion of the sum of N5.8 billion for emergency intervention of food security in the North East, which contravened the provisions of S.80 (2) of the constitution, infraction of due process for procurement and loss of government revenue, flouting of the terms of the Eurobond loan are hereby indicted and the relevant security agencies should take steps to recover the money from them.” On the sacked senior staff, the House noted that the action of NEMA management smacked of abuse of power against extant public service rules and a gross violation of section 36 of the 1999 constitution (amended). Meanwhile, the House has warned the central bank to stop providing loans to private companies and called for a probe into the N2 billion given to four companies. It said the balance of 5000 metric tons of rice claimed to have been supplied by Olam, and 3 Brothers Nig Ltd at the cost of N1.5 billion should be recovered from the NEMA DG, among other recommendations. Your Findings Did Not Reflect Facts— NEMA Meanwhile, NEMA on Thursday rejected the report of the House of Representatives which indicted it of poor management of relief items meant for 16 states. It said some of the findings and conclusions presented by the House committee did not reflect the facts and documents placed before it by NEMA. The agency made its position known in a statement last night. The statement said: “The House of Representatives, at its sitting of 8th November 2018, which was aired live on the Nigerian Television Authority received the report of the House Committee on Emergency and Preparedness Response on the alleged violation of public trust against the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). “We were shocked to hear some of the findings and conclusions presented by the committee on the issues, which did not reflect the facts and documents placed before it by NEMA. “While we shall in due course be making a more comprehensive response to all the points made, it is most important to clarify the following: “On the Port Clearance and Transportation of Emergency Food Assistance by Chinese government, the Federal Government received a total of 6,779mt of rice for IDPs in the North East as donation by the Chinese government. This amounted to 271 containers, which arrived Apapa Ports between June and October 2017. “The processes of securing duty exemption, waivers and other related issues took several months, but the total quantity was subsequently cleared from the Apapa Port, transported and delivered to NEMA warehouses in the North East. It was thereafter distributed to the IDPs in the states of Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Taraba and Yobe. Documents on the transaction, including distribution to the IDPs were made available to the committee. “The correct total value of the rice is about N2.25 billion (50 million Chinese Yuan) and the amount spent on clearing, demurrage and storage was about N450 million, not the N800 million as alleged by the committee. “On EFCC investigation of the suspended staff of NEMA, the suspension of the six NEMA officers was a decision of its governing council based on the interim report of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, which indicted them for financial misappropriation. The suspension was in line with public service rules and the extant guidelines on appointment, promotion and discipline. “On the approval of N1.6 billion granted by the Federal Government for the procurement and delivery of relief items to 16 states affected by flood in 2017, due process was observed in the procurement of the relief items and all items meant for the 16 states were received and acknowledged by respective state governments. Documents evidencing the acknowledgement of the items were made available to the House Committee.”