President Muhammadu Buhari last Sunday launched his campaign 2019 policy, titled ‘Next Level’. The event, which took place at the Conference Hall of the Presidential Villa, State House, Abuja, was reportedly attended by some Service Chiefs. Some Service Chiefs said to be among those present at the launch included the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin; the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Abubakar Sadiq; and Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas. However, it could not be immediately ascertained if the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai, also attended the event’ In one of the pictures of the event, the Chief of Naval Staff was seen shaking hands with the All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain and former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio. The event was well attended by the APC Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, members of the APC National Working Committee (NWC), members of Buhari’s campaign team as well as several ministers. Following public criticisms, a cross section of Nigerians wonder if it was right for Service Chiefs to attend political events, even if such is being orgnised by President Buhari. They Did Not Attend – Presidency Amidst the criticisms, the Presidency, the next day denied the reports that Service Chiefs attended the launching of the Buhari/Osinbajo Next Level campaign flag off. But, reacting to the media report, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said that the Service Chiefs left the venue of the launching before the programme started. According to him, “Punch (which reported the development) should have asked what brought the Service Chiefs to the “Next Level 2019” event at the State House, only to leave before it got underway. Shehu, also in series of tweets said the Service Chiefs mistook the event for a non-political gathering, but however left before the event got underway. According to him: “They were mistaken in their assumption that this was a non-political event, to showcase the achievements of the administration, the success of which they are a part. “Hardly were they seated when the Minister of Defence, Brigadier General Mansur Dan Ali (rtd) asked them to leave as it was a political gathering. “They quickly left, even before the arrival of the President and for the event to get underway. The fuss over this is therefore absolutely unnecessary.”  Buhari’s Campaign Team Speaks Festus Keyamo (SAN), spokesman for the Buhari Campaign Organisation, said the event was not a political one per se, but meant to showcase the achievements of the Buhari administration. Keyamo said during election time there is a thin line between politics and government, adding that there was no cause for alarm. He said, “It was not a campaign, but the launch of a scorecard. You cannot prevent the crowd from chanting ‘APC’ because party members will do what they want. The event was a scorecard involving heads of all sectors, including security to showcase their achievements. “We were supposed to have a segment for Security Chiefs, but the airtime was not enough. We showcased achievements in infrastructure, social investment, and agriculture. “The truth of the matter is that in campaign periods, the line is very thin because the government is APC and APC is the government, but the truth of the matter is that it is about government performance.” Atiku’s Camp Reacts Segun Sowunmi, the spokesman for the Atiku Abubakar Campaign Organisation, in his reaction, said the presence of the Service Chiefs at such a political gathering showed that Buhari, as the Commander-in-Chief, had compromised the heads of the military agencies. Sowunmi called on the international community to take note of the development as it could imply that the military had already started working for Buhari’s re-election. He said: “The problem with the security agencies is that they have not fully defined who they should be loyal to. The concern is that the commander-in-chief has some sort of relationship with them but when they elevate that relationship to a point where they begin to attend political events at the launch of the campaign of a political party, everybody must be scared. “This is because it portends a very dangerous development which is that they have now got themselves involved in politics to the point that they are now the cheerleaders of another political party. “I hope when we want to unveil our own political document in a public forum and if we invite them, they would be reasonable enough to attend since they now attend political events. “We want to advise them to be removed from politics so that the opposition can feel safe. I am quite disappointed in President Buhari for exposing the military to such a compromise and we call on the international community to take note.”  Ezekwesili protests Dr. Oby Ezekwesili, the presidential candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) protested  the presence of  Service Chiefs at President Buhari’s campaign launch. Ezekwesili, in a statement by Hajiya Aisha Yesufu, Director of Special Projects for her campaign organisation, slammed the Service Chiefs for attending the event. She said: “We are confident in the ability of the suffering Nigerian masses to stop the shenanigans of the enemies of true democracy. A lot of Nigerians have commented on the likelihood that the retention of the Service Chiefs by President Muhammadu Buhari is part of a well-oiled plot to rig the 2019 election. “However, as a mass-oriented and  purposeful political grouping, we can only continue to mobilise  the people  towards the exercise of their franchise and civic responsibility. “We are also confident that no gang-up can defeat the social forces arrayed against the decadent leadership that has impoverished our people and extinguished hopes in the country. “Our presidential candidate, Obiageli Ezekwesili, is committed to lifting 80 million Nigerians out of abject poverty and undoing the economic downturn imposed on the nation.”  APC Dragging Military Into Politics – Commentator Olalekan Braimah, a political commentator, said, “It is quite disheartening to see the level successive administrations are dragging the military into, particularly, this present government of the All Progressives Congress (APC) where virtually everybody is so concerned about pleasing the President. Braimah, believes that Nigerians are yet to see the true side of what is to come. It Is Intimidation, Rigging Strategy By Ruling Party – Don Dr. Morgan Efe Ogbeide, a Benin-based Public Administration’s lecturer said: “I think the scenario is a new development being introduced into the Nigerian political scene. I was surprised to see for the first time, Service Chiefs and some top security officers attending political gathering in Nigeria. “I am referring to the recent unveiling of the All Progressive Congress promotional event for the 2019 presidential election. “I join other well-meaning Nigerians to condemn it because if we allow it without speaking up against it, it might be extended and replicated in the presidential rallies of APC. “When the ruling party is using Service Chiefs as part of its presidential campaign team and nobody is challenging the action, it is a dangerous development. “I see it as a way to intimidate Nigerian voters and election rigging strategy, and if INEC allows it without sanctioning the party involved, I think it is a wrong and dangerous signal to the forthcoming general elections Military Already Taking Sides Against Nigerians -Politician Ignatius Ikegwuonu, a Minna-based politician, stated: “I can say it is right and at the same time wrong for Service Chiefs to be present at political organisation or gatherings. It is right if they will attend similar meetings whenever any of the registered political parties are holding gatherings. “Wrong in the sense that, Service Chiefs are being paid from public monies, and so, it is their duty to serve the interest of every Nigerian because President Buhari is just an individual out of millions of Nigerians. So, why should his interest override that of millions of other Nigerians? “I think the President is just using the power of incumbency to do anything he likes, not minding the implications or constitutional biasness. If it is unconstitutional for the Security Chiefs to be seen in political gatherings, why would they attend President Buhari’s campaign launch? “The little knowledge I have in politics, I am aware that in democracy there are things that are not done. But, this government always goes against such and when it gets to court, he will refuse to honour the courts. “The government will want to use its powers to compel Nigerians to dance according to its tune, but never want to be called to question when the need arises. “For the Service Chiefs to be present at political organisations, gatherings and meetings shows that they are already taking sides with the government in power against the generality of other Nigerians. “So, it is wrong for Service Chiefs to be in partisan politics on the course of the discharge of duties.” It Is An Aberration, Against The Doctrine Of Neutrality – PDP Chief Sunny Onuesoke, PDP chieftain and former PDP gubernatorial aspirant in Delta State, said: “The presence of the Services Chief at the launching of President Buhari’s campaign strategy, has already shown where the electoral pendulum will be swinging towards in the coming federal elections. “It is a total aberration and against the doctrine of neutrality. How on earth would Services Chief be attending a presidential flag off?  We have 76 presidential aspirants and the country’s Service Chief decided to attend only one. That shows a foul play and is as well telling the nation and the world that they are on the side of Buhari and APC.”