ENUGU – A head of the 2019 general elections, the Coalition of Nigerian Civil Society Organisations (COCSO) has endorsed Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Enugu State governor, for a second term. Willy Ezeugwu, the Convener, announced the endorsement at a press briefing in Enugu on Thursday. Ezeugwu said after their assessment of the governor’s performance in the last three years and a half, they were convinced that it was proper to support him for a second tenure. He said Ugwuanyi has done well in the provision of infrastructure and social amenities as well as education, youth empowerment and sports and therefore, deserved another term. “Arriving at this decision was challenging because civil society is known for its non-partisan posture. “However, as a coalition with special interest in good governance, the numerous landmark achievements of the present administration in Enugu State since Governor Ugwuanyi took the mantle of leadership have left us with no option than to make this public statement in support of his re-election,” Ezeugwu said. Typical of a man on rescue mission, he said the governor immediately embarked on aggressive infrastructure development across the state with unique focus on opening up rural areas, where the majority of the people reside. He noted that Enugu State currently enjoyed security of lives and property; the people could go about their farming and other businesses without fear. “Within the last three and a half years, it would be difficult to itemise all the achievements of Governor Ugwuanyi’s administration as the people have experienced remarkable infrastructure revolution, with the state spending over N45 billion on road reconstruction and rehabilitation across the state, covering no fewer than 300 kilometres. “To mention but a few, Enugu State Government has simultaneously carried out construction and reconstruction of over eight massive road projects in 9th Mile Corner, Nsukka, Abakpa Nike and Emene, among others. “The administration has, in addition to many ongoing projects in the state, completed works on projects started by the previous administration, including the state-of-the-art Enugu State Diagnostic Centre, the first of its kind in South-East geo-political zone, established to create hospital chains to make Enugu State the preferred destination for receiving high quality and affordable health care delivery in the country,” he said. Also reeling out Ugwuanyi’s achievements in education, healthcare, agriculture, commerce and industry, Ezeugwu maintained that Enugu State has been transformed in every area and they had no reason not to urge the people to re-elect Ugwuanyi to complete the good works he started.