Business School Netherlands (BSN), one of the leading global business schools founded in Europe has announced that 93 Nigerians have successfully completed their action learning MBA program and will be graduating as part of its 2018 set. The 18th graduation ceremony of the BSN took place recently at Scheveningen, The Hague in The Netherlands. BSN is a globally renowned business school, with accreditations from eight global institutions, and top tier in the list of notable schools across the world. BSN has several learning centers in 16 countries across the world. Nigeria is currently the second biggest BSN location in the world, and the school has on its current roll over 1,000 MBA students receiving coaching in the experiential action-learning paradigm pioneered by BSN. To date the school has graduated over 586 ‘Action Learning’ MBA researchers and executives. Speaking, Mr. Lere Baale, Chief Executive of Business School Netherlands Nigeria stated that the vision of Business School Netherlands is to be a global provider of excitingly different learning experiences that enable managers to learn faster than the prevailing rate of change. “We have kept true to our mission to contribute to higher education in management learning; and facilitate the development of African managers’ skills, knowledge, research capabilities and ability to take action with regards to the problems, prospects and challenges facing their own organisations.” BSN’s unique teaching and learning methods have earned the school accolades across the world and endeared it to students, graduates and employers, worldwide. He therefore enjoined Nigerians desirous of internationally acknowledged MBA certificates to save themselves the financial stress and mental rigor of funding and take advantage of the BSN’s presence in Nigeria to fulfill their ambitions. His reason is that “the BSN MBA is awarded centrally in the Netherlands. The over 586 people that have earned the BSN’s MBA through the Nigerian outreach have had to satisfy the requirements of the parent institution.” Baale further explained that what makes the school clearly differentiated is its proprietary “action learning” a scientific learning methodology, which enables BSN students to experience direct impact on what is learnt in themselves, their work, their organisations and their future. The programmes offered by the school carry the intrinsic character of the Action Learning methodology with a highly relevant approach to effective management development, which has proven to be one of the critical factors resulting in the business school’s current position as a leading provider of MBA Studies in Europe.