AWKA – The Public Complaints Commission (PCC) has waded into the Agbaedo Spare Parts Dealers Market, Nnewi, election crisis, counseling the parties to abide by its constitution and cultural ways of their hosts. The Federal Commissioner in Anambra, Mr. Sambem Nwosu, gave the admonition when he hosted leaders of the market in his office in Awka yesterday. The market leaders’ delegation included members of its Board of Trustees, patron, its chairman and the aggrieved parties. In his speech, the outgoing chairman of the market, Gabriel Chibueze, said they had not been able to hold election because a candidate who is not from the zone the position was micro-zoned to insist on contesting. Chibueze, whose tenure ended in June, said it was time for Nnewi people to produce chairman but a candidate was not respecting the rotation principle among the four towns of Nnewi. According to him, “Our market constitution says natives and nonnatives of Nnewi will take position after the other but there is an existing principle of rotation among them. “Otolo people are supposed to give us candidates who we can choose from but a particular candidate from Umudim is trying to scuttle that internal arrangement. “Nnewi has a process for producing whoever will take their turn, I have advised all the parties to adhere to it, I am happy with the way PPC has handled the matter.” Also speaking, Chief Edward Muozom, leader of Traders Association, corroborated that Otolo should produce the chairman of the market as the other villages; Nnewi-Ichi, Uruagu and Umudim were heading other markets. Muozom said they were at the PCC as an alternative dispute resolution body for a win-win solution for all parties. He said the matter has been taken to a number of places for settlement including the traditional ruler of Nnewi and other important sons of town who advised that Otolo should take turn. On his part, Mr Dennis Ikegwuonu, the candidate from Umudim said he would only abide by the constitution of the market, which was silent on how Nnewi should present candidate. Ikegwuonu said he was not aware of any sharing formula internal to Nnewi and that it did not apply to affairs of the market if it existed. “I came out to contest chairmanship after people urged me to do so, our constitution says its Nnewi’s turn but they are saying it is rotational among the four villages but I am not aware of it. “I have been screened and certified to contest but surprisingly they postponed the election asking me to step down for the Otolo candidate but I will go and tell my supporters what was resolved here,” he said. But in resolving the matter Nwosu said the position of entire Nnewi town on the matter was important since the constitution has zone the position to them. “In conducting our affair, we must respect our people, your constitution says Nnewi should produce the next chairman, it is now an internal matter to Nnewi people to decide the community that will produce. “This is what has kept the town together as a unit and it should be respected at all-time an in all places so far it is their collective right, so I encourage you to obey the words of your people,” he said. Nwosu said the market election would hold on December 13, adding that an election committee to include representatives of PCC, the police, DSS, Nnewi North Council, BoT and chairman would be constituted. He said all activities before now were void and that a new election process would commence in earnest.