The CBN’s aggressive interventions in the foreign exchange market, has continued to enjoy supports from economic experts in the country. Adedoyin Salami, economist and senior lecturer, Lagos Business School, is one of those economists who are happy with the CBN’s interventions. According to Salami, the CBN intervenes in the foreign exchange market because the law empowers the apex bank to do so. He said everywhere in the world the central banks intervenes. He said even in the United States, the US treasury intervenes. Salami, who spoke on the topic: ‘From recession to election: The Nigerian economy and business environment,’ said there is no country in the world where the central bank leaves its currency to the free flow of market indices. “So, to say that the Nigerian CBN is intervening, yes it is within their powers. To me that is not a problem. But in the Investors and Exporters, I and E window that I can understand because it is beyond our control,” he said. According to Salami, the CBN is comfortably intervening in the FOREX market because the reserves have risen. He noted that in the last few months the reserves increased because of some environmental factors, such as oil prices. He stated that oil prices had doubled since it dropped between $27 and $32 per barrel. He said Nigeria came out of recession because of the increase in oil price and oil production. “Oil production has increased by 26 per cent in the last a year and half. Like I said you have seen what price and production have done. The Director in charge of Corporate Communications of CBN, Mr. Isaac Okorafor, said that the CBN is convinced that its intervention in the market is targeted at boosting production and trade in addition to sustaining liquidity in the market. According to him, the CBN would not relent in its resolve to make the inter-bank forex market liquid, stressing that the bank was committed to driving economic growth and guaranteeing stability in the market. Okorafor also reiterated that the bank’s intervention had effectively checked the activities of speculators, assuring that the bank would continue to monitor, thoroughly, the activities of authorised dealers in order to checkmate possible sharp practices. “Forex activities by monetary authorities do not necessarily have a terminal date. They go on as long as there is need to stabilize the market, he said”. But Dr Obadiah Mailafia, a former Deputy Governor of CBN, believed that it should not continue forever. According to him, CBN is “trying to reach a point where speculators will have confidence in the economy.    But the rate we are going it is no longer affordable. It cannot continue forever. There is lack of confidence in the economic policies of the country. That is the cause of the speculation of the dollars. We need to have confidence in the economy. As long as there is no confidence in the economy, there will always be speculation on the dollar. “To spoon-feed the system is not the source of the problem. The source of the problem is the lack of confidence in the system as a whole. The CBN has to work on that to return people’s confidence in the system so that the pressure on the Naira will be relieved.” Professor Pat Utomi, a political economist, in his views believes that the series of interventions should help grow some targeted sectors which should be given time to grow, they should become capable of generating foreign exchange for themselves. “If, for example, take a rubber value chain. And you become a producer of rubber component for Nigeria, eventually from the export of manufactured goods in the rubber value chain, Nigeria can probably earn more money than what it is earning from crude oil today.” He added: “Sectorally, we need a certain amount of industrial policy. Industrial policy means that we have targeted sectors, and those targeted sectors should receive some special advantages for a certain period of time during which they should become dominant global players that will bring added advantage to the economy. I don’t think we should have liberal policy because we need to grow certain value chains for the economy to thrive and be sustainable long term. Ultimately during the period, the entities will be given time to grow, they should become capable of generating the foreign exchange not just self-sufficiency.” According to Associate Professor, Department of Banking and Finance, Nasarawa State University, Uche Uwaleke, CBN’s intervention and rationing of foreign exchange is very vital because of the economic challenges we are facing as a nation. “That is our only option because there is a huge mismatch between demand and supply of forex. Demand is averaging about $4 billion but supply from CBN is about 1 billion and so under such circumstance, the apex bank has no option than to ration forex and create special windows for the critical sectors of the economy. That is the way to go. But on when this intervention will end and things return to normal, it is difficult to say because we have not diversified our economy fully enough to have multiple forex earnings. We are still dependent on oil about 90 per cent and yet oil price crashed few days ago. It is now around $47 per barrel close to what our budget was estimated on. It was over $50 a barrel few months back but has come down. It’s a very volatile sector. But we have a three-year Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) and it is when we see the success generated before we can say CBN should not ration or intervene in forex issues. Until the economy picks up and runs progressively, CBN has to come in. Mohammed Garuba, a founding Partner/Director of CardinalStone Partners Limited, a Lagos-based investment banking firm, pointed out that the inflow of forex to a large extent would determine the performance of the Nigerian economy. “If you observe, even with high oil prices the external reserves have been dropping. Yet, we haven’t started spending for capital expenditure. Almost every week, at the end of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting, they would announce approvals running into billion and all these are from the reserves.