IBADAN – Residents of Mesiogo Estate in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, on Sunday raised an alarm over continuous harassment and threat by men of the 2nd Division, Nigerian Army, Odogbo, Ibadan, over alleged claims to land belonging to the community. The residents of the community that are now living in fear have appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari and other concerned Nigerians to urgently wade into the matter. The resident informed that a letter directing them to evacuate their belongings latest tomorrow (Monday, November 26, 2018) by the Nigerian Army has continued to give them sleepless nights. Mr. Amos Ishola, spokesperson of residents of Mesiogo community, who addressed newsmen on Sunday insisted that claims by the Nigerian army to the land in question belonged to them was not true. Ishola alleged that the authority of the Nigerian Army was trying to circumvent the ongoing court processes with the letter issued. He added that the Army’s letter entitled, “Final quit notice of possession of Nigerian Army land at Adekunle Fajuyi cantonment Ibadan” dated November 12, 2018, demanding hundreds of thousands from landowners in the community was another grandstanding effort to take laws into their hands and use coercive power on ‘bloody civilians’ living in the area. A letter was written to one of the landlords by the Army authority, Mr. Yinka Oyeniyi and signed by EM Mafuyai, a Colonel on behalf of the GOC, 2 Division, stated that the affected landlord quit within 14 days of receipt of the letter or be ready to pay N780, 000 to the Recovery Committee of the Nigerian Army at Adekunle Fajuyi Cantonment, Ibadan latest November 26 (today) or risk being “forcefully ejected from the land and all rights of allocation made to you shall be revoked.” Ishola while speaking further said the Nigerian Army was hell-bent on wrecking the helpless citizens and further subject them to undue trauma by their latest letter, adding that, many had through the earlier threats been sent to early graves. He urged President Muhammadu Buhari to prevail on the military authority to abide by the law and allow the ongoing matter to be dispensed within the spirit of equity, justice and fair play. Ishola said, “Many of us are jobless. We are not taking up arms and we are helpless and harmless but we still have our right in a democratic dispensation; our rights to a fair hearing, justice should not be taken for granted. We are already before the court of competent jurisdiction and they should allow equity, justice and fairness to prevail in determining the matter purely on its merit. “They have their claim and we have our own claim too, let the court decide the matter on its merit. We are a set of defenseless people and we don’t want any trouble visited on us and our family members. “We procured all the necessary documents for acquisition development of our property and they were duly registered with appropriate authorities. It is with both the state and local government. Some of us had C of O signed by a military administrator; a soldier himself who would never have appended his signature on a property belonging to the military. “He must have ensured that all due processes were followed and the professionals in the land ministry, especially the surveyor-general would have ensured that there was no encumbrance before the governor gave out the CofO to some of our members”. Daily Independent gathered that Oyo State High Court 11 presided over by Justice Ladiran Akintola had last year ruled that status quo be maintained on the land, pending the final determination of the case instituted by Mesiogo Landlords Association. The community had also written a letter dated November 19, 2018, to the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Survey, Secretariat, Ibadan requesting for urgent intervention and clearance of Mesi-Ogo “Deed of conveyance dated March 3, 1965, and registered as no page 60 in volume 826 at the Lands Registry, Ibadan”.