LAGOS – Razak Jaiyeola, President of the Institute of Chartered Accountant of Nigeria (ICAN), has affirmed that growth and development would continue to elude any nation where corruption is institutionalised and the willpower to confront it frontally is low. Jaiyeola stated this on Wednesday during the 62nd induction ceremony of 1760 new members at the ICAN Centre in Amuwo Odofin, Lagos. He said that ICAN members cannot shy away from the fact that accountants have strategic roles to play in the current fight against the hydra-headed monster of corruption in our polity. Jaiyeola therefore charged the new inductees, and other accountants, to continue to bring their competence and culture of integrity to bear in the fight against the social malady. He said that ICAN is not resting on its oars at supporting government in its effort to stamp out all financial malpractices in the country, adding that the ICAN Accountability Index (ICAN AI) first report launched at the last Accountants’ Conference had been applauded by various stakeholders as a laudable initiative. “The Index aims at improving the process for assessing public finance management and public governance practices across the three tiers of the Nigerian public sector including the Federal, State and Local Governments. “Let me reiterate that as a responsible institute, we are committed to promoting the interests of all our members by engaging the government and other stakeholders on discussions that would safeguard an enabling business environment. Exceptional professional conduct would also be acknowledged and projected for emulation by other members,” he said. The ICAN President further stated that ICAN would not hesitate to mete out appropriate sanctions on any erring member nor tolerate any form of professional misdemeanor, stressing that the council would deploy the machinery of the Institute’s Disciplinary processes on any case of deviance from the profession’s tenets. Speaking further he said that the institute continues to pride itself in the fact that the standards of its examinations comply strictly with that specified by IFAC and this has positioned it as a leading global professional body. “To ensure that ICAN students are in tune with developments in the global accounting space, we regularly update and upgrade our examinations’ syllabi in line with current realities.” He advised the new inductees to continue to imbibe the culture of lifelong learning for them to continue to be relevant in the profession. “Your Information Technology skills should remain top-notch. The ability to leverage the disruptive impact of technology would continue to differentiate the successful accountants from the unsuccessful. “The demand on professional accounts to remain at the frontiers of professional knowledge has never been so pervasive and exacting.  It is this stark realisation that made the institute to refocus its Mandatory Continuing Professional Education (MCPE) in line with the emerging trends,” he added.