Uyo – A gubernatorial candidate on the platform of Democratic Alternative (DA), Mr. Johnson Attah, has challenged Akwa Ibom youths to grow beyond the vicious circle of being used once every four years as political thugs. Attah expressed regret that Nigerian youths have continued to relegate themselves to mere instruments of violence rather than stakeholders and deciding factor in the nation’s political system. In a chat with newsmen in Uyo on Thursday, the governorship candidate said it was high time young Nigerians developed themselves so that they would be given the opportunity to ascend to leadership positions, stressing that potential is embedded in young people. On his intention for Akwa Ibom State as governor, Attah who pledged to turn Akwa Ibom State into a destination for business if elected governor of the state in 2019, said his strong roots in business and wealth of experience would turn the state into a business hub. He advised Akwa Ibom people to vote individuals trusted to have the best interest to the state at heart, expressing optimism that he will emerge governor in 2019 given his personality and wealth of experience. His words; “I have enough experience in business and I will turn this state to a business hub, I will help the people of Akwa Ibom State to learn to approach business differently, most of the things our people embark on and reap little are due to approaches, I will help our people to realize that they are sitting on gold. “I will prove to the people of the state that it’s not a rocket science to pay salaries to teachers and give them enabling environment to impart knowledge on their students, neither is it a rocket science to boost the internally generated revenue of the state just like Lagos State. “I will boost the internally generated revenue of the state by maximising the potential in the waterways; it’s all about putting the right things in place. This country is blessed with industries that are looking for where to thrive, there’s the need to look inwards and explore opportunities inherent in local industries”.