Lagos – Thomas Dennerby, Super Falcons Head Coach, beliefs the team will beat Zambia and Equatorial Guinea and qualify for the semifinals of the ongoing 11th Women’s Africa Cup of Nations finals in Ghana. Eight–time champions, Nigeria, suffered a shock setback in their opening game, losing 0-1 to South Africa in Cape Coast on Sunday, meaning they must win their two remaining Group B matches to be sure of a place in the tournament last four. “We have ruminated over the defeat and everyone is focused on what we have to do to get to the next stage. It will not be easy but the players have expressed determination to win every match from this stage so that we can progress and qualify for the FIFA World Cup, as a first objective. “We are the defending champions and we have to show that spirit from the next match against the Zambians.” Zambia beat Equatorial Guinea 5-0 in the other match of Group B. The Super Falcons have never failed to qualify for the FIFA World Cup, since FIFA launched the global finals in 1991. Official confirmed on Monday that players and team officials have now been paid their daily allowances for the camping programme in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire prior to the tournament, while money is being sourced to offset the allowances for camping in Epe, Lagos State. Defeat by South Africa means the Super Falcons are not entitled to any match bonus yet in Ghana. However, Tade Azeez, President of the Nigeria (Football) Referees Association (NRA), believes that for Falcons to keep alive their hopes of qualifying for next year’s FIFA Women’s World Cup in France, the team must beat She-polopolo of Zambia on Wednesday. “It is going to be tough for Falcons for them to keep alive their hopes of qualifying for the World Cup in France, they must beat the Zambians on Wednesday,” said Azeez. “Anything short of victory will see them crash out of the competition and thus ending their dreams of playing at the World Cup in France. “Am sure the coach and the players know what to do and they must do it very well because the Zambians have also proved to be a force to reckon with in the competition. Meanwhile, South Africa will attempt to pick the semifinal ticket when they take on Equatorial Guinea in their second Group B match also on Wednesday.