November 20th is a historical and remarkable day. The United Nations’ General Assembly declared this day as “Africa Industrialisation Day.” Imagine the entire world celebrating African Industrialisation Day. This is serious! The essence of this celebration, I understand, is to raise awareness about the importance of industrialisation in Africa and also to highlight, and if possible, address some of the challenges facing African industrialisation. The theme of 2018 Africa Industrialisation Day is “Promoting Regional Value Chains in Africa: A pathway for accelerating Africa’s structural transformation, industrialisation and pharmaceutical production.” This theme is meant to boost health through Pharmaceutical production which will eventually enhance job-creation. Before the era of industrialisation, goods were produced manually. Productions were mainly hand-made by craftsmen. As you can imagine the processes of goods production were time and energy consuming. Moreover, the available products were very limited and expensive. With Industrialization, however, the means of production were mechanised and most products are now produced in large quantity, with lesser energy and time consumption. Industry, therefore, is a group of manufacturers that produce a particular kind of goods or services, usually in a large scale. Industrialisation itself is the process in which a society transforms itself from rural agricultural society into the urban manufacturing of goods and services. It occurs when industry is introduced on a large scale to a given country. A country is said to be industrialised when its economy goes from being based on manual agriculture to being based on mechanised manufacturing and other industries. Most political leaders in Africa have promise their citizens industrialised development with industrial benefits such as massive employment, portable water supply, good roads, health care centers and regular power supply. Unfortunately, nothing seems to be happening. The youths are yet to be employed. Job creation is slower than ever. Even the ability to maintain existing industries is a very big challenge facing the continent. Our Political leaders are still traveling to London and other Western Countries for their health care. They could not even build befitting and well equipped hospitals in their own countries. We still refine our crude oil outside our countries. It’s a shame! With this, one may ask, is industrialisation possible in Africa, where leaders are literally forcing their citizens to go back to agriculture through manual labour? When will Africa experience its industrialisation? What exactly is delaying African industrialisation? Tony Osborg even asked, “Can Nigeria bake her own Bread? According to him, “It seems the world has become more integrated to the extent that a country that fails to produce its own basic consumables will end up consuming its whole income in outsourcing them.” If this is the case, Nigeria is in trouble! Incidentally, Africa stands a better chance to industrialised more than any other continent in the world. Most of the raw materials that are used in big industries are located here in Africa. For instance, Nigeria is among the oil producing countries in the world. Nigeria is blessed with crude oil that can comfortably serve the entire African continent. Unfortunately the greatest challenge facing Nigeria over the years is how to transform this natural resources into major industries and refineries. Our leaders are not even ready to encourage or at least improve local refineries. The fastest growing industry in Nigeria is the entertainment and sex industry. The politicians are ever ready to sponsor and even invest into the entertainment industry because they use it to distract the youths from reasoning. Entertainment, no matter the amount one gains from it, has little or nothing to do with African industrialisation. African industrialisation, on the other hand, requires the creation of enabling environment that enhances domestic capacity in respect of physical and social infrastructure, human capital building, research and technical development with good governance. African Industrialisation cannot take place without the youths. The youths have vital role to play as long as African industrialisation is concerned. The youths are the vehicles through which African industrialisation thrives. They are the force that propels industrialisation.  The youths have all the potentials it takes to take African industrialisation to a higher level. Industrialisation itself begins with a vision or insight. When properly harnessed and nurtured this vision grows into big establishments and industries. Such visions come from the youths. The youths are endowed with vision, insights and creativity. The Lord God spoke through the prophet of Joel 2:28 “Afterward I will pour out my spirit on all flesh; your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions…” Our youths are not as lazy or empty as some old politicians thought, they are great prophets and prophetess. Among them are visionaries, people with insights and initiatives. Our young people are creative and innovative. Unfortunately, they exist in the midst of vision killers, people who do not know the value of vision. What our young people lack is encouragement and support. Those of them who have the capacity to take African industrialization to a greater height are not encouraged. For instance, here in Nigeria the government cannot build refineries. They cannot even maintain existing refineries. Yet, we have talented young men and women who are into local refinery. Instead of training and empowering these young talents the government have always used their security agencies to discourage and killed these young talents. A country where young people have to pay through their nose before they could establish their own enterprises is not ready for industrialisation. A country where military men, police and other security agencies are going about terrorising young entrepreneurship is directly fighting against its industrialisation. A country where young people have no direct access to grant/loan for the development of their businesses and initiative is far behind the altar of industrialisation. A country that denies young people the license to establish local industries can never attain industrialisation. African industrialisation begins at home and it must begin in a humble way. After all, a journey of many miles begins with a step. The first step towards African industrialisation is to encourage youth education and training. By education I don’t mean the present system of education that is theoretical. What we need as long as industrialisation is concerned is technical and practical education. We need a system of education where mechanical engineer student will graduate from school only to start looking for job but graduating with the passion to establish his own mechanical workshop, where other young road-side mechanics can be gainfully employed. We need an educational system where a medical doctor graduates only to start looking for political appointment or election but an education system where a medical doctor will graduate with the passion to open his own hospital, especially in rural areas where there are no hospitals. We need an educational system where Agricultural students will graduate not to be looking for jobs in urban cities but graduates with the passion to establish a mechanized and industrialised farming, which can as well create job for other young people. Above all, We need an educational system where Pharmacy students will graduate with the passion to establish a pharmaceutical centres, especially in rural areas where people at the rural areas will have access to pharmaceutical services. With time such pharmaceutical centers could even develop to a level where other science students could visit to carry out their pharmaceutical researches. In a nutshell, what we need in Africa is industrialized minded system of education and governance. Such system cannot exist without youths who have passion for industrialisation. We equally need good leaders who are ready to do the needful by releasing grants and establishing favorable laws where the youths can excel. With this, I believe, we can lay an unshakable foundation for African Industrialisation.