ENUGU – Bina Foundation for People with Special Needs, an Enugu-based nonprofit organization, at the weekend hosted a special wedding reception for one of its physically challenged students, former Miss Christiana Nnedi Ochi, and her heartthrob, Simeon James Chukwu. The wedding reception took place on the premises of Bina Foundation, Thinkers Corner, Enugu, shortly after the couple tied the nuptial knot in church before family members, friends and well-wishers. The bride, Christiana from Afa town, Udi LGA of Enugu State, moves in a wheelchair, following a spinal cord injury that she sustained in a road accident seven years ago. Simeon, who hails from Ohozara in Ebonyi State, however, chose to spend the rest of his life with Christiana not minding her disability. Speaking with journalists at the wedding reception, Christiana thanked God for what He used Bina Foundation to do in her life. “Today is my best day in my life. It is the long awaited day in my life. What I could not celebrate when I thought I was fit, I am celebrating it now in a wheel chair. “I was once fit. I had this problem in 2011. I had an accident when I was going to work. I worked with National Identity Management Commission (NIMC). I was disengaged in 2012. “Somebody directed me to Bina and told me that if I come there, things that I thought I could not do, I will do them and today, I am not regretting coming here. I did computer training here. I did shoe and bag making and I am in the music band,” Christiana said. She urged other Nigerians who are privileged to emulate Bina Foundation, which has been transforming the lives of physically challenged persons like her. Chukwu, the groom thanked Bina Foundation, which brought him together with Christiana. “It is a great search and finally found. So, I am happy. It is this foundation that brought us together. I am a transporter and on her way coming here, I brought her to this place. “When I started coming close to her, I saw the qualities in her and overcame the wheel chair to marry her. The passion came after seeing her. It is not easy to see someone in a wheel chair smiling. She is a woman who has an idea in every situation. She is somebody who can give you an idea in every situation” Chukwu said. The Founder and Chairman, Bina Foundation, Lady Ifeoma Atuegwu, described the wedding as special. Lady Atuegwu who was represented by her brother, Mr. Amobi Chikwendu, gave glory to God for what she used Bina Foundation to do in the life of Christiana.