Chief Chekwas Okorie, National Chairman, United Progressive Party (UPP), in this interview with CELESTINE OKAFOR, spoke on current issues affecting the major political parties as the nation marches towards the 2019 general elections. Excerpt: You recently said that President Muhammadu Buhari is the best bet for South East if the zone has its eyes on the 2023 presidential slot. Would you say you are supporting President Buhari in 2019? First, I have been passionate about the Igbo man becoming president of Nigeria. It is one objective that has never been achieved since Nigeria’s independence. The present political structure of Nigeria has made it even more difficult for the Igbo man to emerge as president. That was what motivated me to found APGA (All Progressive Grand Alliance) and it zoned its presidential slot then to the South East so that our people could participate. The situation was so difficult such that we couldn’t even participate in a major presidential contest, not to talk of losing. Great Igbo political leaders like former Vice President, Dr Alex Ekwueme, Senator Chuba Okadigbo and Chief Edwin Umezoke, tried to be  president, but couldn’t. So, when we founded APGA, it made it possible for late Dim Chukwuemeka Odimegwu Ojukwu to become a presidential candidate. The fact that Ojukwu flew the APGA presidential flag at that time gave me some joy, notwithstanding what eventually happened to APGA. Much to my pain, the same APGA that was supposed to give the Igbo man the opportunity to contest for the highest office of the land and engage the rest of the country politically like late Owelle Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe did in the First and Second Republics, adopted the PDP presidential flagbearer as its candidate in the 2011 general elections. In 2012, l founded UPP (United Progressive Party) and no Igboman came up to contest the presidency on its platform. The party was compelled to nominate me to run for the presidency in 2015, just two months to the elections. Though the two months was for me enough time to make my mission known. I participated in a presidential debate where l squared up with former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan and a few others. At least, people appreciated that l had a mission then. But, the Igbos seem to have always preferred the PDP above other parties. You have seen the outcome of that preference over time. When the PDP lost the election in 2015, the party set up the Senator Ike Ekweremadu committee, which immediately zoned the presidential ticket of the party to the north for the 2019. They did that in 2015. Then l looked at that and saw clearly within them that there is some kind of unwritten rotational arrangement in the Nigeria’s democratic culture, which has become a kind of convention, rotating between the north and the south. I looked at Obasanjo era, after which the PDP moved to late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua and then to Goodluck Jonathan, after which it went back to the north under President Muhammadu Buhari of the APC. With what the PDP had done by electing former Vice President Atiku Abubakar as its presidential flag bearer for 2019, anybody from the south running for the presidency at this time is just swimming against the tide. In our party, UPP, we looked at it and decided that we won’t field any presidential candidate for the 2019 elections. Rather, we resolved to use between 2019 and 2023 to strength our party structure so as to consolidate. Now, as a realistic politician, l don’t do my politics based on sentiment. Aside from wanting an Igbo man to run for the president, l also have to be very strategic in my thinking. So, what is the outcome of your strategy? Very simple! President Buhari does not have more than four more years to be president. So, he will finish his second term as constitutionally guaranteed by 2023. Should PDP return to power, it will be in power for eight years. The same PDP was in power for 16 consecutive years. As an Igbo man, l look back on those 16 years of PDP and see nothing that it started and completed in the South East zone. Not one project! By 2023, everybody will expect the south to produce the next president. You can’t wish away the South West in the 2023 presidential calculation. Sometimes our people underestimate the power of the party chairman. Someone like Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu spent his resources to ensure the emergence of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as national chairman of the ruling APC. Unless anything happens to him (Oshiomhole) as it is threatening to happen to him now, the national chairman has tremendous powers to decide or throw up whatever processes that would determine who flies the presidential flag of the APC. Now, you also have a Vice President in the person of Prof Yemi Osinbajo who has been very loyal to his principal, President Buhari. It has got to a point that his principal transmitted power to him when he went for medical treatment and the government was very much intact without any tampering with what the president left behind. When our people look back and say that in 2023 the presidency will come to the South East as if it is by executive fiat, l see that as not being political enough. The Igbos of the South East have to earn the 2023 presidency. Nothing says that our Igbo politicians in APC cannot contest for president in 2023. But, we have to contribute sufficient votes to make that type of claim in APC. But, in UPP, it is already an established policy that has not been changed that its presidential candidate will continue to come from the South East until it is actualised. What that means is that if the APC picks their presidential candidate from the South West, the UPP will pick ours from the South East. The only difference there will be in their capacity to lobby for support because neither the South West nor the South East can make a president on their own. So, the moment the PDP loses this 2019 presidential election as it is likely to lose, it will become a shadow of itself. But, if by 2023 the PDP or the APC decides to choose its presidential candidate from the South East, the UPP will collaborate. All l want to see is to see an Igbo man becomes president of Nigeria even if it is for a short moment. l believe such person will be a great president no matter who he is. The reason is very simple. There is no ethnic group that is so widespread in Nigeria like the Igbo people. So, if you are talking about a president that will regard Nigeria as its own constituency, then you can think of an Igbo man. I am only being realistic here. The South West is not investing their time and support in APC just to hand over power to the South East.  The South East must be strategic in their planning and thinking. Why do you think the South East is always having a raw deal politically? The truth is that the South East is too political naive. We have this penchant to put our eggs in one basket politically all the time. Look at the north today. Come 2019, head or tail, a northerner will be president of Nigeria. Head or tail, a Fulani man will be president of Nigeria. That is what is facing us now. Even the PDP winning or APC winning, the South West is not out of government. The Yorubas are almost equally divided in these two major political parties. The aspect of the South South in the calculation of both parties is even more interesting. The South South is totally in control of the machinery of the APC and PDP by virtue of holding the national chairmanship of both parties. So, whichever way in 2019, the South South is firmly in government. Then you come to the Middle Belt region, the same thing obtains. The Middle Belt is almost equally divided in the two parties. Then you come to the South East, with all our sophistication, our education and exposure, all you see is a major zone trying to put their political egg in one basket. Even a cultural organisation like the Ohanaeze is taking a partisan position as if partisanship has not done enough damage to the Ohanaeze Ndigbo. So, you look at it and ask what has happened to us the Igbos. Is it because the likes of the great Zik of Africa is no longer around that we cannot put our house in order? But, l will always do my best. I thank God that quite a number of people understand me. We have millions of Igbo people outside the South East who are eligible voters. I am not talking about the population. I will reach out to all of these people and share my thoughts with them so that we can make some claims in 2023. You said that PDP may not return to power in 2019. What makes you think that APC will retain power? It is a simple political mathematics. Our constitution has said that for you to be qualified to rule Nigeria, the presidential candidate of any political party must win a minimum of 24 states, which is two third of the states plus the FCT. Only two parties, the PDP and the APC, have the capacity to meet this constitutional requirement. I don’t see the possibility of a run-off under that arrangement. Now, the constitution further said that once that requirement can be met, the winner will now be the one with a simple majority. That simple majority can be anything from one to 1,000 or 2,000. Look at the attitude of our people in the South East. We are very vocal even in the social media and in the conventional media, both electronic and print. Look at the attitude of President Buhari’s strong base. They vote in millions. As chairman of a political party, l have my own soft copy of the number or population of people that have registered for voting in the 2019 elections, which INEC has given to all the political parties. When you look at these numbers, you will see that we are talking like people who think that votes will be manufactured overnight. l don’t think after meeting the constitutional requirements, majority of the votes going to the PDP’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. Secondly, l have a personal issue with the PDP. l remain an Igbo rights crusader which l have been for the past 42 years. I regard PDP as a political party that has the greatest hatred for the Igbo people of the South East. PDP designed the fall and decimation of the Igbo race. Why do you say that? At the commencement of this political dispensation, PDP was one of the three political parties that were registered (PDP, APP and AD). Then PDP assured Dr Alex Ekwueme that for his loyalty to former President Shehu Shagari in the Second Republic, that the party would settle for him as its 1999 presidential candidate. The military junta under General Abdulsalami Abubakar ensured that the presidential primary came after the Houses of Assembly and governorship elections had taken place. And because of this propaganda that if Ekwueme shifts the votes of the South East to the PDP that the party would use it to compensate him for his loyalty, the South East then voted overwhelmingly for the PDP in those legislative Houses and governorship elections. Moreover, PDP had a policy that any presidential candidate or aspirant who did not deliver his area in his geo-political zone, will not be eligible to stand for the presidential primary election, which took place in Jos. That was to make the aspirants go home and work hard since politics they say is local. Our people in Igboland took up the challenge and ensured that Dr Alex Ekwueme was in a strong position to meet the requirement of the party. As soon as that was done and they saw that they had sucked the entire Igbo people to PDP, the party changed the policy and said that that policy of delivering your area to the party was no longer a condition. So, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who did not even win in his local ward, not to talk of his local government or state, was now manipulated into that office as presidential candidate. They called him ‘the man we can trust’. The Igbo people felt very bad because they have never seen such magnitude of political 419 like what PDP did to them. They now produced Obasanjo with the five Igbo states votes in PDP. After that, what has happened? PDP ensured that not a single federal presence was felt in Igboland for the entire 16 years that they were in power. PDP also ensured that Igboland was dug up here and there and no construction project was completed. Notwithstanding that we had five Senate Presidents. You name them: the late Senator Evans Enwerem, the first Senate President, late Senator Chuba Okadigbo, then Senator Pius Anyim, then Senator Adolphus Wabara and Senator Ken Nnamani in that order, five of them from the five South East states within a short space of time. A Senate president is number three citizen in the hierarchy of power in the country. Yet, the Owerri airport in Imo State was built by community efforts of Igbo businessmen and tax payers. That airport is a cargo airport built by the people and handed over to the Federal Government without compensation. All that the people of the area wanted was for the Federal Government to install the necessary equipment for that cargo airport to be used. But, it did not have proper landing facilities because most of the cargo airplanes land in the night and a good runway, a good lighting system was necessary. If that cargo airport was working as proposed, most of our Igbo business people who fly their goods will be landing at Owerri, no matter the high cost of air freight. It is cheaper to fly the goods to Owerri cargo airport than to allow the goods to remain at the Apapa wharf in Lagos and incure huge demurrage at the sea port. There was a time the PDP government of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo seized more than 14,000 containers of goods belonging to the Igbo businessmen. By the time he decided to release them after delaying them to the extent that all the perishable goods went bad, the Igbos had incurred huge loses. But, our people in the South East seem to have forgotten all these things so easily. I can go on and on to narrate the Igbo woes under the PDP. Then, l can also narrate my own personal encounter with Obasanjo.