Dan Ochonma When you’re fighting corruption as President Muhammadu Buhari has done over the last three and half years, it is difficult to escape the sharpened knives of critics on the way and manner in which you handle projects’ initiation, execution and final completion. President Buhari has been accused of commissioning projects of his immediate predecessors, rather than those he initiated. The recession cautioned it enough on the futility of immediately lunging into several new projects – with the usually attendant huge, but largely inflated billions involved in such projects-just as the past administrations before it. The script, largely unwritten has always been to discard every project of your predecessor. Buhari, even for all his anti-graft virtues, will never do that. There was the worry that would review the valuation of such projects and cancelling them. The President, as a deliberately thought-out policy, has been completing and commissioning projects either started or abandoned by his predecessors as ‘part of the agenda to right all the wrongs done by the previous governments before him’. The President in July 2016, inaugurated the Abuja -Kaduna railway for commercial operation – a project conceived and started by the erstwhile administration of President Goodluck Jonathan, but completed by the current administration. As Nigeria’s first high speed rail that will run on speeds greater than 100 km/hr for both cargo and human coaches at an estimated value of $1.04 billion, would it have been better if the President and his administration had left the project to waste ? In that case, there will be only one loser: Nigerians. In the last three years, President Buhari has executed projects worth over $5 billion. These projects which are in the areas of infrastructure and human capacity development were done with the support of the Chinese. Speaking in Beijing China recently, the President said Nigeria’s partnership with China through the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) has resulted in the execution of vital infrastructure projects across the country, valued at over $5 billion. According to the president, the Chinese support to Nigeria has also impressively addressed significant challenges in the areas of power, transport, agriculture and humanitarian assistance. “For Nigeria, our partnership with China through the FOCAC platform, has resulted in the construction of the first urban rail system in West Africa. This $500 million project in Abuja was commissioned in July this year. ‘The president also cited the construction and operation of the first rail system in Africa that used modern Chinese standards and technology. “This 180-km rail line that connects Abuja and Kaduna was commissioned two years ago at a cost of $500 million”. In the thinking of the President, the Chinese support to Nigeria has also impressively addressed significant challenges in the areas of power, transport, agriculture and humanitarian assistance.  “For Nigeria, our partnership with China through the FOCAC platform, has resulted in the construction of the first urban rail system in West Africa. This $500 million project in Abuja was commissioned in July this year.’’ Again for President Buhari, what counts more than any other in the execution and funding of projects is the economic recovery and growth of Nigeria-much more than who initiated and who completed what projects. “These vital infrastructure projects synchronise perfectly with our Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. Some of the debts incurred are self-liquidating. Our country is able to re-pay loans as and when due in keeping with our policy of fiscal prudence and sound housekeeping.” While dispelling insinuations about the so-called death trap by Chinese government on developing countries, he insist that Nigeria would repay every loan she has taken from China. These vital infrastructure projects synchronise perfectly with our Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. “Some of the debts incurred are self-liquidating. Our country is able to re-pay loans as and when due in keeping with our policy of fiscal prudence and sound housekeeping,” he had said while dispelling insinuations about the so-called death trap by Chinese government on developing countries, insisting that Nigeria would be able to repay every loan she has taken from China. The president also cited the construction and operation of the first rail system in Africa that used modern Chinese standards and technology. “This 180-km rail line that connects Abuja and Kaduna was commissioned two years ago at a cost of $500 million. “Today, the rail line is functioning efficiently with no issues – indeed, a sign that Chinese technology is world class,” he noted. President Buhari said that, “Nigeria is leveraging Chinese funding to execute $3.4 billion worth of projects at various stages of completion. These he listed to include the upgrading of airport terminals, the Lagos – Kano rail line, the Zungeru hydroelectric power project and fibre cables for our internet infrastructure. “Furthermore, less than three months ago, Nigeria signed an additional $1 billion loan from China for additional rolling stock for the newly constructed rail lines as well as road rehabilitation and water supply projects.” The Nigerian leader said that the aforementioned projects had demonstrated the high level of consistency and commitment China had shown in boosting its relations with African countries under the umbrella of FOCAC. “I am optimistic that this Summit will offer new opportunities that would build on these past achievements. “Nigeria will continue to support the FOCAC initiative and also seek to key into the Belt and Road Initiative.” For President Buhari, what counts more is the economic recovery and growth of Nigeria-much more than who initiated and who completed what projects. “These vital infrastructure projects synchronise perfectly with our Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. Appreciation for Buhari’s performance in projects delivery has never been in short supply as more Nigerians continue to laud the implementation of policies and projects of the Federal Government aimed at improving the standard of living in the country. When the leadership of Kano Traders Association led by Alhaji Ahmed Sani, Chairman of Kanti Kwari Traders Association visited him recently in Daura, Katsina State, President Buhari pledged that his administration would not relent in doing the necessary, to create jobs, expand trade and encourage greater productivity. Next, the President told some members of the business community that under the Government Enterprises and Empowerment Programme (GEEP) and the CBN Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), more traders and farmers had expanded their trade and increased food production. This he attributed to the free interest loans GEEP had provided to farmers while the N40 billion ABP targets rice farmers across the country to boost their production.  President Buhari noted some of the policies and projects were misconstrued by some critics at the beginning of this administration, but with “steady and rigorous implementation they have realised that these interventions are very beneficial for the development of the country.’’ One of the best things any focused administration can do is to revive projects abandoned by previous administrations. President Buhari revived $2.5billion Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano gas pipeline, abandoned due to corruption and mismanagement. Alhaji Ahmed Sani, Chairman of Kanti Kwari Traders Association applauded the Buhari administration for the ongoing works at river ports in Baro, Niger State, Lokoja, Kogi State and Oguta in Imo State. ‘‘It is also another gesture of Mr. President in fulfilling his promise to end fuel problem in Nigeria by signing the Memorandum of Understanding for the establishment of a new 150,000 barrels per day refinery in Katsina State,’’ Sani said He has made it clear several times that that he will spare no one in the anti corruption war. He kept to his words by suspending the then Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir David Lawal, over allegations of financial impropriety. Lawal is one of the President’s closest associates. His suspension was a signal that there is no sacred cows in the anti- corruption war. The Buhari administration, set up the Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit (PICA). PICA was set up to strengthen controls over government finances through a continuous internal audit process across all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), particularly in respect of payroll. Through the activities of PICA, more than 50,000 erroneous payroll entries have been identified, saving about N198 billion in 2016. The Federal Ministry of Finance set a target to ensure that the Federal Government’s Payroll Platform — the ‘Integrated Personnel Payroll Information System’ (IPPIS) — covers 100 percent of MDAs by the end of 2017. Currently 60% of MDAs are enrolled on the IPPIS platform. Ochonma, a banker and international finance expert, wrote in from England.