Chief Victor Ikechukwu Oye, a journalist turned politician, is the National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). In this interview with JANET AUDU, he took a hard look at the two major political parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration, even as he saw his party as the most democratic. As the National Chairman of APGA could you speak on the party’s ideology and its manifesto? APGA is the only political party in Nigeria with a clean bill of health, the only party with clear cut ideology. All other political parties are operating without ideology. That is why they are not focused. But, APGA is focused. APGA is committed to the promotion of the welfare of the people of Nigeria. It is clearly stated in our manifesto that we are going to run a welfare government that will favour Nigerians by uplifting the lives of the citizens of this country. Other political parties are just mere pretenders. They have nothing to offer to the people. You remember the then Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) had its own manifesto epitomised by its logo. It was the same thing with Nigeria Peoples Party (NPP) and the National Party of Nigeria (NPN). Those were political parties that were run purely on ideology. That is not the same thing again in Nigeria. What we have now is nothing, but a rat race. The major political parties we have in Nigeria now are APC, PDP and APGA. The other political parties are pretenders. There are growing concerns among Nigerians that the 2019 elections may not hold. What is your take on this? The elections will hold. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has reiterated it. Those who said election will not hold are just enemies of the system. Every Nigerian who has interest in the development, peace and stability of this country should not be talking about election not holding. We should be talking about affecting the system to produce desire result. INEC has stated clearly that there will be elections and they are working towards that. So, we should not be the ones to determine if election will hold or not. Does APGA as a political party believe that Nigeria needs a change in leadership? The issue is not even change. The issue is direction. You can change something, but when the system is already bad, even if you put a saint there, you will not achieve anything. I want to make it categorically clear that the problem is not with Muhammadu Buhari as the President. The problem is the system. It is already abused. The system is disused. The system is fraught with corruption. Corruption is something that is endemic. This means that it takes root from it foundation. When the foundation of a house is faulty, that means the house is prone to collapse. For Nigeria to get it right, you have to work on the foundation of this country in other to stabilise the super structure. When the foundation is weak, it cannot carry the super structure. That is the problem with Nigeria. Nigeria was founded on a faulty foundation, faulty premise. So, anything put on it will not stand because the foundation is shaky. People do not want to appreciate it. In 1863, the Irish Reverend gentleman by name Henry Townsend introduced the Iwe Irohin, the first newspaper in Nigeria. The whole concept of the newspaper was to sell to the Nigeria people the orientation of the British colonial masters. So, they wanted the medium through which their ideals will be propagated. So, they established that newspaper. In 1875, Herbert Macaulay founded the Nigerian Observer. In 1926, a group of businessmen in Nigeria founded the Daily Times. In 1934, Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe (Zik) returned from Persivenia University and founded the Morning Post. In 1937, he relocated the paper from Ghana to Nigeria and rechristened it as the West African Pilot. In 1949, November 16, Chief Obafemi Awolowo founded the Nigerian Tribune. In 1951 broadcasting in Nigeria commenced with the Western Nigeria Broadcasting Commission in Ibadan. You can see the history of communication in Nigeria, history of broadcasting in Nigeria, history of newspaper business in Nigeria. The whole concept was to use these media to promote independent struggle. That was why Zik came back and founded the Morning Post. The spirit behind these was to fight for Nigerian independence. In 1944, the NCNC was founded. The NCNC is today the APGA both in concept and ideology, the same symbol of the cock. See where we are today. You can trace the ideology of APGA from 1944. But, from where will you trace the ideology of APC? APC has no ideological base, the same thing with the PDP. I was one of the founders of PDP. We founded the New Era that came together and formed PDP and it was on a faulty premise as well. It was General Sani Abacha that threw up an emergency system called PDP. PDP is a behemoth quite alright. But, the party lacks ideology and has no direction. PDP is cut and paste political party. APGA has an enduring ideology right from 1944 till date. Now, if you look at coming together of Nigeria, if you look at the Littleton Constitution, if you want to understand Nigeria, go back to the constitution… Richard Constitution, Littleton Constitution, Macpherson Constitution, the Independent Constitution, the Republic Constitution. Look at these constitutions. Check how they were founded and the premises upon which they were all founded. Look at Nigeria now. The Igbo is the majority tribe in Nigeria, isn’t it? Has Igbo ever produced the President of this country? The answer is no. The minority South-South has produced a president for six years. The Hausa has been producing Presidents. Since Tafawa Balewa era, where are we today in Nigeria? So, it is a problem. The premise upon which this country was founded was faulty as I said earlier. I repeat that again and again that it will remain faulty until something is done to correct it.  For you to correct it, you have to give the Igbo man some recognition. You have to balance the political equation of this country. Nigeria should have an equitable way of sharing power so that nobody will cry for marginalisation. The poor, the large population, the minorities and majority will have fair share. Look at the way Nigeria’s cake is shared. Nigeria should have an equitable way of sharing of power because there is no equity. The Federal Character Commission has done nothing to promote equity in the sharing of Nigeria’s national cake. What happens here is nothing, but nepotism, favouritism, geo-ethnic jingoism. These are the things that are thriving in Nigeria. So, something has to be done to restructure this country in line with equity, justice, fairness and equality. But, there is this much talks about re-structuring. Do you subscribe to this call? Nigeria is already restructured, but people don’t get it. What do you mean by restructuring? We already have six geo-political zones, three in the North and three in the South. Why not share the President among six-geo-political zones so that it will go round? These geo-political zones exist for the sake of convenience for particular ethnic groups and persons. That cannot take Nigeria anywhere, but rather backward. So, for us to talk about restructuring, we have to look at how the national cake is being shared and how political offices are distributed. That is the only way we can talk about restructuring. The constitution is there, very clear. The derivative 13% of the oil production states is there already. Which restructuring are we talking about? The problem is that we do not adhere to the constitution. We do things the way we want it. Nigeria is the only country that is run without constitution. But, we have a constitution in place. Nobody respects the law or the Constitution of the Federal Republic. How can we have peace or equity and development without law and order and constitutionality? Politics in Nigeria has become a do-or-die because it is like a money spinner, rather than a service platform. How can politics in Nigeria be service based? It can only be service based if we adhere to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Let me tell you. Forget that the constitution was amended in 2010 or 1999. That constitution is a good document, even though it was designed by the military and contains some provisions that favour some military cabal. The general provisions of the constitution are enough to provide some stability,  some equity and fairness in the distribution of political offices and the national cake in the country. The problem of Nigeria is that we don’t adhere to the tenet of the constitution, the rule of law, the democratic principles. The constitution is fine, but, the problem is its implementation. So, for me, Nigeria is the country that God made like no other. It is the country that can boast of all the indices of development. We have a good weather. We have robust economy. We have hard working people. We have very peaceful environment.  The people are humanitarian and hospitable. So, the problem with Nigeria is Nigeria itself. We have to change our attitude to one another and to politics. Somebody loses election and he does not want to concede defeat and somebody wins election and he is not willing to be generous with his victory. That is the problem with Nigeria. We need to be our brothers’ keeper by carrying each other’s burdens. We must radiate love. We must do away with religious bigotry and ethnic loyalty. We must have the interest of the country at heart. By the time we change our attitude, everything will change from bad to good. Otherwise, nothing is wrong with Nigeria. Look at the white men. When they came to Nigeria, they did not want to return to their countries. For instance, Europe is facing climatic weather. But, look at how beautiful Nigeria is. The problem we have in Nigeria is in security. Provide security, provide social infrastructure, boost education. You will agree with me that this country is the best. You don’t  need to go for holidays anywhere because everything you need there, we already have them in Nigeria. Sir, would you say if Nigeria rise again from its fall? Nigeria is not falling. There is nothing wrong with Nigeria. Nigeria is moving fine. Nigeria is still standing on it four feet. Which fall? You know Nigeria has four feet. We are a great country. The problem of Nigeria is Nigerians themselves. What is your take on the creation of state police? State police? There is nothing wrong with that. We have New York Police (NYPD). We have Washington State Police Department. Every state in America has its own police. So, there is nothing wrong with that. What it means is that every state in Nigeria will have its own state police. In American, even local governments have their own local police. That means you have domesticated the police in your particular area. You know people’s needs vary from one state to another. What I need in Anambra varies from what my colleague  needs in Sokoto State. The security challenge in Anambra is different from that of Sokoto. Anambra is surrounded by other states. So, Anambra is not as exposed as Sokoto that has border with Chad, Niger and Cameroon. So, this poses a big challenge so. APGA is one political party that will promote state police because we need it. You can’t tell me that if there is crisis in Rivers, you need to get clearance from the Inspector General before action will be taken. Any security issue has some level of urgency. So, you need to tackle it urgently if not great harm could have been done. So, we need to  decentralise the police system and allow even the local governments to create their own police. Contrary to people’s belief, we are not going to misuse the police once the laws are clearly outlined. Do you also subscribe to the call that legislators should serve on part-time basis as against what is on ground now? It cannot work. Even in America, people do not work part-time. In Britain, they don’t. So, why must we do part-term here? The system we practice is  American presidential system of government. If Americans do not do it part-time, we don’t need to do part-time. This is because law making is a very important function. It is a very serious business in any important democratic system. If you don’t make good laws, the society will become ungovernable. If you make good laws, the society will grow. People will abide by the law. When there are no good laws, that society is prone to anarchy. So, my view here is that our legislators should serve full time not part-time. What is your message to Nigerian politicians? My massage is for us to play politics with love and tolerance, with respect for one another. We should  play politics in adherence to the laid down rules, laws and our constitution. Once we do that, Nigeria will be a better place for all of us.