Elder Anthony Sani, Secretary-General of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI and SARAH JACK speaks on the position of the forum on the 2019 presidential election and other issues. Excerpts: What is the position of the ACF on the choice of presidential candidate for the 2019 election. Is ACF backing any particular candidate? Though of the 76 presidential candidates only about six are from the North, I want to believe your attention is on the two candidates of the two major political parties, namely, All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Both President Muhammadu Buhari of APC and former Vice- President  Atiku Abubakar of PDP are Northerners and Fulanis Muslims. As a result, politics of identity like region, religion and ethnicity cannot be to the advantage for any of them. That is why politics of real issues of real concern to real ordinary Nigerians will most likely preoccupy the campaigns and enlighten the electorate for informed judgement during the elections. It is not the practice by ACF to endorse candidates but to help educate voters make informed decisions on the Election Day.This is because the forum comprises members across party lines. And any attempt by the forum to openly prefer a candidate or political party may not be accepted by members from other political parties. But ACF has pamphlet which lists qualities in purposeful leaders. The party manifesto and records of candidates are also helpful to the voters. What factors do you think will determine the outcome of the election? There are many factors which will determine the outcome of the elections. For the incumbent president, his records in the first tenure as to whether he has recorded some progress in the fight against insurgency and fight against corruption in order to enable the economy take root and prosper, given the paucity of resources, should speak for or against the regime, especially in the North. As to the South West, it has six states that are controlled by the ruling party. The South- West zone may not be in hurry to leave the gravy train of this government. The South East is still considering whether to vote President Buhari in order to have  the moral courage to ask for support for president in 2023,considering the fact that President Buhari is the only one who has one tenure to go and South West is also in the South and can lay claim to the presidency. Yet, we must not lose sight of the fact that South East and South South  are the hub of the main opposition party whose presidential candidate has also promised he will do one tenure and also restructure the country, albeit they still want to know the specifics in the pledge. The defections will also affect the elections, especially in North Central states of Kwara and Kogi. In North East, the performance of the current regime in the fight against Boko Haram will largely influence their decision to vote APC or PDP in 2019. Former Vice President Atiku is never a push over in politics. His content of character and perception are well known. The only thing new is the restructuring of the country which is designed to appeal to the South. But in the North, restructuring of the country is never a catch phrase in the sense that most northerners do not see restructuring of the country anew will cut the Gordon’s knot, especially when regard is paid to the fact that Nigeria has undergone several restructuring, be it by geography, politics or economy. Most northerners believe the challenge is more about how to manage national resources prudently and creditably.How all these will interplay during the campaigns and which factors prevail will determine the outcome of the elections. Do you think restructuring will be a key factor northerners will consider in choosing the next President? I have told you that restructuring appeals to people of the SE and SS who hanker for resource control and resource ownership. Most northerners and even some people in SW do not see restructuring through the same lenses with the former Eastern Region which now has nine states with nine cabinet ministers in the government. Any restructuring which renders the centre weak and predispose the nation to disintegration is something to be wary about. To most South West and the North, prudent management of national resources as exemplified by Lagos state under the same current structure of the country is what matters most. Do you see former president Olusegun Obasanjo as a major key factor in determining the outcome of the election? Will Northerners listen to him if he asks them to vote for Atiku whom he has endorsed? Former President Obasanjo is a factor in national politics having governed the country under both military and democracy. His commitment to one United Nigeria cannot be taken away from him. But whether such attributes can translate into electoral value is in doubt. More so that Obasanjo has been a product beyond himself. As to whether Nigerians will pander to the former president’s endorsement of the presidential candidate of the main opposition party is also in doubt, precisely because of his inconsistency that does not accommodate conviction and vision expected of a statesman of his status. Consider the former president tore his party card of PDP and wrote off both APC and PDP as unserviceable. He then formed a non partisan Coalition Movement which he later transmuted to a political party called ADC against his earlier “new year resolution” not to be partisan. Former President Obasanjo said God would not forgive him if he endorsed his former VP for president, only for him to now leave his ADC and endorse Atiku.I believe not only Nigerians but even Atiku himself cannot bask in the glow of the endorsement by Obasanjo out of the fear that the manifest inconsistency can make him change his mind before the elections. Do you think President Muhammadu Buhari has done enough to deserve another term in office? That is for Nigerians to use the president’s records amid severe limited  resources at his disposal in the first tenure and decide.