Abayomi Bajela, the Coordinator, Ogun State chapter of the Civil Society for Ethics and Value Development Initiative (CSEVDI), has urged the youths especially those seeking white-collar jobs to embrace agriculture, saying it is the only way of getting jobs or engaging in business without stress. Bajela spoke at the workshop on developing right ethics in agriculture with the theme ‘Ethical Change In Agriculture for Improved Economic Value,’ held at Simeon Adebo Library, Abeokuta, the state capital. He said Nigerians were living in the midst of plenty but lack everything due to nonchalant attitude towards farming and total neglecting of farming in the country. The coordinator of the group urged the youths to reorder their priorities and key into agriculture instead of roaming the streets looking for scarce white-collar jobs. In his presentation, Tajudeen Toyun-Oke, the CSEVDI Secretary-General, said that production, transformation and distribution of food and agricultural products were generally accepted as routine aspects of daily life around the world, noting that such activities have rarely been addressed within the realm of ethics and vaules. He said that globally, agriculture is confronted with huge problems such as hunger, malnutrition and blindness due to non-compliance with core ethics and values in agriculture which brought about retrogression in the nation’s agricultural development. In the same vein, Mr. Ajayi Adekunle Obafemi, the state Director of Fisheries, said agriculture was being viewed by majority of people, especially youths as a business of rural areas, as well as a business of uneducated people because of the challenges facing and still facing them in farm production. He said farmers were facing lack of improved technology and poor management of agriculture equipment and farm tools by the handlers of the agricultural sectors. He however added that with attitudinal change of farmers in country, youths should be encouraged to key into agricultural sector.