Temidayo Akinsuyi, Chinyere Abiaziem, Felix Igbekoyi and Tor Vande-Acka Lagos / Asaba / Makurdi – The Catholic Church on Wednesday said it will not pay any ransom for the release of four of its priests who were kidnapped by unknown gunmen around Umutu/Abraka in Ethiope East Local Government Area of Delta State. The priests, who were said to be heading to Benin from Warri in a convoy, were reportedly waylaid Tuesday night by the arms-wielding hoodlums and were whisked to an unknown location. In an exclusive chat with Daily Independent, Rev. Fr. Charles Uganwa, Director of Communications, Catholic Diocese of Issele-Uku, Delta State, who also confirmed the kidnap of his colleagues, insisted that the church will never pay ransom to any kidnapper to free the priests. He noted that the church does not encourage the payment of ransom to criminals because the priests have already sacrificed their lives to God. He also added that the payment of ransom will only increase criminality in the society, and appealed to the conscience of the abductors to free his colleagues unhurt and unconditionally. “The case has been reported to the police. The Catholic Church will always go through the legal way when things like this happen. We are also praying for the safe release of our brothers. We believe so much in prayer. “But one thing is certain and that is the fact that the church does not pay ransom.  We don’t pay ransom to kidnappers. As a priest, they have sacrificed their lives to God. So, the need to pay ransom to a man does not arise. “When it was reported, the police came few minutes after the attack. But so far, we’ve not heard from them”, he said. Muhammad Mustafa, Delta State Commissioner of Police, who confirmed the abduction to newsmen, assured that the kidnapped priests would be rescued. Mustafa, who said a suspect has been arrested in connection with the crime added that the command is working hard to rescue the victims. “The kidnappers have started calling, but you know, we do not encourage paying ransom. We will definitely ensure that they are released. One suspect has been arrested within the area of the incident.” Meanwhile, the vehicles in which the priests were travelling have already been recovered by a team of anti-kidnapping policemen drafted from Delta and Edo states. Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has condemned the abduction of the four Catholic priests calling on security agents to ensure their safe release. The governor in a statement signed by his Press Secretary, Terver Akase, said the abduction of the four reverend fathers was barbaric, dehumanising and shameful. He wondered why armed men had chosen to make harmless clergymen targets of attacks and said the motive of the perpetrators was clearly beyond mere grazing of cattle. Ortom said the people of Benue State were still mourning the killing of two Catholic priests and 17 worshippers by herdsmen in Mbalom, Gwer East Local Government Area of the State, earlier this year. He urged security agencies to act swiftly to secure the release of the kidnapped priests in Delta State. He called on other Nigerians to rise in condemnation of persistent attacks on innocent people, particularly the current spate of violence against clerics. He stated that herdsmen who sack communities and claim ancestral lands belonging to the people were threatening the existence of Nigeria. The governor said activities of armed herdsmen, if not checked, will affect the smooth conduct of the 2019 elections in parts of the country. “The government and people of Benue State are standing in prayers with the Catholic Dioceses of Benin, Warri and Abuja where the four abducted priests came from,” he said. Apostle Enyinnaya Okwuonu, Vice Chairman, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Lagos State chapter, expressed concern over the kidnap of the priests. “When there’s no fear of God, people do not value human lives but value material things, which is beyond normal. Those who kidnap clerics put their fingers in God’s eyes”, he said. Rev. Fr. Kevin Elendu, a clinical psychologist and counselor, while condemning the priests’ kidnap said, “Kidnapping of priests is now like a new market that people are focusing on so as to get money. Forgetting that in so doing they make themselves accursed by God. “Maybe because of the thanksgiving and bazaars held in the church, people now wrongly think that the monies belong to the priests”, he said. Suggesting the way forward, he said “it is high time government decentralised the number of security officials attached to prominent people in the society. “It is important that the life of an ordinary man on the street is taken into account.  Government should be up and doing in safeguarding the lives of the citizens,” Elendu stated.