Recently, reports have it that Nigeria’s insurance industry might be overtaken by the influx of foreign investors who may wish to take advantage of the booming local sector Tier-Based Solvency Capital regime. In this report, OYENIRAN APATA, CHRIS EBONG and OLUSEGUN KOIKI examine the merits and demerits of the development. Nigeria’s insurance sector is one of the industries where foreign investors are beaming searchlight to find where exactly to put their investment. The Nigerian population estimated at about 190 million has been the major attraction of investors into the underwriting sub-sector in the sense that the business of insurance, especially retail space is a business of numbers. Also the low penetration of 0.3 per cent of investment, according to analysts, is a potential market to invest and this has been the computation of foreign investors who have invaded the market since after the 2007 insurance industry consolidation. The 2007 consolidation had reduced numbers of insurers from 106 companies to 60 currently operating in the market. This was achieved basically through merger consummations and acquisition deals. During the consolidation exercise, Life, non-life and composite firms were asked to shore up their capital from the initial base of N150million, N200million and N350million to N2billion, N3billion, and N5billion, respectively. Reinsurance firms were asked to recapitalise from N350million to N10billion. It is noteworthy to say that the influx of foreign investors into the insurance industry could not be divorced from the history of recapitalisation of the sector. For instance, the 2007 post-consolidation had witnessed a handful of investors into the sector. At the end of the exercise, the underwriting firms that successfully scaled the recapitalisation hurdle were able to raise their capital to several billions of naira, and these did not happen without the participation of the private equity investors. Their new status began to attract foreigners into the sector, who started by buying small equities in the companies and graduated to taking over the insurance firms. In 2013, the then Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Fola Daniel, had disclosed that foreign equities rose to 62.8 per cent in at least seven insurance firms, while many investors were also negotiating with other local underwriters on how they could invest in them. The new investors included NSIA Participations S.A Holdings, which acquired 96.15 per cent in ADIC Insurance, a former subsidiary of Diamond Bank Plc; Mutual & Federal Insurance Company, South Africa, which acquired 70 per cent of Oceanic Insurance Company Limited, formerly owned by Oceanic Bank Plc; Old Mutual Nigeria Services Company (Old Mutual Nigeria) also acquired 70 per cent of Oceanic Life Assurance Limited, a subsidiary of Oceanic Bank. Others are UBA Capital Holding Limited/MMI Holdings, which had 50/50 per cent of UBA Metropolitan Life, formerly owned by United Bank for Africa Plc; FBN Holdings/Samlam Group SA, had 65/35 ownership of FBN Life, formerly owned by First Bank of Nigeria; Assur Africa Holding acquired 67.68 per cent of Mansard Insurance, formerly owned by GTBank; while New India Assurance Company had a 51 per cent stake in Prestige Assurance Plc. “Companies with foreign equities increased in the insurance sector, generating substantial foreign direct investment,” Daniel had said. But the stories of many of these firms have changed in recent years with new investors coming in after the recapitalisation. For instance, AXA SA acquired a majority stake in Mansard Insurance in 2014, and changed the firm’s name to AXA Mansard Insurance; Metropolitan International Holdings (Proprietary) Limited acquired 100 per cent of UBA Metropolitan Life and rebranded as United Metropolitan Nigeria Life Insurance Limited; Old Mutual completed the firm’s acquisition from Ecobank Group (after the bank acquired Oceanic Bank) and changed its name to Old Mutual Nigeria. According to the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), 12 insurance companies were acquired in the last three years. Alhaji Mohammed Kari, Commissioner for Insurance, who made the disclosure in Abuja, said that there were three foreign acquisitions in 2014, two in 2015, and five in 2016 while talks to acquire two companies were in progress. He explained that any acquisition of 25 per cent or more of the shares of an insurance company is subject to approval by NAICOM, while foreign investors usually enter the Nigerian market through some form of mergers and acquisitions. Notable among the acquisition was the Great Nigeria Insurance Plc’s completion of the sale of 75 per cent stake to Insurance Resourcery Consultancy Services Limited (IRCSL). Similarly, an Ivoirien insurer, Sunu Assurances Vie Cote d’Ivoire, earlier last year, acquired a 60 per cent stake in Equity Assurance. Equally, Cornerstone Insurance bought FIN Insurance, making it a subsidiary while; South Africa’s Liberty Holdings also acquired a 75 per cent stake in UNIC Insurance Plc, a Nigerian insurer, for $12 million, according to Liberty Chief Executive, Thabo Dloti. “We see Nigeria as a market for the future. It may be having difficulties now, but everything indicates to us that in the long term, Nigeria is going to be a big contributor of growth if you are doing business in Sub-Saharan Africa,” Dloti said. Standard Alliance Insurance Plc announced that it has formally merged with its sister company, Standard Life Assurance, to become one company, underwriting life and non-life insurance businesses. The likes of Axa, Prudential, Liberty, Swiss RE, Sunu Group, Saham, Allianz, Swiss Re, among others have taken positions in the industry and in partnership with indigenous companies for development and growth.