Ahmad Tijjani Abdul Kano – The whistleblower and witness in the $5 million bribery allegation against Abdullahi Ganduje, the Kano State governor, has signified willingness to testify before the House of Assembly investigating committee. He, however, listed conditions on which he would appear before the committee as witness in a case over which the Kano House of Assembly and the judiciary had drawn a battle line regarding constitutional mandate. In a three-page letter written on his behalf by his Attorney, Sa’idu Muhammad Tudunwada &Co, dated November 4, 2018, the whistleblower stated six conditions to be fulfilled. The whistleblower demanded the physical presence of the governor before the committee, not by proxy, in tandem with transparency. He also requested the probe panel to convene a quartet session of the governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, the Publisher of ‘Daily Nigerian’, Jaafar Jaafar, the witness and Commander, Kano Hisbah Board (Sharia Police), Sheik Aminu Daurawa. The letter, signed by Saeed Muhammad Tudun Wada and addressed to the investigative committee chairman, further requested that all the video clips already in circulation be submitted to two cinematographers and video imaging experts for analysis and report. The whistleblower stressed that one of the experts should be an expatriate who shall be invited into Nigeria through the embassy of his country of residence whilst the second expert should be an officer serving with the Department of State Services (DSS). The whistleblower, through his counsel, also demanded the sitting be restricted to limited persons and that the witness be allowed to wear mask, bear a pseudonym, and receive protection from authorities for himself, family, and business undertakings. In the meantime, a Kano High Court on Monday ordered the investigative committee to maintain status quo. The committee addressed a news conference on Tuesday where it declared that there was no going back on the investigation of Ganduje’s alleged bribery video clips.