Leadership is gender neutral, and over the decades, many women have proven that to be true. Nigeria has discovered some of its greatest heroes by shunning the stereotype, and embracing quality leaders irrespective of gender. Obiageli ‘Oby’ Ezekwesili is one such quality leaders. Asides being a leader, she has served in several capacities in Nigeria and abroad, including Federal Minister of Solid Minerals and then as Federal Minister of Education. Ezekwesili was also a 2018 nominee for the Nobel Peace Prize for her work in transparency in the extractive sector. This is not to diminish her advocacy pursuits, which have yielded positive results, like the Bring Back Our Girls campaign.In this exclusive interview with Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade, Ezekwesili, who is set to contest for the office of the president in Nigeria, bearing the flag of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), speaks on her plans and vision for Nigeria, while unveiling secrets that she believes will net her the number one seat of the nation. As intending President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, what can we expect to be your first two acts in office if you emerge victorious? My first action as president is going to be to reunite this country. The country has never seen sharper divisions than what we have seen in the last, almost four years, and so rallying the country to become a nation of people is going to be my number one action. All the ends of this country will know that they have a president, not somebody from another region. I will be a president of Nigeria. My second action will of course to make the clear statement that the individual Nigerian life is more important to me than a barrel of oil, because the economic tone that we are going to set is the tone that says that it is our human capital, not oil that is going to be the driver of our progress. This is aside the many other things that we will unfold as part of my manifesto. Everyone is different, and I believe you have tried and tested methods to achieving your goals. For Nigeria, what will be your recipe for addressing economic issues like recession? The number one and fundamental thing is that I will set the tone that the private sector will be the driver of economic growth for us. The private sector development is going to be major, and this means that the focus on small businesses, medium scale businesses and the larger scale businesses will be very solid. We will make sure that the economic policies, monetary, fiscal policies, the structural policies and the sectoral policies will go toward providing an environment where people who do their businesses can do businesses productively and competitively. It means that we would address the barriers; barriers of infrastructure, barriers of skills and human capital, the kind of talents that you need to be productive as a businessperson. We will also address the issues of financial intermediation and the shallowness of access to financing. We will address issues that have to do with the basic competitiveness of our businesses because they have a higher cost of doing business. When you think of the logistics cost, and the cost of powering business, it already puts them at a disadvantage. We will address those kinds of barriers. And because my emphasis is going to be on the private sector, it means that the private sector will be at the centre of helping us deal with the issues of investment necessary in infrastructure and in human capital and other aspects of development. My final point on this economic issue is to state that for us, the private sector is crucial. The reason it is crucial is that, already, Nigeria is in post-oil economy. The budget performance that this administration released a few weeks ago shows that the total oil money is not enough to pay the two million workers in the public service, which therefore means that we have no other way to approach this in development terms than to work with the private sector vigorously, and that is one thing we shall be doing. When we talk of corruption in Nigeria, a lot of people believe it is a problem that has no remedy. Others say that corruption fights back. How do you intend to ensure that corruption becomes a thing of the past or are you of the opinion that corruption doesn’t fight back? No. It wouldn’t matter if corruption fought back during my time, that is a basic thing. I believe the issue is going to be the kind of resoluteness that I would have in tackling corruption in the country, and it won’t simply be tackling corruption by asking the EFCC to get the enemies, it would be a comprehensive programme against corruption. We would have measures that prevent the occurrence of corruption because we know that in environments where you allow opportunities for corruption to happen, plenty of it happens. We will do these, for example, by saying to you that we will pursue the kinds of policies that would enable the private sector to drive our economic development. We will roll back aspects of the economy where government has no business being. Once you roll that back, for the people who do corrupt things in government in those sectors, that will be their end. We will do things like the reform of institutions, so that the procedures through which things are done in government will be transparent; they will be open, and they will engage only to the extent that they do not permit opportunity for corruption. And then, we would look at the sanction side of tackling corruption; law and its enforcement, and we will ensure that we have prosecutorial capacity, and that investigation is done in a way that enables effective prosecution, which is not something we have now. Also, what we have seen in many other countries is that when a leader mirrors that moral integrity and every one is equal before the law in the fight against corruption, they get the legitimacy of the entire society to fight corruption. Having served over the years as a Nigerian leader in diverse sectors, what industry or group of people would you say is Nigeria’ biggest export; that showcases Nigeria positively to the world? Ultimately, that will be our human talent, and this is why my emphasis is on the Nigerian person. We want to build a world-class human capital, so that the talents of our people will be a major receipt that we get as foreign exchange in this country. We are going to also ensure that because the private sector operates in a low cost environment, then everything in the manufacturing space in West Africa, we will be able to dominate the market. You seem to have so much mapped out and on your to-do list, do you think four years would be enough to drive these brilliant ideas? We will start with four years, because you can see that in a matter of ten months, I was able to do significant things in the sectors I was sent in the past. So in four years, we will already register so much in terms of achievement. Therefore, we will build on it going forward. The present administration in the last election year promised a host of things, including restructuring Nigeria. Do you believe that is something your administration can achieve if given the opportunity? Economic restructuring is an absolute for me. What is necessary is for us to look at the conversation around restructuring. It must be driven by the economic fortunes of our country. If people talk about restructuring as simply moving boxes, without any intention for it to improve the lives of our citizens, then that is not restructuring. The restructuring that our party, ACPN, will pursue, will be deep and profound; it will be targeted at ensuring that every part of this country has enhanced productivity and competitiveness, so that we will grow the wealth that would enable us have a better life for every Nigerian. But based on recent statistics, a sizeable number of the Nigerian electorate do not vote. Will that not be a problem at the polls? Every sleeping voter needs to be awoken; they can’t sleep on their destinies. We know the sleeping voters who are yet to be activated, and our mission though our massive data network is to find each and everyone of them who have their cards but who have refused to vote, and convert them one after the other, community by community. It is already happening. These sleeping voters are your neighbours, friends, and people in the villages, whose data we now have. We know them and their vote habits. We will shock the old school politicians in 2019 because they do not even know what is coming their way. We are fighting for Lekki, as much as we are fighting for Kabong. We will fight for Asokoro with the same energy will fight for Ogwashi Ukwu; we will fight for Port Harcourt as hard as we will fight for Dutse. And by the way, enough is enough of those in the towns and urban centres speaking about the grassroots alone as if you are not part of Nigeria. You cannot leave the burden to rural voters alone. It is time for those of you in the urban centres to wake up and do your own part too. Judging by the fact that the present administration has been in power for a term, many believe it would be prudent to wait till 2023 to contest for presidency, and that the time is not right. Time is not the issue. Time is not the reason each person hasn’t stepped up to sacrifice or fight for the country. Time is not the reason we haven’t yet joined a movement to defeat #APCPDP. It is not time that is the problem, it is fear. You think we cannot defeat them. You think they are too strong. You think we have to manage, we have to negotiate, we have to concede defeat. You think we have no choice. I stand here today as a symbol of the courage that we all need to own. We have time. You ask me to wait till 2023? So that what will happen? So people will suddenly get courage, and suddenly be ready to do the work that should have been done since? No way. I am not giving that excuse. We cannot wait till 2023. #BuTiku is already scheming to continue ruining this country from 2019. Now is the time for us to ensure that all their scheming falls down flat. When is the best time to start that marathon? The time for that urgent marathon, that long-term fight you want, it starts right this minute. This country barely has four months, not to talk of four years to continue experimenting on this path of failure. We are talking of our children, of our future, of our survival, and some people are talking about waiting and experimenting for four more years? No. Never. If we do not intervene now, we may not have a country to rescue in 2023.