LAGOS – Two years after the Federal Government announced the stoppage of fuel subsidy to marketers in the country, the exercise continues to hang on the necks of economic managers like a sword of Damocles. The reappearance of the subsidy last December, which caused Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to disclose that the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and not the Federal Government was paying for oil subsidy, may have triggered fresh agitation for the restructuring of the country. Some stakeholders say at the weekend that the development and particularly, the confession of Osinbajo will remain a sour taste and memory, stressing that restructuring the economy, anchored on true federalism would eliminate the art of ‘big brother’ takes all syndrome by the executive arm of government. Specifically, the premium or under recovery payment by the Federal Government may have put President Muhammadu Buhari under scrutiny, more so as government officials and presidential aides have in recent times been justifying the alleged payments in the midst of higher pump price and continued impoverishment of the citizens. The under recovery blues played up in a memo dated January 19, addressed to Mr. Buhari, the NNPC GMD, Mr. Baru,  raised concerns over the depletion in the nation’s strategic fuel reserve, which was occasioned by massive diversion and hoarding, which manifested in the fuel crisis of last year. To arrest the situation, he said there was need to access the NLNG dividend fund to purchase the required petrol volume to flush supply and boost strategic reserve. The administration has for years paid huge amounts as fuel subsidy, despite increasing the pump price of fuel, while denying making such payments. Indeed, Festus Keyamo, Director of Media, Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organisation, recently said the Nigerian government is paying for ‘premium’ on petroleum products and not subsidy. Keyamo, who spoke while featuring on a Channels Television morning programme, Sunrise Daily, claimed that contrary to what happened during the government of former President Goodluck Jonathan, the government is not making payments to individuals, but paying ‘premium’ through the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to alleviate the suffering of Nigerians. “The government wanted to eliminate subsidy at that time, but as the price of crude went up, the price of production went up, and the bye-products also went up, it is normal,” he added However, the government is represented in the NLNG shareholding arrangement by the NNPC with 49 percent stake. Other shareholders are Shell (25.6 percent), Total (15 percent) and Eni (10.4 percent). Dividends from the gas firm are meant to be shared by the federal, state and local governments of Nigeria. The funds are supposed to be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation, rather than spent unilaterally by any tier of government. Some analysts say at the weekend that government’s action may be reigniting the calls for fiscal federalism as well as total restructuring. They say a situation whereby monies meant for the three tiers are appropriated by the executive without what they regard as due process, may be an affront on the concept of federalism. Baru was also said to have complained about the daily consumption of petrol, put at 35 million litres per day at the time, which was becoming problematic for the NNPC to manage after oil marketing companies stopped importing the products. He told the president petrol consumption had exponentially gone up to 47 million litres per day — even though the actual national consumption was estimated at 35 million litres. The GMD addressed concerns raised by the president in a previous communication by explaining that by the status of NNPC’s balance sheet and its free cash position, the corporation would not be able to use its funds to import petrol. He also explained how the government’s financing obligations limited the ability of the corporation to supply 13 cargoes of petrol, being what was needed for national consumption in the absence of private marketers. In a separate memo, also dated January 19, the NNPC intimated the president on what it had done to deal with the fuel challenge while also advising the president to quickly approve its request for flush fund. Baru’s memos to the president were said to have been repeated when he appeared before an ad hoc committee of the Senate on the alleged application of $3.5 billion by the NNPC penultimate week. He claimed that the NNPC’s action to source funds to address PMS supply concerns was triggered by the directive of the senate at the height of the fuel scarcity crisis that the corporation must do all it could to address the scarcity problems. He added that it was also because there has been no provision for subsidy in the budget since 2016. “This necessitated actions from government and of course in line with the federal government directive which of course was equally endorsed by this distinguished national assembly when during the hearing on the 24th of January 2018 on the fuel crisis, the joint committees of the national assembly directed us and I quote: ‘NNPC should do all it takes to flush the queue and restore normalcy and maintain the minimum of 30 days sufficiency’,” Mr Baru said in his submission. “For us to do that, we took certain actions, Mr. Chairman.” Mr. Baru said the $1.05 billion is being administered by a steering committee, comprising representatives of the office of the Minister of Finance, Office of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, the Petroleum Equalisation Funds Management Board, the Directorate of Petroleum Resources and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, which is the central approving body and a working committee that is looking at the daily operations of the fund. Senate To The Rescue? However, Sunday INDEPENDENT gathered at the weekend that the issue may have caused divisions in the Senate. Consequently, Senate President Bukola Saraki has said that the Senate, on resumption of plenary, will further probe the claims made before the Senator Ahmad Lawan’s Ad Hoc Committee by Baru on how and why the corporation was diverting the dividend from the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) to defray the cost of under-recovery in the importation of fuel. He stated that the disclosure by the NNPC boss called for further investigation by the Senate and showed that as alleged in a motion moved earlier by Senate Minority Leader, Senator Biodun Olujimi, a lot of illegal and unapproved spendings are going on in the petroleum corporation. “We are, however, shocked that the NNPC’s GMD was claiming that the illegal diversion of dividends from the NLNG, which should be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation for the purpose of funding the fuel subsidy, was done ‘in compliance with the National Assembly directive that NNPC, as the supplier of last resort should, and has maintained robust petrol supply’. “So, if the National Assembly called on NNPC to carry out its legitimate duty of ensuring adequate fuel supply to Nigerians, the GMD logically thinks the corporation, by that call, has the licence to perpetrate illegality, spend money without approval and violate appropriation laws. It is my belief that if the National Assembly said the corporation should perform its duty effectively as a supplier of fuel to Nigerians without exposing people to needless suffering, that ought to be done within the ambit of the law. “This investigation will require the GMD to produce the approval given by the National Assembly and other necessary approving bodies authorising the NNPC to divert the dividend from the NLNG investment, which ought to be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund belonging to the three tiers of government, for the payment of fuel subsidy.” More Criticisms Trail NNPC’s Action To Chinedu Bosah, General Secretary, Socialist Party of Nigeria, such diversion is not new as the government and officials find it difficult to follow the rules of engagement set by themselves. He said it is on record that the biggest corruption in Nigeria is taking place in the oil sector where crude oil are brazenly stolen in millions of barrels with reckless abandon as well as the monumental stealing that is taking place with “oil subsidy payment”. “It is unfortunate that the Buhari-led government that claims to be fighting corruption is involved in fraudulent diversions of billions of Naira! “ASUU is on strike due to underfunding of the universities. Buhari-led government, just like its predecessors, deliberately refused to invest N1trillion in six years to improve on the universities in Nigeria, but will illegally divert one-third of that amount for questionable ventures,” he added. Nnimmo Bassey, an environmentalist, wondered why   such huge funds are being used to pay so-called subsidies, while the infrastructure that would eliminate the need to import petroleum products remain epileptic or totally in comatose, adding that the development was a shame of the nation. He told Sunday INDEPENDENT that it is a clear example of corporate or cabal manipulation of public services to ensure that essential services are in short supply, that citizens are shortchanged and funds that should be used to provide social services continue to be piled into the pockets of fat subsidy cats. Professor Kingsley Moghalu, the presidential candidate of the Young Progressives Party (YPP), has said it is illegal for the national oil company to divert the dividends from the country’s investment in Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) into payment of petrol subsidy. “But, instead of obeying the relevant laws, the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, through the NNPC, has been breaking the law by secretly diverting NLNG dividends to pay for petrol subsidy that was not budgeted for. The illegal payment of fuel subsidy shows the President Buhari administration is not transparent. His government is also deceitful and acting contrary to its claims of fighting corruption,” said Moghalu. Femi Aborishade, human rights activist, told Sunday INDEPENDENT that what the executive arm of the Federal Government has done in this regard represents the continued culture of impunity. “For me, it is likely to be a ruse that the said N378bn was used for the payment of fuel subsidy as at the time the fund diversion took place. The critical question to me is: within the context of fuel scarcity, what fuel consumption was being subsidised? Fuel subsidy is meant to subsidise import of refined products. Where members of the public were subjected to the agony of fuel scarcity, it amounts to double jeopardy and adding salt on an injury for the same government whose policies are responsible for scarcity to claim that subsidy was paid for a product that was unavailable,” According to him, the lesson from the latest discovery of funds diversion is to underline the reality that contrary to the claims of the APC- controlled Federal Government that it is fighting corruption, there is no fundamental difference between the PDP and the APC. Use Of NLNG Dividend For Subsidy In Order – FAAC But, the National Economic Council (NEC) and the Federation Allocation Accounts Committee (FAAC) said they approved the use of Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas dividends for financing of the petroleum products importation. A member of FAAC said the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) briefed the meetings before using the fund. He said that the NNPC Group Managing Director, Maikanti Baru, had briefed NEC and FAAC on the NLNG dividends, which was paid to the corporation as a major shareholder. A senior official of  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) also said  the corporation had sourced $1.05 billion, a revolving loan, to finance the importation of premium motor spirit, known as petrol into the country in 2018. According to him, Section 7 of the NNPC Act empowers the NNPC to defray costs from its revenue, adding that the  corporation had fully compiled and had implemented the approved Treasury Single Account (TSA) laws in utilising the money, which is domiciled in CBN account. “There is nothing like $3.5 billion subsidy claim; it is not true and it is also false alarm that the NNPC was mismanaging such account, the dividends of NLNG as we know is being properly managed,” he said. Spokesperson of the NNPC, Ndu Ughamadu, told Sunday INDEPENDENT that the corporation operates a regime of under recovery, since it is only the National Assembly that could appropriate on fuel subsidy. He said the NNPC was a major shareholder of NLNG and the dividends of NLNG were paid into the corporation account, which the corporation manages. “I want you to know that in this situation, there is nothing like subsidy payment as the Senate President had mentioned. “The GMD had briefed both NEC and FAAC on this NLNG dividend; also, you know that the National Assembly had asked the corporation to ensure adequate supply of products in the country. We used the $1.05 billion revolving loan in question to finance importation of product in the country,” he said.