Danladi O.C. Kwano, media aide to Governor Muhammad Abdullahi Abubakar of Bauchi State, in this interview with SUSAN EDEH, spoke on issues surrounding the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship ticket in the state, especially as it affects his principal’s second term vision, among others. Excerpts: How do you see the speculations that the candidacy of Governor Muhammad Abdullahi Abubakar All Progressives Congress (APC) ticket might be withdrawn and substituted? These are only speculations and the work of the opposition, particularly the PDP and some forces within the APC. Muhammad Abdullahi Abubakar has been given certificate of return by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), which has the authority to clear any candidate after primary election. Do the opposition forces think that INEC is a political party being led by politicians? There is no way INEC can give you a certificate without clearance and substitute your name with another. It is all laid down in the electoral processes. These processes are laws guiding elections. Even political parties under which platforms aspirants contest have their own rules and regulations guiding the aspirants. Before the party sends the aspirant’s name to INEC for clearance, such an aspirant must have been cleared by the party. The rumour on Abubakar’s substitution is fabricated by desperate politicians trying to win elections on the foundation of lies, treachery and deceit. Any politician whose foundation is on these three vices cannot offer anything tangible to the people that elected him. The electorate must be cautious of such politicians and should identify them early before elections and expose them.  They perpetrators of slander cannot be elected into office irrespective of who they are. As liars and deceivers, what they are good at is throwing the state into chaos. The people should be wary of such politicians. This is my advice to the people of Bauchi. People say there is crisis within the APC because there the primary election did not hold in Bauchi. How true is this? Do these rumour mongers think INEC officials and APC leaders are bunch of fools? INEC works hand in hand with the political parties in tandem with electoral laws. For example, the APC crisis in Zamfara, INEC up till now has not published the name of any senatorial or governorship candidate that contested political offices in APC in that state. This is because the APC National Working Committee (NWC) did not send any name to INEC, and even if it did, INEC believes the elections did not conform with its procedures. Some frontline APC members did not want the election to take place. So they trooped to Abuja to distract the attention of the party leaders. Unfortunately for them, they did not succeed in their schemes. To their disappointment, Governor Abdullahi emerged as the winner. No one can point to a single crisis after the primary election in Bauchi State there was none. The two frontline contestants did not channel any complain anywhere. They have only been ranting. When they get tired, they will shut up. I assure you that our party is more united. Some are saying that there is backlog of salary arrears, pension and gratuity unpaid by this administration, while some have even gone to the court. But, these are campaign gimmicks to frustrate the administration. Whoever says this is not conversant with the governor’s activities and the people of Bauchi State and needs to get his facts right. When Governor Muhammad Abdullahi Abubakar came on board, some of these problems existed. But, because the prudence, accountability and transparency of the administration, he was able to pay all outstanding arrears he inherited from his predecessor. Thus he has been clearing the backlog of two of his predecessors and this is not a one day’s job. Don’t forget that Governor Abubakar is one of the first two governors in the federation that agreed without persuasion to pay the new minimum wage that some governors are still grumbling about. In Bauchi State, accountability matters because the state has a huge work force and civil servants constitute almost half of the state population. Inspite of that, the governor pays salary every month without delay. If you can recall, when Bauchi had salary problems two years back, it was because of an order by the industrial court that mandated the payment of some arrears of councillors owed by the state from the administration of Ahmed Adamu Mu’azu. It was from 2005 to 2009. So, you can imagine the number of years. Not a single one of them went to court until they were instigated by politicians that did not wish the state well. But, before the order, the present administration in Bauchi State has been paying salaries without any hitches. This is what annoying the saboteurs of this administration who instigated the councillors to go to court. That was the only time Bauchi State had salary problems. There is a speculation that Governor Muhammad Adullahi Abubakar is not an indigene of the state, hence the attacks being unleashed on his administration by some stakeholders. What is your take on this? It is high time people to stopped taking the issue of indigeneship as criteria for electing people into elective offices. We believe that it is the right of every citizen to be involved in democracy irrespective of where he or she hails from. What is democracy? It is government of the people, by the people and for the people. If it is indeed government by the people, then let the people make their choices because the government is determined by them and will be for them. It is because the government is for them, that any adult is lawfully allowed to vote during all elections. An adult can make a decision on the right person to lead his affairs. Nobody can dictate to a full grown adult. Governor Abubakar has worked for the state almost all his life and is committed to the well being of the people of the state. He ensured that he pursued the government interests wherever he served, both during the civilian and military administration in the state and nobody grumbled. So, why now? On the issue of indigeneship, if one is analyses and investigates his credentials, he has superseded all those unscrupulous characters trying to make this as a point. First, Governor Abubakar can contest the stool of the Galadima of Bauchi if the stool is vacant, because, he from a lineage of those that held sway as far as the stool is concerned. He is a heir in that lineage and you cannot be a heir to anything unless by being a legal child of the owner of that property or the owner decides to trust and make you his or her child. Governor Abubakar is a paternal child of the Galadima’s lineage right from the day the Emirate Council of Bauchi was created. Go to Jahun community and ask for the house of Abdullahi Sarkin Gero. They are well known. That is his parent’s house. When the Bauchi Emirate was founded, the Yakubu of Bauchi was among the five traditional ruling houses in the state. Among them is the Galadima house and Governor Abubakar is from the lineage of that house. Why are people making so much noise about this? It is just a pointer that it has a political connotation. What is your advice for the people of the state as the 2019 general elections are fast approaching? My advice is for them to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) that is for those who have not collected theirs. It with their PVCs they can decide who rules them in 2019. Again, I also wanted them to be careful of desperate politicians whose aim is to deceive them into thinking this administration is not working. By the grace of God, Governor Mohammed Abubakar come 2019, will be re-elected. I am calling on the masses to support this administration so that it can continue the good works it started in 2015.