ABUJA – There are fears that the pharmaceutical industries and market in the nation’s capital have been overtaken fakers of drugs and all other dealers in drugs, DAILY INDEPENDENT has gathered. Speaking recently on the matter, President, Pharmaceutical Council of Nigeria (PCN), Maxi Sam Ohuabunwa, while a courtesy visit on the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole in his office, recently in Abuja, said the pharmaceutical industry and market has been invaded and infiltrated by interlopers and merchants of death, who are daily dispatching innocent Nigerians to their early graves. The Pharmacist stated that the average Nigerian can obtain medicines from anywhere in the open market stalls, Kiosks, intra and intercity buses, and now in Night Clubs and bars. “Our country is facing an unmitigated incidence of drug misuse and drug abuse causing untold morbidities and mortalities,” Ohuabunwa  said. He submitted that the association will collaborate with the Minister to reign in the gross misuse and abuse of drugs by tightening control of medicines, empowering pharmacists to play their critical role as custodians of medicines and thereafter, holding them accountable for every tablet or capsule or vial of injections produced or imported into the country. “This disorderly and chaotic medicine supply system in our country must be repaired for the good of all,” he added. The Pharmaceutical Council of Nigeria President also sought support for local value addition saying, “they must fight for National Health Policy to include the provision of 70% of our essential drug needs from local manufacturing”. “I am distressed that today; we are producing less than 30%. And even within this poor 30%, only about 5% is true local input into local manufacturing. “Most of the raw materials which include: excipients, flavourings, addictives are all imported. There is no Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) produced anywhere in Nigeria. Our next door neighbour, Ghana does,” Ohuabunwa said. He asked that research centers especially NIPRD to help produce local alternatives for the industry and ensure that locally produced drugs and medicaments are given priory in procurement of drugs by the public sector across the Nation. In his response, the Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole said health is not an independent responsibility of the Federal Government, but states are not helping issue. Reacting to the issue of invasion, the minister said some of the Pharmacists are at fault, Saying, Most of them give out their certificates and pictures to other people to established pharmacy. He, however, urged them to work on themselves and the issue of invasion to get rid of it.