The nation’s labour movement is in war mood. The three labour centres, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), the United Labour Congress (ULC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) are united in their resolve to call out Nigeria’s labour force for a nationwide industrial action on November 6, 2018 over the Federal Government’s failure to approve a new National Minimum Wage for the workers. Already, following series of dialogue, the labour movement reduced their demand from N65, 000 to N30, 000, which the Federal Government has accepted. But, the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) under the chairmanship of Gov Abdul’aziz Yari refused to accept the N30,000, but pegged what they think Nigerian workers deserve as a minimum wage at the paltry N22,500. Expectedly, the Labour Movement rejected the amount and insisted on the N30,000, threatening that the workers will down tool and shut down the nation on November 6, when an indefinite strike is expected to begin. Bearing in mind that the Nigerian workers have been living in abject poverty even against the backdrop of rising cost of living, and the provoking affluence in which members of the ruling class live,  should state governors yield to Labour’s demands for N30,000 minimum wage? It would be recalled that the demand for a new National Minimum Wage started over four years ago, when the Labour Movement insisted that the current N18, 000 had become obsolete and could not take care of the family of an average Nigerian worker. Several meetings held between Labour and the Federal Government had not yielded positive result, until recently when both parties agreed on the N30,000, which the state governors rejected. Ngige’s Reaction Chris Ngige, the Minister of Labour and Productivity, criticised the governors for coming up with such a paltry figure, saying N22,500 is even below the N24, 000 earlier agreed by the Federal Government. He said: “The governors have not even done enough. I told them that this N22,500 is even rejected by the Federal Government.” He however noted that all parties on the ground would resume negotiations to see that the welfare of the workers is met. The minister said: “The national minimum wage is a national legislation being driven by the Federal Government of Nigeria in pursuance to Item 34 of the Exclusive Legislative list. But, you don’t go and make a law which people will disobey at the initial.” NLC Spits Fire On its part, organised labour warned that if the governors continue to advance their own figures outside the N30,000 mutually agreed by the tripartite committee at the end of its negotiations, it would be forced to revert to its initial demand of N66,500 as new wage for workers. Addressing journalists in Abuja,  Comrade Ayuba Wabba, the NLC pesident, said the governors were not only a part of the process from the onset of the negotiation, but were also present at the close of negotiation where a figure was mutually agreed upon by the tripartite committee. He stressed: “The demand of organised labour is not N30,000. Our demand is N66,500. N30,000 is the compromised figure arrived at, at the end of negotiations by the tripartite partners – government, employers and organised labour. The new minimum wage was a product of intense negotiations that lasted for almost one year. “The unilateral pronouncement by governors of N22,500 Minimum Wage is an abuse of every known principle of industrial relations, labour laws, processes and international best practices. “At this point, labour needs to reiterate that the allocation or award of 22,500 is hereby rejected. It has no place in collective bargaining process. We wish to reiterate our position adopt at our National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of October 23, 2018 that any figure below N30,000 will not be accepted by us. “We call on our members to continue to mobilise in preparation for the commencement of an indefinite strike on November 6, 2018, if by then necessary steps have not been taken to adopt the recommendations of the Tripartite Committee. Our workers are resolute, our unions are resolute, there must be fairness, justice; there must be respect for the rule of law. “If everybody will revert to the free operation of figures, if Federal Government will begin to advance figures, if state governors will begin to advance figures, what will stop labour from bringing back the figure that was initially put on the table?” Wabba maintainedd that the NGF has no moral or constitutional right whatsoever to dictate the amount they are going to pay workers as minimum wage. TUC Concurs Meanwhile, the National Executive Council of Trade Union Congress (TUC) has also rejected the N22,500 put forward by the state governors as the National Minimum Wage. The TUC maintained that  the governors’ forum is not an established body empowered to negotiate new minimum wage. The TUC stated, which was contained in a communiqué at the end of its NEC meeting held in Lagos, said that the committee had concluded its job and had come up with N30,000, which it had accepted. As the situation stands, if there is no agreement before November 6, the nIgerian workers will definitely embark on an indefinite strike, having been provoked by the governors’ recommendation. Govt Should Pay N0,000 As Monimum Wage – Cleric Dr. Bernard Isokun Otaigbe, a Benin-based Pentecostal Bishop, said: “I will say yes the governor should pay the N30,000 to the workers as Minimum Wage. If you look at what the governors and other politicians are taking home, you will discover that N30,000 for the least paid Nigerian worker is infinitesimal. “This is why I will continue to say that Nigeria politicians have no conscience, especially the governors who, apart from their jumbo salaries, spend security votes with impunity without being audited. These are the same people who are now saying they cannot pay N30,000 as minimum wage. “They should be ashamed of themselves. I will suggest that any governor who cannot pay N30,000 as minimum should resign as governor. Period.” CDHR Insists On N30,000, Tackles Govs The Committee for Defense of Human Right, Delta State Chapter, has urged the state governors to accept the N30, 000 as the minimum wage, as proposed by the Labour Movement. It warned that the refusal of the governors to yield to the increase would be a sign of immense wickedness to the masses. Comrade Kehinde Taiga, the CDHR, Chairman in Delta State, stated that the increase in the minimum wage should not be a problem considering the state of the economy, as goods and services have become more expensive. He maintained that the N22,500, being proposed by the governors is an insignificant increase to the existing N18, 000. He said: “Governors should not just work for their selfish interest. The money is not so much. If they are receiving millions of naira and they are debating about increasing the minimum wage by just N12,000, it is wickedness.” He said that emphasis should be placed on reduction of allowances of politicians, rather than needless debate on increase in minimum wage of workers. Taiga stated that the increase in the minimum wage should not be a problem considering the state of the economy, as prices of things have become more expensive. FG, Labour Should Engage In Constructive Dialogue – Politician Abraham Amah, an Umuahia, Abia State-based political commentator, has urged that rather than sticking to a new minimum wage, there should be a constructive engagement between the Labour Movement and the Federal Government to clear the outstanding salary owed workers across the country. He maintained that anything short of constructively engaging both sides would spell doom for the Nigerian economy, stressing that any wage bill without the commensurate power to enforce them would further impoverish the workers. According to him the possibility of doom was not far when a load heavier than a person is allowed to be put on that individual, adding that whereas some states have the capacity to pay able N100,000,  many others do not have such capacity, hence it would amount to an exercise in futility to embark on such programme. Amah stated: “To me, I will advise that Labour and government should engage themselves critically on this issue of new minimum wage. It is only through this engagement that both sides will clearly x-ray the issues at hand in order to fashion out what is best for the teeming population of workers. “If you critically analyse information available, you will see that at present, about 27 states owe backlog of salaries to their workers. Now, what would be the implications of a new minimum wage? It is that the month expending on salary for the workers will skyrocket. “I can bet you that most of these states currently owing may not be able to pay, hence the indebtedness will continue. “So, for me, the issue is simple, get the organised labour to a roundtable and discuss how best the outstanding salaries will be paid. The issue of bailout funds from the federal government to states does not arise because these were funds belonging to then States but in the custody of the federal government, so it is not Federal Government money “But, during this roundtable negotiation I’m suggesting, it will involve the states, the Federal Government and organised labour. At the table, all of them will agree on the acceptable modus of paying the workers being owed in such a way that once the Federal Government makes the money available, it would go straight into the account of the workers and not through an intermediary.” He insisted that the Federal Government has so much money that it can afford to pay any salary, but that same could not be said of some states and that it will totally rubbish the spirit behind the exercise if it was done and majority of the workforce are unable to enjoy it. N30,000 Minimum Wage Is Not Feasible – Grassroots Politician Garba Ismaeel, a Minna-based grassroots politician, said: “I am just a grassroots politician and not a state governor. But what I am telling you is that it will be an endless battle between the government and workers in paying the agitated N30, 000 minimum wage because of the ongoing underground power play. “I still remember what the Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr. Chris Ngige, said last week regarding the Labour’s demands for N30, 000 new minimum wage. If I can vividly quote the minister that, it will be dangerous for workers to force the government to accept non-existing figure. “I understand that to be that paying N30, 000 is not just feasible. One of the governors also made similar comment that some states are still finding it difficult to pay the N18, 000 and now you want to increase workers’ remuneration to almost double the amount. “My take is this: if it is difficult for states to pay N18, 000, what makes one think it will be easy to increase it to N30, 000 and the possibility that it will not end up in months or even years of lack of salary to workers? “Are the workers not overstretching their luck? If states have agreed to pay N24,000, they should manage it and continue to press for more, instead of outright N30, 000 that will end up in state governments in months of debts or unpaid salary arrears.” Nigerian Governors Are Insensitive, Wicked – SDP Chieftain Daberechi Johnson Ekeruo is a pensioner and a chieftain of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Hear her: “The refusal of the governors to pay N30,000 to workers is an act of wickedness and insensitivity. “Are the governors saying that they do not know what the workers are passing through? How many of the workers feed three times a day? “The governors are busy wasting our money on frivolities and because they have all the good things of life at their disposal. That is why they think that the workers are crying wolf in their demands.”