Abuja – Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has justified recent chaotic primaries held to choose the party’s flag bearers for next year’s general election, noting  that the value of APC’s ticket had soared from 2015. He said the enlarged house which now harboured high profile political gladiators meant more contention for space. Unfortunately, he noted that only a few of the high-value political persons that embraced the APC would emerge candidates of the party. Comrade Oshiomhole gave the insight while inaugurating the 46 -member APC Peace and Reconciliation Committee yesterday at the national secretariat of the party. He said despite the best efforts of the APC National Working Committee, the gladiators had issues with the outcome of the exercise, adding however that the committee would seek in-house solutions to the issues that had torn the party apart on the eve of a crucial election. According to Oshiomhole, “The house is bigger than it was four years ago because those who initially had reservations have since realized that the President meant business and the APC was delivering on the promises that we made. “As they say, success has many fathers and failure is an orphan. The fact of these accomplishment which has enlarged the house and brought in more political activists and political leaders who are people of huge electoral value across the states has meant that the internal democratic process which we were obliged under our constitution to go through was getting more intense and competitive, with more people showing interest in the affairs of our party.” He added that what many failed to realise was that only one person would emerge to represent the party in each instance, no matter the system adopted. “If it were possible to have angels in politics, and ten of them decide to contest for the office of a governor of a state, nine angels will lose nomination, not because they are less pure, but because only one person will be chosen. “Whether that choice is through imposition, consensus, direct or indirect primary, it is obvious from the onset that nine will go without the ticket. “This is something we ought to expect and that every democrat should readily appreciate,” he said. He tasked the committee, dominated by APC governors, to reach out to aggrieved members of the party with a view to securing peace and work toward a common goal in 2019. According to the committee composition released by the party, Oyo State governor, Abiola Ajimobi, chairs the seven-member team for the North-West. Others are Gov. Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar, Gov. Yahaya Bello, Sen. Adamu Aliero, Sen. Danjuma Goje, Sen. Dr. Jim Nwobodo, Amb. Fati Balla. The South-East team has Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje as chairman and Gov. Samuel Lalong, Gov. Kayode Fayemi, Sen. Godswill Akpabio, Alh. Umaru Dembo, Alh. Nasiru Aliko Koki, and Mrs. Ify Ugo Okoye as members, among others.