Yes, the Cranes of Uganda came visiting Asaba, the Capital City of Delta State, Nigeria at the Stephen Keshi Stadium to trade tackles with the Super Eagles of Nigeria on a friendly match that ended goaless. There is no doubt  that the Cranes of Uganda since the time of  defunct Green Eagles have never been easy prey to Nigeria in any circumstance, hence, this recent friendly in Asaba is a testimony to this fact, given the veracity that every country is trying hard to revolutionise its football development – except for some who are still lagging behind. To this Columnist, the Cranes coming here to return to Kampala with a barren draw is not surprising because this Uganda team has never been a side in the African continent to be underrated, even though, the team from the late field Marshal Idi-Amin’s country has never been a strong force to reckon with. This postulation is evident in the outcome of the friendly as the Super Eagles could not enact their winning streak over the Cranes, in spite of the fact that the Cranes were playing away from home. The AFCON championship to be held in Cameroon next year should not be taken like a child’s play.If the Eagles do, they will be disappointed as no team is coming as a mere spectator but as a potential champion of the tournament. The shock given to the Super Falcons of Nigeria by the Bayana- Bayana female team of South Africa during their opening game of AWCON (CAF) championship in Ghana is still very fresh in our memory when they beat the Falcons 1 – 0, even though, the Nigerian women are defending champions, it served as a lesson never to be forgotten. It is therefore believed that some of these countries you may presume to be easy prey and could outrun within the 90minutes of duration time may become the upset that will hand a scandalous defeat to a strong side that you can’t imagine. Surprises are the ingredients of the round leather game. The Eagles having played the Cranes without scoring a goal should know now that football is full of surprises, upsets, and records. Coach Gernot Rohr should improve on the Eagles attack formation, the midfield and defense, especially the goal line which is very suspect. It is on record that the Cranes have been a side not known for prolific scoring and can hardly concede goals. I believe that such strategy is more of defensive play and if an opposing team does not have a sharp and focused attacking formation, a team like the Cranes of Uganda will be a difficult nut to crack. The Cranes came to Nigeria not to beat the Eagles but to pull a draw and tactically avoided defeat in the away friendly involving a top team like the Eagles. To the Cranes, It was victory achieved since they had nothing to lose but for the Eagles, if they know, it was a slight on their new ranking of African Football. So if the Cranes could hold their own and force the Eagles to submit to their defensive strategy that earned them draw, it means Coach Rohr has a lot of lessons to learn from his Uganda counterpart Coach. If the Eagles had the kind of hunger and bite required of an aggressive side, behold that Ugandan strategy would have been destroyed with incessant incursion into their goal mouth and with rain of bullet shots to disorganize the defense and to create ample chances of getting at least a goal. This is a bitter lesson taught the Eagles by the Cranes. If they (Eagles) must be  good ambassadors in the forthcoming CAF tourney in Cameroon come 2019, they must also consider how to decode this formation in their future engagement henceforth! Good Morning.