Ibadan – Founder and Spiritual Head of the One Love Family, Sat Guru Mahara-ji, on Saturday advised the Federal Government to declare total war on the Boko Haram insurgency. The Spiritual Head of the One Love Family made this call at a world press conference addressed to commemorate the 2018 golden age festival of the sect, which took place at the Mahara-ji Village, along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. He maintained that the Boko Haram insurgency is not ordinary, pointing out that military approach is not sufficient enough to tackle the menace. According to him, the Federal Government of Nigeria should tackle the insurgency with all the powers within its reach, including spiritual power. The Spiritual Head of the One Love Family, however, urged the Federal Government to interface with the Northern governors on what they are doing with their security votes meant to tackle insecurity in their states. Mahara – Ji also advocated the establishment of state police in the country, saying, “Nigeria’s adoption of the federal system of geopolitical administration speaks favourably to the idea of availing its constituent states the liberty to own and operate police institutions in their respective domains.” On the controversy surrounding the new N30, 000 minimum wage, Mahara – Ji stated that the minimum wage of Nigerian workers should not be less than N150, 000 per month, in view of the current realities. He called for the upward review of the controversial N30, 000 demanded for by the leadership of labour unions, just as he suggested that salaries of political office holders should be reduced drastically to pave the way for the new minimum wage. Mahara-ji also called for the re introduction of school farms in primary schools and tertiary institutions to boost Nigeria’s economy and ensure drastic reduction in food importation. The Spiritual Head of  the One Love Family warned the Federal Government against the sale of Ajaokuta Steel Company and other national assets. According to him, the Ajaokuta Steel Company should serve as the bedrock of the Nigerian economy, noting that steel development had served as the bedrock of the economies of many developed countries. He also called for serious actions on the resuscitation of the Nigerian Airways, just as he suggested that the Federal Government should set up a very powerful panel of enquiries to investigate how and why the Nigerian Airways was grounded. On the issue of corruption, Mahara-Ji noted that foreign religions embraced by Nigerians have not helped to tackle the cankerworm of corruption, which is the major problem militating against the progress of the country. On the forthcoming 2019 general elections, Mahara-Ji said the polls will be peaceful despite the fears being expressed by many Nigerians.