The Super Falcons of Nigeria is set to conquer Africa again in the forthcoming CAF African Women football championship billed to take place in Ghana this November. There’s no doubt, the Nigerian female football team cannot be taken for granted by other African female teams set to do justice to the gold trophy of the tourney, which the team had won for keep on several occasion since the inception of the championship. The Nigerian team has never been coached by any foreigner and they have dominated the scene of the CAF event with candour, prestige, prowess and good technical display of the round leather object each time they represent Nigeria in the continent. This supersonic team may not have done well in the FIFA version of the championship but I must confess that as a team from Africa, the Nigeria women have made some sparkling entrance each time they play their group games amongst the best women teams across the world. Nigerian coaches who have had the opportunity to tutor the Falcons  have actually laid a wonderful antecedent right from inception and that legacy still trail the Falcons within the continent of Africa; except on few instances where some of the coaches have had to smear their names in the mud for reasons of personal indiscipline over the women whom in some measure have suppose to keep of “ father and daughter” relationship; rather, some of these coaches made themselves very cheap and irresponsible before the same players who no longer take orders from them in and out of the pitch. In fact, during these periods, where the coaches messed up their integrity, was the time the Falcons went offshore Nigeria to return to the country with various tales of woes, scandals against scandals, ditto non- payment of allowances, winning bonuses and sexual harassment which rocked most of their tourney outings. Having said this, it is also on record that the Falcons have raised head above waters in their conquest of Africa. This columnist is not using this medium to advocate for a foreign coach for the Falcons, but if the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) could look on to that direction, if we must advance from the stage of being only African champion because  lifting the national team from this stage as it is now is very paramount. It may not be sad to say that the Nigerian coaches do not upgrade their coaching credentials to go beyond African stage. Football indeed has gone scientific not for the players alone but in coaching methodology, except the Falcons decide to leave this class they have been under with the local coaches, if not  the women future in FIFA tournament may continue to remain in the doldrums. It is also common knowledge that this tourney in Ghana will be the one that will produce African representatives for the next FIFA women world cup; therefore, the Nigerian women are already handy to conquer the rest of the women to lift the trophy as defending champions and to book a place In the FIFA forthcoming event. It is my belief that the Falcons will return with the Gold cup from Ghana as we shall welcome them with the word, “AKWABA”. Good morning!