LAGOS – In order to enhance Nigeria’s participation in the ongoing Global Digital Revolution, appropriate blueprint that will serve as the guiding principles for Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Research programmes in the country is underway. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), which conceived the initiative, appointed a seven-man panel of experts to look critically at issues relating to ICT Research in the panel chaired by Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, a former Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of the NCC, submitted its final report to the NCC Board and Management at the weekend. Specifically, Chairman of NCC Board, Senator OlabiyiDurojaiye who received the report in the presence of Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of NCC Prof. Umar GarbaDanbatta, Executive Commissioner, (Stakeholder Management), Mr. Sunday Dare and other members of the Executive Management, said the initiative was to invite eminent Nigerians with “deep knowledge, expertise and experience in ICT to serve on the Panel of Experts and in their capacity to advise the NCC on ICT discovery, Innovations, Technology through the instrumentality of Research and Capacity Building”. Premised on the commitment of NCC to the establishment of ICT learning and education in Nigeria, Senator Durojaiye said: “the Board deeply considered setting up a merit-based process for objective selection of young Nigerians resident in the country and in diaspora for special training and capacity building to enhance Nigeria’s participation in the ongoing Global Digital Revolution” Apart from Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, the other members of the panel of experts include; Engr. TitiOmo –Ettu, Chairman, Digital Bridge Institute (DBI), Prof. Mohammed Ajiya, AlhajiAbdullahiMaikano, Dr. Ike Adinde (Administrator DBI), Engr. Johnson Asinugo and Mr. ShehuOlaniya. Senator Durojaiye said: “It is pertinent to note that, the Digital Bridge Institute (DBI), an innovation of the Commission already has ample basic facilities to house ICT Research Centers in Lagos and Abuja to start with. The Commission is desirous of refocusing the DBI to actualise its mandate in accordance with the ideals of its founding fathers.