Kaduna – Worried over the killing of traditional rulers in Kaduna State, the Congress of Northern Nigerian Christians (CNNC), a registered body of all Christians in the 19 northern states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), has said such reprehensible acts, which should have no place in the country, has not only taken root in northern Nigeria, but also appears to be a recurrent decimal. The CNNC expressed sadness over the gruesome murder of Dr. Maiwada Galadima, the Agom Adara and Gambo Makama, the Etum Numana, alongside his pregnant wife, on January 1. Larry Joseph Yammai, its publicity secretary, in a statement, said: “We are seriously concerned about the disgraceful security situation in Kaduna State that has claimed over 100 lives and destroyed unquantifiable properties in October. “The situation has been clearly exacerbated by the lack of unbiased leadership in the state, which has further alienated the citizens along religious fault lines. Apprehension has taken hold of the entire Kaduna State”. The group called on President Muhammadu Buhari to quickly set up a high-power body to investigate these shameful acts with the aim to finding lasting peace. “CNNC once more, notes with grave concern, the rapid deterioration of the security situation across the nation particularly in the north-east. It is of great concern that Boko Haram is reported to be resisting and overrunning the Nigerian Army, even with the recent attack on the 145 Battalion in Gashigar, Borno State. Whether the military is motivated and has enough and requisite equipment to execute this war, is a matter of conjecture. “CNNC has been inundated with reports of clandestine burial of Nigeria’s fallen heroes in the course of fighting insurgency in the Northeast and elsewhere. We believe that any citizen that has signed to defend this great country deserves the highest medal of honour, the recognition the country can offer and to be treated as the heroes they truly are”. According to the statement, “Where relations of servicemen are barely informed of the demise of their loved ones and burials conducted seemingly behind closed-doors, does not honour them for the supreme price they have paid. CNNC asks that they be exhumed and given the decent burial they deserve”. “CNNC also notes with trepidation, the continuous and wanton destruction of lives and property by the terrorist killer Fulani herdsmen on the Plateau and other locations as it begs the question, of how much killing will be termed illegal before this government will arrest perpetrators of these heinous crimes? As if that wasn’t enough, innocent villagers where these killings are taking place are now being rounded up for indiscriminate arrests by the military, forcing them to flee their homes while their killers walk free. “The semblance of giving more protection, concern and cover by the government to a certain set of people while leaving the other exposed, only exacerbates the already fragile mistrust that has overtime, been allowed to simmer. CNNC calls for a swift and deliberate rounding up of these killers so they can face the full wrath of the law”. The statement further said, “CNNC has also noted that the killer Fulani Herdsmen attacks are mostly on Christian dominated enclaves and have the grand signature of a well calculated, oiled and administered tactical masterpiece to completely sack our members from these areas so that, they could be disenfranchised come the 2019 elections. “After these communities have been over-ran and occupied by these terrorist elements and the government appears unwilling to exert the big stick, it has become clear that 2019 is one of the game plans that is at play and that the Nigerian government, led by President Muhammadu Buhari is equally unwilling to resettle these farmers that were sacked from their lands by these terrorist Fulani herdsmen”. “This inaction has two devastating effects on these farmers. One, that they are not being reunited with their lands and so, cannot engage in farming; their only means of survival. Consequently, there shall be massive food shortages with the government taking no visible steps to plug this anomaly”.