LAGOS – The recent defection of Governor Samuel Ortom from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has led to some alignments and realignments, which may determine the direction of the 2019 general elections in the state. In the Oju/Obi federal constituency, for instance, the people are faced with an uphill task of choosing between six formidable candidates for the House of Representatives seat, even as both candidates of the APC and PDP seem to be topping the chart. The incumbent, Samson Okwu of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is seeking a third term in the Green Chamber, an ambition, Nick Eworo of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the immediate-past Deputy Majority Leader of the Benue State House of Assembly, wants to abort. Joined with Eworo is Ogbole Isegbe of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). The three candidates are from Obi LGA, which produced the deputy governor in 1999. The crux of the matter is that the people of Oju LGA are peeved by the seeming political domination of Obi since 1999 and are agitating to change the game in their own favour next year. The Oju people are counting on two-time state legislator and former commissioner,  Egbiri Idaah of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) to get the coveted set for them. Other candidates from Oju LGA that are in the race are David Ogewu of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and Benson Obega of the Labour Party (LP), each one hoping to win with the population advantage of the area. The Benue political watchers believe that the 2019 election is peculiar. Apart from population advantage, affluence of candidates, a lot of increasing voter awareness has been going on to ensure that Nigerians come out to vote and make their votes count. Okwu, the PDP candidate, has relied on population advantage of Oju and its politically virile nature for victory in the past. But, this may not count this time around. Eworo, in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, stated that Igede, which is made up of the people of Oju and Obi, is in dire need of quality leadership. He, therefore, promised to provide that for the area to witness dividends of democracy, which he said had eluded them. He expressed confidence that he will win in the 2019, election. His admires call him ‘Mr. Fix it of Igede’ as his joining partisan politics in 2007 has brought landmark achievements to the people. Eworo maintained that apart from physical infrastructure such as roads and bridges which he assisted his people to provide, he has always played key roles in the affairs of the area. It is no wonder that many have already endorsed Eworo as the most credible among the six candidates bidding for the position. However, the issue of zoning may be a stumbling block for Eworo. This is because, from investigations, the Oju people are demanding the return of the slot to them after Okwu’s second term. If this is applied, then, Eworo would need divine intervention to clinch the seat. But, as one of the political watchers in the area stated, “As a matter of equity and fairness, truth is since the return of the country to democracy in 1999, Oju people have occupied the seat for 12 years, whereas Obi people are in their eight and have one more term of four years to go to level up with Oju. In this case, Idaah may be the person to beat at the poll due to his soaring popularity in Oju, although not as much as much as Eworo, who both Oju and Obi hold in high esteem. Another issue that may pose a challenge to Eworo is the what observers see as paucity of funds and the influence of money politics. One of the analysts stated: “In the recent past, money became the game changer in Igede politics and Eworo may need to go the extra mile to undo Okwu or Ogewu, who are believed to have the deepest pockets among the six candidates in the race. But, should the election ordinarily be about the highest bidder?”