SOKOTO – Brig. Gen. Sule Zakari Kazaure, Director General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), has urged Corps members that would participate in the 2019 general elections across the country not to run after ballot boxes snatchers, or collect bribe from any politician in the course of their duties. Kazaure who stated this while addressing Corps members of 2018 Batch C, Stream 1 posted to Kebbi State at the Permanent Orientation Camp, Dakingeri, noted that their life are more important to NYSC than any politician’s interest. The Director General, told the Corps members not to argue, struggle with ballot boxes snatchers, rather, they should cooperate and report to appropriate quarters immediately they are out of danger. “You know election is coming next year and you are all aware that INEC is collaborating with us. Those of you that will participate in the exercise, INEC and NYSC training teams will come to various states to train you. It is not compulsory that you must participate, it is voluntary. “But during the election, you are the Number 1 security officer of yourself. If they want to snatch the ballot boxes, carry it on your cap for them and secure your life. Your life means a lot to us; never again may we lose any corps members again. What I am seeing here today, are future governors, ministers and we wouldn’t like to waste any one of you. “During election, avoid any bribe.  If you collect bribe, there is no immunity for you because the electoral laws are there for offenders. If you get caught, you will face the full wrath of the law. It is better to stay alive and become governors, ministers than collect bribes and get locked up,” he said. The DG appealed to the Corps members to avoid night travels, and respect leaders of their host communities in order to excel during their one year mandatory service to the country. Earlier, Barde Usman, Kebbi State Coordinator of NYSC, told the NYSC DG  that the 2,039 Corps members in the camp comprised 1,015 males and 1,024 females, stressing that since they resumed for their orientation in the camp, they have subjected them to rules and regulations and they behave well. He added that all the pregnant and nursing mothers posted to the camp in Kebbi State had been relocated instantly.