Comrade Alaowei Cleric, a lawyer and human rights activist, is the National President, Foundation For Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusade (FHRACC), a Niger Delta rights group. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the recent search of Atiku Abubakar by security operatives at Abuja Airport, the crisis between Adam Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and the party’s governors, among other crucial issues. Excerpt: How do you see the recent search of President Atiku Abubakar and his private jet at the Abuja Airport by security agents? To me, the move is designed to embarrass the man. I see no reason why the Federal Government should search Atiku’s plane at this point in time? The man has been travelling round the world prior to his victory at the PDP presidential primary. I have never heard that Atiku’s plane has ever been subjected to such Gestapo-styled search. The explanation of the Aviation Minister that the search on Atiku plane was a routine airport security exercise is too lame and such cannot hold water. There is more to it than meets the ordinary eyes. I think the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) government is unnecessarily heating up the polity. We did not experience this kind of political intolerance during the previous government of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. President Muhammadu Buhari, who was then the presidential candidate of the then opposition party, was never embarrassed at any time during the campaigns. The APC government should not deny others the magnanimity it earlier enjoyed from the PDP government. What is your take on the APC’s call for a probe of Atiku’s trip to Dubai with his principal members of his campaign organizations for crucial meeting? I see no sense in that call. Holding political meetings outside the country, to me, has not violated any of the Nigerian laws. Atiku and members of his party only exercised their constitutional rights. In 2014, the APC held most of its meetings in the Middle East. Nobody called for the probe of the party’s meetings then. I believed that the PDP only found Dubai convenient for such a strategic meeting. For anyone to call for the probe of such meeting, what the person ought to have asked is whether there is any breach of peace or threat to national security occasioned by the Atiku’s meeting held in the United Arab Emirate (UAE). None of the petitioners have alleged that Atiku and leaders of his support groups violated any extant laws of Nigeria or constituted an act that is capable of undermining national security in their meeting in Dubai. Adams Oshiomhole, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, is enmeshed in crisis with some of his party’s state governors, even as he has been quizzed by the Department of State Security (DSS) and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). How do you see the development? What is happening in APC is purely intra-party affairs. The purported grilling of the party’s national Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole by the DSS is unlawful. The allegations of financial impropriety if any in his party, do not fall under the purview of the DSS. The Secret Service has no business with such matters. I think his traducers merely wanted to use the DSS to intimidate him. Perhaps they had a primordial agenda to achieve, especially as it was alleged that the DSS told Oshiomhole to resign. When did it become the business of the Nigeria’s Secret police to dabble into political parties’ internal disputes which have nothing to do with national security or breach of public peace? I would have been very happy if the persons had petitioned the appropriate agencies and the latter swung into action to probe the allegations because that is what Nigerians have been expecting from the President’s anti-corruption war. INEC recently removed 300,000 names from the voter register. What is your view on this? I see nothing wrong in what INEC did as far as it will give the commission the credibility to conduct free and fair elections. Let the electoral body continue to use its gadgets to sanitise the electoral process. With the experiences of the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections, would you say the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will conduct free and fair elections in 2019? On this issue, your guess is as good as mine. Nigerians have doubts in INEC’s sincerity to conduct free, fair and credible elections in 2019. The Ekiti and Osun states’ electoral malfeasances have eroded our fears that INEC is not really independent. The commission needs to secure once again the public confidence so that we can have hitch-free elections. INEC has a duty to save our democracy in 2019. The survival of our fledgling democracy rests on INEC to conduct credible elections in 2019. We hope that the Ekiti and Osun’s broad daylight electoral fraud and ballots robberies should not rear their ugly faces in 2019. Nigerians will definitely resist any move to subvert the will of the people. How do you see the seven-point demand the Niger Delta youths gave to the Federal Government after a meeting at Bori in Khana local government area as prerequisite for peaceful elections in 2019? That is the position of the entire Niger Delta people. I am in total agreement with the declaration. We have said it in several fora that our next choice of president is one who will restructure the country. The region has unanimously agreed to only support a presidential candidate who is disposed to our clamour for true federalism. We need a balanced country where everybody is seen as an equal stakeholder. Let us evolve from statehood to nationhood where all the component units contribute to the centre. A truly united country is what we clamour for and that means states should be given opportunities to harness and control the resources in their domains. Would you say the likely direction of the Niger Delta or South South in the 2019 general elections? Our position is loud and clear. We will support someone who will implement restructuring. Our support for any of the presidential candidates in the 2019 general elections is anchored on restructuring. We have been used and dumped in time past. It is not going to be business as usual. It is either restructuring or never. We are going to screen all the presidential candidates and we shall come up with a decision based on our findings. As far as restructuring is concerned, four out of the six geo-political zones are in agreement with the South South people. This, therefore, means that the agenda for restructuring is a must and we will stop at nothing to achieve it. Bearing in mind the performance of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, would you say the Niger Delta will support the APC administration in the coming elections? Niger Delta people are more concerned about restructuring. If our votes should go to President Buhari in 2019, then it must be anchored on what he has done to address the clamour for True Federalism and Resource Control. No government can adequately address the years of neglect and marginalisation of the Niger Delta people. Our only saviour is Resource Control. That is the surer path to peace and stability as well as even development in the region.