Abakaliki – David Umahi, governor of Ebonyi State and Chairman, South-East Governors’ Forum, has disclosed some of the issues they took up with President Muhammadu Buhari when they visited him recently. Umahi also revealed that the zone would only support the presidential candidate that could win the February 2019 election. The Ebonyi State governor spoke in Abakaliki on Thursday and noted that such a candidate must also be willing to integrate the zone in the scheme of things, especially on provision of infrastructural facilities. The governor, alongside Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu and other governors from the South-East zone, paid a well-publicised visit to the president on Wednesday. He stated that the zone would not support any candidate without a clear-cut capacity for victory no matter what the candidate might promise the zone. He said the welfare of the zone was way beyond party politics and personal interest. “Any party that wants to take the South-East very seriously, the South-East will take that person very seriously. So, we are not going to be begging people to support the candidates; you have to tell us what you will do for us as a people and we will look at it and know whether you are speaking the truth, and we will also inquire from God whether you will win, because even if you promise heaven and earth and you will not win, wisdom demands we should not support, but if you are going to win through the powers of God, because it is God that gives power, we will support you,” the governor said. “We want any party that will be serious about the plight of the South-East. One important thing that newspapers did not report is that we also requested for a service chief when we visited Mr. President from South-East because we don’t have any. “And all that we requested are not new; they have been the things that our people have been clamouring for.” Chief Umahi said he was not campaigning for President Buhari against the candidate of his party, the PDP, stressing that his support for Mr. President was beyond partisan interest. The governor, however, disclosed that the president would be in Abakaliki in January 2019 to commission the Muhammadu Buhari Glass Tunnel constructed by his administration and named after the president. Commenting further on the major issues discussed with President Buhari, Umahi said the zone, among other issues, requested the president to consider appointing at least a service chief from the zone as well as the completion of the second Niger Bridge. According to Umahi, “The South-East governors visited Buhari because they are part of Nigeria, the same way the South-South visited. “The South-South was talking about oil; you talk about your comparative advantage. We went to talk about our bridge, we went to talk about an international airport, we went to talk about the delay in the construction of federal roads in the South-East. “We do extreme politics in Nigeria and politics should be separated from the welfare of the people. “There is so much extreme politics from the beginning of an election to another election. “We wouldn’t have gone if Mr. President had awarded the so much talked about second Niger Bridge. “We went and said look, even the mobilisation of N7 billion is not enough, we want 50% mobilisation to Julius Berger and the other 50% committed in the wealth fund so that we will be sure that the project will be done. “So, it was a positive visit in the sense that we must separate politics from reality and the reality is that we need that second Niger Bridge, and if he has awarded it, it is fair that we say thank you, Mr. President. “It is our right; it is not a favour to South-East. It is the right of everybody to get democracy dividends. “So, the South-East will not say because predominantly they are PDP, they should shy away from the development of the South-East by the Federal Government. “For me, that is stupidity. We are not campaigning for anybody but we must say that the welfare of the South-East, the problem of the South-East, the future of the South-East is beyond partisan politics.”