It was a memorable event at Abuja Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence Roundtable (ABAR) 2018 held on the 19th and 20th of October in Abuja. The event saw blockchain, and AI expositions where experts and professionals from over 50 African countries and blockchain company representatives gathered. Anyone who wished to know what blockchain is and attended got the answers he deserved. It did not only address blockchain but also simplified the information gap between blockchain and artificial intelligence and national building. Emphasis was laid on compliance, regulations and application of the duo. The conference started with a welcome address by the convener, Chuta Chimezie, who is coordinator Blockchain Nigeria User Group. He said, “Blockchain has come to stay, and we want to bring blockchain to Africa; we want to ensure our companies leverage blockchain and AI, and we want to become key players, not just consumers in the blockchain and AI ecosystem.” The event had two days impactful sessions and the stream of events was a world-class blockchain event. After the welcome address, keynote addresses were delivered by various industry practitioners and experts in the industry, who spoke on various topics. In his keynote, Kalu Udonsi talked about “Why Security Approach is Essential for AI Application Developments”. Others spoke on how blockchain & AI drive financial inclusion. There were presentations from several start-ups who were not out to not only sell their products or businesses but enlightened the audience on why they should adopt blockchain to the various use cases possible. David Isiavwe, ISSAN President, represented by Mr. Kalu Ndonsi, drew attendees attention to the applications of AI. He said, “The cost of a chip is as low as $2. Hence, the total cost of the cyber threat is estimated at $500 billion by 2020. You see, cybercrime is becoming lucrative; tell me why there will not be an increase in cyber-attacks. The need for security is pertinent above all as it might be a grave danger if not taken seriously.” He recommended that specific legislative and compliance measures be in place to address the coming danger. Several other presentations included but not limited to the following; The conference featured a question and answer sessions during the panel discussion and roundtable sections where regulatory compliances and how blockchain & AI will drive economic advancements. The panelists provided breathtaking approaches to many questions bothering novices and experts, some asked how a forensic expert can fit in the ecosystem, and others asked the possible futures of cryptocurrency and blockchain in the world economy. The significant takeaways at the discussions were the need to tokenize businesses, why MITT has to invest in AI and the need and solutions to compliance challenges facing blockchain & AI. The panelists were representatives of different blockchain companies and sponsors; each responded to questions as they affected their companies and the solutions they are set to offer. Hence, the audience used the opportunity to familiarize themselves with blockchain, AI and its applications as well encouraged to key in to disrupt their respective sectors. It was expected that the event would produce innovators who could start blockchain projects from the scratch as developers. This would ensure they unleash their talent and expertise during the “Ethereum blockchain programming through real-world projects” where development and blockchain architectures are thought. Developers were expected to emerge after the sessions. The roundtable discussion focused on regulatory and compliance concerns around blockchain & AI adoption in Nigeria. Mr. Muhammed Ibrahim Jega, founder of StartupArewa, moderated the session. Discussants included Layllen Sawyerr USA, Bolaji, CEO of Xendbit, Buchi Okoro, CEO of Quidax and Emmanuel Adams representing HouseAfrica, Abiola Ogundeko of Startup South West, Lucky Uwakwe, Yaliwe Soko, Chairperson Blockchain Association of Africa, South Africa, and Mr. Kalu Udensa, Executive Secretary ISSAN. The key takeaways included: -Forming a strong formidable voice – The need to do more advocacy, and sensitization of the people and government. – Putting up a framework to advise the government on the need for technology advancement in AI & block chain. – Strategic partnership engagements and collaboration is key to building the ecosystem of our dream.. – Building capacity from the grassroots, identifying talents and equipping them with the right tools  