Admiral Murtala Nyako, Nuhu Ribadu, Dr. Mahmood Halilu Ahmed and other prominent aggrieved All Progress Congress (APC) leaders in Adamawa State were absent when the APC National Reconciliation Committee led by the Governor of Nassarawa State Umaru Tanko Almakura and Jigawa State Governor Mohammed Abubakar Badaru arrived Yola. During the committee’s meeting with aggrieved APC  members at the Banquet Hall in Government House Yola, Nuhu Ribadu and his group could not come over alleged of short notification to them. A source in Nuhu Ribadu’s camp said they were not informed about the arrival of the committee to Adamawa State and that they saw it on Facebook but all enquiries to Governor Al-Makura failed to yield enough results. Nuhu Ribadu is one of the gubernatorial aspirants of the APC who complained deeply about the lack of fairness during the APC primaries in Adamawa State. They had accused the panel that came to conduct the primaries as a conduit pipes to Governor Mohammed Umaru Jibrilla who emerged the winner from the lack of transparency and impunity which transpired during the sham primaries. While Dr. Mahmood Halilu Ahmed sent in a letter apologizing to the Almakura led committee for his absent, he also alleged short notice. Governor Umaru Tanko Almakura read the letter of Dr. Modi, one of the gubernatorial aspirant who also contested for the ticket in Adamawa State. Also absent during the meeting is a politically influential personality Admiral Murtala Nyako who have been complaining of lack of transparency in APC Adamawa State. The Nyako royalist State Chairman of the APC Damian Ezra are still in the APC and they later sponsored Mallam Nuhu Ribadu for the gubernatorial elections but the outcome was unpleasant to them and the Nyako group became very aggrieved and had complained bitterly about impunity in APC Adamawa State. Admiral Nyako himself had said he was shocked that APC turned out to be the worst impunity political party which he cofounded but was been used by some strangers to caused disaffection in the party. He said Since 1957 his ward in Mayo Belwa Local Government Area had always produced a democratically elected councillor but this time during the APC congresses all those who emerged leaders in his ward, LGA and state came through impositions and not through democratic tenets. He had always complained loud about the APC undemocratic motives but the National Working Committee never bordered to look into the complaints of the people of Adamawa State. The leader of the APC Reconciliation Committee Governor Umaru Tanko Almakura apologized to all those people who we’re not aware of the coming of the reconciliation committee to Adamawa State. Other members of the committee apart from Governor Al-makura who is renowned for evolving the highly successful model of community based conflict resolution mechanism believes that “transparency and fairness to all will rekindle trust, renew alliances and ensure that APC close ranks as one family, united to face the greater electoral battle ahead!” The APC National Peace and Reconciliation committee for the North East will conducting marathon hearings in Yola under the chairmanship of Governor Umaru Tanko Al-makura and has as members; HE Governor Bello Masari of Katsina, who was absent, HE Governor, Mohammed Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa,  Chief (Mrs) Jumoke Anifowoshe, Mr Matthew Omegara,  Hajia Hafsat Baba and Gen. Abdullahi Aboki. The Committee has two weeks to submit its report to the National Working Committee of the APC.