LAGOS – To ensure credible, free and fair elections in 2019, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), has declared 72-hour marathon praise. The programme, according to CAN is scheduled to hold in churches across the nation from 7am, November 18th to 6pm, November 20th. CAN in a statement released on Saturday and signed by Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, Special Assistant on Media and Communications to CAN’s President, Rev. Supo Ayokunle, said “The programme is to celebrate the envisaged victory Nigeria is going to experience over economic, security challenges, social, religious and political problems we are facing as a Nation. “CAN, through the Acting General Secretary, Barrister Joseph Daramola, has asked all bloc leaders and their Secretaries, all zonal chairmen, all state chairmen and all denominational leaders to organise their church members in non-stop praise of God’s majesty over the victory he has given us in Nigeria on all our challenges, especially His intervention over the coming general election. “Having noted various challenges the country is going through, the CAN leadership considered the need for us to organise a strategic three days of non-stop praise over them in the country (as was done in the Bible in 2 Chronicles Chapter 20), especially the forthcoming 2019 elections with a view to stopping a crisis-ridden election that will not be free, fair and credible.” CAN however stressed that hope is underway for a new Nigeria with a good president. CAN also expressed optimism that Leah Sharibu will soon be released by her abductors According to the it, “The praise is also about the victory we believe God has given the Church in Nigeria over all powers of darkness that want to engulf the Church in whatever guise. “We should praise God that bloodshed will be no more in Nigeria. A bad leader will not be elected as our President in 2019. All human efforts to manipulate elections will fail and Leah Sharibu and all those in captivity will be released. “All churches in the country are urged to participate in the programme to usher the country into a new era of peace, unity, safety and all round prosperity.”