Abuja – The fallouts of the just concluded primary elections have continued to hunt the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as two more members of the House of Representatives, Kolawole Babatunde (Ondo) and Mukaila Kazeem (Ogun), have dumped the party. The House Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, on Wednesday read letters from the lawmakers announcing their resignations from the APC. However, while Babatunde defected to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Kazeem did not state his new party in his letter. In the letters, both lawmakers made references to irreconcilable issues relating to the party primaries as part of the reasons for the resignation and defection. Kazeem stated that “godfatherism” played a vital role in the emergence of candidates to represent the party in the 2019 general elections. He said that the phenomenon was not only undemocratic but also against relevant sections of the constitution. The legislators said after due consultations with their constituents, it was time for them to part ways with the APC. Meanwhile, more than 2/3 members of the House on Wednesday were absent from plenary session and Speaker Yakubu Dogara had to preside over the session with less than 70 members seated. As at the time the session commenced at half past 11a.m, only 30 members, including the speaker, were present. The number, however, grew gradually to 65, making just about 25% of the required quorum of 120 members per sitting. While the ruling party had an appreciable complement of the majority leader, Femi Gbajabiamila and his deputy, Idris Wase, as well as the deputy majority whip, Pally Iriase, seated, Betti Apiafi (PDP, Rivers) had to be asked to stand in for the leadership of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The non-formation of quorum has become a recurring decimal in the National Assembly since the conclusion of party primaries across the country. Recall that the Senate, last week, adjourned plenary sessions for a week owing to lack of quorum in the chamber, despite having just returned from a two-week working recess. While the lack of quorum as required by law and the House standing rules was expected to invalidate any decision, it, however, requires that a point of order be raised to that effect before a sitting can be adjourned. Since the end of party primaries and the return to legislative duties, the House has continued to hold sessions without mustering the required number of 120 members to form a quorum – with no single lawmaker pointing same out via a point of order.