Temidayo Akinsuyi, Tony Ezimakor and Samuel Ogidan Lagos / Abuja – Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State on Thursday took his battle with the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Presidential Villa, Abuja, where he met President Muhammadu Buhari. The embattled governor is believed to be pushing for his preferred candidate to be governorship candidate of his party in the state, a desire that appears to have been dimmed. The issue led to open altercations between the governor and members of the National Working Committee of the APC, headed by the Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. Details of the meeting were, however, not made public as both leaders met behind closed doors. Fielding questions from State House correspondents after the closed door meeting, Amosun hinted that the meeting was “fruitful” but refused to provide further details. Asked to comment on the raid of the APC chairman’s house, Amosun also declined comments on the raid. “I think you are probably giving me an oversight role and I am not a security person, so clearly I think that question will not be for me,” he said. When asked if Oshiomhole’s trial was orchestrated by him, he declared that he won’t hide under any guise to fight the APC chairman. He said: “I don’t have to hide under a finger to fight. If there is need for me to put my views across, you know me by now that I will do it. “I have told you those things are not my pedigree and you are asking me questions that I am not well suited for. The one that I have to talk about, we have talked about it loud and clear.” APC Chieftain To Oshiomhole: Resign Now, Save Buhari, Party From Defeat Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), is not getting any respite from aggrieved members of the party. One of the aggrieved members on Thursday intensified calls for his immediate resignation to save the party from further embarrassment and defeat in the 2019 general election. Osita Okechukwu, a chieftain of the party and senatorial aspirant, Enugu South, made the call barely twenty-four hours after Oshiomhole’s reported invitation and drill by the Department of State Services (DSS) over bribery allegations during the concluded primaries of the party. Okechukwu, who is also the Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), said Oshiomhole’s burgeoning malfeasance may have a dangerous backlash on President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election bid as well as on the prospect of credible candidates of the party in next year’s general election. Okechukwu said only the honourable exit of the embattled APC national chairman would save the party from the damage the party has suffered in the last three months. He said, “Penultimate week ago, I joined the league of APC moral leaders, faithful and men of good conscience to call on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to honourably resign forthwith the chairmanship of our great party. In his usual narcissistic disposition, he refused. “As the ‘Oshiomhole Must Go’ wave raged, the Department of State Services (DSS) got wind of it. They interrogated him, and l patiently waited to read in the social or main media from Comrade Oshiomhole and his spin doctors over his tango with the DSS, neither rebuttal nor denial came from them. “As usual, he would have pontificated, cursed everybody and harped on his supposed integrity. “I, therefore, once again stridently call on Comrade Oshiomhole to, instead of pontificating, grandstanding, and running away from the country, do the needful by honourably resigning the chairmanship of our great party. “But it is too late because the damage he has caused the party, to my own understanding, will only be remedied by his honourable exit.’ Okechukwu distanced President Muhammadu Buhari from accusation by the opposition that he was shielding corrupt members of the APC, and reminded Nigerians that democracy was not a revolution, and that those who knew the APC national chairman should know that he acted alone. According to Okechukwu, the party under Oshiomhole has suffered more damage that the only thing that would appease the injury would be for him to quit the stage and allow the party pick the pieces of his brutal reign before the coming election. While commending the DSS for rising up to patriotic duty, he charged the agency to go further and scroll the phone call log of Comrade Oshiomhole and his loyalists to get to the root of the trading that took place during the concluded primaries of the party. “It seems he is running away from duty to evade the substitution window, meant to redress the grievances of some of us who are casualties of his nepotism. “It is imperative that he resigns forthwith to save the APC and Mr. President in the eve of the 2019 crucial general election. “One personally would not want the mud Comrade Oshiomhole had accumulated via gross breach of the constitution of the APC, the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and extant laws to be splashed on either our great party or Present Muhammadu Buhari. “One would not bother you with Oshiomhole’s malfeasance as his nepotism, undue substitution of candidates, and cash and carry primaries are on the public domain. “One once more challenges the DSS to scroll the phone-log of Comrade and his nepotistic court of cronies,” Okechukwu said. He cautioned those who, he said, abused the goodwill of President Buhari with intent at smearing him, insisting that President Buhari had no hands in the charade that enriched some people and polarised party members in almost all the states of the federation. Stressing the need for Oshiomhole to vacate the APC chairman seat, he wondered how the APC national chairman would accompany the president to states like Enugu, Zamfara, Ondo, even Lagos during the upcoming presidential campaign, saying that he might be pelted with stones. Alleged Fraud: PDP Asks NIA, DSS, Interpol To Track Down Oshiomhole Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) and Interpol to help track down Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), believed to be on the run outside the country since his reported interrogation by the Department of State Services (DSS) over alleged corruption charges. The party, which mocked the APC for allegedly harbouring corrupt persons in its fold, said Oshiomhole’s swift flight out of the country, at the heat of the investigation, was suspect and confirmed allegations that the Muhammadu Buhari presidency was shielding him from prosecution for fear that his investigation would implicate certain interests in the presidency and the APC. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said, “It is ludicrous that the APC, in its lying proclivities, believes that by dismissing Oshiomhole’s arrest as a rumour and aiding him to momentarily flee the country, it would succeed in getting him off the DSS hook as well as sweeping the matter out of public discourse with its famished broom. “No! Nigerians are already aware that Oshiomhole has not denied his investigation, including his reported confession that the presidency was in the loop of all his actions. “The PDP had always cautioned Adams Oshiomhole of his unbridled arrogance, lust for power, and alleged embezzlement of public funds for which he must surely have his day in the hands of the law.” The party demanded that APC and the Buhari presidency must immediately produce Adams Oshiomhole to face investigation and prosecution. Meanwhile, Ologbondiyan, while receiving the Kogi State House of Assembly candidates, said the allegation of corruption in APC primaries contributed to Oshiomhole’s interrogation by the DSS. Ologbondiyan said the PDP primaries were credible, adding that under the National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, the party was committed to equity and justice. Explaining the importance of Atiku Abubakar’s emergence as PDP presidential candidate, the PDP spokesman said, “The outcome of PDP national convention brought a pan Nigeria candidate who is loved and respected at home and accepted in the geopolitical zones. “He’s a unifier, a problem-solver. Atiku will create jobs for the army of unemployed youths.” Ologbondiyan, however, urged the Kogi House of Assembly candidates to work round the clock to sell the candidature of Atiku in their respective localities, worship places, offices, among others, adding that they should work assiduously so that the PDP would come out victorious in the 2019 general elections. APC Conflict Not Labour Dispute, Sagay Tells Oshiomhole Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), on Thursday urged Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), to be less combative in addressing his rift with some governors in the party over the fall-out of the just concluded primaries of the party. While backing the Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) for standing firm and preventing the governors from carrying out their selfish desires, Sagay, however, said the language employed by Oshiomhole in addressing the governors who were major stakeholders in the party was too harsh. He said while the governors had a right to be aggrieved, having lost out in the battle, Oshiomhole should employ tact and diplomacy in assuaging their feelings so as not to worsen the crisis. On the attempt by Governor Rochas Okorocha to install his son-in law, Uche Nwosu, as his successor, Sagay said it was unfair for the outgoing governor to want to turn Imo State into ‘Okorocha Nigeria Plc’. He added: “It just shows you that our elite are really spoilt. They think the whole country can be sacrificed for their own personal interests. “How can you try to install your own son-in-law to replace you as governor after you have served for eight years? “At the same time, you want to go to the Senate, and your wife to go to the House of Reps. “In fact, the seat he wants to occupy in the Senate is the one belonging to Hope Uzodinma, the man who has been recognised as the duly elected governorship candidate. “If that was not the case, he would have deprived the man of his seat, install his son-in-law, install his wife in the House of Reps, install his brother as Deputy Governor, and so on and then, the whole state becomes Okorocha Plc. “There is a limit to which you can do things like that. This is a public matter, not a private issue. So, I support the decision of the APC national chairman on this issue. “My only worry with him is that his language has been too harsh in addressing Amosun and Okorocha. “You don’t need to be so harsh and hard when you know that you are dealing with important people in the party who did something that could be wrong. “You can let them down gently and you can even call them and tell them what they are trying to do is wrong and, as such, you can’t allow it. “These governors are hurt; they are in pains, so their rhetoric is harsh. You, as national chairman, has had your way and exercised your power, you can calmly talk to them with a view to reconciling with them. “You don’t have to be forceful and combative in everything. This is not labour dispute against Federal Government. It is a party affair.”