Lagos – No fewer than 290 Nigerians have been deported in a week from Libya through the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos for illegal entry. The North African country on Friday, deported 174 in addition to the 116 it deported a week ago. The returnees, which include male, female and minor were received yesterday at the airport by officials of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and other Federal Government agencies, at about 1:10am. Al Buraq Air from Libya brought back the returnees. The latest batch of the returnees comprised 61 female adults, four female children and eight female infants with 91 male adults, six male children and four male infants along with unaccompanied male child. They were brought back to Nigeria through the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) with support from the European Union (EU). Amongst the returnees were 10 families; three minor medical cases and three pregnant women. Acting Zonal Coordinator of NEMA South West Zonal Officer, Mr. Segun Afolayan, while receiving them implored returnees to take precautions with any information that seemed to be very easy at  getting rich especially when it involves traveling outside Nigeria. He stated that most of the conveyors of these messages would not be sincere with the truth. A returnee, Chukwudi Onyemechie, 30 years old from Anambra, lamented that he was a successful auto tyres dealer at Ladipo Market Lagos before being “fooled by the promise of better life in the Europe.” He narrated that a man convinced him that he could help him travel to France and link him to his friend in Libya. Chukwudi lamented that he had to sell all his wares and took off to Benin Republic from where his journey to Libya began. He added: “I entered Libyan town where I was taken to a camp controlled by Nigerians where I spent three months in detention. My trafficker organised my detention in other that I would be forced to pay him money. “He asked me to pay some amount of money to a connection man who denied that I didn’t pay and my trafficker claimed he settled the man and I had to double the amount. “I left Nigeria in June, 2017, I experienced unstable and dangerous life over there. After struggling to cross, but unsuccessful, I was helped to get to IOM office in Libya who helped back to Nigeria today. I am proud to be a Nigerian,” he said. He advised youth against travelling out of the country through illegal routes and urged them to seek proper information before taking decision. Also, Ajasa, Kikelomo, a mother of one from Ibadan, Oyo State left Nigeria in 2016 with the hope of getting better job. A National Diploma of Hotel and Tourism graduate said she wanted to leave Nigeria because of the various challenges that her family was facing. She said her husband encouraged her to travel. She regretted her ordeals in Libya and lamented the high racial discrimination by the Libyans. She said: “If you’re unfortunate to enter bus and sits beside a Libyan, throughout the journey, the Libyan will not want your body to touch his own and he would cover his noise throughout. “Though, some of them are very nice and good, but majority especially the youths don’t want the blacks.” Ajasa said she got housemaid job where she was being paid N60, 000 approximated Nigeria naira of Libyan 6,000 dinars. “If I want to send N20,000 to Nigeria, I must part with N40,000 or N50,000. There is no banking system there. Nigerians who had settled down are the launderers, they have their Nigerian bank accounts. “Once, we pay them there in dinars, we don’t know how they transmit the money our families will receive what we agreed on their bank accounts here in Nigeria. I am not happy for the wasted years, if I had stayed back, I could have been more settled and successful. “My husband left for Dubai last year, but tonight he will be coming back too. Nigerians should be proud of what they have and work instead of traveling outside looking for riches that are not available outside,” she said.