ENUGU – Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the South East zone of Nigeria appear to be divided over who to support between former Vice President Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and President Muhammadu Buhari, the candidate of All progressives Congress (APC). While a summit of Igbo leaders chaired by Professor Ben Nwabueze (SAN) endorsed Atiku alongside his running mate, Peter Obi, the Igboezue Cultural Advancement Initiative, led by Chief Chekwas Okorie, threw its weight behind Buhari The summit of Igbo leaders was held at Nike Lake Resort Hotel, Enugu, on Wednesday November 2018, with the theme, “Ndigbo, 2019 and Beyond.” Apart from Professor Nwabueze, notable Igbo leaders in attendance included Allison Madueke, Obi Nnaemeka Achebe, Archbishop Maxwell Anikwenwa, Uche Azikiwe and Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu. Others are Professor Elo Amucheazi, the guest speaker; Prof. Chudi Uwazuruike, Chief Simeon Okeke, Azubuike Ihejirika, Senator Theodore Orji, Professor Anya O Anya, Joe Nwaorgu, Gary Igariwey, Okwesilieze Nwodo and John Nnia Nwodo, the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. In a communiqué read after the first session of the summit by Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), the Igbo leaders threw their weight behind the Obi/Atiku ticket, acknowledging that it puts Ndigbo back at the centre of governance. The communiqué read in part: “We identify with the Atiku/Obi ticket on the restructuring agenda as has been reiterated by four zones of the country, namely, South-South, South-West, North Central and South-East. “We believe that as long as the federating units remain weak, the centre will continue to be weak. We equally move to appreciate the position of Atiku/Obi ticket in promoting national unity. The summit reiterated that the time is now for Ndigbo to mobilise and organise effectively to realise the Ati/Obi ticket. “We are not campaigning against anybody. We are simply campaigning for our very survival. Igbo votes must count wherever Ndigbo live in Nigeria,” it stated Nwabueze, chairman of the summit, passionately appealed to Ndigbo to grant him his last wish of voting massively for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and his running mate, Peter Obi, in the 2019 presidential election. According to the octogenarian, the survival of Ndigbo in Nigeria depends on the success of the Obi/Atiku ticket. Nwabueze, former Secretary General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, said he was at the departure lounge of his life and Ndigbo should do him this favour before he returns back to his creator. Nwabueze recalled that Ndigbo were instrumental to the independence and unity of Nigeria, but have been rendered irrelevant in the scheme of things in the country. “Ndigbo have been relegated to the background. I am at the departure lounge of my life. I will continue to fight for Igbo objective. Self survival is the law of nature. We are here for self survival. “Who does not know that Ndigbo are relegated to the background? Who does not know that Ndigbo are not reckoned with in the scheme of things? Yet, they were at the forefront of Nigeria’s independence. “We want Nigeria to continue to exist, but, we must struggle for self survival. People who fought for independence and unity of Nigeria have been rendered irrelevant. We must organise for the victory of a ticket that is geared towards our self survival, the ticket of Atiku and Peter Obi,” he said. Nwabueze described the summit as an opportunity for Ndigbo to right the wrongs of the past and they must not let that opportunity pass by. According to him, if the Igbo leaders gathered and were unable to achieve that, then their children would mock them. “We are here to work for actualisation of our dream. There is no harm in anybody campaigning for self survival. It is our hope to mobilise the entire Ndigbo to work for the actualisation of this ticket. That is my charge to you. You would have done me all the favour before my final return to God. Do me the favour of achieving that ticket before I depart from here,” Nwabueze said. He urged all the Igbo leaders in attendance to go back to the villages and spread the message that they must ensure self survival of Igbo race. Lending his voice, John Nnia Nwodo, the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo made it clear that the votes of Ndigbo could change something in Nigeria. Nwodo said Ndigbo would support a candidate on the condition that all injustices against them are not going to happen again. “Vote is like machine gun. It will speak. Everybody here come with your vote. They said Igbo have eight million votes. It is not true. In Lagos alone, we have four million. When they gave Ndigbo quit notice in the North, we conducted census and realised that we have 11.5 million people in the North. They deliberately do not want us to know our number. We are many. Our votes can change something in this country,” But, the Igboezue Cultural Advancement Initiative, led by Chief Chekwas Okorie, rejected the decision of the Nwabueze group to support Obi/Atiku ticket, saying it was taken without consultation. Rather, Igbozue adopted President Buhari of APC as its candidate for 2019 presidential election. Okorie, the National Leader of Igboezue, made their position known at a press briefing in Enugu last Thursday. According to Okorie, their decision to adopt Buhari was taken after an extensive consultation and liaison with extant Igbo associations, institutions and stakeholders on the state of the Nigerian nation. The Igboezue leader, who doubles as National Chairman of United Progressives Party (UPP), said four more years for President Buhari would be by far, better and more bearable than the possible eight years of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, which would bring back sad memories of PDP emasculation of Ndigbo. “We are conscious of the truth that the PDP has not made any form of commitment to the restructuring of Nigeria or the much desired Igbo president of Nigeria any time in the future. Anything that PDP says now will definitely be an afterthought. Ndigbo be wise,” Okorie said. He said in taking the decision, they took into consideration the fact that Igbo people are easily the second largest ethnic group in the West African sub-region and inarguably the second largest ethnic group after the indigenous population in about 31 states in Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), while constituting over 99 percent of the population in the five states of South East geo-political zone. Okorie said it was the conviction of Igboezue that the relevance of the Igbo as critical stakeholder and factor in Nigeria’s power equation can no longer be left solely in the hands of political leaders who purport to represent the Igbo people in their public pronouncements without consultation of any kind with stakeholders. “We find it too compromising and unacceptable. In this regard, Igboezue has taken time to establish an effective network that has linked up all identified Igbo organisations, associations and professional bodies to what we refer to as the Igbo National Grid. “It is our confirmed observation that after the great and legendary Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe led our people on the platform of the National Council of Nigerian Citizens (NCNC) to form a coalition government with the Northern People’s Congress (NPC) with the active collaboration of defunct Igbo State Union and a similar political alliance in the Second Republic in which the late Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe led the Nigerian Peoples Party (NPP) to enter into an accord to form a Joint Government with the National Party of Nigeria (NPN), Igbo political leaders have failed since then to provide selfless leadership that will chart the path for the continued political relevance of Ndigbo in Nigeria,” Okorie stated.