Dr. Wale Babalakin, Chairman of the Federal Government/Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) 2009 Agreement Renegotiation Committee said much as he believed Nigerians deserve quality education it must not be compromised as a result of inadequate funding. The Committee Chairman who claimed ignorance of the source of information to this effect stated that his team believed that no Nigerian should be deprived of university education because of his/her financial circumstance. Expressing his committee’s commitment to resolving all issue surrounding incessant strikes at the ivory tower, Babalakin urged ASUU to call off its strike and return to the negotiation table, saying that the committee’s mandate had nothing to do with fees payable in schools. According to him, funding of the education sector must come from different sources such as the government, private sector, education bank, student loan scheme and scholarships, among others part of which the union disagreed with. “As we had stated in our previous communication on this matter, we believe that negotiations are best done on the table rather than on the pages of the newspapers, hence we have been very reluctant to respond to the campaign of our co-negotiators. Our position is that dialogue on the same table is the most effective way of resolving issues. “Unfortunately, we are compelled to respond to the allegations by ASUU which have been made severally in the print and electronic media because some Nigerians may begin to believe the inaccurate narratives that have been consistently provided by ASUU. “Our position as a team is that Nigerians deserve and should have a quality education. This must not be compromised as a result of inadequate funding which has been the situation in the last 30 years. “We also believe that no Nigerian should be deprived of university education because of his/her financial circumstance. This position is consistent with that of the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Going by the figures provided by ASUU, Nigeria requires over N2 trillion per annum to fund university education. This figure exceeds in value the total amount of money available for all capital projects in Nigeria, including Health, Infrastructure, Security and others. There is no doubt that if the money were available for university education as ASUU has insisted it is, the government will have no difficulty in spending it on university education. However, as it is, the government cannot ignore all other areas of expenditure that require funding. “The National Council of Education appreciates this position and has directed that student loan schemes be set up by the various state governments. It has also supported the idea of an Education Bank which would provide soft loans for students seeking to obtain a university education. “We do not know from where ASUU got the figures that it has been peddling around the whole country. However, the inconsistency in the figures is glaring. Aside from the fact that our committee has no power to impose fees on students, we are at a loss regarding the source of the said figures. However, the contradiction demonstrates clearly that the figures are incorrect and should not be countenanced by anyone. “We urge all well-meaning Nigerians to appeal to ASUU to return to the negotiation table and resolve issues based on accurate information and verifiable data. We remain committed to a permanent resolution of the recurrent industrial disputes that have militated against the progress of the Nigerian University System. We are determined to ensure that Nigerians receive a proper education.” ASUU Kicks Against Moves To Commercialise Public Universities In its opposition to the proposed Education Bank by the renegotiation committee the varsity teachers’ body said: “ASUU believes that education is a public good and therefore, the union considers the proposal for an Education Bank and a Students’ Loan Scheme as a deliberate effort to commercialise public universities. “It is also an incentive for private universities to thrive and ultimately deny poor Nigerians access to university education. “ASUU views the attempt by the government team to introduce the issue of Education Bank and Student’s Loan Scheme into the renegotiation of the 2009 Federal Government of Nigeria and ASUU agreement as an attempt to blackmail the union before the Nigerian students and the general public.” In his contribution to the cost on the assumed difficulty of the federal government to continue to run a near free education at the tertiary level, Efe Ewaen Ikponmwosa, Professor of Civil/Structural Engineering, University of Lagos (UNILAG) advocated for appropriate costing of education at the tertiary level. He frowned at the level of insincerity and reckless formulation of policies by successive governments, saying it had only assisted in drawing back the system. “My concern is in the level of insincerity in the formulation of policies by the government has led to the inadequate funding syndrome. When you talk about free education at all levels we should ask ourselves. Is the government in a position to fund free and qualitative education at all level? We have to be sincere. The government knew clearly that they were not in a position to do that and subsequently granted licences to people that came up for private primary schools. Later it moved to secondary and now at the university level. Now if the government is sincere you can’t count on tuition as if it is the only component of funding. “I can tell you from my research over years using UNILAG as a benchmark and in reference to a statement by Chief Babalakin, Chairman of Governing Council recently. In my analysis, I looked at the student population in UNILAG, from 1985 to 1987 the government spent $4,753 per student, per annum. When there was a devaluation of the naira the currency depreciated so much to the extent that in 1988 it dropped to $772 per student per annum. “By 1990 it came to $394. There was a marginal increase when former President Olusegun Obasanjo took office and it went to about $2,000 per annum per student. Between 90 and 95 per cent go to salary and wages of lecturers in the university system. If such is expended on salary and wages what do you have left to run the system? Practically nothing!