Abuja – Following the allegation of N5.8 billion scandal against National Emergence Management Agency (NEMA), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday told the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who approved the fund to make refund, seek forgiveness and make restitution. The party said that Osinbajo, as a preacher should search his soul and make restitution for allegedly entangling himself in corruption and sharp practices, instead of his lame effort at concealment in the alleged N5.8 billion Northeast Intervention Fund scandal. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan said, “It is heart-rending that Prof. Osinbajo, despite his sanctimonious posturing, is being fingered in the frittering of the N5.8 billion meant for the purchase of food and general welfare of suffering Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the Northeast. “Prof. Osinbajo should know that he has come to the end of the road and that Nigerians have completely lost faith in him, since the House of Representatives exposed his complicity in this unpardonable debauchery against weak and vulnerable citizens. “Instead of asking for forgiveness and making restitutions, Prof. Osinbajo is busy trying to divert attention from the reeking corruption of the Buhari administration, while bandying figures in an attempt to distance himself from the failures of this administration.” PDP questioned if it not revealing of the arrogance of this administration that Prof. Osinbajo, even in the face of indictment by the House of Representatives, still conjures the temerity to confront Nigerians and try to wave off this corrupt act. “We ask; how can Prof. Osinbajo find inner peace when all the six states of the Northeast reported that they never received the emergency intervention for food security? “From the probe, which exposed how the Vice President, then as Acting President, in 2017, drew N5.8 billion from the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation, without the appropriation of the National Assembly, only to superintend over the purported spending as the Chairman of Board of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), it is clear that it was never in the interest of the suffering and displaced masses,” PDP noted In the same vein, Ologbondiyan at a meeting with Online Media Practitioners Association of Nigeria led by its National President, James Emeh, said that All Progressives Congress (APC) and its President, Muhammadu Buhari are known to create division in the families. Meanwhile, PDP presidential candidate and former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar yesterday criticised President Muhammadu Buhari over his comment on his endorsement by the Southeast. Atiku, in a statement by his Campaign Organisation said that at a meeting with a select group of southeast ‘leaders’ on Friday November 16, 2018, President poured scorn on the leaders and people of the Southeast geopolitical zone who gave the endorsement.