Lagos  – Monday Ubani, former Second Vice- President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), on Sunday said the Federal Government should give presidential commendation to Col. Hameed Ali (Rtd), Comptroller-General of Customs (CGC) for bringing a new consciousness into the command. Ubani while reacting to the news last week that officers of the Apapa Command rejected a bribe of N150m from suspected smugglers to allow them bring in containers of banned substance, Tramadol. The NBA chief in a message sent to Daily Independent said “Over the weekend, I  read a piece of news from the media that rekindled my spirit that a new Nigeria is possible. The report has it that some custom officers at their Apapa Command rejected a bribe of N150million from unscrupulous Nigerians with a promise for more money if they were allowed to import into the country large quantity of banned Tramadol(drug) worth several billions of Naira”. “These honest officers played along with the criminals and had them arrested at the point of exchange of the money in anticipation for unpatriotic agreement to allow the banned substance into the country. I am so excited by this act, it gladdens my heart tremendously that we still have “remnants” in this country that desire a country free from evil men and women and who consider safety of their fellow citizens above filthy lucre”. “They need to be celebrated by each and everyone of us and such appreciation triggers a national rebirth of honest and patriotic legions that will recover this lost nation that is enmeshed in evil and corruption”. “I therefore seek the following: Open and presidential commendation to the Comptroller General of the Customs for this new consciousness of righteousness within the Agency”. “National and presidential appreciation and reward to these honest and patriotic Nigerians who preferred honesty to filthy lucre”. “Approval of “this standard” for all public and private citizens in Nigeria and the use of the faces of these officers as the true face of true Nigerians from now onwards. These faces must be shown in primary, secondary schools and universities as patriots”. I have this personal conviction and belief that this country will get it rights someday through the few remnants within that refuse to be contaminated with the general contamination around us” he said.