Abuja – Justice Walter Onnoghen, the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), has warned chief magistrates/magistrates to desist from granting indiscriminate and reckless remand orders in the course of discharging their judicial functions. Justice Onnoghen spoke on Monday at the 2018 Biennial All Nigeria Judges’ Conference of lower courts. The CJN noted that the issue of prison congestion was mostly traceable to remand orders made by magistrates, adding that it had become a national embarrassment. “On the issue of prison decongestion, it is a scenario which has become a national embarrassment. “The numerous, sometimes needless, remand orders issued by magistrates is a major factor responsible for the congestion of our prisons,” he said. In view of this, Justice Onnoghen, represented by Justice Bode Rhodes Vivour of the Supreme Court,  emphasised the need for heads of courts, in synergy with the various attorneys-general of states, to pay frequent visits to prison facilities within their jurisdictions in a bid to assess the situation on a first hand basis. “Reckless remand orders must not be issued by your courts where it appears that the police lack evidence to prosecute a criminal matter or your courts do not possess the requisite jurisdiction to entertain such matter,” the CJN stated. In a bid to reduce prison congestion, the CJN said he had directed Chief Magistrates/Magistrates to pay frequent visits to police stations within their jurisdictions to inspect the cells and, where appropriate, free detainees who had no prima facie case against them or had been unduly detained without bail. He reminded participants that the preference by litigants for their courts was not only dictated by the simplicity of procedures, but also by the confidence reposed in their ability to provide speedy trial at little or no cost. The CJN stressed that continuing judicial education for judges of lower courts was crucial, and pointed out that their duties invariably affected mostly the vulnerable in the society. Going by the volume of cases which the lower courts handle, the CJN stated that judicial accountability had become imperative. He reminded participants that discipline must be embraced against the backdrop of the code of conduct for judicial officers. Earlier in her address, the administrator of National Judicial Institute, Justice Rosaline Bozimo (rtd), stated that the judiciary could only grow when and if it embarked upon continuous reforms in the discharge of its statutory responsibility to uphold and protect the rights of citizens, preserve the rule of law, and ensure adherence to due process. Although some challenges confronting the judiciary seem insurmountable, Justice Bozimo said there was a determined resolve on the side of NJI to face these challenges squarely, especially so that “we could create a better future not only for the judiciary but also for our great country”. She said the NJI would remain motivated and open to new ideas to address the needs of the judiciary. The administrator stated that the recent expansion in the scope of NJI’s activities as epitomized by recent collaborations with various government organisations “is indeed proof that the Institute is determined to improve upon capacity building for judges and judiciary staff”. Bozimo disclosed that the theme of the conference, ‘Improving the Quality of Justice Administration in the Lower Courts’, was sacrosanct as the judiciary was and had always been the fulcrum of good governance in any country. “As such, the judiciary has a major role to play in upholding constitutional democracy, to ensure that justice is not only done but is seen to be done, in order to accomplish the goal of enhancing our democracy,” she said.