LAGOS – Hon. Victor David Enweruzo, Coordinator, Atikulated  Agenda 2019, Lagos State chapter, has blamed Nigeria’s ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the economic woes that have befallen the nation and its citizens. Enweruzo recalled that the nation’s economy was stable before the advent of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration in 2015, saying that things took a downward trend because the government could not lead the nation aright. The coordinator, who made the assertion while addressing stakeholders at the inauguration of Local Government/Local Council Development  Areas (LG/LCDA) executives of Atikulated Agenda 2019 in Lagos, accused the APC administration of leaving the Nigerian economy in shambles, adding that this had brought untold hardship to the citizenry. He described the current Federal Government as most insincere, most corrupt, most incompetent, incapable, inept and unfocused, adding that it was good on witch hunting, biased, and the worst government with very deceptive agenda in Nigerian history. Enweruzo  pointed out  that Nigeria was blessed with mineral resources,  yet the country had remained under developed, even as Nigerians live in abject poverty, while thousands lost their jobs because of harsh economic policies of the government . He further disclosed that President Buhari purposely administration impoverished Nigerians so it could woo them to vote for him in 2019 with purported N10, 000 empowerment fund currently being shared to citizens through TradeMoney. “Nigeria have lost its glory in Africa and the world in general. How long would Nigerians tolerate this? Nigerians have been fooled by APC. Therefore, we need to take back our destiny with our hands. “I call on Nigerians to preserve their PVCs which is their power to Change the Changer. Do not submit your PVCs to anybody, neither trade it for money. “No one should be deceived by bags of rice and their monetary inducements. This is our country, we will rise and say no to APC government of deceits, killings, corruprion, maladministration,” he said. He urged Nigerians to use their PVCs to vote for Atiku Abubabkar, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate for the 2019 election, who he said had the ability and capability to steer the ship of the nation positively through restructuring, revitalisation of the ailing economy as well as protecting lives and property. Officials of 11 local governments/LCDAs of Atikulated Agenda 2019 , Lagos State chapter, were inaugurated last week with a charge to ensure total victory for their principal, Atiku come 2019.