Lagos – Thomas Dennerby, the chief coach of Super Falcons, has reiterated that the team’s target having qualified for the FIFA Women’s World Cup in France, is to also retain the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations trophy. Holders, Nigeria, beat the Indomitable Lionesses of Cameroon 4-2 on penalties after playing goalless to qualify for the final and also pick the first of the three tickets to the FIFA Women’s World Cup France 2019. “For now we celebrate and prepare for the final match on Saturday. We are happy that we have won the game and picked one of the three tickets to the FIFA Women’s World Cup. “Like I said at the commencement of the championship, now that we have that out of the way, the next target is retaining the trophy. “The players are also itching to retain the trophy and they know that it is not going to be easy, especially since we will be playing the Banyana Banyana of South Africa again. “We will correct all the loopholes noticed in our first match with them when we played at the group stage.  The final is going to be different game entirely”, said Dennerby. Meanwhile, Indomitable Lionesses of Cameroon Chief Coach, Joseph Brian Ndoko, said he is proud of his players despite the defeat suffered in the hands of the Super Falcons of Nigeria. “The defeat hurts as we got beaten again by Nigeria. However we still take consolation in the fact that we are still in the chase to get the only remaining ticket left for the Women’s World Cup. “We will shake off the result hopefully pick ourselves up and prepare well for the third and fourth place match on Friday against Mali.” “But I must add that I am proud of my team. They played to instructions and gave it their all. We were just unfortunate at the penalty shootout yet again”, said Ndoko after they lost to Nigeria. Nigeria was the luckier of the two teams at the shootout as they converted four of their kicks as against two for Cameroon. Nigeria scored all their four kicks taken by Ebi Onome, Ajibade Bisayo, Oshoala Asisat and Ngozi Ebere. On the other hand, Njoya Ajara Nchout and Raissa Feudjio Tchuanyo scored for Cameroon whilst Enganamouit Gaelle Deborah and Edith Ngo Mbeleck failed to score from the spot.