Fitch Solutions Macro Research (a unit of Fitch Group) in its report on the development of GE’s withdrawing from a consortium which won a contract in 2017 to rehabilitate Nigeria’s existing narrow gauge railway line from Lagos to Kano, warned that the recent challenge represents another setback for the Nigerian rail sector, and a further obstacle to the timely and successful completion of the country’s ambitious rail development plans. The report also disclosed that GE’s decision to withdraw from the Lagos-Kano rail rehabilitation project adds a further complication to these existing challenges. “We have previously highlighted that a multitude of risks threatens to undermine the business case for Nigeria’s rail infrastructure development. In particular, we noted that the major headwinds would stem from the large number and scale of the planned projects, the difficulties attracting financing and private sector involvement, and the potential for legal and security risks to delay completion timelines”, it said “GE has stated that its decision is part of its strategy to withdraw from the transport sector in Nigeria and focus on other areas of infrastructure development such as healthcare and power, amid wider concerns over the company’s debt and falling stock market value “The firm did not cite any of the aforementioned risks to rail sector development as reasons behind its decision to withdraw from the concession, but nevertheless its turn away from transport infrastructure highlights that this area of the construction market in Nigeria remains somewhat unattractive for private firms”, it added.. According to the report, “We now expect the Lagos-Kano rail rehabilitation to face further delays, with the contract having already been subject to numerous setbacks stemming from Nigeria’s poorly managed rail sector and considerable regulatory uncertainty. “The remaining consortium partners will need to find a new equipment and rolling stock provider, while GE’s withdrawal may raise concerns from the other arms about the viability of the project. “We have previously highlighted that the narrow gauge railway will compete with a new standard gauge railway under construction by China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), with the business case for two lines covering the same route highly questionable.” Fitch said it will continue to monitor the progress of the Lagos-Kano rail rehabilitation project for the potential for further setbacks, which could even see the project suspended, particularly if the new standard gauge railway is completed first. The report specifically stated: “We expect GE to remain committed to its power projects in Nigeria, including several gas-ﬁred plants, but if the company’s share price continues to underperform, we expect some of these plans to be at risk of cancellation.” It would be recalled that in November 2018 US ﬁrm General Electric (GE) announced that it was withdrawing from a consortium which won a contract in 2017 to rehabilitate Nigeria’s existing narrow gauge railway line from Lagos to Kano. The company stated that this was part of its strategy to turn its focus to power and healthcare infrastructure in Nigeria, rather than transport, leaving its former consortium partners Transnet, Sinohydro and APM Terminals to continue with the project.