IBADAN – There seems to be no hope that the strike embarked upon by members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) will soon be over, as the union on Thursday revealed that substantive issues, which led to the industrial action were not discussed at the meeting held with the Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr. Chris Ngige. Chairman of the University of Ibadan (UI) branch of ASUU, Dr. Deji Omole, who revealed this while speaking at the union’s congress, declared that the ongoing strike would continue until the Federal Government resolved all issues in contention. He maintained that ASUU members would not allow the ruling elite to destroy the heritage of the poor, which is qualitative public university education. The union had declared total, indefinite and comprehensive strike over failure of the Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government to fulfill the content of the Memorandum of Action it signed with the ASUU in 2017 bothering on revatilisation and funding of universities, unpaid accumulated earned academic allowances (EAA), release of university staff pensions company license, among other issues. According to Omole, Wale Babalakin, who is the leader of Federal Government team, is being rejected by the ASUU because he is an interested party pursuing a private university license and will do everything to jeopardize public education funding. Omole noted that a situation whereby two members in the Federal Government team are pursuing their private university licenses indicate they will not favour funding of public education. The ASUU boss maintained that the three-week-old ASUU strike is borne out of genuine and patriotic commitment to ensure a better future for children of the masses and that of Nigeria. He, therefore, dismissed the allegation bandied by the government that the strike was political. “How can our strike be political when there are matters that you as a government signed and you failed to fulfill your promises? To us, it is the Federal Government that is being political with the truth by becoming untrustworthy. “How can the President and his Vice ask Nigerian universities to become one of the leading universities of the world without making the same commitments responsive and responsible governments in the world are making to education? Our leadership has shown consistent disrespect for agreements and this is why they can no longer be trusted by our Union.”