The inhabitants of some communities ravaged by flood in the Niger Delta heaved a sigh of relief at the weekend when the Presidential Amnesty Programme commenced distribution of foodstuff and other household items to them to ameliorate their plight. In a statement on Monday, Murphy Ganagana, Special Assistant, Media, to Prof Charles Dokubo, the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator, Amnesty Programme, said the exercise commenced on Saturday, November 10, and is scheduled to last a period of one week, focussing on communities mostly affected by the flood. Prof. Dokubo, while flagging off the distribution of relief materials at Bomadi, headquarters of Bomadi Local Government Area in Delta State, said the gesture was to provide succour for inhabitants of the affected communities who had lived in terrible conditions since their homes and sources of livelihood were destroyed by the flood. “The Amnesty Programme is meant for the people of Niger Delta, and whatever affects communities in the region affects us directly or indirectly. “President Muhammadu Buhari was moved by reports on your plight and we are here to identify with you in your period of need; we are here to alleviate your pains,” Dokubo said. Represented by Ganagana, Dokubo listed rice, beans, Indomie noodles, groundnut oil, maggi cubes, tomato, and detergents, as among the items being distributed to the flood victims. Others include bathing soap, disinfectants, and medicals. “So far, we’ve spent N90 million on purchase of the relief materials we are distributing to the various communities which include Bomadi, Oboro, Okpokunou, Esanma, Akugbene, Ogodobiri, Ezebiri, Ayakoromo, Tuomo, Ogbobagbene, Kpakiama, Obotebe, Ofonibeinghan, Gbekebo, Ogbeingbene, Patani, Aven, Kolowari and Gbaregolor, among several other communities in Delta State. While in Bayelsa State, relief materials are being distributed in Adagbabiri, Odi, Trofani, Kaiama, Esampou, Zarama, Ogbeinbiri, and others. Opuama, Ofunama, Shekelewu, Ogbudugbudu, Arogbo, Safa-Arogbo, Agadagba Obon, Ajakoroama, Opugbini and several others in Edo and Ondo states would also benefit from the largesse. At Trofani, Bayelsa State, the Ebedaowei of Kabowei kingdom, HRH Aserifa Hope Torru, while receiving officials of the Amnesty Office on arrival at his palace on Sunday, before the commencement of distribution of relief materials in the community, described Prof. Dokubo as a humane, responsive and caring leader committed to the interest and welfare of the Niger Delta people. “It is on record that we’ve had several flood disasters in the past; I remember what happened in 2012 and thereafter. “This is the first time the Amnesty Office will share in our pains and take steps to ameliorate our plight. “This is commendable and I urge other private and public organisations to take a cue from what the Amnesty Office has done to give us succour,” the monarch remarked. The Chairman of Oboro community in Burutu Local Government Area of Delta State, Ebiarede Opukeme, described the Federal Government’s gesture as soul-lifting. He said: “We are happy that President Buhari appointed a man like Prof. Dokubo as Coordinator of the Amnesty Programme. “He is a God-sent leader who has recorded laudable achievements within six months in office; what he has done today is first of its kind since the inception of the Amnesty Programme, and it is highly appreciated.”