Nana Ogbodo, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, is the Director of Communication, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi Campaign Organisation. In this interview with  he spoke on the task before him, the achievements of his principal so far, and the forthcoming governorship election in Enugu State. Excerpts: You have just been appointed the Director of Communications of the Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi Campaign Organisation. How do you see your task? I consider it first as a privilege and then a challenge. A privilege because in a state with a population of about four million people, for one to be chosen to serve his state is beyond what can simply be described without a deep feeling. Such feeling could even be emotional. It is perhaps a recognition of one’s modest striving. But again, it goes without saying that to be so recognised by such a celebrated leader like Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi inevitably shores up your profile. It is therefore not lost on me that to how much is given, much is also expected. To this extent, it is as well a challenge. Governor Ugwuanyi has extended the paradigm of governance beyond the ken of the ordinary mind. Whereas the ordinary mind is fixated on what is done with the allocation that comes from Abuja every month, Governor Ugwuanyi contemplates a future when this may not be so anymore. For instance, in the inevitability of Resource Control, how would a state like Enugu fare? It is not difficult to see that in not too distant future, the push for restructuring and fiscal federalism cannot be resisted anymore and the feeding-bottle democracy, whereby every state goes to Abuja at the end of every month for monthly allocation, would have being a thing of the past. It therefore would rest on my shoulders to locate the substance of Ugwuanyi in the politics of the state, the uncanny creativity he has shown in both the generation and management of resources. Bringing to the fore what value he has been able to add to the governance of the state that makes him most deserving of a second term in office. It is going to be an engaging experience. What would you adopt as the governor’s selling point in his quest for a second term? They are legion. If I start with the usual, howbeit pedestrian recourse, I am proud to say that the governor has lifted the souls of many forgotten communities in the state which now have unexpected new life. He has opened up many forgotten roads by extending road construction beyond the city of Enugu. Nsukka the university town is now wearing a fantastic new look. The people of Isi Uzo can now afford to wear white garments during the dry season without been covered by the Eha-Anufu powder and also go home even during the rainy season as a result of Governor Ugwuanyi’s uncommon thoughtfulness. The long abandoned bridge that had arrested development in the whole of the area, and the all-important Eha-Amufu road have been constructed. The people of Ubahu, Owo, Amechi Idodo, etc, can now travel to their local government headquarters without having to pass through four other local governments because Governor Ugwuanyi built bridges and the road to the council headquarters. The Amuri people would continually sing ‘Gburu Gburu’ for rescuing them from the dark ages of sinister abandonment. The governor has revolutionised the art of even-spread of amenities such that anywhere you are in Enugu State today, you cannot escape his eyes literally speaking because his achievements would inevitably stare at you! He stares at you by the quantum of infrastructure he has unleashed on the state. In the 460 communities in Enugu State, there is none of them that is not currently executing one project or the other of their specific choices at the behest of the governor’s N10 Million grant. In the Enugu metropolis, we cannot forget such roads like Airport Roundabout-Orie Emene-St. Patrick-Eke Obinagu Road; the Orie Emene-Adoration Ground Road; Edward Nnaji Street-Ogwuagor Road; Amaetiti-Ugboye, Abakpa Nike etc, all in Enugu East local government Area; or the New Market-Miliken Hill-Ngwo -Nineth Mile Corner Road; Ibuzor Street Independence Layout; New Market-Camp 1 and Extension, etc, all in Enugu North Local Government Area; or the dualisation of Opi-Nsukka road; Opi-Obollo Afor Road; Post Office Roundabout-Odenigbo-Ogurugu-Ikenga Hotels, etc, all in Nsukka Local Government Area, or the Ohom Orba-Nkwo-Orba Market Road, Obolo Eke Junction-Agala-Okpaligbo, etc, all in  in Udenu, or such roads like Amankwo-Amaeke-Ama Brewery by-pass, Amokwe Road, etc, all in Udi Local Government Area.  And so it has been all round the state and in all other sectors including health. He stares at the civil servant by the regularity in the payment of his salaries and allowances. And whereas most other states are still in arrears of several months, the civil servants in the state are paid on the 23rd of every month whether such day falls on a Monday or a Saturday, and whether there is allocation from the federation account or not; including the novelty of the 13th month salary. He stares at the trader in the state by the highly impactful monthly traders support initiative which has enabled some traders build on their capital base. But, beyond these physical infrastructures, he has lowered the political temperature in the state and instituted an atmosphere of peace never before experienced in the state; introduced a new political culture founded in ecumenism whereof, notwithstanding your political persuasion, you are recognised for who you are and accorded your due. Enugu is today the most peaceful state in the country, arguably the only place the rich as well as the poor can sleep with their two eyes well closed! But even more so, he has envisioned a life after oil money and thus has institutionalised the creative capacity for Enugu to sustain on the internally generated revenue. Enugu is today ranked only second in the country after Lagos on the World Bank index on Ease of Doing Business. All these are the necessary conducive environment for the sustainability of the state beyond oil. On the social plain, it is certainly not an accident that Rangers International Football Club rose from 35 years of abject hopelessness to become double champions in a space of only two years! Are you surprised that Governor Ugwuanyi is the Sun Newspaper Governor-of-the Year 2018? It takes passion and untrammeled vision to achieve all these in so short a period. In Enugu, you sometimes encounter people who hold the view that Ugwuanyi has not met the standard set by his predecessors in relation to infrastructural development. What would you have to say about this? It would be naïve to assume that everyone in Enugu would go the way of Gov. Ugwuanyi, or even the PDP as a party. Don’t forget that what we are practising is “partisan politics” which is a game based purely on party lines. I therefore do not envisage a situation where a member of APGA or indeed any of the whopping number of 86 registered political parties whose duty ordinarily is to raise a red flag against the PDP in order to gain ascendancy would accord the PDP an acclaim. In politics, those who are greedy of applause would hardly give a cheer to an opponent. It may however be pedestrian for me to begin to rehash Ugwuanyi’s developmental strides again in this interview. But because you live in Enugu, there is hardly any much I know that you may not know either: the facts speak for themselves. Have you imagined how much Governor Ugwuanyi has labored to recreate the essence of governance beyond such simplistic factors like reticulation of water or the like? How does one for instance explain the imperviousness in governance such that notwithstanding the unparalleled financial windfall that defined the previous administrations in the state, pensioners were been owed their gratuities dating back to 2001? Ditto the arrears of pensions and salaries. Governor Ugwuanyi, even in this dreary season of recession in the economy and consequent cash crunch, whereby almost all his colleague governors employed any money that comes their way for other uses, was able to eschew the pressure of other contending issues and clear all the arrears of salaries owed the civil servants in the state; and brought gratuities payment up by so many years. This is a man filled with compassion such that even in his private life, he has never left any man poorer than he met him and who with, there are no broken promises! Governor Ugwuanyi has excelled in the tangible and intangible indexes of governance, the physical and emotional, the temporal and spiritual! Enugu has been a PDP state ever since 1999. Given that the PDP no longer controls the government at the centre, where does this fact leave your principal, especially against the fact that Ayogu Eze, the APC governorship candidate, is a tested politician in the state? I would like to be circumspect on the issue of who actually is the governorship candidate of the APC in the state because the matter is still before the courts and therefore remains subjudice. But, talking hypothetically, as a resident of Enugu, do you actually see Distinguished Senator Ayogu Eze as a veritable threat to the second term ambition of His Excellency, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi? Where are his structures for the supposed battle? He came into Enugu barely two months ago since 2015, and it speaks volume to imagine that of all her supposed membership, it is the man who joined the party barely one month before the primaries that would emerge as the governorship candidate of a party that wishes to be taken seriously in the state. It shows desperation, driven essentially by the expediency to clutch at any available straw. The APC may indeed be the party at the centre, but they are hardly present yet in Enugu State. This is not 2007 when some people knew the results of elections days before the election day. Even President Muhammadu Buhari knows this much as could be gleaned from the intensity of his campaigns. But, here in Enugu some people are docile, apparently confused, and only revel in the wishful, but infantile bogey of the supposed magical wand of a federal might. The APC in the state is at best still a fledging political party made up essentially of some seemingly irreconcilable emergency godfathers that are perpetually at war with each other. As at now, we do not know who actually the chairman of the party in the state is, neither do we actually know their governorship candidate. It still remains a rope of sands and a maze in a maze. Even going further, it must not be forgotten that this is not the first time Ayogu and Governor Ugwuanyi would be squaring up against each other. In 2015, Senator Ayogu, as a serving senator, who held the powerful position as the Chairman of the Committee on Works, and even more so, as a very close ally of the then President Goodluck Jonathan seemed to have had a better momentum, yet Governor Ugwuanyi was able to reduce all these to ordinary and triumph at the 2015 PDP governorship primaries. He pursued the case up to the Supreme Court, and the rest as they say, is now history. I reckon with the fact that one could sometimes simply be emotional about a certain defeat, but I think the most compelling issue that should bother every right-thinking indigene of the state should be how to sustain the uncommon milestones already achieved by this administration in making Enugu sustain beyond monthly allocation from Abuja. There is also this suggestion that this administration has not invested in industries that can create employment and generate further revenues for the state. It is indeed interesting how much comfortable some people can still afford to live in the past. It is anachronistic to still expect governments to be “building” industries by sheer presence of concrete bricks and some machines. Experience has thought us that this paradigm of development is wasteful both in time and space. The best industry is the human capital development industries. If you don’t train the mind to man industries in both knowledge and orientation, you are simply training the mind to ruin industries. Where is AVOP factory today? It has not only been ruined, it has indeed been burnt down. Where is the Sunrise Flour Mill? Where is the Hotel Presidential? It is not an accident that they have all collapsed; it only goes to show that Nigeria has transited from that model of development and that is why even in the lively industries, governments find it prudent to privatise. What is in vogue now is how to train the mind especially in engineering and ICT fields. Governor Ugwuanyi recognises this fact and that is why it is now almost free education for Enugu State indigenes pursuing courses in those fields. He has awarded more than 1,000 scholarships across the tertiary institutions in the state for students majoring in those fields. Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook does not have any industry so to speak, but he a veritable employer of labour because his government could create an enabling environment for young men like him to thrive. Governor Ugwuanyi is just doing much so if you consider that Enugu has just recently been rated as the second best in Nigeria on the World Bank Index on the Ease of Doing Business in Nigeria.