Hon. Ray Nnaji is a foundation member of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He was at different times, National Auditor of PDP and Commissioner in Enugu State between 2003 and 2007. In this interview with EMMA NZOMIWU, he spoke on recent and past political developments in Enugu State. Former Enugu State governor, Chimaroke Nnamani was initially linked with APC. But, he eventually emerged as the PDP senatorial candidate for Enugu East senatorial zon. Do you think he can swing victory to the side of the Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi? Obviously. He is the only person that has structure. He is the only person in this state that has structure. If he comes down now, within a few moments, you will see his structure, all over the state. And this is what I have been telling the governor. The problem is that when you are in government, you don’t like people who will be telling you the truth. You will like sycophants who will be telling you what you like to be hearing. He is my friend. I call him and he picks phone and we talk. But, I must have to tell you. When you leave office, you will come out and meet us. If we don’t tell you now and you continue to hear things that are very sweet, by the time you leave office, you will start seeing it. The same thing happened to Chimaroke. When he was carrying people who could not help him and I was telling him that this people will not assist him, he didn’t believe me until it started happening. Even Gburugburu, all of them, ran away. I was the only one that came out and faced the battle and you know that. To the extent that Sullivan Chime who Chimaroke made governor, declared me wanted and wanted to kill me because I am supporting Chimaroke. I said, if it is an offence, let me continue to support him. I did everything to make sure that the man was not dealt with. But they all eventually wanted to kill him. These are people he helped. Look at Sullivan Chime, he was not there when we formed the party. We formed this party 1998. I was local government chairman 1997. Most of these people were not around. We suffered. Go and ask Jim Nwobodo, all of them knew my contributions. We formed this party and we did everything and all of a sudden, somebody who was not anything suddenly came up and became Attorney General. From becoming Attorney General, he became the governor. He now believes that he has arrived and started dealing with his Oga. You said something very significant. You said Chimaroke is the only person who has a structure in the state. What of Sullivan Chime who is now in APC? Sullivan Chime has no structure. He knows. When you talk about structure, it is not your own home. He has a political structure of his own and his personal friends. That is not structure. Are you saying that Sullivan Chime’s entrance into APC cannot swing victory to APC in Enugu State in 2019? No, it was a political suicide he committed. By the time he left PDP, I was telling people that Ike Ekweremadu is very lucky because if Sullivan Chime had remained in PDP, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi would have had problem to choose between the two. But, it was an easy sail for Ekweremadu. We know ourselves. Before now, Sullivan Chime couldn’t have won councillorship in Udi. Ugochukwu Agballa is more popular than Sullivan in Udi even till today. He is a former governor. But, let him taste his popularity by going into any election, even House of Representatives or House of Assembly. Or, let us bring it down because I have seen former Deputy Governor of Benue State becoming a councillor. Let him go and contest councillorship. You will see that he will not get it as far as people like Ugochukwu Agballa are there. That is to tell you that he has no political structure. But, anytime Chimaroke comes out and says he is contesting an election, he will continue to win. But, the powers-that-be normally arm twists his hands and take it away from him, a fact which everybody is aware of. So, that is what I am trying to tell you. Lastly, in spite of the shortcomings you pointed out. Would you see PDP in Enugu State as going into the election from a position of strength vis-à-vis the challenge posed by APC? Yes, because of the fact that before now, the APC has not been very strong in Enugu State. It is not that there are not some problems here and there in PDP. But, I don’t know whether those problems are fundamental to make PDP to lose Enugu State. But, I know that we may not have 100 percent as we used to have. APC may win some places because of the fundamental errors made here and there. We are not going to get 100 percent as we used to. That is one point you should understand. But, I don’t know the places we are going to win and the places we are going to lose. But, I know quite well that the governor stands a better chance notwithstanding the mistakes he made in the past primaries of the party. He was able to come out to tell the people his thinking to avoid people wasting their money. He allowed some people to waste their money and he didn’t come out to say, you have wasted your money. But, I am sorry, things will be sorted out. You won’t have anything to regret. I don’t think he has done that. And it is not good political tactics. That is the reason why I like Chimaroke. From day one, he will tell you, this is the person I want, but I am not preventing you from going into the contest. This is the person. So, you know his mind from day one. But, not a situation where you pretend, allow people to spend their money and at the end of the day, you come out with your mind at the dying minutes. You have injured so many people because of that way of behavior. It is bad. It is not good. If I see him as my friend, I will tell him and I will continue to tell him. This behavior is not good, and don’t do it. From day one, call meetings, please, if there is any zoning principle, respect it. If there is no zoning principle, you know what to do to that extent, but not to allow people to waste their resources, only for you to come out in the dying minutes and say, this is my mind.