A man showed up to Mercy Hospital and opened fire on a woman believed to be his former fiancee before turning the gun on others, leaving two people, including the gunman, dead, and two others, including a police officer, injured Monday afternoon, according to Thewashingtonpost.com reports. The shooting took place between 3 and 3:30pm Central time. Chicago fire officials told ABC7 that two women were shot and one of them — who was hit in the parking lot — was a doctor at Mercy. Her former fiance was the shooter, a source told ABC7. Both of the women were taken to other hospitals nearby. The identities of the shooter and the victims were not immediately available. A police officer was shot and is in critical condition, though he is receiving “excellent care,” Anthony Guglielmi, chief communications officer for Chicago police, tweeted. A SWAT team responded to the 292-bed hospital near Interstate-55. Nearby buildings, including the National Teachers Academy, were locked during the attack. Mercy Hospital tweeted later that the incident was over and that all patients were safe. Lenice Donaldson, a pharmacy technician at Mercy, said she was in the back to get a drink and had just returned as she heard the gunshots. She and the other technicians locked themselves up until police got them out, she said. “It’s just unbelievable. We came out with our hands up, and there was blood all over the floor in the lobby,” Donaldson said. “It’s a shame.” Tracy Lyons, a cancer survivor, said she goes to Mercy for regular radiation treatments. She described listening to the gun battle between police and the shooter until a SWAT team freed her and some technicians from a lab. “It was just nothing but pow-pow-pow,” she said. “We thought we would never get out of there.” "I turned around to my right and I see a man shooting someone on the ground": A man who was waiting for results in Chicago's Mercy Hospital describes seeing the active shooter there pic.twitter.com/79GCK88vG4 — CBS News (@CBSNews) November 19, 2018  According to the Associated Press, James Gray told ABC7 that he saw multiple people shot: “It looked like he was turning and shooting people at random.” In an interview with CBS Chicago, a witness who was in the hospital said she saw blood by an entrance. Another witness said he saw a gunman shoot someone multiple times in a parking lot. He added that officers responded quickly and exchanged gunfire with the shooter. Senator Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) wrote in a Monday evening tweet that he was praying for the victims of the shooting and their families. My heart is with Mercy Hospital in Chicago tonight. I am praying for the victims, their families, and those who were injured during the shooting this afternoon. And I am extremely grateful to the Chicago Police Department who responded with bravery. — Senator Dick Durbin (@SenatorDurbin) November 19, 2018  Also on Monday, according to the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, police in suburban St. Louis were searching for a gunman who went into a religious supply store, sexually assaulted at least one woman and shot a woman in the head, leaving her in critical condition at a hospital. The shooting happened about 3:15pm at a Catholic Supply store in western St. Louis County, near the town of Ballwin. Police were searching for the gunman and said he should be considered armed and dangerous. And in Denver’s Lower Downtown neighborhood, one person was killed, and at least three others were sent to a hospital after a shooting, according to the Denver Post.