He expressed misgivings at the paltry sum of N15 million the government allocates to UNILAG per month, saying that the institution pays something in the region of N50million for electricity consumption per month apart from other costs like research among others. “This is a country where lecturers and professors’ struggle hard to go to other countries for sabbaticals because it is not commensurate and conversely we cannot invite quality teachers from other countries where they are paid $5,000 per month by their home country. In Nigeria, the bar for professors is N501, 000 which is about $1,800. “Tell me can the system compete effectively globally with our peers in other lands? The answer is no. This is because we are being unfaithful. Making reference to the analysis of the Chief Babalakin’ committee, the NUC and other members of the committee, which put sustainable cost of public universities in Nigeria at $3,500 minimum per student per annum,  Ikponmwosa was of the opinion  that the average Nigeria will require about $4,000 to $5,000 per head per annum to keep public tertiary education afloat and compete globally. However, he was quick to add that this will vary from one discipline in the humanities, arts, medicine as there will be little variation in costs. “Unfortunately the government has continued to deceive Nigerians. Inconsistency and insincerity in policy formulation have not helped in any way. They tell the populace what they want to hear. I support ASUU’s position but I don’t belong to the class that is calling for a free education in all ramifications. “Look at Britain there is a fee in public schools for citizens and another level of fees for international students. In the USA, there is a fee for each state. If you are coming from another state there is a level of fees, then there are fees for international students. Education at the university should be subsidized substantially. I have always been an advocate of the appropriate cost of education. He frowned at a situation where parents pay as much as N300, 000 to N400,000 in a year and expect such child in the University of Lagos, University of Ibadan, Obafemi Awolowo University to have a free education or pay less than N30,000 per year. “We are just making a mockery of ourselves. Nigeria universities cannot out rightly boast of buying quality equipment without recourse to the ministries and that will take years to supply as well. And we want to compete with other world-class universities in the world. It is not possible,” he submitted.