ABUJA – Members of the House of Representatives on Tuesday urged the federal government to immediately deploy more troops to the Shinkafi and Zurmi Federal Constituency of Zamfara State to quell incessant banditry, killings and kidnappings that have wrecked havoc on the place. They also directed the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to urgently provide relief materials to victims to salvage them from their predicament. Members took the resolution following a motion titled: “Security Situation in Zamfara State-An Urgent Call on the Federal Government To Tackle the Perennial and Incessant Banditry Killings; Kidnappings for Ramson and Armed Robbery in Sinkafi and Zurmi Federal Constituency”, moved by Abubakar Moriki at the plenary. Moving the motion, Moriki told the House that “no fewer than thirty persons were kidnapped in the last month, including two minors of ten and eleven years of age and two female twins of marriage age recorded in Dauran, Moriki, Birnin Tsaba Kabbaka, Dorayyi of Zurmi Local Government Area”. Acknowledging that the federal government has taken far-reaching decisions by deploying Special Forces through the Presidential intervention resulting in the tremendous decrease in cases of village and town banditry, Moriki, however, lamented that the tempo was not sustained. The motion was unanimously adopted when subjected to voice votes. Similarly, the House also called on the Federal government to direct security operatives to commence immediate crack down on the nefarious activities of cattle rustlers and kidnappers in Safana/Batsari/Dan Musa federal constituency of Katsina State. The call was sequel to a motion titled: “Urgent Need for Federal Government’s Intervention on the ongoing Abduction of Persons and Cattle Rustling by Heavily Armed Kidnappers Resulting to Loss of Human Lives in Various Communities Within Safana/Batsari/Dan Musa Federal Constituency of Katsina State”, sponsored by Hon Ahmed Safana. Presenting the motion, Safana said, “the magnitude of the attacks on the members of my Constituency has reached an alarming stage as the perpetrators of the aforesaid criminalities have continuously been killing people in various communities including women and children who put up resistance during their operations”. Adopting the motion, the House also directed NEMA to urgently provide relief materials and supply to the victims. In a related development, the House through another motion titled: ‘Need to Repatriate Stranded Nigerians that Escaped Slavery from Libya in Niger Republic’ appealed to  the federal government to urgently repatriate 22 Nigerians who are presently stranded in the Niger Republic due to harsh situations they found themselves in Libya.