ADO-EKITI – Dr. Kayode Fayemi is expected to lead renowned speakers to the Second Edition of Ekiti Future Summit and Awards (EFSA) holding next week in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital. The Summit, with the theme, “Open For Business: Investing In Ekiti,” would attract about 16 discussants and three keynote speakers. Among them are Bunmi Oluwadare, Head, African Young Entrepreneur, and Jumoke Awe, Chief Executive Officer, Brand Strategist. Governor Fayemi had hinted that his administration would hands off all commercial ventures of the state to professionals while a conducive business environment would also be created for private investors. Olusola Adeoti, the President of the Summit, in a statement made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti  disclosed that the event which was designed to showcase the state’s rich investment potentials would also afford youths the opportunity to take the front seat in the state’s investment drive and innovation. The PR-AFRICA, a public relations firm, is leading the initiative. The governor who gave the hint after inspecting some projects abandoned by Ayo Fayose administration  also  lamented the sorry state of virtually all legacy projects. He remarked that all the projects were in full operation before he left office four years ago. Specifically, Fayemi assured that all the abandoned projects like Fountain Hotel and Ikogosi Resort would soon bounce back. However, Adeoti admonished the youths in Ekiti to avail them of the opportunity by getting involved in the programme at no cost. The highlight of the programme would be award presentation to “Best Entrepreneur of the Year” and “Prize for Advocacy.” All the awards would be won mainly by the youths. “The primary aim of the event is to attract investors and bring sustainable investments to Ekiti. To work with startups, business owners, and entrepreneurs, it is expected to provide investment opportunities, support for accessing lands, local suppliers and other essential input, navigating the bureaucratic steps in launching a successful business in Ekiti in particular and Nigeria at large,” he said.