Mohammed Shosanya and Seyi Oguntuase Lagos – Babatunde Fashola, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing and former governor Lagos, is a personality many Nigerians respect on account of his vision and the uncommon hunger to deliver his set goals no matter the roads he would trudge to achieve them. That’s why there was a general conviction that his appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari as the ‘field marshal’ of the troubled power sector which was  at the low ebb in 2015 when the current government took over, was a square peg in a square hole. Besides, his captivating statement that a responsible government in Nigeria should be able to fix the power sector squarely endeared him to the hearts of many Nigerians as the man with the magic to turn around the monumental mess in the power sector for good Three years down the line the current administration is still grappling with the challenges of fixing the power sector against the promises it made to Nigerians during the 2015 electioneering campaign. Poor power infrastructures, funding, estimated billings, tariffs among other challenges have continued to dot the electricity sector and also pitched the government with the operators in the last three years. When the Minister reeled out his achievements last Monday  in the three ministries he is superintending and revealed the mercurial performances of the administration in the power sector on account of the less usage of generators now compared to 2015, some Nigerians felt Fashola may have commenced a diplomatic campaign for his  principal ahead of his 2019 reelection bid. Others thought the administration had not done badly and earnestly needs to gird its loin to enable the power sector work as per the expectations of Nigerians. Fashola’s Power Sector Score Card Fashola at the press briefing said the Federal Government  survey and feedback mechanism confirmed that many Nigerians now have electricity for longer hours and spend less money on diesel to power their generators compared to 2015. He  noted that President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has delivered on its power supply mandate having increased generation from 4000 MW to 7000 MW. “The report of our survey and feedback mechanism confirm that many of you now have public power for longer hours compared to 2015, and you now run generators for shorter periods compared to 2015 and you now spend less money on diesel to power your generators. “As some citizens recently reported, they no longer have to iron all their clothes one week in advance as they previously used to do, because the supply is proving reliable and predictable even if not yet fully stable and uninterrupted,’’ he said. The minister also said transmission increased from 5000 MW to 7000 MW and distribution from 2690 MW to 5,222 MW. “We have delivered on incremental power. The evidence of our progress is not only captured in the last quarter of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) Report for Q2 of 2018 which shows a growth of 7.5% in the electricity sector, previous quarterly reports from 2017, have consistently recorded growth, a clear departure from 2014 2015 and proof of change” he added. Statement Smacks Of Political Coloration But some stakeholders in the power sector, who spoke with Sunday INDEPENDENT flayed the Minister’s assessment, saying it was laced with political statement to sway votes for his principal and party  in next year’s general elections, rather concluded that the current administration  has failed Nigerians in the promised delivery of efficient and uninterrupted power supply. Senator Shehu Sani representing Kaduna Central Senatorial district in the National Assembly has accused the Nigerian government of having nothing to show in the power sector but mere “megawatts of propaganda”. Sani, on his Twitter page, described power under Buhari’s administration as, “simply megawatts of propaganda and grid of exaggeration”. Reacting to the Minister’s address, Comrade Chris Okonkwo, national president of Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSEAC) said Fashola’s position was political in every ramification. He told Sunday INDEPENDENT that the minister’s statement that Nigerians now incur lesser resources on generators was not verifiable and cannot stand the test of time. “For the Minister to say that Nigerians now spend less on diesel and fuel to power generators, there has to a scientific study to test that. It is not by perception that people don’t use their generators frequently now” The power expert said the vestiges of the rot in the power sector, which is typified by inefficiency and lack of infrastructure still lingers, adding that it will take some time for the country to fix the ills besetting the power sector. Corroborating, Comrade Chinedu Bosah, Coordinator, Coalition  For Affordable and Regular Electricity(CARE) said the minister’s statement was a propaganda stunt designed to win votes for the All Progressives Congress in next year’s general elections. He told Sunday INDEPENDENT that it was regrettable that the minister didn’t paint the real picture of the sector but rather chose to embark on political coloration of the situation He also wondered how the minister arrived at the assessment when in the last one year there was reportedly over seven systems collapse recorded in the power sector amidst infrastructural decay. “What the Minister of Power,Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola  said is on paper and will remain in paper”, adding that his Harmony Estate residence in Aboru area of Lagos was  denied power supply for the whole of last month. He added that similar blackout was recorded in the area in the last seven days. Wale Oyekoya, an analyst, said  the  current government of Buhari improvement on the power is very insignificant to warrant such insult that the minister, Fashola have meted to Nigerians that we are enjoying incremental power supply. He  said  some places do not even have lights for weeks and months or sharing the loads by introducing on and off days for Nigerians, adding that high estimated bills when there is no  electricity, is still very rampant in Nigeria. He added: ’’I guess the minister is just trying to defend the failure of Buhari inability to deliver on his promise. Nigeria with population of 200 million is still struggling with 10,000 megawatts while South Africa with 40 million people have 44,000 megawatts. Ghana our next neighbour is celebrating almost 5 years of uninterrupted lights. Our leaders should cover their faces in shame for not providing basic amenities such as power, road, security, water etc to his citizens. We have oppressive and greedy people in government. They have never provide people oriented policy but oppressive one with no human face.” Femi Aborishade,human rights activist, said Fashola’s claims on incremental power supply was nothing but political because most Nigerians know that they are not better off in terms of power supply in this country and they have not expanded the coverage of electricity. “’They have sold all the infrastructure to their friends and the tariffs are been increased without a corresponding increase in service, I think he can only deceive himself, people are not deceived,’’ he added. Taiwo Adeleye, a member of the Nigerian Human Rights Community (NHRC), said the position of Fashola on incremental energy supply is subjective and should not be taken as comprehensive account of the current situation of the power sector in Nigeria. ‘’I think he is subjective, probably the area he is living but to some extent what I am even experiencing in my place we hardly enjoy power supply, and it is like some other areas people were given the privilege as they were been given incremental power supply in recent time probably that could be areas where they are generating more funds compared to some other areas where they believe that they are not actually generating funds. “So, I think it is a kind of political statement because what he has been saying over the years when you go to the nitty-gritty of supply of power to most of the towns and villages in the country. I think majority of people might not be in consonant with the very statement which he made in respect to increment in power supply in the country’’. Government Truly Did Well In Power Sector But Abiodun Ogunleye, Managing Director of PowerCap PLC said the minister’s assessment of power situation was in order without any coloration. He told Sunday INDEPENDENT that Nigerians are now enjoying more supply of power than 2015 “We are better off now than 2015 when the Peoples Democratic Party was in power. Nigerians can relay their experiences about increased power supply than 2015,” he added. He said that he pays his service provider, Eko Electricity Distribution Company prompt tariff now due to increased power supply. Comrade Ajayi Taiwo, National Coordinator of Southwest Progressive Youth Movement, said it is obvious that power has really improved in the country. He added: “It is really improving seriously he has said the real thing we also enjoined Nigerians to also do their own part by making sure that they pay their taxes so that the country can move forward.” Adewale Adeoye, Executive Director Journalist for Democratic Rights (JODER) said: He (Fashola) has his own fact and we also have our own facts probably he is talking about increment on power supply in some areas, but I think in my own area truly there was an increment beginning from 2016 but suddenly in the past three month there has been a drastic decline so there is a kind of fluctuation in terms of regular supply but generally all over the country.