Abuja – Presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar yesterday said that the invasion of his plane by security operatives was premeditated and a deliberate attempt to intimidate him. Atiku said that on November 5, 2018, exactly a week ago today, the All Progressives Congress (APC) released an official statement accusing him of having strategy meetings for the purpose of moving “illicit cash” into Nigeria and they asked the security services to investigate him and his plane. Recall that APC had in a statement said, “Our intelligence, anti-graft and security agencies must be awake to its responsibility of investigating the Dubai meeting. Cash and carry politicians must be prevented from moving illicit cash around to induce voters and sponsor election violence and rigging. Again, relevant agencies must check suspicious movement of cash both locally and internationally by politically exposed persons under the guise of a “Dubai meeting” or any clandestine meeting”. Atiku, in a statement by his Campaign Organisation said that APC-led government had asked the security services to search aircraft belonging to members of the PDP. He pointed out that the statement evinced an obvious premeditated intention by the APC and its federal government to deliberately embarrass him by invading his plane with security personnel and possibly to set him up for the crimes they had already officially accused him of in their statement. The former vice president noted that the official denial by the APC and the presidency of any hand in his ordeal is put to lie when one examine their statement of last week which was clearly what was implemented against him. “It also shows that both parties have no credibility and will do or say anything to further their interests,” he said. The former Vice President added that the statement by the aviation ministry that the search of his plane is “routine” is an afterthought that does not hold water for the simple reason that he has been flying in and out of Nigeria without ever receiving such a treatment until the APC released their statement. He said: “This event raises grave concerns about using government services for purely political purposes and what this portends for the conduct of free and fair elections in February 2019, and shows as hollow President Buhari’s promise to superintendent over credible polls.” Atiku reminded Nigerians and the international community that by Nigeria’s Constitution, only the President can order the deployment of military and paramilitary personnel as Commander-in-Chief. He said that the deployment, combined with the statement released last week is proof beyond a reasonable doubt that what happened to him was not a routine exercise, but a deliberate attempt to intimidate him by those who have seen the political handwriting on the wall. Appeal Court Adjourns Case Against Dayo-Led Exco, Strikes Out Application For Time Extension