Lagos – The sleepy town of Ekinrin-Adde in IJumu Local Government Area of Kogi State came alive last weekend as family, friends and well-wishers assembled together to pay their last respects to an illustrious son, Wing Commander Johnson Ajibulu Adeleye (Rtd) who died at the age of 79 years. The late Ajibulu, a veteran of the Nigerian Civil War was the father of Omoba Tunde Ajibulu, a stalwart of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as well as a friend of Independent Newspapers Limited (INL). Other children of the deceased are Dr. Olufunmilayo Ajibulu Onobrakpeya,  Kemi Ajibulu Oladipo,  Bukola Ajibulu Olubo,  Toyin Ajubulu and Gbenga Ajibulu. After a  funeral service at First Baptist Church, Ekinrin-Adde Adde, he was buried with full military honours at the church cemetery. Born to Prince John Faetanmi Ajibulu and Princess Werejomo Omoyogbe  Felicia Ajibulu on December 1st 1938, the late Ajibulu attended Baptist High School, Ekinrin-Adde and Okene Teachers College. He worked as a teacher in Ekinrin-Adde and later Aiyegunle Gbedde, where he met his wife, Alice Olabunkun Towoeni. They got married in 1964, after  which he joined the Nigerian Airforce in 1965. He left the country almost immediately for pilot training in Germany , not being able to witness the birth  of his first child, Princess Dr.Funmilayo Ajibulu in 1965. He returned to Nigeria in 1967. He was immediately posted as a fighter pilot to fight in the Nigerian Civil War where he served with distinction. He was shot down twice and awarded different medals for bravery in the face of the enemy. In 1969, there was a need for helicopter pilots in the Nigerian Air Force and he was sent to the United Kingdom to convert to Helicopter Flying which he completed in 6 months and came back to continue to prosecute the civil war at the time. After the civil war, he held different positions, serving Nigeria nationally and internationally until he voluntarily retired from the Nigerian Air Force in 1983. He thereafter went into private business. Senate President, Bukola Saraki who apologised for his inability to attend described the late Ajibulu as an illustrious son who served Nigeria meritoriously while his wife, Toyin sent a powerful delegate. In his tribute, Tunde, in an emotion-laden voice eulogised his late father as a man of honour and integrity who lived his life to the best of his ability. According to him “ He fought to keep Nigeria one and distinguished himself as a fighter pilot in the Nigerian Airforce during the civil war and subsequently in other roles in service”. “ His honour, integrity and patriotism was above board while he served.  He explained to me about honour and integrity when I asked him why he spurned opportunities to amass wealth like some of his colleagues.  He lived his life to the best of his ability”. Also, wife of the deceased, Mrs Alice Ajibulu in her tribute described her late husband as a wonderful partner who gave her and the children so much joy. “ I thank God for his life. He was a wonderful husband and father to our six children. Our early years together was wonderful and blissful. He gave me and the children so much joy. I pray the Almighty forgives him of his sins, grant him eternal and peaceful rest”. Among dignitaries who attended the service are Femi Omojola, John Tolufashe, Cyril.Y.Asuku,  Dr. Wale Akingbade,  Chief and Mrs Okeya,  Damola Diya, Shola Ogunshola, Colonel Tobi Adejimi and Colonel Nansak Shagaya. Others are Navy Captain Olumide Fadahunsi, Navy Captain Paul Nimmyel, Colonel  Segun Mosugu,  Brigadier-General Adekunle Adeyinka,  Ayo Salako,  Williams Odwer,  Mrs Joyce Onafowokan, Debo Adewunmi and Engr. Gabriel Adewunmi.