Idongesit Ashameri, Samuel Ogidan, Paschal Njoku and Daniel Abia Uyo / Abuja / P/Harcourt – Governor Udom Emmanuel has called on the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the Federal Government to immediately redeploy Akwa Ibom State Commissioner of Police, Musa Kimo, for allegedly aiding the breakdown of law and order in the state. The governor said on Tuesday that the siege on the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, allegedly supervised by the CP, had given credence to an earlier suspicion that Kimo was on a mission to pave way for the invasion of the state by the ruling APC. The governor addressed a world press conference at the Governor’s Lodge, Uyo, shortly after the crisis. He said the police, led by CP Musa Kimo, was threatening the peace of the state by aiding five sacked lawmakers to take over the House of Assembly. He described the police permission and supervision of the five sacked lawmakers who sneaked through a broken door into the gallery of the House as the height of lawlessness and total breakdown of law and order. He maintained that the police were disrupting the hard-earned peace of Akwa Ibom State. Emmanuel said some persons, believed to be APC thugs, were arrested during the crisis with fake military uniforms and 18 AK-47 riffles. He expressed regrets that the thugs and the guns were later released by the police, a situation which the governors said may have put the state in danger. The governor challenged the IGP to rise above party sentiment by prosecuting the culprits. “We want the whole world to know that Akwa Ibom State is under siege by the police force. Let the Commissioner of Police, who was brought last weekend, who is coming to perpetrate this act, let’s hope he has finished his course. “I was to call on the police force to ensure that, by the end of today, the Commissioner of Police must be withdrawn, the head of the QRS must be withdrawn, so that we can maintain peace. “Those who were arrested should not be allowed to go. In 24 hours we have had three police commissioners. “Since the present Commissioner of Police came, every day he has been holding meetings with the people that the court had already declared as illegal occupants of their seats at the House of Assembly, and today he led them into the place with thugs. “Today we are saying that the peace of Akwa Ibom is being threatened, our own unity is being intimidated by the police. Let the police force be called to order. “They should go and defend the Nigerian people where need be, they were meant to maintain internal peace and order and not to cause chaos in somebody’s state. And if they are playing politics this way, it’s not good for democracy in this country.” Governor Emmanuel described the present situation in the state as part of the ‘Warsaw threat’ by his predecessor and called on those who had the opportunity of governing the state to desist from creating security tension which might threaten the lives and safety of Akwa Ibom people while their children were comfortably based abroad. He said the plot was to ensure that election did not hold in the state the same day the general elections would be held so as to create room for the process to be hijacked and power snatched through violence. He, therefore, warned that failure to hold election in the state same day with the general election would amount to no election in the state. “This is in line with their script; they want to cause mayhem in this state so that election would not hold on the day general elections would be held, and we are telling them if election does not hold on that same day, they should forget elections being held here. “Either you hold election the same day everybody is attending to their own or forget election here. Elections must be held the same day. “They have destroyed people’s houses and the police are supervising them to do this, in which country has this ever happened? “And we have reported this; they tend to ignore us. I have called the IG operations who is supposed to call the situation to order but nothing was done.” He stated that the same police that he was using the state resources to equip was today fighting the state, adding that several petitions to President Buhari and the IGP about the activities of the police and the sacked lawmakers had been ignored. “We all worked for the democracy that is currently being threatened today. But in Akwa Ibom State, due to the ambition of selfish people, people that this state has given the opportunity to become what they never dreamt to become, People that other people had given opportunity, some of them as commissioners for six years, and governor for eight years, making 14 years, who never had a second address, but today that democracy is being threatened. “I want the whole world to know and hear me that we have seen total breakdown of law and order today, led by the Nigerian police. “This state has been the most peaceful state in this country. We maintain all oil installations so that money gotten out of here are sent to Abuja to maintain the police. “It’s the same police force today, supervised by the Commissioner of Police, who came in against the court of law,” he said. Musa Kimo, the Commissioner of Police, assumed duties last Friday, November 23, 2018, replacing John Abang who served as CP for less than a month. The lingering crisis in the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly early Tuesday morning got messier as the five sacked lawmakers and members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) commenced impeachment process against Governor Emmanuel. The area around the Assembly reportedly witnessed gunshots and pandemonium. It was gathered that the leader of the aggrieved legislators, Nse Ntuen of Essien Udim state constituency, and his four colleagues stormed the Assembly complex with armed policemen and thugs as early as 8:30a.m on Tuesday. There was heavy security presence around the complex and adjourning streets even though there was no restriction of movement around the area. Recall that the House, under the speakership of Rt. Honourable Onofiok Luke, had adjourned its sitting to Tuesday, November 27. Assembly correspondents who had arrived the premises early observed that the five legislators had immediately accessed the gallery despite efforts by security men attached to the House of Assembly to stop them. The Press Secretary to the Speaker, Kufre Okon, was manhandled by one of the lawmakers, Victor Udofia, while his GSM phone was snatched and smashed by Idongesit Ituen, probably to stop him from communicating his boss. The staff of the Assembly who had reported to work as well as some visitors that had arrived the premises to attend the Tuesday sitting were chased out of the premises by armed policemen and political thugs numbering over 100 that escorted the lawmakers into the complex in order to have their way. The five sacked lawmakers came with a fake mace, escorted by a retired sergeant-at-arms, Godwin Ukpong, who retired from the service in 2016, and commenced the process to impeach the speaker and suspend the other 21 members of the Assembly. When hinted that the governor and other Akwa Ibom youths, market women, and students who had mobilised to defend the sanctity of the House had approached, four of the five APC lawmakers managed to escape through the back door of the Assembly complex, but Ntuen was unfortunate as some of the aggrieved youths manhandled him out of the gallery. The House, however, held its plenary as scheduled, with Onofiok Luke, Speaker, presiding. Speaking at the plenary, Leader of the House, Udo Kierian Akpan, said: “The new Commissioner of Police aided and abated thugs to invade the House of Assembly today. As a House, we thoroughly warn him and urge the IG to redeploy him immediately.” PDP Condemns Invasion Of Assembly The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) swiftly condemned the invasion of the state House of Assembly by security forces allegedly working for the All Progressives Congress (APC), saying it was aimed at forcefully taking over the control of the legislature and destabilising the state. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said “it was a shocking scene at the Akwa Ibom House of Assembly on Tuesday when the invading security forces shot sporadically and disrupted legislative activities in the attempt to assist the APC to forcefully overthrow the duly elected leadership of the state legislature.” The party also accused the former governor of the state, Godswill Akpabio, of stirring the violent invasion in keeping with his threats that the APC would overrun Akwa-Ibom State the same way Adolf Hitler overran Poland during the Second World War. “Nigerians are all aware of how Senator Akpabio declared war on Akwa Ibom and boasted that ‘War shall see Warsaw and Warsaw shall see war’ in the APC’s quest to take over the state; a mission that has apparently commenced with the violent invasion of the state legislative house,” the party said. Democracy In Danger, CUPP Warns On its part, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) on Tuesday warned that the desperation by President Muhammadu Buhari and his party, the APC, to cling to power at all cost might truncate the country’s democracy. CUPP stated this in a statement by its National Spokesperson, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere. Ugochinyere was reacting to what he termed, “News of another display of impunity and legislative rascality by five suspended members of the Akwa Ibom State Assembly, who are apparently being sponsored by Senator Godswill Akpabio, APC government and other anti-democratic forces desperate to impeach the state governor, Emmanuel Udom”. CUPP said the plan by APC to take over Akwa Ibom State even ahead of the 2019 general election was capable of leading to a repeat of the unfortunate political drama that derailed Nigeria’s democracy in 1983. “This desperation by President Muhammadu Buhari and his APC to take over Akwa Ibom State even ahead of 2019 general election is capable of leading to a repeat of the unfortunate political drama that truncated our democracy in 1983. “We will not seat down therefore and allow Akpabio and his APC sponsored agents to destabilise Akwa Ibom State Assembly and by extension create another political recipes for a possible collapse of our democracy”, CUPP warned. “This conspiracy will never work, not even when Nigerians have rejected APC at all levels. “We the opposition parties condemn in strong terms this attempted rape on our democracy by a few misguided elements in the state and their pay masters.” EU, Netherlands Warn Against Violence In 2019 Elections Meanwhile, ahead of the 2019 general elections, the governments of Netherlands and the European Union have warned against any form of violence that could disrupt the exercise. Robert Petri, the Netherlands Ambassador to Nigeria, gave the warning in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Tuesday, when he paid a visit to Nyesom Wike, the governor of the state. Petri assured that the European Union would closely monitor the forthcoming elections to ensure they were credible. He said: “We are getting closer to the general elections which are very important. We need free and fair elections conducted under a peaceful environment. “The European Union, which we are part of, will be sending monitors for the presidential and governorship elections. It is important that the elections are conducted in a friendly environment.” He said the government of the Netherlands was happy that the cleanup of Ogoni land had commenced. The Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, declared that the APC Federal Government was in liaison with security agencies’ plan to disrupt the 2019 governorship election in Rivers and Akwa Ibom states. Governor Wike stated that the motive was to mobilize the Federal Government’s rigging security apparatus from all other states to the two states on a later date for the manipulation of the two strategic governorship elections. Governor Wike urged the European Union to pay closer attention to the governorship election in the two states. “When I raised the alarm that the Federal Government is plotting to plant 800 guns in Rivers State to destabilise the state, it is the truth. It is real. “The Federal Government, working with security agencies, is planning to disrupt the 2019 governorship elections in Rivers and Akwa Ibom states. “They want to ensure that the elections don’t hold with other states, so that they can mobilise security agencies to manipulate the results,” Governor Wike said. The governor said the international community must work with Nigerians to ensure that what happened in Osun State was not repeated in the Niger Delta. Governor Wike said if INEC and the police could allow 55 percent free and fair elections, Nigerians would be happy. “As members of the European Union, we want you to use your position to prevail on INEC and security agencies to allow the will of the people. “Manipulating the electoral process is corruption. This administration claims that it is fighting corruption, but that is not true. When a PDP member defects, the issue of corruption against him ends,” he said. The governor stated that the President had refused to sign the Amended Electoral Act because they have ulterior motive. On the cleanup of Ogoni, Governor Wike expressed regrets that the APC Federal Government had politicised the exercise, saying it was only being thrown up because of the coming elections.