Abuja – The upper chamber of the National Assembly on Wednesday set up a seven-man non-partisan ad-hoc committee to probe the implementation of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Special Intervention Programme (SIP) and former President Goodluck Jonathan’s Subsidy Reinvestment Empowerment Programme (SURE-P). The seven-man committee headed by Ibrahim Gobir, has Eyinnanya Abaribe, Danjuma Goje, Dino Melaye, Shehu Sani, Matthew Urhoghide, and Gbenga Ashafa as members. Before the Senate mandated the non-partisan ad-hoc committee to look into the activities of the SIP as being implemented by the Buhari administration, the lawmakers had engaged in a shouting match over diverse views held by some of them. The resolution of the Senate followed a motion moved by Senate Minority Leader, Biodun Olujimi, who alleged politicisation of the Special Intervention Programme by the All Progressives Congress (APC) government. Coming under Order 43, Olujimi alleged that the funds were being allotted to people loyal to the APC and party cronies at various levels of government. The lawmaker, who went further to explain the secret activities behind the funds, noted that certain forms were purportedly printed for the intervention programme on which the PVC numbers of beneficiaries were requested. She said the inscription, ‘I Stand For Buhari’, was in one of such forms that required opening an account with Access Bank Plc. She said: “Using of our collective funds for political reasons should be questioned. The money that should be for the entire nation is being used to buy PVC. This is an election year and we know the motive behind this.” The lawmaker called on Bukola Saraki, the President of the Senate, to set up a non-partisan committee to look into the issue. The atmosphere in the upper chamber was, however, charged when Saraki recognised the Leader of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, to speak. Following the recognition, the chamber was thrown into a verbal war, as some of the lawmakers pointed out that the Senate Leader should not have been recognised. While Melaye said Saraki shouldn’t have allowed Lawan to bring a dissenting position because a subsisting motion on ground needed to be seconded before a debate could be allowed on the motion, Akpan Bassey, who cited Order 55 of the Senate Rules, pointed out that Saraki should have allowed speeches for the motion first before speeches against the motion. But the President of the Senate, however, ruled them out of order, insisting that Lawan should be heard out. Defending the Special Intervention Programme of Buhari’s administration, Lawan said, “It is computer based, transparent, and a foolproof system under which Nigerians can access fund irrespective of location, party affiliation, or tribe. “Olujimi’s complaint is not peculiar to the APC government as previous social intervention programmes like the SURE-P were used for political patronage. What she was referring to is not an allegation. I know how SURE-P was messed up.” The lawmaker pointed out that Olujimi’s submission was just an allegation, adding that the money for SURE-P was stolen when it was introduced. He said: “We inherited a country of poverty that the PDP administration, from 1999, forced on Nigeria. We inherited empty treasury. “We have never had a social programme that even states that are not PDP benefitted better.” Before the prayers on the motion, Saraki had said the lawmakers were for the interest of Nigerians. While the first prayer of constituting a non-partisan ad-hoc committee to investigate the implementation of the SIP was adopted, a second prayer by Bala Jibrin that the ad-hoc committee should also investigate the implementation of the SURE-P under PDP administration was also adopted.