CHARLES ONYEKAMUO AWKA – Victor Ike Oye, the National Chairman of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), has taken a swipe at Bianca Ojukwu for repeatedly attacking him in the media after her failed bid to clinch the party’s ticket in the October 4, 2018 APGA primaries for Anambra South, saying that she owed her an apology. At the primaries conducted at Ekwulobia Township Stadium in Aguata Local Government Area of the state, Bianca lost to Prince Nicholas Ukachukwu, a businessman and former member of the House of Representatives. Following her loss in the primaries, Ojukwu, according to the party’s national chairman during a media briefing in his country home at Amawbia near Awka, on Wednesday, had consistency attacked him, averring that he did not stand by her. But Oye said on Wednesday that he was taken aback by her consistent attacks on his person and even expressed surprise that the widow failed to win the primaries in spite of the support extended to her by the party prior to the primaries. He said: “I was surprised when Bianca started attacking me in the media. It was a mistake because she was attacking the wrong person. thing wrong to her. People were sent to conduct the primaries and they returned the result to me. The report I got showed that she participated in the primaries and the votes were counted and she lost to Prince Ukachukwu. In fact, she owes me an apology, a serious one for that matter,” he said. The national chairman was of the view that the late Odumegwu Ojukwu’s widow joined the race for Anambra South late when other aspirants had indicated interest and begun canvassing for votes; a situation he said made the party to opt for open primaries. “Let me tell you now. Senator Victor Umeh representing Anambra Central in the red chamber of the National Assembly was given an automatic ticket and people asked why?” “I told them that he indicated his interest earlier and if Bianca had done that earlier, she would have been given the ticket. But she joined the fray when Dr. Ifeanyi Ubah and Prince Ukachukwu had indicated interest and campaigning,” he said, adding that the party decided in the circumstance to go for open primaries.