Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, has challenged Senator Bukola Saraki, President of Nigerian Senate to provide evidence of inducement or face  court action. This is as he laments what he termed unwarranted attack by the nation’s number three citizen. In a statement by Simeon Ebegbulem, Chief Press Secretary to Oshiomhole, the APC National Chairman challenged Saraki to name one politician he collected bribe from during the concluded primary of the party or be prepared to face him.in court. Oshiomhole said Saraki whom he described as a usurper and guest of both the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and ICPC , has no moral ground to question his integrity. He said the  unwarranted attack on the character of the National Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, by the Senate President Bukola Saraki is pathetic and irresponsible resort to petty politics. He said: “It  is sad that Saraki, who just woke up from slumber occasioned by his crushing defeat at the Port Harcourt presidential primary election of his party, could degenerate to such a low level. “It is equally sad, but not unexpected, that Saraki, who is politically drowning, would make such  libelous comments against the national chairman of the APC. And I challenge Saraki to mention one name of an aspirant that gave money to the National Chairman or we file a legal action against him. “Whereas, the basis on which he made those comments was tenuous and unjustifiable, it is on record that Saraki has been in the eye of investigations by the EFCC and the ICPC for sundry cases of corruption. “That is the same man that has taken it upon himself to question Comrade Oshiomhole’s credibility. “We challenge him to mention one person who has claimed that he gave money to Oshiomhole to influence him and the decision of the party’s national working committee (NWC) in the just-concluded primary elections. ‘We insist that Saraki with his kind of prebendal politics is nothing but a monumental disgrace to the nation’s democracy.”