YENAGOA – Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State has described Chukwuemeka Ezeife, a former governor of old Anambra State, as a detrabalised Nigerian of high repute. Dickson said that Ezeife, who clocked 80 on November 20, 2018, was one of the leaders who taught him the art of progressive politics in the country. A statement on Thursday by Fidelis Soriwei, the Governor’s Special Adviser on Media Relations,  quoted Dickson as having made the comment when he led a high-powered delegation of Bayelsa people to the 80th birthday celebration of the former governor in Abuja on Tuesday. The governor said he had the honour of working closely with the octogenarian politician and intellectual when he was chairman of the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD) in Bayelsa, and later the party’s national legal adviser. Dickson said that Ezeife was beyond being a great family man, a leader of the South East, but had always been a patriotic Nigerian political leader. He congratulated the elder statesman for being healthy and agile as he entered into the club of the blessed octogenarians. He said that Ezeife was being celebrated “for being a role model, a fighter for the oppressed, a father, a champion of right causes, and a bridge builder.” Dickson said, “I congratulate the former Governor of old Anambra State, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, on his 80th birthday. I join him to thank God for his life, for God’s mercies to him. He is looking as agile and handsome at 80. “He was one of those who mentored me in the art of progressive politics in the Alliance for Democracy. I had the honour of being the chairman of the party in Bayelsa, and later its national legal adviser. “He is not just a father to his family, he is more than being a citizen of Anambra State, he is more than being an Igbo; he is a Nigerian leader. “You have been a role model, a father, a fighter for the oppressed people, a champion of right causes, you have constantly built bridges in Nigeria. That is why we are here to celebrate with you.” Also at the event, Dickson predicted that Peter Obi, former governor of Anambra State and vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),  would be Nigeria’s vice president come 2019.