LAGOS – The recent governorship primaries in Lagos State produced several candidates for the many political parties that are taking part in the 2019 elections. However, with the popularity of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), many believe that the contest in the state will be between Babajide Sanwo-Olu of APC, and Jimi Agbaje of PDP. In 2015, Agbaje, a pharmacist cum politician, lost to Akinwunmi Ambode of APC in a contest many believed he would have won. But, he lost honourably, with his head held high. As the campaigns for the 2019 elections thicken, all eyes in Lagos State are on Sanwo-Olu and Agbaje, who many see as an old horse in the game. Agbaje, on October 5, 2018, emerged the PDP governorship candidate in Lagos State in a keen contest between him and a popular politician, Adedeji Doherty. Agbaje polled 1,100 votes to defeat Doherty who polled 742. Declaring Agbaje victorious, the Returning Officer said, “By the power conferred on me by the PDP constitution, I now declare Agbaje PDP candidate for the 2019 governorship election in Lagos State. Come 2019, the PDP will win the Lagos governorship election.” Accepting the result, Doherty congratulated Agbaje on the victory. He said: “He’s a brother and grind and confidant. “It’s all in the interest of our party and the people of Lagos state. We are resolute that in 2019, Agbaje will become governor.” However, since his emergence, many believe that Agbaje has not been doing much. Neither is his party making much noise about the coming elections. The situation has made a lot of Lagosians wonder if Agbaje and the PDP are really serious about winning the 2019 governorship election in Lagos State. But, Agbaje has said that he will, not minding the odds against him, one of which is that the PDP in the state seems not be at peace, a situation that culminated into the defection of its erstwhile chairman, Moshood Salvador, to the ruling APC. Exuding a lot of confidence, Agbaje said in an interview with journalists that he and the party was sure of coming out of the election victorious. Agbaje, who referred to the proceedings and outcome of the PDP Presidential primaries in Port Harcourt, said the party has become stronger and more united. He said that with the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and his running mate, Peter Obi, the PDP was getting seriously ready for the 2019 general elections, including those of Lagos. Agbaje said: “This time around, we intend to take over Lagos in 2019. The campaign for Lagos is set for us. It is clear to us in Lagos that what ‘Lagosians’ are looking for is freedom from the vested interest that have gripped Lagos for nearly 20 years. “We have a situation where it had been under the grip of one or two persons and we are tired of that. We believe Lagos is doing well compared to other states. But, it can do much better than it is doing now; but, it is being crippled by vested interests. “Things that could have been done differently are being done in a manner that is slowing down the progress and that is what the campaign is set against. “Free Lagos campaign is a campaign that Lagos can be better and that the alternative can be, a lot more, better than it is today. “The structure is being put in place and I am sure that at the end of the day, it is going to be victory for PDP in Lagos and at the centre and in most of the states that we lost.” Agbaje maintained that although the PDP had been the opposition party in Lagos since 1999, its base still remained intact and it was working to expand it. “There is a lot of confidence and don’t forget in 2015 and irrespective of what happened, that base we had in 2015 still remains intact. Those that voted for us are still there for us. “The strategy is to expand that base in a way that we have every assurance that we are taking Lagos,” he added. Agbaje, contrary to the belief of good number of Lagosians, said that Salvador’s defection to APC would affect PDP’s performance in the state, stressing that it would have no impact on the party. He said: “He (Salvador) left on his own. If you go alone, I don’t know how that will affect the party in any way. If he was really somebody that has a structure or followership, you will expect the followership to go with him, but when you leave as one person, it means you are of no effect on the party. “We have not felt anything with his departure and it will not affect us. We have not had defections from the PDP in the last few years.” On his relationship with Bode George, Agbaje said that “he (George) remained the leader of PDP in Lagos State and I don’t think anybody is going to doubt that.” Agbaje threw a jab on Sanwo-Olu, his major rival, who had promised to run a transparent budgetary system. Agbaje maintained that until he (Sanwo-Olu) defeated incumbent Governor Ambode to pick the APC governorship ticket, Sanwo-Olu’s position was as Managing Director of the Lagos State Development and Property Corporation (LSDPC). According to Agbaje, Sanwo-Olu’s emergence was to hoodwink Lagosians to close their prying eyes on the funds accruing to the state, which he said was being controlled by one man, who he identified as a cabal. Hitting Sanwo-Olu harder, Agbaje told his APC rival to let Lagosians know if he would probe Alpha-Beta, the private consultancy that had been the sole management of the state’s Internally Generated Revenue in the last 19 years. He accused Sanwo-Olu of “trying to hide behind one finger.” However, as the campaigns proper would soon begin, both Agbaje and Sanwo-Olu, as well as their parties, would try very hard to win the sympathy of Lagosians. They will, in fact, go for each other’s jugular to outplay the other. For now, however, it is yet to be seen how Agbaje would convince Lagosians to discard their mass support of the APC in favour of PDP. In the same way, Sanwo-Olu would try to make Lagosians see why they should continue to support the ruling party in 2019, even when there were still some strained nerves in the APC over how the incumbent Governor Ambode lost out in his quest for a second term. Many believe that for Agbaje to record victory against Sanwo-Olu, he should not rely solely on his old structure, but must urgently come to terms with the fact that he may now be fighting from a position of weakness considering the popularity of APC and the fact that he had been silent since his 2015 loss. Abaje, many believe, should ride on the back of Atiku Abubakar, the PDP presidential candidate, who is said to have been building very formidable structures and spreading his tentacles deeper into the Lagos political environment through hundreds of political groups that have been fast, but silently reaching out to the grassroots. Will Agbaje be successful this time around? What magic will he perform to outsmart the APC and its candidate, Sanwo-Olu? Events between now and February next year, when the elections will hold, will decide.