LAGOS – The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) candidate vying for the position of House of Representatives in Oshodi/Isolo constitiuency 2, Chijoke Amobi has gained the support of a group when they raised fund to assist his campaign which will be flagged off on a later date. The fund raising group said that they needed to support him after they studied his manifesto and had also seen all the empowerment projects he had embarked on even before he indicated interest to run for the elective position. The chairman of the occasion, Dr Ekwunife Emeka said that he was going to support him morally and financially because they had seen something different from what they were used to, in terms of relationship between law makers and the constituents, noting that the ones they elected previously had turned to Abuja politicians and he said he was convinced from Amobi’s antecedents that he would not abandon his people, that was why he decided to be part of the project. The candidate, who was very excited with the love shown him, said that what they had seen in terms of empowerment was a piece of the ice berg as he had already got a master plan of what he intended to do for his people, bring governance to the grassroots and give true representation to his people. “I am not going to be an Abuja politician; I will be very close to you. I will ensure that the youth are engaged and the vulnerable are also given sense of belonging. We have planned to pay school fees of indigent students and we will engage in cultural carnivals to enthrone cordial and peaceful co-existence among various ethnic groups,” he said. Amobi noted that the presence of the Baale of Ajoa had shown that the plan that he had was very comprehensive, which will accommodate everyone irrespective of tribal or ethnic leaning. The chairman of the party in Oshodi/Isolo Local Government Area  (LGA), Tony Ezeigwe said that the emergence of Amobi was divine, noting that someone was already aspiring for the same position in the constituency until  Amobi came, got massive support and won the primary. He noted when the revelation came, Amobi, who was not thinking in that direction, but had to adjust his programmes, made some consultations and then  went into the race and that ever since he took the decision to run, God had been helping them to garner much support. Ezeigwe said that he was very hopeful that the candidate will emerge victorious judging by the tremendous support he had been receiving from people, even non APGA members.