Jos – The remains of missing Major-General Idris Alkali (rtd) has been found by a Nigerian army team on search and rescue operation. The body of the officer was found in an abandoned water well in a bush at Guchwet village in the Shen District of Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State on Wednesday. Brigadier-General Umar Muhammed, the Garrison Commander, 3 Division Rukuba Barrack, who also doubles as the Commander of the Search and Rescue Operations, said on Wednesday that one of the suspects who took part in the relocation of the corpse and was declared wanted, voluntarily submitted himself to the police and led the joint team of army and police on Tuesday to the well. According to Muhammed, “You know, General Idris Alkali was declared missing on the 3rd of September, 2018. After that, the Nigerian army gave us three tasks: one was for us to find General Alkali dead or alive; two, to find his vehicle which was a Toyota Corolla, and three, if anything had happened to him, to find those responsible for it, so that they can be prosecuted. “On September 29, 2019 we recovered his vehicle and his personal effects were seen; also a shallow grave was discovered in which General Alkali was initially buried. “Some people were declared wanted, some submitted themselves voluntarily, and some people who took part in the relocation brought us to where he was relocated. “And based on that, he was relocated to an abandoned well which is behind me. We came in this morning, we drained the water and we were able to salvage the body which is the remains of General Alkali. This means the first two aspects of the task have been accomplished. “The 3rd phase is the prosecution of all those who took part in this heinous act. Let me tell you that nobody, no matter how connected the person is, whoever is involved in this heinous act, will not go unpunished. “For those who did not submit themselves, let me tell them that we are on their trail.” The remains of the officer was kept inside a body-bag, and was shown to journalists, with instruction to them not to take any pictures. A military parade was carried out at the well site in honour of the deceased before he was taken into a police ambulance.