Barrister Sama’ila Idris is the New Nigerian People Party (NNPP) candidate for Tafawa Balewa, Bogoro, Dass Federal Constituency in Bauchi State. He spoke to SUSAN EDEH on his plans for his constituency, as well as his desire to unseat Yakubu Dogara, the House of Representatives Speaker, among other issues. Excerpts: Why do you want to contest for the Tafawa Balewa, Bogoro, Dass federal constituency of the House of Representatives? My decision to vie for the position of the Tafawa Balewa, Bogoro, Dass federal constituency is informed by the fact that I have seen the need to bring my people together in harmony in my constituency. This is an area that has been engulfed in series of crisis and deserted, especially in Tafawa Balewa. Again, there are issues of intra-tribal conflicts, disunity, and other abnormalities in the constituency for long. For instance, in Bogoro local government, there are some clans that have problems among themselves and this has affected the development of that area. If you go to Tafawa Balewa, which comprises of four major tribes of Sayawa, Fulani, Hausa and Jarawa, there is no harmony among these tribes. This has resulted to crisis, thereby affecting the development of the area. Go to Dass local government, it is the same situation you have there. There is this dichotomy between the people of the area. You have a situation where a candidate who hails from the area is contesting a political seat, yet the people of that area will refuse to elect such a candidate inspite of his competency due to this dichotomy factor. This problem has deprived the people of the area so many developmental opportunities it could have achieved. So, I want to address this lingering problem in such a way that the people of the constituency can be reunited once again and make progress. If given the mandate, what will you do differently for the people of the constituency? First, I will embark on human resource capacity building. I will embark on empowerment progarmmes for women and youths and create more job opportunities for youths. The incumbent representative of the constituency, Speaker Yakubu Dogara channelled his developmental projects on infrastructures such as roads, building of schools, hospitals and other areas which I think are just a fraction of development. This time around, I want to look at it from another perspective and diversify into other areas as I have mentioned earlier. But, I will focus more on human empowerment and capacity building. It will be much more different from what we have now. Are you not intimidated by the fact that you are not from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) that dictates who gets the mandate? I am not intimidated by any ruling party because I am God sent. The candidate of the ruling party is a human being and nobody has the power of divinity. It is God that has the power to decide who gets the mandate and as such, I can never be intimidated. These people in the ruling party are like me before they got there. So, if God can do it for them, I see no reason why my own case will be different. If you can recall, the PDP was once the ruling party. It had all the structures and the power of incumbency. Yet, they were defeated, and today, APC is the ruling party. If it happened before, I believe it is possible for it to happen in my case. So, I have no fear. Let me also say without any fear of contradiction that NNPP is even older than APC, which implies that it is not a new party. In terms of acceptability and popularity, I think in Bauchi State, is rated the highest. You will also testify that if you go round most villages and wards in the state, you will see the presence of NNPP. As far as I am concerned, even the PDP is not as recognized as NNPP. In Bauchi, people are talking about NNPP and APC and not PDP. So, what I am saying is that NNPP is one of the strongest party in Bauchi State. Why do you want to unseat the incumbent representative of the constituency, Speaker Yakubu Dogara? Don’t you think that his influence, popularity and experience in politics will count against you? As far as the 2019 election is concerned, I see Speaker Dogara as coming from the distant past. Why am I saying this? You see democratically speaking, change is one of the fundamental characteristic of democracy. When you remove change from democracy, then you have to change the name democracy and give it another name. Change is necessary in the game of politics. Here we are, the representative of my constituency is serving for over three terms because somebody paved way for him to get there. If that person had not paved way for him, he would not have been there in the first place. Then naturally and logically, it means that the speaker must pave way for others to be elected. That is the beauty and the essence of democracy. Irrespective of how good and popular the speaker is, if he does not pave way for another to be elected, then it will defeat democracy. If one will think that he should not be changed or somebody should not take over, it will tantamount to truncating the beauty of democracy. He was a nobody before he was elected and today, he is someone to be reckoned with. So any other person can equally have the same opportunity he had because it is a stepping ground for everybody. The people of the constituency are solidly supporting the Speaker in his re-election bid for the National Assembly, particularly in Bogoro where he hails from. What is reaction to this? Well, I don’t get carried away or get intimidated by such political gimmicks because these days, we have internal mechanisms to gather support like in the case of the Speaker. Anybody in his position can muster such huge support from the people of the constituency. We all know that most of the followers we see declaring support for some politicians are based on individual interest, which is motivated by poverty and other factors. Anybody that goes to the constituency and have a lot of money to throw around will definitely attract people or followership so to speak. But, the issue of saying that his people still want to give him the mandate does not hold water because you don’t just restrict that to Tafawa Balewa alone. Let me remind you that the constituency we are talking about consists of the Jarawa people from Dass local government and even in Tafawa Balewa. We still have some Jarawa, Hausa, Fulani and other minority tribes there. So, one cannot use this factor to conclude that the people of the constituency still want to give him their mandate. The Sayawa is just a unit out of the major composition of Tafawa Balewa. So, you cannot use this factor to judge that he will still be reelected. The NNPP has lately been facing crisis leading to massive defections of its chieftains and many members. Do you see this as threat to your ambition? Honestly, I don’t see it as a threat. These things happen in the political scene almost on a daily basis. We just saw the case of the Speaker Dogara who defected from the APC to the PDP. We have a sitting Senate President defecting to the PDP. I can go on and on. So, why will NNPP’s case be different? It is a natural phenomenal in politics as far as the game of politics is concerned. It is a tradition of the party system in Nigeria for politicians to defect from one party to another. We have so many politicians defecting from one party to another, many based on their personal interest and not of the people. It is normal for people to defect once they feel their expectations within a party are not met. People must leave the party and others will definitely come in, the party will be there. It is just like the popular saying. ‘Soldier go, Soldier come, barrack remains’. NNPP has always been there. How many members did the party have when it came into Bauchi? No, ask yourself. The party was able to gather a great population of members. So, if people are leaving the party, how does that concern me. It is natural in every political party and is not a thing that I should worry about.