Former President Goodluck Jonathan last Wednesday, launched his book, ‘My Transition Hours’, in which he wrote on how he lost the 2015 election and why he chose to relinquish power peacefully. Jonathan also used the event to respond to the claim that he downplayed raging corruption in his administration by claiming that ‘stealing is not corruption’. Jonathan maintained that corruption was more prevalent under the President Muhammadu Buhari administration than his. He dismissed the current anti-corruption fight as mere media show. He boasted: “It is important to note that despite the many sensational stories, dramatic arrests, seizures and accusations, many of them false, since I left office, the fact remains that Nigeria has not made any improvement on TI Corruption Perception Index since 2014.” Presidency Reacts Expectedly, the Presidency attacked Jonathan over his position that corruption is more rampant in Nigeria under the Buhari dispensation than the period preceding 2015. Garba Shehu, the President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, in a statement, described Jonathan’s position as “hollow boasts”, adding that the former President played “the ostrich” instead of admitting that he lacked the political will to fight corruption or implement policies to halt stealing of public funds. The Presidency claimed that top government and party officials were being prosecuted and brought to book for the first time because of Buhari’s intention to check corruption in the country. It also claimed that former military commanders had been brought to book, in addition to the trial and conviction of former governors. It stated: “For the records, this is the first time a ruling party is investigating ranking officers of the administration, including some at the very top. “In addition to the many firsts recorded by President Buhari’s administration, the government has introduced a lot of changes, considering that the laws relating to the fight against corruption cannot reasonably be static.” It added that Buhari initiated new laws and proposed amendments to existing ones to strengthen the war against corruption. On Jonathan’s assertion that his administration introduced the policies the Buhari administration has been using to fight corruption, the Presidency disagreed. Buhari Administrations Not Free From Corruption – Commentator Olalekan Braimah, a political commentator, said: “If we must go with Jonathan and what he said in his recently launched book that Buhari’s government worsened corruption and chased away investors, we must also not forget that all of these governments, especially the leadership, all have their own share of the blame. “We will recall that there were issues bordering on corruption under the Jonathan administration. But, it is equally sad that the APC, which touted its much vaunted anti-corruption crusade as part of its campaign promises, is deeply enmeshed in corruption incidences. “Some will want to ask: How true? The incidences and cases of corruption, either by senior officials of government or, by very close aides of the president himself are still fresh in the minds with the president turning a blind eye to it all. The list is endless. From Mainagate, Babachirgate, Lawalgate, Kyarigate to Gandollars, are all cases that have also diminished the president’s anti-corruption stance.” Jonathan Was Right – Don Dr. Morgan Efe Ogbeide, a Benin-based Public Administration lecturer, said: “Yes, if you take a close look at present administration that claimed to be anti-corruption crusader, you will agree with me that there is some elements of truth in former President Goodluck Jonathan’s allegation. “A government fighting corruption should not be selective in implementation and I see the administration as a government using its war against corruption as a weapon against opposition to achieve victory at the poll as its ultimate aim. “I don’t see why proven corruption cases under the nose of the administration cannot be prosecuted like those against the opposition. At the end of the day, the government is crying that corruption is fighting back, whereas it is the administration that is aiding and abetting corruption. “I am not saying the government is not fighting corruption. But, let it be total and holistic so  that people will believe that anybody from Daura can also be arrested and prosecuted for corruption. I think Jonathan may be right in his claim to some extent. “On the economy and investors, although I am not an economist. I do know that some of the policies of the Buhari administration, especially the TSA are not favourable to the economic development of the country. This, I think, is capable of scaring away foreign investors.” Jonathan’s Book Is An Eye Opener – Cleric Pastor Chris Odey, a Minna-based cleric, said: “I am not surprised or in doubt hearing what former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan said concerning the fight against corruption by the President Muhamadu Buhari-led All Progressive Congress (APC) during the launch of his book. “In fact, I am positive that Nigerians will refer to the book as ‘the Book of Revelations’ because the former President who has seen it all for about eight years revealed so many things that we, the ordinary Nigerians, knew nothing about the happening within the Presidency or Aso Rock. “I think it is an eye opener for Nigerians to know how politicians can go in their quest to grab power out of desperation. Nigerians now know what former President Jonathan did and what he did not do right or wrong and the role played by external influences in Nigerian polity. “Each day I woke up, I try to figure out what we have during the Jonathan era and now. I haven’t seen much of positive change compared to the so much noise at the inception of this administration. “Agreed there has been agricultural revolution and attempts to recover looted funds through policies that caused recovery of funds looted and not necessarily fighting corruption in clear terms, but I have always wondered if only members of particular political party are corrupt and not cutting across segments of the Nigerian society. “In Niger State for instance, we have heard about millions of Naira missing; first time it was N150 million and lately, we heard that the Chief of Staff, Chief Press Secretary and the Director General in charge of Social Media were enmeshed in corruption. But, the matter seems to have been buried. But, I have always asked: Are these not acts of corruption? What are the relevant agencies doing about these? “I see the President Buhari administration more on the negative side, even in fighting corruption. Where is the N36 million allegedly missing from JAMB office, Oshomhole is said to have built a house worth billions of Naira. Where did he get the money? What about the dollar kickback allegation against the Kano State governor, Ganduje? How did the former DSS boss, Abba Kyari, handle monies under his care? “What is happening at NNPC and most recently allegations of corruption against the Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo? “I can go on and on listing cases of corrupt tendencies traced to this administration that prides itself to be without an iota of corruption. President Buhari has been in and out of hospital since the inception of this administration, but nobody has told us what is wrong with the President and how much has he spent of tax payers’ money on medications abroad after declaring his zero tolerant for medical tourism abroad. “The next rumour is that the President Buhari we voted into office is not the man that is in Aso Rock and that was why the news that rats invaded the Presidency and so, he could not gain access into his office and that kept him out of office for three months. Nobody has come out to tell Nigerians the truth about the alleged existence of Jibrin from Sudan taking the place of Buhari. “From one bad story to another, what kind of precedence are we setting for this country? You can see what I mean that the bad side of this government is more than good side, especially on sensitive issues that need extra ordinary caution. “On the economic side, how many Nigerians lost their jobs? How many foreign owned factories or industries are still alive today? How much is fuel and other petroleum products compared to the era of Goodluck Jonathan. Nothing much has positively changed under the Buhari administration.”