Iretiola Doyle is among the top movie stars who are the rave presently. She is in the top three most talked about movies on Nigeria’s silver screen, like ‘Merry Men’, ‘Wedding Party’ one and two and ‘Fifty’. In this interview with Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Ifeoma Ononye, she explains why people see her personality as too strict, how she feels about being a grandma and how much she learned from the time she was building her acting career. People say you are too principled, a no-nonsense person, even outside movie locations, is that who you are? There is no such thing as being too principled. You are either principled or you are not. And I don’t know how you can become middle-aged without acquiring a few principles here and there. I am principled, yes. Do I have professional integrity? Yes. Do I believe there is a time and place for everything? Yes. If it’s time to play, kick off our shoes and laugh, you will find me there. Ask my close friends; they will tell you that I can be the life of the party. However, am I reserved human being? Yes, I am. I make no bones about that. Would you say you are a strict person? It depends. If you are asking if I am strict with my children, I will say sometimes. Am I strict with my personal space? All the time. I am an actor. I respect people that appreciate my work. As an actor, people see you on the television all the time and sometimes that gives them the misconception that they know you and they want to relate with you like that girl they see everyday; no sir, no ma, you do not know me. I do not expect what I do not give. I will accord you the same level of respect that I demand. I will not assume that because we greet each other, I can walk into your personal space. I will not do that and therefore I will not condone it from anybody. You used to write for Thisday, City People Magazine and Vanguard. You also did stage plays, and before this interview you said you have had 15 years of acting experience before joining Mnet, tell us how this success journey has been. It has been wonderful, absolutely wonderful. Every actor will tell you that in the early years is when you struggle. You have to hustle. You have to go through the auditions, you cannot get every role, and you will get passed over. There was a time in my career that I was passed over, but I see them as the high inside because I discovered that my career was being shaped in a way that afforded me the opportunity to hone other skills like television presenting, television producing, and writing for example. Perhaps, if I had gotten the big break back then, I wouldn’t have had the need to tap and discover all these talents. I had the opportunity to produce my own television show titled ‘Oge’ for ten years. This is because I needed to fill the time and do other things to pay the bills while I was waiting to become a successful actor. Those 15 years were 15 years of learning for me. They helped me acquire the skills that made the fantastic actor that I am today. So no regrets. Speaking of writing, do you intend to author a book? Maybe, but rather than a book, I would love to teach. I will like to have one on one interaction with young people. Let’s share ideas and rub minds. Rather than write a book, I will put it in a television show. I am a communicator, so I am not going to say a complete no to writing a book either. Writing comes easy to me, it helps me articulate my inner thoughts, so who knows? Never say never. Taking you back to your secondary school days, did you ever see yourself where you are right now or did you dream of being an astronaut or an engineer? Never an astronaut, but my very first conscious thought of what I would be was that I will be the PRO of a multinational company. In fact, I said I would be the PRO of Chevron. I was always good at talking. I told myself that I am going to have a huge career in public relations. You once said you started off acting because of the incessant strike actions in the university at that time. I would have joined eventually. It just happened a whole lot faster because school was always on strike and I didn’t have anything else to do. It was a burning passion in my belly. I seized the opportunity; spoke to somebody that spoke to somebody until God, fate, made a way for me. Before that time, was acting something you wanted to do for a long time? Yes. It came to me naturally. I don’t know how it did, but I just found out that if there was a performance to be done in secondary school, I was always involved in it and if anyone was to be called to speak it was me. I think Checkmate was the first Nigerian TV series I fell in love with. I used to hurry back home to watch it. Then there was Mind Bending, a TV series produced by Lola Fani Kayode and it starred Joke Silva at the time. There was a particular scene where Aunty J took me through an emotional journey. I looked on so steadily at her as she tugged at all my emotions. After that scene, I knew that was what I wanted to do. It may sound weird, but it was a light bulb moment for me. When you first got the news that you are a grandmother at 51, how did that make you feel? Blessed. That is the word, truly blessed. Having a grandchild is completely different from having a child. If someone had said that to me two months ago, I wouldn’t have understood what he or she was talking about. You look at yourself from a different perspective. Now you have two generations looking up to you for directions, for legacy. Common! I am someone’s grandma now. Does it make you feel old? I don’t feel old. My mum is late and I am a grandma. It makes you realise you have more people coming behind you than ahead of you. You are an elder. Your decisions must come from a much deeper place. You are not spontaneous. Things begin to have a completely different meaning. That is how I can explain it. On the issue of ‘omugwo’, that is taking care of the new mother and the new baby as the grandma, do you think with your schedule you will be able to take off your nails, your hair to pound yam and bathe the baby? They are in the US and I am in the process of getting to them. And I want to see the baby there before they come back. When my plans become concrete, I will take off my nails, put my legs in a bath, put that baby on my lap and bathe her. I consider it a right of passage. And I will pack all the poop. I pound yam, but I don’t need to because there is ‘poundo’ yam. I cook when I want to. What I mean by when I want to is that I am 51, this has nothing to do with being on television or being a movie star. Most women at this age, if you’re lucky and you can make those choices, you tell yourself that you have done this for 21 years and you don’t want to cook any more. You do it at your leisure. There are some of that in me. Two, I am a very busy person. I cannot wake up at 4am and come back 7pm to cook for someone, no, I won’t do that. I may be tired. I still make Christmas lunch and dinner singlehandedly though. What do you have to say about those who think you are not media friendly? What do you have to say about the Nigerian media? I actually respect journalists in general. I respect what they stand for; I respect the role they should play. Are some of them a bother? Yes. Are some of them unethical? Yes. Do some of them refuse to recognise and respect boundaries? Yes. However, that is not the yardstick with which I deal with them generally. I deal with every individual as an individual. Talking about boundaries, would you like to shed more light on any particular instance? I wouldn’t say there is a particular one that disturbed me. But have there been inappropriate questions over a 21-year career period? Yes. Have there been times when you have stated clearly that you will not respond to questions in this and that area and that has been breached in the course of the interview? Yes. Have there been people who have been downright rude and intrusive because they are hiding behind the microphone? Yes. The fact that I am in this business and very visible means that I will have to deal with the press. So, it is something I have got to deal with, so even when I am offended, I take a punch and walk out gracefully. With the advantage of your enviable resume, do you think much progress has been made in area of authentic story-telling in Nollywood? Things have improved a lot. Everybody is proudly Nigerian. Everybody is trying to tell the Nigerian story. There is, however, no one particular Nigerian story. We are all coming at it from different perspectives. And it is okay for some people to stamp their personal perspectives on what they think is the authentic Nigerian story, but we must remember that we are very cosmopolitan. There is nothing happening in Nigeria that hasn’t happened anywhere else in the world. Our story is a collection of the universal story of mankind. I think are we doing a better job of telling our own story. And I also believe there is a need for improvement. Wedding Party 2 is now being distributed on several online platforms in the USA. What does that say about the future of the industry? First, I am very proud about it. And this is beyond the fact that WP 2 will be the first Nigerian film to get such distribution opportunity. Those types of accolades are superficial and good for a moment. I am proud that the industry is evolving. Distribution is evolving. There are more channels for a producer to make more money and greater profit off their jobs, which in turn gives me, the actor, a greater negotiation power. Because I can now prove to you that if we collaborate and make a great project you can continue to make money off this project for a long time. And if you continue to make money off a project that has my name and my face and talent, it gives me the better way to negotiate for a better post profit deal. After Wedding Party what did you take away from your role that continues to influence your other roles? I would say it just reinforced what I have known for a while: continue to do great work. Like somebody always says, continue wearing your best shirt, sooner or later the right person will notice you. Has there been any criticism about your role in Wedding Party that you want to correct now? Absolutely none. It is a work of art. If ten people view a work of art they will come back with ten different points of view and it is okay in my line of work.  I just give you my word that I will continue to do great work. Has there been any movie you would love to go back and do over? Go back and do over? No. But do I mock my work? Intensely. Every time I watch a project of mine, that is what I am doing, I am mocking my work. And if you are honest, you will always see something that you would have done differently, may be not necessarily better, and sometimes even better because you are in a moment and you are working with all kinds of stimuli and energy coming from your other cast members. I mock my work. I think any actor that is worth their weight in gold should. One almost always sees you crisscrossing two genres of drama. If you are to choose between stage and screen, which will you prefer? Stage, every single time. Stage because it keeps you on your toes. You can’t take the theatre for granted. There is no “Cut, take 2.” You have to deliver on the spot. And there is a certain energy rush that I get from the exchanged between the actor and a live audience that given the choice, it will be stage all the time. But unfortunately, the cashing is not as heavy as television and film. Would you say actors that transit from stage to screen have a better grip of role interpretation and delivery? I will say this much: people who come from a theatre background are cut from a different cloth, and you can tell by the way they behave, their delivery on the craft and their level of discipline. There are certain things you cannot get away with in theatre. Theatre makes you a ready team player, a virtue you have to acquire consciously in television and film. You cannot be a successful theatre artiste if your ego is larger than life. It takes a village. You have to trust your colleagues because you are going to get undressed in front of each other. It is a leveller and you go into the project knowing that you have each other’s backs. There is no rivalry because if one person looks bad, the entire production looks bad. So, it equips you with a certain mindset. Do you have plans of reviving Oge, the show? Yes. It will soon be back. How soon? In fact, it is done. We are doing final correction. The only reason I wouldn’t give you a date is because once we are done with final corrections, the work will go back to the person who has bought it and it is up to them to decide when they are going to air it. But it has been produced. The first 20 episodes are done. All the promotional works are ready, I am just waiting for them to allocate me a time and a date. What would you say acting has given you that cannot be compared to anything? Exactly what the DSTV ‘I Am’ campaign is all about, the ability to be anything you want to be.