Chijoke Amobi, All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) House of Representatives candidate in Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 11 spoke with JOY ANIGBOGU on the party’s readiness to impact on other regions of the country and his determination to change his constituency. Excerpts: Why are you in the race? I am in the race because I want to make a difference. The people who were saddled with the responsibility of representing the people did not perform well. So, I decided to come in to change the lives of the constituents for the better. They promised and failed the people. I want to correct the impression that the moment you elect representatives, when they get to Abuja, they will become Abuja politicians. A lot has been said and the change has to begin with one person. That is basically why I am in the race. Can you specially mention what you intend to do for the people if you are elected as their representative? My manifesto is a very short one. It is four or five-point agenda. You know a lot of politicians will come with a very long manifesto and at the end of the day they cannot even accomplish one. We will concentrate on youth empowerment. A lot of young men and women roam about the streets of Oshodi/Isolo. We will need to engage them. I tell people that when a politician says that he will do something for you, ask him how he wants to achieve it. If he does not get the question right, it means he did not plan to do anything in the first place. We said we would set up vocational centres where people will go and acquire basic skills. We will bring our young men and women train them in the areas of carpentry, mechanic, electronics, website designing etcetera. We will train them for six months after which they will undergo tests, we will issue them certificates and then we will empower them financially to take off. We will empower the constituents educationally. We discovered that some youth were eager to go to school but were incapacitated by finance, so we will send them to school. We will organise tests for indigent students and pick the first 150 outstanding ones for scholarship awards that will run for four years in federal universities. We will look in the area of sports and we will organise sporting programmes and select 50 outstanding ones every year for training at sports academy. We will also take care of the health of our people. We will select people community by community, set up outreach programmes, engage volunteer doctors and other medical personnel that will attend to the health needs of our people. We will give free medical aids, diagnose, treat and when there are cases of surgery we will also render as much as our capacity will go. We will do this each month for the constituents. We hope to entrench peace in our constituency. That is why we plan in our manifesto to organise annually, Oshodi/Isolo cultural festival, which will involve traditional rulers in the communities, the Obas, Eze Ndigbo, Serikis, etc. The essence will be for peaceful co-existence. We intend to set up empowerment committee which will comprise of all the leaders of these ethnic groups, to ensure that everyone benefits from the dividend of democracy in the constituency. What are your chances in this constituency considering that All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are very strong here? The people of Oshodi/Isolo are fed up with APC and PDP. They had been given chances and they misused them. Nothing has really changed in the constituency. The people say they want an alternative party. That is why I decided to come out. APGA is very optimistic that it will make it at the end of the day. We are ready to offer our constituents real divideds of democracy. Our chances are very high because the people need an alternative and I think that APGA can fill in the vacuum well. Don’t you think that APGA has a regional look? How does it want to make it in Lagos State? APGA is a national party. Other political parties will always want to use this to sell their lies to the people. They know that APGA is a threat to them because we have better chances of winning elections here. The South West leader of APGA is a Yoruba man. We have members at the National Assembly who are from regions other than South East. APGA is not a regional party. It is a national party. That is why we have come to let people know that. Our National Secretary is from North Central and so are other National Working Committee (NWC) members. We have vibrant leaders who have been doing very well. At the National Assembly we have people like Senators Victor Umeh and Stella Oduah. They are giving good representations to their constituencies and Anambra State in general. We also have the ones in House of Representatives, performing excellently well. APGA has House of Representatives member from even Taraba State For the first time, APGA is fielding a presidential candidate after the death of Chief Emeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu. How would your presidential candidate make it with the likes of President Muhammadu Buhari and Atiku Abubakar in the race? Gen. John Gubor (rtd) is a well educated and simple man with many years of administrative experience. Those leading this country are the usual faces that we have been seeing since 1960. Gen. Gubor has not been part of the old and usual faces. He is an emerging new face in politics and with the level of experience that he has, I think he will put a very impressive performance. He has the capacity to defeat the ruling APC’s incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 election. He has the freshness, has not contaminated himself. So, he will be in a better position to have Nigerians listen to him, believe him when he makes promises to them. The nation will be better managed under APGA government. It will be good if Nigerians will look away from those parties and leaders who had failed them and look for the alternative, which APGA is ready to give. You can see what Governor Willie Obiano is doing in Anambra State. APGA wants to replicate that at the national level when it gets to the presidency. We want to change things in this country. What do you think can be done to make elections credible come 2019? It is normal for people to think that the security officials and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will compromise, work in favour of APC,  the ruling party. Prof Mahmood Yakubu has made a lot of efforts to convince Nigerians that the forthcoming elections will be credible. He is still making promises that 2019 elections will be free and fair.  He kicked against vote buying in some of his speeches. Vote buying is like a plague that has continued to disrupt the democratic process. I think INEC is making progress to curb it. INEC should allow more participation of civil society organisations (CSO) and international community to play very active roles in monitoring the elections. It will build up confidence in the people and the electorate. It is not that CSOs and the international community have not been observing previous elections, but in his time, let there be more involvement so that any government agency with ulterior motive will be properly checked. Do you think that what INEC did at Osun gubernatorial election is good enough to assure the people that the 2019 general elections will be credible? I was not there and my party did not participate in that election. We read about the outburst of the international community concerning that election. There were issues of vote buying. I think that could be the reason the INEC chairman has chosen to work on that, review relevant areas to ensure that there will not be a repeat.