Lagos – Super Falcons of Nigeria are expected to be in their best in today’s second Group B match against Zambia at the ongoing Africa Women’s Cup of Nations (AWCON) against the She-polopolo of Zambia. After losing their first group match 1-0 to South Africa on Sunday, Falcons, who are the defending the champions, must win this tie to keep alive their hopes of qualifying for next year’s FIFA Women’s World Cup in France. However, the match will not be an easy one for the Nigerians as the Zambians pulled one of the biggest surprises in the history of the competition beating Equatorial Guinea 5-0 in their Group B opener to record their first ever win. Ahead of the match, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has paid the players and officials their outstanding allowances. In what could be a panic reaction to Falcons’ loss to South Africa, the NFF rushed to pay the players and officials what was owed them from their pre-competition training camp at Sol Beni in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire. Falcons coach Thomas Dennerby is optimistic that the team would secure a ticket to the 2019 Women’s World Cup in France. The coach made this known in a conference ahead of the team’s game against Zambia on Wednesday at the ongoing 2018 AWCON in Ghana. “I remain optimistic, the aim has not changed and we are definitely securing a ticket to the World Cup in France. We hope to go all the way to the final in this tournament again. “And of course we need to win against Zambia,” he said and quoted by @CAF_AWCON, a twitter handle created by CAF for the tournament. One of the players admitted that the game against Zambia was crucial. “It was a difficult result for us in the first game but we are putting that behind us. We learnt a lot from the game and we are working hard to make sure we put things in order and correct our mistakes against Zambia. “We know the game is a crucial one,” she added. Meanwhile Mary Mwakapila, a Shepolopolo player says the team was sure of victory against Falcons. “Beating Equatorial Guinea is not the main target. We have come to make it to France, so we are going to do our best and also work as a team to make sure we beat Super Falcons and Banyana Banyana,” Mwakapila concluded. Mwakapila’s coach Bruce Mwape also said: “We won the opening game and that is now history, it is water under the bridge. “That is past and gone. Our focus is on the next game against Nigeria.” Three top teams from the tournament, which began on Saturday, will book tickets to the world stage in France next year.