Following the retention of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) base interest rate by the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) since July 2016, Treasury Bills have become the toast of investors, with the attendant buying pressures, Sunday INDEPENDENT investigations have shown. Monetary Policy Committee in Africa’s biggest oil producer held its key rate for the 14th straight meeting on Thursday, despite inflation being above its target range of 6 percent to nine percent for more than three years The implication is that the CBN’s anchor rate for banks’ transactions may be losing its steam, more so as the regulator prepares to rein in excess liquidity through the instrumentality of the treasury bills through the Open Market Operations, (OMO). Another major area of concern is the fact that banks may shift their focus to investments in the fixed instruments at the expense of lending to the real sector. Consequently, Godwin Emefiele is, instead, using money-market instruments to rein in liquidity and protect the naira, according to Ecobank Transnational Inc. Known as open market operations, they have become an especially important monetary tool ahead of a presidential election in February. Speaking with Bloomberg, Kunle Ezun, an analyst with Ecobank in Lagos, said “The Central Bank wants to do more indirect tightening. “They are using OMOs as we move into election time. The monetary policy rate seems to have lost its potency. There is no more liquidity in the MPR.” Ezun further said that as a result of the development, many banks have moved to using three-month T-bills or the interbank market as benchmarks for their lending rates. The movement in naira yields reflects the Central Bank’s tightening. One-year interbank rates have surged almost 500 basis points since May to 16.87 percent. That’s above the MPR, which has been kept at 14 percent since July 2016. However, for Emefiele, the methods seem to be working, at least as far as keeping the naira steady and lowering the inflation rate are concerned. The currency has barely budged since the emerging-market rout began about six months ago. South Africa’s rand has weakened 10 percent against the dollar in that time. And while inflation is still high at 11.3 percent, it’s decelerated from 15.1 percent in January. Much of that is “a result of OMOs being issued by the central bank to pull liquidity out of the system, even if the official policy rate remains unchanged,” said Christopher Dielmann, an economist at Exotix Capital in London. “While the rate of disinflation might be faster under tighter monetary policy, it would come at the expense of further reducing private-sector lending and economic growth,” he added.