Lagos – Many Nigerians were shocked when Senator Oloruninmbe Mamora, then lawmaker representing Lagos East senatorial district was denied a ticket to the Senate in 2011. A highly experienced  lawmaker who had been representing the senatorial district since 2003 on the platform of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), Mamora’s robust contributions endeared him to even politicians from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Though it is unclear why Mamora was denied a return to the hallowed chambers in 2011 as members of the national assembly have no specified time limits , many believe it was due to his support for the then Governor, Babatunde Fashola who was having a running battle with the institutions that produced him as governor. According to a report in Vanguard on Wednesday, January 12, 2011 “ Some Governors, senators, members of the House of Representatives, among other politicians, have expressed shock over the withdrawal of Deputy Minority Leader in the Senate, on the platform of Action Congress of Nigeria, ACN, Senator Olorunnimbe Mamora, to return to the senate in the next political dispensation”. “According to a close source, who spoke to Vanguard on condition of anonymity, Governor Peter Obi of Anambra State, upon learning of the withdrawal, lamented the decision by ACN, saying Mamora was the voice and face of ACN in the senate”. “The same was also said by other governors from the Eastern and South-South regions. Meanwhile, Mamora has said that his best in serving Nigerians was yet to come, even as he declared his interest to continue to participate in politics”. “Mamora while appealing to his supporters to be calm and accept the decision in good faith, disclosed that he was stepping down for the party’s choice, Mr. Gbenga Ashafa and promised to lead the campaign for Ashafa who is not known to many in the party”. “He described Ashafa as a capable hand who will excel at any level he may find himself, saying that leadership is about offering qualitative service to the people”. Indeed, Bareehu Olugbenga Ashafa proved to be a capable hand. Though many did not give him a chance especially since he has not held any prior political office, Ashafa, who retired as Executive Secretary and Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Lands of Lagos State quickly settled to legislative business. In the 7th Session of the National Assembly, he sponsored twelve bills and two motions: Language Bill, Income Tax Holiday Bill, Treaty (Amendment) Bill, Criminal Code (Amendment) Bill, National Directorate of Employment (Amendment) Bill, Harmful waste (Amendment) Bill, Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill, Minerals and Mining (Amendment) Bill, Advance Fee Fraud and Other Fraud Related Offences (Amendment) Bill, Banks and Other Financial Institutions (Amendment) Bill, Advertising Practitioners (Registration, etc) (Amendment) Bill, Banks Employee, etc Declaration of Assets (Amendment) Bill. He also moved motions on the Deteriorating Service of GSM Providers and the Imminent Collapse of the Third Mainland Bridge, Lagos. He has also co-sponsored many other Bills and Motions with other Senators on the floor of the Senate among which are Social Housing Bill, Prohibition of Same Sex Marriage Bill, Lagos State Special Economic Assistance Bill, Motion on 2011 Lagos Flood, Motion on the solution to Terrorism in Nigeria, Motion on the Creation of unemployment Data and Job Centres in the Country and Motion on Rivers State crises among others.  Aside  earning the loyalty of his constituents through efficient representation at the Senate and the direct investment in the lives of the people, he also demonstrated a visible mastery of the mixture of responsibilities, both as a legislator and a representative. In the current national assembly, Ashafa, now a ranking senator is the current chairman, Senate Committee on Land Transport.  He actively provided legislative support for the efforts of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government to implement reforms in the railway system of the country. In his tenure as Chairman of the Committee, he has witnessed the repealing of the Nigerian Railway Corporation Act 1955 and its replacement with the Nigerian Railway Bill 2016, which was passed by the Senate in July 2016 as well as the passage of the revolutionary National Transport Commission Bill. The Committee is also midwifing the Labour Transportation Bill to provide for the transportation needs of Nigerian workers. Senator Ashafa has also sponsored other bills in the Senate, including The Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act Amendment Bill 2016, The Charted Institute of Logistics and Transport Bill 2016, The City University of Technology Bill 2016, Sporting Tax Holiday Bill 2016, The Nigerian Postal Bill 2017, The Nigerian French Language Village Establishment Bill 2017, among others. Given the enormity of some these motions and the need to see them to a logical conclusion, Ashafa signified intention to seek another term in the senate but he was denied a return ticket. He contested against  Honourable Bayo Osinowo, a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly who was not cleared to participate in the election by the National Working Committee (NWC). However, with backing from some power brokers in the state, Osinowo remained adamant, contested the election and was declared the winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). While  Ashafa has accepted the outcome of the election, the implication of this is that the pending bills by the outgoing senator will likely suffer setbacks while his replacement will require time to learn the ropes of business of lawmaking in the Senate. Speaking shortly before the primary, Chief Olorunfunmi Basorun, a former Secretary to Lagos State Government, described the representative of Ashafa as the district’s greatest ever senator in the Fourth Republic. According to him, the senatorial district needs an experienced lawmaker in the mould of Ashafa to continue in office. “Senator Gbenga Ashafa is the best in Lagos East Senatorial district… “Senator Gbenga Ashafa has performed on the floor of the House in terms of motions and bills. He has been a pillar of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the senate. He is a pillar of support for the party and the government. We can’t send Eaglet to the senate. We need Ashafa to be in the senate; to stand and make sure that the right person leads the senate, the right environment that will make Buhari succeed in his second term. We need people like him. The Lagos East Seat is not just for anybody.” “I do not believe Osinowo is in any way in a comparable position to Ashafa. They say somebody is doing fourth term in Lagos State House of Assembly. That does not mean experience. I was reading in the media yesterday, somebody was comparing Ashafa and Osinowo. I have nothing against Osinowo. You cannot compare the two. Ashafa is an accomplished graduate, a civil servant in the state who rose to the position of permanent secretary before retiring. He has been showing it. They call him Mr. Railway in the senate” he said Also speaking, a chieftain of the party from the senatorial district, Alhaji Shehu Biliaminu said key developments will continue to elude Lagos East senatorial districts if the senators representing the district are being denied the opportunity to attract dividends of democracy as ranking lawmakers by some power brokers. “ We cannot continue to pretend about this. We need an experienced senator like the McCains, Kennedys of this world in Lagos East.  Senator Oluremi Tinubu is going for a third term in the senate and that is a plus for the people of her district because she will not need to learn the ropes or start afresh. That is not the case of Lagos East. If a lawmaker has performed creditably well and his constituents want him, nobody should deny them of that right because experience cannot be bought with money” he said