Uyo – A group of Niger Delta agitators have ordered multinational oil companies out of Akwa Ibom State or risk being attacked. The group, under the aegis of Coalition of Niger Delta Agitators, said its decision was based on dissatisfaction with the companies over their neglect of riverine communities in Akwa Ibom. In a statement on Monday by self-styled General John Duku of the Niger Delta Watchdogs, the agitators said the level of injustice, neglect, marginalisation, and untold hardship the communities suffer under the multinational oil companies operating in Akwa Ibom were no longer bearable. The agitators observed that despite being in the business of exploring and exploiting oil from these communities for over 30 years, the multinational oil companies had completely abandoned their corporate social responsibilities (CSR) in the areas of scholarships, employment, and empowerment for its host communities. Part of the statement reads: “All these multinational oil and servicing companies do not have even a liaison office in the state. “Ninety percent of their workforce is non-indigenes of the state, the remaining 10 percent they pick from Akwa Ibom are place under contract with meagre payment and without any entitlement. “It is also noted that none of these companies, even their representatives, deem it necessary to visit their host communities. “This is a satanic act and we shall handle it the way and manner they would feel the same pain that communities have been passing through. “Worst still is the fact that Oriental Energy Resources management believes and boasts that with the personal relationship of the Managing Director, Alhaji Muhammed Indimi, as an in-law to the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, his company and assets are untouchable, thus he can do whatever he likes, citing the recent case between Oriental Energy and Afren Resources Nigeria Limited which was ruled in his favour. “From our findings, we have discovered that the Community Affairs Department in all these multinational oil companies are in the business of conniving with traditional rulers, community leaders and some government officials to fraudulently steal, embezzle, and criminally defraud the core oil producing communities of monies meant for community development and every other benefits that should have accrued to the oil producing communities. “The situation is the same in all the core oil producing LGAs of the state. “The worst is the situation we met at Effiat coastal communities of Mbo LGA, Amadaka in Eastern Obolo LGA, Ibeno LGA, Esit Eket LGA and many others. “We, therefore, call on the government to ensure the withdrawal of the certificates of these criminal traditional rulers. “Recall that during the height of crisis in the Niger Delta region, Akwa Ibom State was peaceful, that is why these multinational oil & services companies are taking undue advantage of the people of the state as there is peace in the region. “It is well noted that the remote causes of the Niger Delta struggles was for emancipation from injustice, neglect, and marginalisation.” The agitators vowed to do everything possible to ensure the total liberation of Akwa Ibom people. “We shall immediately commence mobilisation of all the key actors in this struggle, including all the militant groups, to Akwa Ibom State in order to surmount these evil companies from the state. “We shall ensure total shut down of all flow-stations, all the oil vessels would be attacked (this is ‘Operation Deliver Akwa Ibom Campaign’). “We promise that very soon we shall release the video of our findings for the whole world to see the level of injustice and marginalisation these multinational oil companies have caused their host communities. “We, therefore, call on the president to call his in-law, Alhaji Mohammed Indimi, to order. “Nigerians voted you to protect lives and property not to protect Indimi. Enough of this injustice,” they added.