Abuja – The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus yesterday warned the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mahmood Yakubu, that history will be unkind to him if he fails to conduct free and fair election in 2019. The chairman warned the INEC boss that manipulation of election in 2019 would be a recipe for crisis in the country and he will be held accountable. Secondus, who spoke while hosting election team of the Economic Community of West Africa States (ECOWAS) led by Mohammad Conteh at the party’s national campaign headquarters in Abuja, said that the INEC is working in conjunction with the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), to rig the election in 2019. The National Chairman, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Ike Abonyi, alleged that the Commission used the governorship elections in Ekiti and Osun states as rehearsal to practice their rigging strategy for 2019. He said: “They have finished their rigging arrangements with preloaded cards and special election result sheets all doctored to favour the ruling APC. “The INEC chairman has no strong will to follow our electoral laws and Constitution as well as the laid down international standards in his processes towards 2019 and we want to let the world know this before it happens. “They have finished plots to isolate states of Kano, Benue, Rivers, Bauchi, Akwa Ibom, Delta, Imo, Kwara and Lagos for disruption during the general election so they can plan well to mobilize the rigging.” Secondus alleged that the commission’s rigging agenda is being propelled by the security agencies especially with the current Inspector General of Police, who has proved to be the most violent bias Police boss in the country. The national chairman said that his party is using the INEC template they saw in Ektiti and Osun states to reiterate their lack of confidence in the commission as nothing has happened to show that there is going to do anything different from what they did in those two states. Secondus advised INEC to disregard the size of Nigeria and go to Ghana and pick some lessons on how to conduct free and fair election, even as he commended the Judiciary for standing up for democracy, pointing out that without that arm of the government, the country would have been a banana republic.