ADO-EKITI – Owa Ilogbo of Ilogbo Ekiti, Oba Edward Oke Ajayi, has reappeared after five days massive attack on his palace by some irate youths in the community. The monarch who denied media report of his banishment from the community explained that he only left the town for his safety and peace to reign. Oba Ajayi condemned the alleged ignoble role played by the police during the crisis accusing them of colluding with the youths who destroyed the palace. The monarch described as false claims linking him and some of his siblings to cultism in the area . In his petitioned to Governor Kayode Fayemi, the monarch complained about indiscriminate arrest of his subjects by the police. Dated October 28, 2018 and personally signed by him, Oba Ajayi urged the governor to intervene in the crisis that broke out among some youths culminating in the death of a man identified as Bola Adeleye . The monarch added that Fayemi should also warn the police from Ido Ekiti division of the Ekiti Command, to stop clamping down his subjects into detention over ‘unfounded’ allegation of being members of secret cult, saying over 15 youths are currently being detained at the police headquarters in spite of no verifiable evidence linking them to cultism. Narrating his ordeal to the governor, Oba Ajayi clarified that he had since that day abandoned the community when the aforementioned personalities , had threatened to deal with him after vandalising his palace and burnt down a Toyota Previa parked therein on the day the crisis broke out . “I wish to inform you sir, that the news going round the media and town about the crisis was purely cooked up lies. I hereby write to brief you on what really happened, the role I have played and the situation of things now. It happened on Sunday, October 21, 2018. “On Monday October 22, 2018, as a king of the town I called for peace meeting inviting the chiefs to settle the matter between these youths. Those that arrived earlier and were seated with me at the palace were Chief Ajirowa, Chief Obalua, Chief Olosun and Chief Alawo Ifa.