Abuja – The massacre of about 118 soldiers by Boko Haram Islamist terrorists few days ago and the disappearance of over 150 others in Metele, Borno State, on Tuesday, infuriated lawmakers in the House of Representatives, leading to the House resolve to investigate the $1 billion appropriated for procurement of arms and equipment in the fight against Boko Haram in the North East. The lawmakers also demanded that the Nigerian army should after due consultations with families of soldiers killed in the November 18 attack release all their names. It also resolved to probe the circumstances that led to the unfortunate incidence. The legislators unequivocally demanded the immediate sack of the service chiefs, whom they claimed have failed and ran out of ideas. The resolutions were sequel to a motion by Chukwuka Onyema (PDP, Anambra) at the plenary presided over by Speaker Yakubu Dogara in Abuja. President Muhammadu Buhari had approved the release of $1 billion for the procurement of security equipment to be used in the fight against Boko Haram insurgents. Moving the motion, Onyema, who is the Deputy Minority Leader, noted that many Nigerian soldiers of the 157 Battalion were massacred by Boko Haram insurgents, who now called themselves Islamic State West Africa, in Metele in Borno State. According to him, the initial figures of the casualty put the death toll at 44 but as more details emerged, it is now confirmed that many more soldiers and officers were killed together with their commanding officer, Lt. Col. Ibrahim Sakaba, while others are still missing. “The House notes that according to reports, the insurgents carted away large consignment of weapons from the Melete army base which security experts say would embolden them and pose great danger. “The House observed that while the news of the attack and death toll continued to increase, neither the president nor the minister of defence or the army authorities said anything about the report as there was silence for more than five days. “The House notes that the president and C-In-C finally broke his silence six days after the attack in a statement issued on his behalf,” he said. The lawmaker said it was unfortunate that in the last one year, no fewer than 600 Nigerian soldiers were killed by insurgents, mostly in Borno State around the fringes of the Lake Chad. He enumerated instances of attacks launched by Boko Haram against Nigerian soldiers within the year under review. Onyema, who expressed regret that while the executive continued to insist that the insurgents had been technically defeated, he said they seemed to be waxing stronger on a daily basis. “The House recalls that twice in three years, the commander-in-chief gave directives to service chiefs to permanently relocate to the Theatre Command Centre in Maiduguri until Boko Haram is defeated,” he said. He said it was disheartening that with the recent happenings in the North, all the successes and gains made against the insurgents had been reversed. Contributing, Nnenna Ukeje (PDP, Abia) said it was high time Nigeria began to change tactics in order to checkmate the audacity of the insurgents. She urged the Federal Government to take a cue from Pakistan and review the curriculum of its military. Aminu Shagari (PDP-Sokoto), who queried how the recently appropriated money was used, described the attack as sad. Beni Lar (PDP-Plateau) called for the sack of the service chiefs. On his part, Idris Ease (APC-Plateau) called on the House to treat the matter dispassionately and not to be affected by political sentiment. Rimande Shawulu (PDP-Taraba) recalled that last year, there were reports that about 6, 000 members of the Islamic State in Syria (ISIS) found their ways to the sub-Saharan Africa. According to him, some of the things we are seeing now are not unexpected. He argued that the porous nature of the country’s borders was another challenge. Shawulu, who is the Chairman, House Committee on Army, however, said that there was the need for the security agencies to account for the funds appropriated to them. The Speaker, Dogara, after over an hour deliberation on the motion, described the development as an eye-opener. He said it was time the leadership in the country began to take responsibility and not to apportion blame. When the motion was out on a voice vote by the speaker, the lawmakers unanimously adopted it. An ad hoc committee to investigate all funds appropriated for utilisation by the armed forces for the fight against insurgency was set up by the House. The committee was also charged to look into the operational lapses that led to the killings of the soldiers. Boko Haram: Buhari Cancels ‘Casual Leave’ President Muhammadu Buhari has cancelled his planned five-day ‘casual leave’ as a mark of respect for victims of Boko Haram attacks across the battlefields in the North-East zone of the country. The president had planned to spend the casual leave at his home country, Daura, Katsina State from November 27 to December 2. The president had earlier cancelled his official trip to Benin City, Edo, where he was initially billed to inaugurate the Edo-Azura Power Plant and grace the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) annual conference. Already the advanced teams of the president, who left Abuja for Katsina and Benin on Sunday, had been asked to return. It was gathered that the cancellation of the trips would also enable the president to continue his ongoing meetings and consultations with relevant security and intelligent community aimed at addressing the nation’s security challenges. However, the president is expected to declare the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) annual conference, which was moved from Benin City to Maiduguri, Borno, today at the Government House Conference Hall (CGH). President Buhari’s aide on New Media, Alhaji Bashir Ahmad, had on Sunday confirmed this development on his tweeter handle. He said: “President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to declare the COAS annual conference on November 28, 2018 at the Conference Hall CGH in Maiduguri, Borno State. “The conference was earlier scheduled to take place from 26 -28 November 2018 in Benin, Edo State.” It was also gathered that the shifting of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) annual conference from Benin City to Maiduguri might not be unconnected with the killing of Nigerian soldiers at Metele, a remote village bordering Nigeria and Chad. President Buhari would use the opportunity of the COAS conference to address the Nigerian soldiers at the battlefields to further boost their morale. It would be recalled that President Buhari had on Sunday presided over a meeting of security chiefs at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, as part of the ongoing efforts to engage military and intelligence community towards addressing Boko Haram insurgency. In a tweet in Abuja on Sunday, the president’s aide on New Media, Bashir Ahmad, said all the service chiefs, the Inspector-General of Police, Idris Ibrahim and the Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Yusuf Bichi were part of the meeting. “All the Service Chiefs, I-G of Police and DG of DSS were at the State House this morning. As President Buhari said (Saturday) yesterday, in the coming days, he will be engaging the military and intelligence chiefs in extensive discussions on the next steps we shall be taking,’’ Ahmad said in the tweet. President Buhari had pledged on Saturday to ensure that the loopholes, which led to the fatalities are blocked once and for all. On November 18, the Al Barnawi faction of Boko Haram attacked the 157 Task Force Battalion based at Metele in northern part of Borno State, killing scores of Nigerian troops. The military authorities are yet to give the specific number of casualties. Buhari in a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Saturday, reiterated his administration’s commitment to the security of military personnel and other citizens. “No responsible commander-in-chief would rest on his oars or fold his hands to allow terrorists to endanger the lives of military personnel and other citizens”, Shehu quoted the president as saying. “Our loyal forces have proved their strength over the terrorists and we are ready to give them all the needed support, in terms of equipment and manpower, to succeed in ending the renewed threat. “In the coming days, I am engaging the military and intelligence chiefs in extensive discussions on the next steps we shall be taking.” The president noted that fighting terrorism had taken a global dimension, which necessitated international collaboration among states facing similar security challenges.