AWKA – The Nigeria Police and Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) have given conflicting reports on the IPOB march on Nnewi on Friday. While police said one of its men, Inspector Akinbami Olaniyi was killed; IPOB denied that anybody died during its members’ clash with the police, reminding one of the saying that in a conflict situation, truth is the first casualty. In a press release signed by the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Haruna Mohammed, a Superintendent of Police, the police maintained that three of its officers:  CSP Babalola Adewunyi, ASP Micheal Duru attached to Area Command, Nnewi and Inspector Akinbami Olaniyi attached to CPS Nnewi were inflicted with machete cuts. The statement also said that two AK 47 rifles and one Beretta Pistol loaded with ammunition were snatched from the Police by the IPOB members, saying efforts were being intensified to recover the rifles and apprehend the fleeing suspects in order to bring them to justice. The police in a statement said, “On 23/11/2018 at about 11:55 am, there was intelligence report that members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) were sighted gathering in their hundreds near Teaching Hospital, Owerri Road, Nnewi with intent to cause a breach of the Public Peace. “Following the report, Police Patrol teams led by the Area Commander, Nnewi ACP Nnanna Ama mobilised and rushed to the scene in order to disperse and prevent them from causing a breakdown of law and order. “However, as soon as Police arrived the scene, the rampaging IPOB members descended on the police, set ablaze one patrol vehicle and attacked them with machetes and stones. They also marched towards the Agbaedo Market shouting ‘No Elections Without Referendum’. “As a result of the attack, the DPO,  CPS,  Nnewi Division,  CSP Babalola Adewunyi, ASP Micheal Duru attached to Area Command, Nnewi and Inspector Akinbami Olaniyi attached to CPS Nnewi, were inflicted with machete cuts.  The injured personnel were rushed to the Hospital for medical attention; where the Inspector was certified dead by a medical doctor while the DPO and the ASP are presently receiving treatment.” The statement added that 34 IPOB members have been arrested. However, in its reaction signed by the media and publicity secretary of IPOB, Comrade Emma Powerful, the group described police claim and newspaper publications, which carried such claims as shocking. Part of the statement which was laced with threats read: “It is shocking that some media houses chose to go with the lies Nigerian Police Force, Anambra State command fed them. “In line with ethics of journalism we IPOB call on media houses that have previously published this erroneous story to please retract it and apologise to IPOB. “Failure to do so will result in a wholesale boycott of Nigerian newspapers across Biafraland with severe sanctions for any vendor or distributing agent found in contravention of such directive. Reporting falsehood against IPOB will no longer be tolerated.”