No fewer than 250 golfers are in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State for the 2018 Ladies Golf Association of Nigeria (LGAN) Open Championship, which tees off today at the Ibom Golf Club. This is the championship that congregates the lady golfers from the six geo-political zones of the country to compete for honours. Ekanem Ekwueme, LGAN President told DAILY INDEPENDENT, “This is the ladies event; it’s going to be filled with lots of fun, it is an opportunity to create a level playing ground for the junior players to showcase their talents and skills.” The President, who was mindful of the economic situation noted, “But, the event will be within our financial abilities, because the sponsors were not there as expected.” The championship, which ends on Sunday had its arrival and a welcome party on Thursday November 22 at the Ibom golf house. Meanwhile, Nigeria Golf Federation (NGF) top 30 who emerged from its three major events this year – NGF Plateau Junior Open Championship, Jos; Youth Games, Ilorin and the Awa Ibraheem Junior Open Championship, Ikeja, Lagos will compete for a place in the national team. Emy Ekong, Director, NGF Women and Youth Development, revealed that 20 players were needed to make the national team that would represent Nigeria in international tournaments. The Director said that the development was in line with the Federation’s plans to move the sport forward, particularly at the grassroots level. “NGF has deliberate plans to move golf forward in Nigeria, especially the junior golf and this is one the preparations for 2019 activities which includes international events,’ Ekong said. Invited Top 30 Players Girls: 1. IyeneObong Essien – IBB 2. Chinwe Obuaya – Delta 3. Janiet Diette Spiff – Bayelsa 4. Peret James 5. Victoria Atamaja – Otukpo 6. Rose Chinoye – Enugu 7. Faith Bawa – Police 8. Nantap Danat – Rayfeild, Jos 9. Stella Musa – Otukpo 10. Christy Obomanu – PH Boys: 1. John Alex – Bayelsa 2. David Alli – Otukpo 3. Olalere Olakunle – Rosani 4. Ogoh Aduma – Otukpo 5. Godwin Okoko – Bayelsa 6. George Inalegwu – Otukpo 7. Friday Otokpa – Police 8. Ezra Bitrus – Calabar 9. Aleji Emmanuel – Otukpo 10. Osiregbemhe – Ikoyi 11. Kim Aaron – Rayfeild Acad 12. Ukutt Junior – Ibom GC 13. Isife Michael – Enugu 14. Joseph Kolawole – Ekiti 15. Emmanuel Bali – Rayfeild. 16. Obata Chukwudimi – Ikoyi 17. Abdulrahman lliyasu – Kadu 18. Jonathan Sambo – Lamingo 19. Musa Usman – Bauchi 20. Mark Monday – Oyo.