Jos – Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has pledged to relocate the internally displaced persons (IDPs) back to their ancestral homes in Plateau State before the end of 2018. Lalong gave this assurance on Sunday in Jos during the Annual Reunion Church service and Thanksgiving of the Berom Nation tagged; Wusal Berom 2018 held at Kuru, in Jos South Local Government Area of the state. According to him, his administration is desirous and committed towards ensuring that peace is achieved permanently in the state, saying he stands for all the tribes in the state. Represented by Bulus Bot, Commissioner of Physical Planning and Urban Development at the event, Governor Lalong said the committee constituted for the relocation and resettlement of the IDPs will submit its report today. Lalong said the administration has put in  effort toward ensuring permanent peace in the state. “The Lalong administration has been able to convince the Inspector General of Police to make sure that Mobile barracks are established in Gashish which will take care of Barkin, Riyom, Bokkos and Mangu Local Governments of the state, and already the Federal Government has taken action for the formation of Police Mobile Barracks in the state. Lalong disclosed that three units of the mobile Police are being trained so as to immediately move to Gashish. The governor also advised all citizens of the state to ensure the verification of their names at various polling units by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and also make complaints, if necessary, before the 2019 elections. Lalong said despite the perceptions about the APC administration in the state, he has appointed three Berom sons as commissioners in his cabinet including the office of the Secretary to the State Government amongst others. On his part Jos monarch, Gbong Gwom of Jos and President of the Plateau State Traditional Council of chiefs and emirs in the state, His Majesty Da Jacob Gyang Buba commended the unity of the Berom tribes in the face of numerous challenges. He called on all the Berom Nation to depend on God, and pray for the total liberation of the Berom Nation. “I Chawrge you all to look unto God, don’t abandon God for he created us the Berom Nation and God will blessed us if we are united together.”