Mr. Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, was a guest on Channels Television where he spoke on wide ranging issues such as the latest attacks on the military by Boko Haram insurgents, 2019 presidential election, Electoral Act and other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI who monitored the session brings the excerpts: How many soldiers were killed in the Metele attacks because there were conflicting figures on the number of casualty? The presidency was talking about 100 while Reuters reported about 140. What information do you have? The presidency did not mention any figure. It’s not for the presidency to mention a figure, it is the military because it is a purely military thing. It is the military who can give you an authoritative position in terms of casualty figures. It is not for the presidency to disclose that. How many people have been reported to the President? No. I am not in the knowledge of that because unless the President tells me, I don’t know and we  have not discussed it. Can you tell Nigerians what you know about the situation especially the one in Melete? We can say Nigeria is at war in that side of the country.  For some time, things have eased. Nigeria Army have had the upper hand and like the term goes, the insurgents have been technically defeated.  But then, there is this sudden upsurge and there is that casualty figure which I do not know but which people say is on the high side.  The military is the one that can tell us what actually happen. Has the President been briefed on that? Naturally he is the Commander-in- Chief of the Armed Forces. So, he should be briefed by the hour, if not by the minute. He should be briefed. Nigerians  are worried especially with the taking of $1b for security and this kind of thing is happening especially with the APC saying that this war has been technically won. Are you not concerned about this too? This has nothing to do with party. You didn’t need to mention APC; government is government at any point in time.  After elections are won and lost, what you have is the government. It has nothing to do with APC this time. It is the Nigerian government.  I’ve seen that trend that some people have played politics with that development. It is unconscionable.  I think it  is taking politics too far. Should we be worried by the situation in that region? If one soul dies, we should be worried, even just one soul. Can we still say that Boko Haram is technically defeated? I believe so.  That was maybe a breach in security but it does not mean that Boko  Haram is having the upper hand and like the President said in the statement we issued last Saturday,  we will still get to the end of this Boko Haram insurgency. We will get there. Is the President looking at changing the guards in terms of  the military hierarchy? The President is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. Whatever he wants to do, he can do.  He is the one who determines when he wants to do it. So, it’s up to him. But what are the strategic steps being taken because things cannot be happening like this and we expect it to remain the same. What message do you have for Nigerians on this? When you say ‘happening in that manner’, it connotes that it happens everyday. This is one isolated case after a long time of the military being in charge. The military has been in charge for a long while. I agree with you this is a breach; it is sad, it is unfortunate but then it does not mean that Boko Haram is now in charge. They are not. Is the Presidency a bit reluctant in reacting to some of these issues? No! It was explained in the reaction by the military.  There is a standard procedure. When things like that happen, you don’t go out to tell tales by moonlight which is the usual expression.  That should be the authoritative one because it is the Borno state government that is concerned directly. Former President in his book ‘My Transition Hours’ said there is a lot of corruption in the Buhari administration when compared to his. What is your perspective on that? But don’t you think the reasons adduced for that in that book is rather simplistic? He said under the Jonathan administration, this is the amount that was recovered, now under Buhari, this is the amount that has been recovered which is like four, five, six folds of what was recovered under Jonathan.  Is that then enough reason to say corruption has increased?  Or rather there is more efficiency in tackling corruption now?  Then it could mean that corruption was just accepted as a way of life. That was why the recovery was so minimal and now the recovery is so huge now because corruption is being tackled.  So, I think it’s a simplistic conclusion which one would not have expected from a former President. Do you think the President is happy with the book? Happy or not being happy is not the issue. The book is just a contribution to discourse and such contributions will never end. Is President Buhari preparing for the January 19 presidential debate? We will cross that bridge when we get to it. Has President Buhari performed well in the three key areas of fighting corruption, revamping the economy and tackling insurgency for Nigerians to reelect him? No doubt! In all those focal areas and even more, the administration has performed quite well.  But having said that, it’s still work in progress because if the job is done, why will he need a second term? He is asking for a second term to deepen and consolidate on what he has done and continues to do. Do you think he will get it? I believe so. It’s up to the electorates; it’s up to Nigerians. I feel the pulse of Nigerians and what I get that is President Buhari will likely win by a wider margin than he did in 2015. Don’t you think Atiku Abubakar is going to give him a tough time in the race? I don’t think so.  I think Atiku Abubakar is a good candidate in his own rights.  But comparing Atiku Abubakar to President Buhari, there is no basis for comparison, What do you mean by that? What I mean is that Muhammadu Buhari has a large following to be intimidating and that large following will come out and vote for him. With due respect to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, all the time that he has run,  he didn’t score anything remarkable. And do you think the atmosphere is still the same? Do you think 2015 and 2019 are the same thing? It is still Nigeria and I believe things will work in favour of President Buhari. With the elections just about 80 days away, when will the President sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law? If there are no fundamental issues, then the President will sign it. But if there are fundamental issues, then they need to be resolved before he signs.