Indications emerging from Police force headquarters indicate that a House of Reps Member, Lawal Idris may have become a subject of investigation over alleged forgery. Though the police are yet to officially confirm or deny the matter, inside police sources told Saturday Independent that sequel to a petition to the Inspector-General of Police by a House of Representatives aspirant under the All Progressives Congress in Kogi State, Mr. Yusuf Balogun, the police boss may have caused its investigative arm to begin probe of the matter. The petitioner had alleged irregularities, inconsistencies and forgery in the lawmaker’s certificate and documents. While confirming the story, a senior Police officer who is involved in the investigation said the lawmaker was invited by the Police for investigation. The Kogi-born politician, representing Ajaokuta Federal Constituency, is expected to report to the Nigeria Police Intelligence Response Unit at the Old Abattoir in Garki Area of Abuja for interview on the matter. Part of the petition titled ‘Petition Against Irregularities, Inconsistencies and Forgery In Lawal Idris Certificate And Documents,’ dated October 18, 2018, was acknowledged by the office of the IGP on October 24, 2018, and obtained by Independent Newspaper, read in part, “Idris in a sworn affidavit with INEC in form CF 001 in 2014 claimed to be born in the United Kingdom while in an attached declaration of age to the said form, he was born in Ajaokuta. “Idris is bearing five different names in his various documents but swore a statutory affidavit saying he was bearing three different names: Lawal Muhammadu Idris, Lawal Alhaji Idris, and Lawal Muhammed Idris.” The petitioner further accused Idris of forging his West African Examination certificate and tax receipt. “Whereas in his APC membership card and State of Origin Form, he is bearing Lawal Idris, in one of his 2014 tax receipt he is bearing Idris Lawal; Idris forged his WAEC result. The WAEC result he used in the affidavit sworn with INEC in year 2014 where he passed six subjects were forged and was contested in court by the PDP in 2015,” Balogun further alleged. But so far, police has not officially commented on the matter. Moshood Jimoh, DCP and spokesman for the law enforcement agency could not be reached despite repeated calls to his cell phone. He would also not respond to text messages. Another police source however said that such matter takes processes. “The police might still be bidding its time on the matter before going public.