Prior to the establishment of the Window, the economy had cooled off and plunged into recession in August 2016, when the National Bureau of Statistics reported that GDP dipped by 2.06 per cent for the second quarter in 2016. Recession is characterised by business cycle contraction and general slowdown of economic activities with drop in outputs, rising unemployment and more borrowing by government. Major factors that contribute to the recession include a drastic fall in global oil price, depletion of external reserves and flight of foreign investors. As a result, dollar became scarce and many factories either shut down completely or operated at suboptimal capacity. The development triggered a gale of downsizing across subsectors of the economy, including banks. And, in turn, dollar scarcity fuelled massive speculative trading on the green back which contributed to plunging naira to an all-time low of N590/$1. The establishment of the I&E Window offered a panacea for the maze.  In six months of its establishment, between May and October, 2017, the Window reportedly attracted an inflow of $10bn, and $20bn to date. The Window re-energised the FX Market and production and the PMI has since been looking up, steadily.  The CBN has continued to sustain dollar supply on the back of increasing external reserves which increased to $33bn in October 2017, from $23bn in October 2016, and is projected to hit $40bn in 2018. The former Executive Director, Mainstreet Bank, Anor Anyanwu, while reacting to the CBN intervention in the Forex, said that Nigeria had to manage a fixed currency exchange system. According to him, “It is fixed in the sense that CBN comes back and takes the rest. It is also managed in the sense that CBN responds to the demand and supply in the market place, and that gives rise to the fixing of the official rate.” He said that the system actually had a lot of advantages, adding that one of the advantages that it has is that it attained   stability in the exchange rate. “You can actually predict the stability of the exchange rate and that helps the investors, importers and manufacturers.” He added that it introduces stability in exchange rate and enables the people to plan, saying that because over a period of time, “you can be sure that the exchange rate is stable.” “So that the essence of the CBN management of the fixed exchange rate.” However, Anyanwu noted the way CBN management of exchange rate tended to create some gap in the system, in the sense that there are several exchange rates, such as the CN rate which is trading at N305, which also, is the official exchange rate. According to him, there is the BDC rate which is trading at 35 thousand,   “We have I&C window, Importers and Investment and Export rate trading at N353 to N354, so the challenge I have with this multiple exchange rate system is that it creates opportunity for arbitrariness.” He pointed out that between CBN system and the bidding system is about N50 per Dollar, and the CBN rate and I&C Window is almost N60 per Dollar, lamenting that this creates opportunity for arbitral charges and cheating opportunity for those who have the capacity to do that. “I think the CBN will continue with the intervention as long as they have the capacity and the reserves  to keep managing it,” the former Executive Director retorted in response to what extent would the CBN continue to intervene for the banks in the area of forex. “But, I also have a fear, and that fear is on the CBN ability to continue to manage the exchange rate at the levels they are today.” “My fear arises from the Nigerian indebtedness. Nigeria indebtedness in foreign currency is quite high right now. Sooner or later, debt services is going to take its toll on the off-shore market, again, if there is any shock in the oil prices, it will compound the problem. If there is shock in the oil prices, that will compel the exchange rate to be challenged.” Ismail Aniemu, a maritime affairs analyst in response said that to a large extent, the economy should be allowed to be free. While responding to a question on how long would the CBN would continue its intervention noted: “There is a limit to which Government intervention could feature in stabilising forex in the economy in the 2019 appropriation bill, we are not expecting that CBN will be injecting scarce funds into stabilising Naira/Dollar exchange rate. It will be advisable that market forces be allowed to determine worth of things in the market. Rather than frequent government intervention. So, I advise that by the end of this year, there should be a partial withdrawal for the system to operate itself.” According to him, the CBN steps actually impacted positively in the banking system and the economy. “It is very positive because at a time, Naira was hovering at N500 to a Dollar. That to a large extent mounted much pressure on the economy. It is positive but it is not sustainable in the long run. If it is losing its value, I mean if the Nigerian currency is losing its value, government and people of Nigeria will have to look inwards, and minimise importation, do a lot of local production, minimise dependence on foreign made goods, and see how far they can produce locally made goods.” The CBN intervention, he continued, greatly impacted on the maritime sector, “because when the exchange rate was hovering at N500 per dollar, importation was very-very less attractive. You know the maritime industry is mainly import- driven. Our export potentials is less than 5 percent compared to what we are importing. It really affected the sector because when it came down to between N350 and N360, importation was encouraged. Business gradually started picking up again.” In his contribution, Prof. Segun Ajibola, the immediate past President and Chairman of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) said the continued intervention of the Central Bank of Nigeria in the foreign exchange market to strengthen the naira is inevitable due to the volatile nature of the market. According to him, the FX market requires “constant policing”, adding that the CBN interventions have brought some stability to the local unit. He said: “The foreign exchange market, as we know, in any part of the world, is a very sensitive market. It is a market that requires effective and constant policing. So, the intervention of the Central Bank of Nigeria is inevitable. “What’s happening in the market usually is a question of the forces of demand and supply. So, with the intervention of the central bank, we’ve seen some improvement in the exchange rate as it affects the naira and dollar because FX supply has increased.” Jumoke Olaniyan, the Associate Vice President, Market Development and Regulation, FMDQ OTC, said that the Nigerian foreign exchange market was halfway to getting a free float. Olaniyan attributed the likely free float to the I&E window that allowed the value of the Naira to be determined by the forces of demand and supply. Dapo Olagunju, the Group Head, Global Markets in Access Bank, said there were more people at the I&E window who wanted to sell foreign exchange than those willing to buy. Olagunju assured that the era of dollar scarcity might end soon, adding that the CBN’s capacity to sustain its interventions in the foreign exchange market would increase. He said that this was because the effect of the rising oil price and production output had begun to reflect on the revenue receipts of the government.