Yenagoa – The Bayelsa State House of Assembly has expressed concerns over the rising wave of insecurity challenge in the state, urging Ibrahim Idris, the Inspector-General of Police, to stop politicising the posting of commissioners of police in the state. The Assembly, which came up with this in a four-point resolution during an emergency sitting at the weekend, also called on the IGP Idris not to proscribe the state’s security out, ‘Operation Doo Akpo’. The resolution followed a motion moved under urgent matters of public importance by Bernard Kenebai, member representing Sagbama Constituency 2 and the House committee chairman on security. It also urged Governor Seriake Dickson to sit up and stem the tide of impunity associated with the frequent transfer of police chiefs to and from Bayelsa. It further called on members of the National Assembly from the state to present the issue of constant change of police commissioners and the security problems it was bringing upon the state, on the floors of the senate and House of Representatives. Presenting the motion, Kenebai stated that the deployment of eight police commissioners to the state in a space of two months was abnormal and laced with political undertones, especially ahead of the 2019 general elections. He accused the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa of masterminding moves to disable the state’s security architecture in order for them to execute their plans in the forthcoming elections. Debating in favour of the motion, Abraham Ngobere, the deputy speaker, argued that disbanding the state’s security outfit would increase tension in the state. Also, the majority leader of the House, Peter Akpe (Sagbama 1), warned that mixing partisan politics with security issues would not augur well for the peace and security of the state. In his contribution, Tonye Isenah, chief whip of the Assembly (Kolokuma-Opokuma I) and Mitema Obordor (Ogbia 1), condemned the alleged plan to proscribe Operation Doo Akpo, saying the security outfit should rather be equipped to fight crime in the state. The lawmakers were unanimous in the resolution that the frequent replacement of police chiefs and the attempt to disband the security outfit would create political instability in the state.