Abuja – Following the outcry trailing the Muslim/Muslim ticket choice of Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, ahead of 2019 governorship election, the Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) yesterday pleaded with Christians in Kaduna not to lose confidence in the governor. BCO said that the governor meant no harm in the choice of a Muslim/Muslim ticket for the 2019 governorship poll in the state. The group was reacting to media reports in which the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) was said to have accused el-Rufai of fanning the embers of ethnic and religious disunity with his Muslim-Muslim ticket. Speaking with journalists in Abuja on Wednesday, the Director of Communications and Strategic Planning of the BCO, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, said el-Rufai’s choice did not amount to playing the ethnic card as certain persons were trying to make it look. Ibrahim advised Kaduna indigenes to be wary of politicians who hide under the cloak of ethnicity and tribal sentiment to sow the seed of discord and disunity among Nigerians for their personal interest, even as he explained that the governor made the choice based on his conviction that in governance, a leader must choose those he should work with on grounds of competence and trust. He said: “The BCO is of the view that the governor of Kaduna State made his choice of a running mate in good faith. Just like he rightly said, his picking a fellow Muslim is based on his strong belief in competence and the fact that governance has nothing to do with religion and tribe. “Those claiming that the Muslim-Muslim ticket has pitched the governor against Christians and other citizens of Kaduna are the same mischievous politicians or their cronies who hide under the cloak of ethnicity and religion to fan the embers of disunity among gullible Nigerian with spurious allegations. “We all know that apart from the deputy governorship position, there are other sensitive positions in the state and the governor has promised that the minority indigenous people would be given political representation in the state, depending on their population.” Ibrahim further commended el-Rufai for restoring normalcy in the state after the series of attacks that created the tension that compelled the state government to impose a curfew in the state.