YOLA – Admiral Murtala Nyako, Nuhu Ribadu, Dr. Mahmood Halilu Ahmed and other prominent aggrieved All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders in Adamawa State were absent when the party’s National Reconciliation Committee led by Umaru Tanko Almakura, the Governor of Nassarawa State, and Governor Mohammed Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State arrived Yola. During the committee’s meeting with the aggrieved members at the Banquet Hall in Government House Yola, Nuhu Ribadu and his group did not attend because of what was described as short notification to them. A source in Nuhu Ribadu camp said they were not informed about the arrival of the committee members to Adamawa State and that somebody learnt about the meeting on Facebook but all enquiries to Almakura failed to yield results. Nuhu Ribadu is one of the gubernatorial aspirants of the APC who complained about the lack of fairness during the APC primaries in Adamawa State. Ribadu’s group had accused the panel that conducted the primary which pronounced Governor Mohammed Umaru Jibrilla winner of lack of transparency and impunity during the exercise. While Dr. Mahmood Halilu Ahmed sent in a letter apologising to the Almakura led committee for his absence, alleging short notice. Governor Umaru Tanko Almakura read the letter of Dr. Modi, one of the gubernatorial aspirants who also contested for the ticket in Adamawa State. Also absent during the meeting was a politically influential personality, Admiral Murtala Nyako, who had been complaining of lack of transparency in APC Adamawa State which later culminated in impunity during the ward, local government and state congresses. Admiral Nyako himself had said he was shocked that the APC which he cofounded turned out to be the worst impunity political party that has been used by some strangers to cause disaffection in the party. He said since 1957 his ward in Mayo Belwa Local Government Area had always produced a democratically elected counselor but this time during the APC congresses all those who emerged leaders in his ward, LGA and state came through impositions and not through democratic tenets. He said that he always complained about the APC undemocratic moves but the National Working Committee never bordered to look into the complaints of the people of Adamawa State. Governor Umaru Tanko Almakura, the leader of the APC Reconciliation Committee, apologised to all those who were not aware of the coming of the reconciliation committee to Adamawa State. Other members of the committee apart from Governor Al-makura who is renowned for evolving the highly successful model of community based conflict resolution mechanism believed that “transparency and fairness to all would rekindle trust, renew alliances and ensure that APC closes ranks as one united family to face the greater electoral battle ahead.