Temidayo Akinsuyi and Samuel Ogidan Lagos / Abuja – Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has revealed that agents of the Federal Government had tried to intimidate him and his staff when he returned to the country on Sunday. The former vice president, his aides, and the private jet that brought him into the country were thoroughly searched by security agents on arrival. Paul Ibe, Atiku’s spokesman, confirmed the incident on Sunday. It was gathered that the private jet conveying Atiku from Dubai landed at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, at 1:30a.m into the waiting arms of the security operatives. Sources revealed that the DSS operatives searched Atiku and the jet, alongside officers of the Nigerian Immigration Service and Nigeria Customs Service. It is believed that the security operatives, who said they had a search warrant to search the PDP presidential candidate, were looking for foreign currencies. They were said to have stripped everything, including the luggage, and had also searched the pilot and co-pilot. It was, however, gathered that the operatives found nothing implicating during the operation. Writing via his Twitter handle, Atiku said the search was aimed at intimidating him. “I arrived to Abuja this morning to a search by agents of the state, aimed at intimidating me and my staff,” he wrote. “I am committed to building a Nigeria where no citizen is intimidated by agents of state who are paid to protect them.” Also speaking on the alleged search by the security agents, Timi Frank, a former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), revealed that a plot to embarrass the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, on arrival early hours on Sunday from Dubai was a failure. According to Frank, the plan to also drop bags of foreign currencies and other implicating things in Atiku’s aircraft on his arrival was also unsuccessful. In a statement he signed, Timi Frank said the special squad of security men who carried out the search confessed that they were directed by the presidency to embarrass the former vice president. The squad, Frank revealed, were armed with recording gadgets in and out of Atiku’s aircraft “to see if he returned to the country with foreign currencies or any other implicating materials.” The former APC spokesman said the security men were disappointed when nothing implicating could be found on either Atiku or his aircraft. While condemning what he tagged President Muhammadu Buhari’s move to desperately nail the PDP presidential candidate, Frank said if former President Goodluck Jonathan was so harsh on President Buhari in 2015, he couldn’t have occupied the office today. Frank said since Atiku Abubakar left office as vice president for eight years, “this is the first time out of desperation to nail him that he has been searched embarrassingly.” He, however, warned President Buhari to desist from his act of desperation against the PDP presidential candidate. Irked by the development, the PDP condemned the alleged physical harassment of its presidential candidate. In a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said: “It was shocking when the deadly squad, in a Gestapo style attack, and acting on ‘orders from above’ rushed our candidate immediately he landed and attempted to physically manhandle him before invading his aircraft with dangerous weapons to conduct a violent search. “While they did not find anything incriminating on our presidential candidate, this deadly squad, violently tampered with certain personal documents and gadgets belonging to him, including some of his campaign documents.” The party said it rejected such violence against the person of its presidential candidate by the Buhari presidency, “which we know has been jittery over Atiku Abubakar’s soaring popularity since his emergence as our candidate.” It added: “We invite the world to note that having failed to drag down our presidential candidate with spurious allegations and smear campaign, the APC has now resorted to state-backed violence against him and must be held responsible should any harm befall him or any member of his campaign team.” The PDP said that the party was for peace, adding that it would not accept the recourse to violence “which we believe is orchestrated to directly harm our presidential candidate, foist a siege mentality on the system and set the stage for series of coordinated violence, ostensibly to truncate a peaceful conduct of the 2019 general election.” The party continued: “The Buhari presidency and the APC should bear in mind that this is an attack on our democracy and the collective sensibility of the overwhelming majority of Nigerians, across board, who have accepted the choice of Atiku Abubakar as Nigeria’s next president and they will vigorously deploy every means available in a democracy to defend him and our democratic process.” The PDP noted that Atiku as a presidential candidate, has the highest demography of supporters and volunteers across the nation, adding that it will not hesitate to call them out in defence of democracy if another such attempt is made against its candidate. “Nigeria is not a conquered territory and anybody that wants to foist a totalitarian regime on our land will be firmly resisted. “We invite President Buhari to recall that as a presidential candidate, he had occasions to travel out of the country and the government in power never besieged or harassed him in any way. His administration should therefore not introduce such violence in our democratic space.” Aviation Minister Explains Action Faced with criticisms, the Minister of State, Aviation, Hadi Sirika, said on Sunday that Atiku Abubakar and his luxury jet were subjected to routine security measures at the airport when he returned from Dubai where he had been strategising on the 2019 presidential election. Sirika reacted to Atiku’s tweet in a statement. He said: “This is a mischievous attempt to grab the headlines. Nigerians need to know that one of the resolutions of the Atiku team at their recently-concluded, opulently-held Dubai retreat was to embark on scaremongering. This is one of such. “For the records, all incoming passengers on international flights go through Customs, immigration, health, and security screening. “Where the aircraft is using the private, charter wing, as the PDP candidate did, such arrivals are met by a team of the immigration, Customs and other security agencies. “They go to the arriving aircraft as a team. The airport authorities confirm that this is a routine process, applying to all international arrivals, including the minister, unless the passenger is the president of Nigeria. “The president, the vice president and passengers aboard planes on the presidential air fleet use the presidential wing of the airport. “It is also important to state that even in the presidential wing of the airport the president of Nigeria uses, there is the presence of immigration and other security officials who must stamp his or her passport on arrival. “By standard procedure, all aircraft on international arrivals must first of all park at the international wing of the aircraft. They can move to the domestic terminal only upon the completion of the arrival processes. “While it is true that the Task Force on Currency at the airport did the routine action of checking the former vice president’s travel bag, he was accorded full respect as a senior citizen. “These checks are mandatory, conventional, internationally applied and routine. No one is excused from them under our laws. These checks are carried out on all international arrivals and President Buhari does not get involved in them. “Law-abiding citizens are encouraged to respect the laws of the country and our VIPs should not seek to be treated over and above the citizens they wish to serve.”