ASABA – Since he won the 2019 Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Governorship ticket as candidate in Delta State, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has been on his feet, holding meetings, consulting and planning strategies in preparation for his reelection. In fact, the administration has been commissioning projects to the extent that Deltans now call him ‘Road Master’. The nickname was further endorsed Monday, 19th November 2018 when former President Olusegun Obasanjo came to commission series of landmark projects executed by Okowa’s administration in the state. The projects commissioned are the dualised old Lagos/Asaba road, from Emuhu junction to Agbor-Obi junction, the dualised Owei-Ekei/Owa-Alero road, from old Lagos/Asaba road to Owa-Alero round about and the 23,000 capacity Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba. Obasanjo, who went as far threatening to rain curses on anyone who criticise Okowa despite his achievements on road infrastructure, peace, health and education or oppose another opportunity for him to continue with his good works in the state, proclaimed and endorsed his second term bid. “As an elder statesman, whatever I see and heard, my mouth will talk about; where I came from, we are always looking for good things and when we have good things, we hold on to it; when you have good leaders, hold on to them; this Governor Okowa from what I have seen and from what I have hear, he is a good product and when you have a good product, you don’t throw it away, I know that this Governor is  good, I will hold on to him because he has started well and we must give him the opportunity to consolidate on his good works,” Obasanjo said at the commissioning of Owa-Ekei/Owa-Alero road. He described the roads as great feat towards speedy socio-economic development of the state at the commissioning of old Lagos/Agbor road in Agbor, Ika South local government area of Delta State. “Without transportation, we cannot talk about social or economic development, but you (Governor Okowa) have not limited your achievements in the area of road construction to aid transportation alone, you have added education that is relevant at this stage in Nigeria, technical education, which is education that uses the head and the hand; education that matters now,” the former President said. He continued, “today, you have achieved peace; peace is fundamental for development to take place, it is a very vital ingredient that we need in our society. You (Governor Okowa) do everything possible for every community to have a sense of belonging, in the state, to have stake in the state, and no community is left out and from what I have heard and seen, you have constructed a lot of roads in Delta State, I want to congratulate you for working for the people,” Chief Obasanjo stated. The former President also commissioned the dualised Owei-Ekei/Owa-Alero road, from old Lagos/Asaba road to Owa-Alero round about where he stated, “when I came in yesterday, I didn’t know why they called you (Governor Okowa) the Road Master but, here, we have a Governor who is not just a Road Master, but, a Bulldozer who is also interested in relevant education that is required in today’s Nigeria.” “At any stage in our life, any of us will require medical attention and the governor has also, made health care available to all of us through the health insurance policy, I thank the governor for the good medical facilities in the state, they are necessary so that people will not go outside Nigeria for medical attention and return as cargo when they are dead, so, Mr. Governor, continue to upgrade the medical facilities to be among the best in the world,” he stated. The former President added, “if you have home, you have good health, you must have employment and from what we can hear, you have paid all the local government staff and the teachers all the arrears and someone will come out and say you are not a good man, tell me who said the governor is not a good man, so that  I can curse him because, you are a Governor after my heart.” Chairman of Ika North-East local government area, Hon. Victor Ebonka commended Governor Okowa for his numerous achievements and renamed the Owa-Ekei/Owa-Alero road after Governor Okowa, while the Chairman of Ika South local government area, Hon. Victor Okoh described Governor Okowa as a performing Governor. Amidst pomp and pageantry, Obasanjo also commissioned Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba and apparently excited with the quality of projects seen, the former President danced to the admiration of large spectators including the Asaba traditional council of chiefs who turned out for the commissioning exercise. While commending Governor Okowa for constructing such an edifice, the former President stated that the stadium would also, provide avenue for people to exercise, stating, “whoever you are, whatever age you are, you must exercise, you must be fit’’ he observed that the stadium would boost the economy of the state and urged Governor Okowa to add hostel facilities in the stadium for people to live in the stadium and have opportunities of training round the clock to enable them become future world champions. “We must catch them young, we have the facilities, we have to recruit those who will win, train them from young age,” he said, adding, “build a hostel where you will put people that you will train day and night and they will be going to school from the stadium and in whatever sports, Delta State will be the best. I was here to perform the ground breaking ceremony of the stadium, I am here to commission it and I will be here again to see the hostel,” he stated, asserting, “Governor Okowa is not just a Road Master, he is also a Stadium Master, and because of the work he has done, he is also the Bulldozer.” Similarly, the Chairman of Delta State Traditional Rulers Council who is also, the Obi of Owa, HRM Emmanuel Efeizomor II had thanked former President Obasanjo for coming to the state to commission projects, stating, “our son, Governor Okowa has done very well, it is a fact that all the Governors that ruled Delta State did two terms, Governor Okowa cannot be an exception, we should rally round him for him to complete eight years as Governor,” he stated. The Asagba of Asaba, Prof. Chike Edozien, represented at the occasion by the Iyase of Asaba, Chief Patrick Onyeobi thanked Governor Okowa for his interest in the development of Asaba and other parts of the state, observing that since the coming of the governor, Asaba is wearing a status befitting a capital of an oil producing state.