We believe implementation of the minimum wage will suffer across States, although the FG should be able to fully fund its own obligation. In the private sector, we also expect implementation to suffer considering the fragile state of the economy. Indeed, there is no urgency for private employers in the informal sector to boost wages given surplus labour. Thus, we do not expect the wage increase to have a strong pass-through to inflation. However, there are a number of options available to FG and States to assuage the impact of the wage increase. First, the increase can be fully implemented for those at lower cadres while a marginal increase or a wage freeze can be considered for those at the top cadres. This means that there would only be a modest increase in the overall wage bill. Secondly, the FG and States can remove subsidies on petrol to increase FAAC allocations. Lastly, and also related to the previous option, the CBN can align its exchange rates to market at N360/US$1 to boost government revenues from oil exports. We estimate that over N1.6tn in revenues can be collected due to the last two options alone. Ultimately, we believe only a better grip on running costs and increased collection of revenues will lead to a sustainable fiscal position for governments. Other Developments Monday, November 12, 2018 The Youth for Africa and SDGs is scheduled to hold this day at the Oriental Hotel in Victoria Island, Lagos Tuesday, November 13, 2018 The National Bureau of Statistics will on this day release the  Automotive Gas Oil (October 2018), Liquefied Petroleum Gas (October 2018), National Household Kerosene Price Watch (October 2018), Premium Motor Spirit (petrol) Price Watch (October 2018). The 3rd Annual Pension/Admin Conference will hold this day with the theme Best Practices in Pension Administration at Alexis Hotel, Jabi, Abuja Conlog Limited is set to hold the 15th Annual Future Energy Nigeria Conference & Expo at Eko Hotels & Suites Lagos The Chartered Institute of Personal Management 50th Anniversary Conference is scheduled to hold this day at the International Conference Centre, Abuja Wednesday, November 14, 2018 Enrst & Young Nigeria knowledge sharing session on “Financial Wealth Management and its Tax Implications for High Net worth Individuals” will hold this day at EY UBA House 10th Floor UBA House, Marina Lagos. The Association of Investment Advisers and Portfolio Managers is scheduled to hold its 2018 Investment Advisers and Portfolio Managers Forum & an official Launching of CIIA with the theme the Future for Investment Advisory at Oriental Hotel Victoria Island Lagos. The 3rd Capital Market Commitment Meeting is scheduled to hold this day at the Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island Lagos. Thursday, November 15, 2018 The National Bureau of Statistics will on this day release the Selected food Prices for October 2018 and The Transport Fare Watch October 2018 The Thrive Women Conference 2018 is scheduled to hold this day at the Civic Centre, Lagos while the 4th Annual West Africa Property Investment Summitwill hold same day with the theme Re-calibrating Supply and Demand for Sustainable Growth at Eko Hotels & Suites Victoria Island Lagos. DCSL Corporate Service Limited is set hold its Corporate Governance Master Class with the theme Enthroning Good Governance in Microfinance Bankswhile The Eco-Sustainability Discourse 2018 will hold same day with the themeThe Future of Sustainable Development on Nigeria at Four points by Sheraton Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos The  Nigeria Maintenance and Reliability Conference will hold this day with the theme Strategic Leadership for Reliable Growth at Four points by Sheraton Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos while the Lagos Business School Alumni Conference holds same day with the theme The New CAMA and its Relevance to the Ease of Doing Business in Nigeria at Honeywell Auditorium, Ajah, Lagos Island Realnews is set to hold its Realnews 6th Anniversary Lecture with the themePolitical Transition and Africa’s Economic Development at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos while the Enterprise Development Centre will on this day hold the SME Solution Providers EXPO at Sandralia Hotel 1 Solomon Lar Way Jabi, Abuja The Nigeria Maintenance and Reliability Conference is scheduled to hold this day with the theme Strategic Leadership for Reliable Growth at Four points by Sheraton Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos Join AngelList and Republic for a webinar on Investor Education: How to Hack Angel Investing Friday November 16, 2018 HRTech West Africa will on this day hold its Largest Gathering of HR and IT Professional at Landmark Centre, Lagos while the LCCI Disourse on Nigeria’s Debt Sustainability holds same day at 1 Idowu Taylor, Victoria Island Source: Afrinvest Weekly Update