Bethel Njoku is a Nigerian comedian, popularly known as Senator. The Flatmate star, who hails from Imo State speaks in this interview with Ifeoma Ononye, about his brand of comedy, challenges, parental influences, achievements and prospects following his art, goals, aspirations among other things. Of all the names, why did you choose Senator as your stage name? It was because I admired the title. You know, during the Shagari era when democracy was still new to us, Senators were highly respected. They were seen as icons of democracy, of law and order. And going into comedy, I told myself I was going to represent these values in the humour industry. That was why I picked the name You spoke in past tense while describing why you chose the name Senator. Do you still admire the title? Sometimes, when I am introduced as Senator in a gathering, some people grumble. But once they know I am a comedian and not a politician, the reception changes. My stage name has its own advantages and disadvantages. You are also an actor. Yes. I am currently on Flatmates and Ndi Agbatobi (an Igbo series). Some of my movies are yet to be released. What is your take on organising personal comedy shows? Is it becoming too common? Well, I wouldn’t say that. Truth is, I had my first show last year, which from the reception I got turned certain old practices around. I was told I brought something new to the table. That was a new style of perceiving comedy shows. Make no mistake, Nigerians love comedy shows. I will tell you what they don’t like: comedy shows that end up becoming music shows. After my show, a number of senior colleagues said the event was how a comedy show should be organised. Subsequently, my colleagues have been towing that line, where you have less music and more comedy. It is a comedy show; comedians should be given lots of time to express themselves. Up till now, time allotted to comedy has been short because of a multitude of musical performances. But my show turned that around. We began to realise that a comedy show should have less or no musical performances and be full-fledged comedy performances. Come to think of it, it gives people the more opportunity to laugh, to be happy. I know music has its role in such gatherings, but people paid for the humour not music. Your jokes lack vulgar words common among some comedians? I cannot be detached from the brand I represent. I protect my brand. I am my brand. You cannot have someone branded as Senator, telling lewd or vulgar jokes. As a matter of brand name, I am ruled out of that kind of joke. Secondly, I work most of the time in the corporate circle, where such jokes are poorly accommodated. It is not that I cannot tell them, but from my own point of view, it is an escapist way of making people laugh. There are more intellectual and society friendly ways to achieve a good result. And I do not like to use religion in my jokes because it is a very sensitive aspect of life especially here in Nigeria, where politicians use it to hold people to ransom. A lot of people take it to heart. I like to say things around society and its ills. I like to also celebrate good things. Would you say then that your brand is only for corporate platforms? I want my work to revolve (at least about 60 per cent) around the corporate circle. I read the dailies every day; I watch the news as well. I prepare myself in a manner that makes me compliant to the corporate world. For instance, I want to be able to lampoon Nigeria’s ethnic divide in a way that everyone can relate to. I want to be able to talk about what makes us unique as a country. I want to joke about the current affairs in all the spheres of the society especially politics. These are the angles people should expect my jokes to come from. Last year, you celebrated your 40th birthday and a few weeks back you were plus one. How do you feel? I don’t feel any less normal. Age is but a number. It is the mindset that actually decides how one feels. We all age at the same pace anyway. But some people doubt my age. They think I am in my thirties. But that is the dynamics of human life. Some age differently. But I feel normal. There is nothing special about it. I still live my life. However, I have had to take some stringent decisions. For instance, I have decided to tell more of the truth now that I am forty. I shouldn’t be scared of anything or anyone. It was a lavish party you had last year. This year as well your friends in the industry celebrated you as well, it is not a normal feeling, or are you trying to play it down? Truth be told, I did not organise that party. It was organised by my wife, the CEO of Instant PickUp who endorsed me, and Glitz events. I wasn’t aware of their plans. In fact, I was in London when the CEO of Instant PickUp asked if I had any plans to celebrate my birthday. I like to keep things simple and classy. I told him I wanted to call a few friends. He didn’t quite like the idea and the result was what you saw. I want to thank them specially for making it a memorable day for me anyway. Are you a comedian at home? Well, you’ll have to ask my wife. Do you make her laugh? I don’t make her laugh. She just ends up laughing. Sometimes, I feel bad that my family doesn’t know when I am serious. My son, for instance, when he does something I don’t like and I shout his name, just looking at my facial expression, he starts laughing. So, I always have to try harder to make things serious in my house. But I understand them and so it is not an issue at home. Are there ills in the entertainment industry that you think comedians should seriously address? I guess there are a number of things. But then, there is no industry without its own challenges. We have challenges. The truth is that all of them cannot be treated, or done the way I want. I know for instance that a lot of comedians have complained about people plagiarising jokes. It is a big challenge because it weakens the creative ones. You won’t want to create something for another person to steal from. Another challenge is that the comedy industry does not have a proper structure yet. We see a lot of people using your materials, skits to make money on social media. We don’t get royalty or any kind of compensation for it. Some media platform would partner with you on your own show and thereafter put your material on their own Youtube channel or other social media outlet. Even though it is not part of your partnership agreement, you get nothing. It is a bad one. They claim to give you media support, yet they are milking your creativity. Meanwhile, we want more of private company sponsorship and support. Some of the adverts on our shows don’t have real financial backing. Sometimes, it is the products that we get. Then, the government needs to create a conducive environment for investors to consider us. As a child, did you show any passion for the arts? Yes. I knew I would end up in Theatre Arts, but not a stand-up comedian. I had the love for the arts right from time. I did a diploma programme in Theatre Arts before my Bachelor’s programme. Even before, my diploma I used to watch my cousins rehearse plays and I would say, “One day, I would get here.” I eventually got a first degree in Theatre Arts. My dad wanted to me to become an engineer or doctor. But I knew if I did any of the two, I would never be successful. The first time I went to a Chemistry Lab was the last time I went to a Chemistry Lab. From SSS 1 it was already obvious that I was for the arts. My vice principal tried severally to drag me to take classes in the sciences. Well, he failed very well. We were three of us like that back then. I knew I was made for the arts from the beginning. But stand-up comedy evolved overtime. I played more of comic than tragic roles. This was because people laughed when I played comic roles. So, my lecturers noticed and advised me. How did your parents take it? My dad tried to force me out. He didn’t pay my school fees. He simply did not like it. My mum simply asked, “Is this what you want?” I said, “Yes.” And she said, “Go on.” Now, my dad calls me any time he sees me on TV. He is my biggest fan. I think people could learn from my situation and get encouraged. If you believe in yourself, you can make it with or without people’s support. How then did you see yourself through school? I danced on the streets to raise money for my school fees and up keep. How does he feel now? You know, during marathons at the sound of a gun, all the athletes take off. There is usually so much tension. But when you get to the finish line and you are the first, you feel happy and relieved. If I went on that race and did not come out with anything, I would have lived a sad life. I would have possibly committed suicide. But now, with a lot of things coming in, being celebrated in and outside Nigeria, I would say it was a good fight. Tell us about your UK tour, we learnt it already started? Yes, the Senator Most Distinguished. The UK tour started on 26th October in Liverpool, 27th October was London, 28th October was Glasgow. On 2nd November we were in Northampton and on the 4th of November, we will storm Manchester. It’s an opportunity to relate with my fans in diaspora How do you feel about the tour? I am happy about the tour, its an opportunity to relate with my fans in diaspora.