Real Madrid Captain Sergio Ramos has been a vital part of the Real side during their Champions League dominance in recent years has now been identified as a ‘cancer’ in the Los Blancos dressing room who must removed because his influence has now grown too big, a club insider has revealed. No doubt, Ramos’ towering presence in the defence was a crucial part of Madrid historic feat of winning three-in-a-row UEFA Champions’ trophies. Ian McGarry, the Football Operations and Communications Consultant on the latest episode of The Transfer Window podcast made these revelations, according to Dailystar.co.uk reports. McGarry said: “As one very much in the inside Real Madrid hierarchy put to me during my time in Spain over the last couple days, ‘Ramos is a cancer in the dressing room that needs to be cut out’. “That is a serious, serious situation. “As captain, as club icon that he is, getting rid of him will be very difficult. “I think there is now a mood within the Santiago Bernabeu that whatever happens going forward, that whether it is long-term or for the rest of the season, that Ramos needs to be cut out of the club in order for any coach who is coming in to have a chance of managing the dressing room in the way they want to do.” McGarry added Ramos could be forced out of the club to ensure a new era under a new manager, with Mauricio Pochettino of Tottenham a potential long-term replacement for the sacked Julen Lopetegui. He added: “I would say from Real Madrid and Florentino Perez’s point of view, their Plan A is definitely see the season out with a manager who can effectively care-take till May next year on the basis they will then be able to mount a proper engagement of Mauricio Pochettino – and that means getting Ramos out of the club, and probably Marcelo as well and saying you’ve got a clean slate, and by the way you’ve got £350m to spend as well. “And (they will) try and rebuild that great club under a very different style of manager and a different mentality of how the dressing room politics will be played out.”