LAGOS – The police have arrested a master’s degree holder, Aminu Ahmed Yerima, 29, for allegedly posing as an aid to former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar and defrauding about 50 unsuspecting victims through Facebook. Yerima was arrested by the operatives of the Inspector General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT) led by Abba Kyari, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) after he allegedly poised as an aide to former number two citizen, Atiku Abubakar, who is currently the Presidential flag bearer of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2019 elections. Crime Tracker gathered that Yerima is a native of Jada Local Government Area of Adamawa State, where the former Vice President hails from, and allegedly fleeced unsuspecting victims of large sums of money. He was said to have ran into trouble when two female victims wrote petitions against him to the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, detailing how he defrauded them of the sum of N5million within a space of six months. Police sources disclosed that after the IGP approved the petitions, he directed his men at IRT to investigate and bring the perpetrator to book. Yerima was said to have been traced to Kano State where he was arrested, through information on his Facebook. Police sources hinted Crime Tracker that Yerima, who created a Facebook account using photographs he took with the former Vice President in Mecca, Saudi Arabia and several other locations, also poised on his Facebook wall as the personal Aide to Atiku. According to the police sources, “ Yerima convinced his victims that the former Vice President usually give out financial assistance and contracts to people who needs it and he assured them that he would always help them facilitate it. Lots of people fell in his trap because he made them believe that the Vice President would assist them the moment they seek for help.” “Since he is from the same Local Government Area with Atiku and he has met him on several occasions, where he took photographs with him, including one of the Vice President’s pilgrimages to Mecca, Saudi Arabia, his victims believed him fell for him.  After swindling them, he would block and stop communicating with them.  After we arrested him, we discovered that over 50 persons he defrauded had been blocked on Facebook. Two women who wrote separate petitions against him were Raliat and Awa Maje. He convinced them that Atiku was to give them N15million and he fleeced them N5million separately.’’ He was quoted as saying: “I obtained my Masters Degree from the University of Ghana, Accra, in 2014. I got my bachelors degree from Federal University Yola, Adamawa State in 2010.  I went into fraud 2016, after I could not secure a good job and I was equally duped by someone on Facebook who wanted to link me up to a sugar mummy who would be paying me for sex.  The fraudsters took N30,000 from me and blocked me on Facebook. Then I said to myself that I could do the same and make some money since I had no job.  I used the same sugar mummy formular, but it didn’t work. Then I created a new Facebook account using Manga Mubi as my profile name. Then I uploaded several pictures of myself and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who is from my Local Government.” “Whenever he is in town, he allowed people come around his house and snap pictures with him. I have snapped several pictures with him over the years during my Hajj Pilgrimage.  I also identified myself as his personal aide and people started contacting me.  A lot of them wanted to meet him through me, some others wanted contracts and financial assistance.  Normally I assured them that I could always facilitate a meeting between him and them, but it will come with a fee. I usually ask them to pay any amount from N500,000 upward and a lot of people paid several amount to me and when they insist on seeing him, I will tell them that he traveled out of the country and when they started becoming troublesome I will block them from communicating with me. “I also learned to defraud people using fake bank alert and I used it in buying goods in Kano State before I was arrested.  One of the women who wrote the petition to the police Raliat, added me on Facebook and she started conversing with me believing that I am an aide to Atiku.  She told me that she needed N15million for her business and I assured her that Atiku was going to give it to her, but she will have to give me some money that I will use in processing the money for her.  I made her believe that Atiku was always traveling round the world and reaching him wasn’t easy, so she was always providing money for my movement to see him.  I took a total of N2.5million from her and I sent a fake picture of a bank deposit teller of N15million, which Atiku had approved to be paid in to her account and when she waited endlessly for the money, she became too troublesome and I blocked her. I was in Kano when he police came and arrested me.“