Lagos – Bafana Bafana coach, Stuart Baxter, strategy since resuming camping on Monday for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Nigeria has been on tight defending and turning defence into attack. According to SAFA News, the coach is making sure that all tracks are covered ahead of the tie in which three points for either side will secure a passage to the 2019 AFCON finals in Cameroon. Nigeria lead the Group with 9 points and South Africa is second with 8 and Saturday’s encounter will afford the two top teams on who qualifies first from the Group, with Libya visiting a buoyant Seychelles also on Saturday. While a win will qualify South Africa for the Nationas Cup, a draw will do for Nigeria. With one intense training session on Monday, Bafana Bafana trained twice in blistering conditions on Tuesday and had a training match on Wednesday at Steyn City School. In the last three training sessions, the team has concentrated mostly on defensive set up, methodical build ups with greater emphasis on shooting at goal in which the players took turns to rain shots at goal. There has been no new concern in camp with regards to injuries with only goalkeeper Ronwen Williams being asked to train alone by the medical staff as a precaution. However, the goalkeeper is expected to join the rest of the squad going forward and will join the other two keepers Itumeleng Khune and Darren Keet who have been busy with their training schedule. Midfielder Thulani Serero who arrived in camp carrying a minor injury, showed some glimpse of his massive talent during Tuesday’s second training session in which he once again displayed his potential. He looked comfortable on the ball and went into 50/50 tackles without holding back, something that made coach Baxter and his technical feel content. As from Thursday, Bafana Bafana will move to FNB Stadium and will wrap up their preparations at the match venue on Friday. Coach Baxter has been calling the public to come in their numbers on Saturday to support the boys as a good crowd will always work as the 12th player when playing at home. He pointed out at the vociferous crowd that greeted Bafana Bafana in Uyo in the reverse fixture in which the stadium will filled to capacity hours before kick-off.