Uyo – Akwa Ibom International Airport has been renamed Victor Attah International Airport after the second civilian governor of the state, Arch. (Obong) Victor Attah. This was announced at a special banquet held to commemorate the 80th birthday of former Governor Attah at Ibom Hotel and Gulf Resort. The naming of the airport which came on the heels of a resolution by the state House of Assembly became necessary to immortalise Obong Attah in view of his noble contributions to development of the state. Making the pronouncement, Governor Emmanuel eulogised Obong Attah for the laudable development programmes initiated during his eight years tenure as governor of the state and listed the development projects to include Ibom Deep Seaport Project, Ibom International Airport with maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facility, Ibom Hotel and Gulf Resort, and phase one of the state secretariat complex. He noted that his commitment to the state development was unquantifiable and commended him for his resilience to the development of the state, Niger Delta region and entire country. Governor Emmanuel acknowledged the contributions of Obong Attah towards making the MRO unit of the airport functional despite his exit from office, saying that such demonstration of zeal, patriotism and forthrightness was worthy of emulation by all and sundry. While commending Arch Attah for his doggedness for the actualisation of true federalism and resource control, the governor maintained that the vision had paid off well for the state and the South-South region with the result being tremendous increase in the revenue accruing to the oil bearing states. He congratulated the celebrator for making it to the age of eighty and prayed God to grant him robust health and more years of existence to enable him impact more on the society. In his response, the obviously overwhelmed Obong Attah said that he would eternally remain grateful to Governor Emmanuel and the people of the state for the respect accorded him and prayed God to reciprocate such honour on the governor when he exited the office. Obong Attah, who is generally referred to as the father of modern Akwa Ibom, recounted with nostalgia his bitter experience on the occasion of his seventieth birthday celebration where the then administration denied him access to Le Meridian Ibom Hotel where he proposed hosting the event and he resorted to celebrating the birthday at Eko Hotels in Lagos State and called on political gladiators to play politics devoid of rancour but encourage fellow feeling in the society. In a goodwill message, President Muhammadu Buhari congratulated Obong Attah for joining the league of the octogenarians and particularly lauded his contributions to the development of the state and country over the years. Speaking through the Minister of National Planning and Budget, Senator Udoma Udoma, President Buhari commended Obong Attah for his pragmatic leadership prowess, describing him as a distinguished professional, architect of global repute and spoke in glowing terms of his ingenuity in laying solid foundation for the development of the state. President Buhari pointed out that Obong Attah had deployed his professional ingenuity to contribute immensely in making Akwa Ibom a state to be reckoned with given the ambience of the state. He added that former Governor Attah had during his administration set out development agenda for the state and had taken steps to launch the state into a pedestal of unprecedented development and spoke of his approach to the resource control where he single handedly took up the fight for the abrogation of on shore off shore dichotomy and commended him for his fearless disposition even in the face of daunting disposition. He expressed appreciation to the government and people of the state for celebrating Obong Attah while alive and wished him happy celebration. Also, former governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori, acknowledged that Governor Attah has distinguished himself as apostle of resource control having successfully won the resource control battle and given voice to the people of the Niger Delta region. Governor Attah’s bosom friend and leader of the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere, Pa Ayo Adebayo, spoke of Obong Attah as a fighter committed to the service of the state and humanity. Similarly, Senator Bassey Albert in his submission described Obong Attah as the father of modern Akwa Ibom, saying that the history of the state would not be complete without the mentioning of Obong Attah who created the pathway for the unprecedented development witnessed across the state and congratulated him on the birthday celebration. Senator Albert lauded the octogenarian for introducing the eight years zoning principle for governorship positions in the state, noting that the arrangement made it possible for Godswill Akpabio from Ikot Ekpene senatorial district to govern the state for eight unbroken years and strongly advocated the sustenance of the principle in the turn of Eket Senatorial District with Governor Udom Emmanuel on the saddle for the sake of justice, equity and fairness. He used the occasion to canvass support for the reelection of Governor Udom Emmanuel to enable him complete his tenure as his predecessors from Uyo and Ikot Ekpene senatorial districts and applauded Governor Emmanuel for rolling out the drums to celebrate the father of modern Akwa Ibom. The colourful event which featured ballad presentation, cultural display, comedy sketches, choral renditions culminating in the cutting of birthday cake by the celebrator, Obong Victor Attah, assisted by Governor Emmanuel, past governors of the state, Group Captain John Ebiye (rtd.), Otuekong Idongesit Nkanga, Deputy Governor Moses Ekpo, Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, Senator Helen Esuene and others.