Comrade Alade Lawal, the Secretary-General of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN) in this interview with ISAAC ASABOR, spoke on diverse issues of the economy, particularly as they affect the labour sector. What is your take on decent work? The issue of decent work is central to the work of ILO. You can see that a lot have been achieved through decent work agenda; through decent work to address a lot of development. If you look at SDG goal 8, it deals with the fact that decent work can be used to address the issues of development. Also, that a worker must be able to work with dignity. Where a worker and his family would be able to earn a living income through what he does. It is not like precarious work. Like in the banks where a lot of works are outsourced and the outsourcing companies take a chunk of the pay, and give the workers just a stipend. How the workers’ lot can be improved through decent work has remained a top agenda of the ILO. And we also as a country should protect the workers from exploitation by businesses that come in the guise of investment and at the end of the day they rip our people; the workers off. That discussion is about going forward on how ILO has been able to do over the past 100 years, which we are celebrating, and also looking at the new challenges on how to be able to develop strategies and tools needed to respond to the challenges. What policy option would you suggest the Government should put in place to ensure thrives in Nigeria? I am of the view that the Federal Government examines the differences in socio-economic performance between 36 states, and formulates policy options for upward convergence to revive the nation’s economy This is because, if the current economic crisis, where some states cannot pay workers’ salaries is not well managed, rapid changes in the nature of employment and skill requirements, as well as rising levels of poverty and inequality in the country could further exacerbate disparities across the  36 states and harm the Nigeria diversification  project in the long run. The Government need to use key economic indicators such as unemployment, poverty rates and GDP per capital to close the financial and economic crisis which has widened the gap between the states, as evidenced by their labour gap which market and social performance. This is because an improved socio-economic environment is necessary for the political and societal support to the continued construction of the Nigerian economy Some financial analysts recently declared that there is a challenging financial environment confronting the growth in agriculture, especially for smallholder farmers, who find credit facilities inaccessible in the country. How, do you think rural farmers can easily access credit facilities to enhance their farming operations? Lack of access to credit facilities has been a recurring decimal in our agricultural production system. To enable rural farmers have easy access to credit facilities and foster rural agricultural productivity, I think that we should consider a wholesale packaging of rural farmers. We should encourage cluster or group farming in which farmers are organised into cooperative groups. When farmers operate as a cooperative, it will be easy for the group to access facilities from financial institutions because they will be regarded as a considerable aggregation and size that is viable. However, there is need for bankable feasibility study or business plan wherein all costs and benefits sharing will be expressed. The existing individual single digit loan interest offered by the government is good, but it is difficult for individual smallholder farmers to benefit from this. Loan processing, administration and recovery also become easy for the financial institutions while the risk of loan recovery is reduced or eliminated when they deal with a group. Imagine if you have about 500 farmers in a cluster, and each farmer has a hectare; that will be 500 hectares of land and you now package this in a project. What you are putting forward to the bank, as an example, is 500 hectares rice farming project for the cooperative group. You have spoken a lot about the economy, 2019 is very close, how do you see the economy between now and 2019.  Are we moving forward, stagnant or going backward? Personally, I am worried particularly when the president some time ago sent the substantial supplementary budget to the legislature for approval, so that almost one quarter of the budget would be given to INEC to hold elections. It is a subject of concern in the sense that, we all witnessed what happened in UK, the government changed, there was no expenditure from the government to, the same thing in America, we witnessed the election that brought Donald Trump in, it was sponsored mainly by individuals who contributed to his campaign. A situation where a quarter of the budget is going to finance an election, is already telling us that 2019 is going to be a depressed economic year , because the money we are talking about that they want to spend will end up in the pockets of individuals. We are all aware of the revelations that came out, how substantial sum of the money was given to individuals unaccounted for, in the last election in 2015. What we are going to have, if we are not careful is a repetition of that and as David Cameron said in one of his comments, when he was prime minister of Britain, that the kind of money that left the economy of Nigeria over the years, if something like that was spent on Britain the country could have been better off. What is your take on federal government’s threat to workers each they embark on strike? There is no bill or law that can stop workers from going on strike. Any government that tries to stop the workers from embarking on strike is wasting its time. This is because the people that constitute the government are voted by the people, and the should not forgot that the people voted them into power. If this government continue the way it was going, the working population, with their numerical strength, with that of their families and defendants would work together to vote them out.