OWERRI – As activities for the nation’s 2019 general elections continue to gather momentum, stakeholders in Imo State have indicated their preparedness to tackle all forms of electoral malpractices including violence, intimidation and vote-buying. They said they were committed to ending vote buying and selling ahead of the polls. The stakeholders comprising the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), political parties, heads of various security agencies, town union leaders, amalgamation of professional bodies, civil society organisations and the media made the commitment in Owerri at a one-day interactive session on Vote Buying organised by Hope Givers Initiative (HOG-I) in conjunction with Voice to the People (V2P) and INEC. While commending INEC for the major improvements made in the nation’s electoral process by ending ballot box snatching and stuffing, multiple votings and over voting, the stakeholders lamented that in spite of the effort by the electoral umpire to improve, politicians were still devising various means of subverting the process. They lamented that vote buying had become a major electoral issue that must be stopped if the will of the people of the state would count during the 2019 elections. Dasuki Galadanchi, the state Commissioner of Police, and the state director of the Department of State Security (DSS) represented by officer, Chris Anayo, security agents would deal decisively with any politician or agent found to be engaging in vote buying during the 2019 polls. They said, already various security agents had been mandated to collaborate with other stakeholders such as the press, CSOs to place a check on all the actors and track them for possible arrest and prosecution of any offender. In their separate speeches, the president of South East Association of Indigenous Town Unions, Chief Emeka Diwe, and the president, Amalgamation of Imo Professionals, Chief Martin Opara, pledged to use their strength to reach to the greater number of people of the state to send the message against vote buying, because, their members were the worst hit whenever there is an enthronement of bad leadership in the state. While promising not to be involved in vote buying, they promised to work with relevant stakeholders such as the INEC, security agents and the media to give information about politicians who try to subvert the will of the people through vote buying. Prof. Chukwuemeka Ezeonu, the state resident electoral commissioner, represented by the Mrs. Ben Opara, said the commission started preparations for the 2019 election more than two years ago, adding that adequate measures had been put in place to guard against vote buying and other electoral frauds. The REC said the commission was seriously pushing power back to the people of Nigeria and one of the measures adopted to reduce vote buying was the provision of polling cubicles at polling units and that voters must ensure that the presiding officers erect the cubicle before the commencement of the election. While commending Hope Givers for organising the workshop for stakeholders, the REC charged stakeholders particularly security agencies to help the nation to build its democracy and development by ensuring that people comply with the rules to have free, fair and credible election in 2019. In a lecture titled, ‘Credible election 2019: Issues, challenges and way forward,’ Barr. Chibuzor Crownell enumerated the dangers of vote buying and selling to include enthronement of criminals as leaders, spreading poverty, deepening inequality, bad governance crime and criminality and aggression among others, saying with vote buying, the place of the citizens was gradually moving from the point of strength to the point of clientele. Crownwell said if stakeholders fail to fight and stop vote buying, Nigeria would be at the risk of being compared with Cameroun, Somalia and Zimbabwe. In her address earlier, the executive director of Hope Givers Initiative, Mrs. Onyeka Udegbunam, commended the stakeholders, particularly security agencies and town union presidents for their interest to learn and help in the improvement of nation’s electoral and good governance.