LAGOS – Nigeria is targeting 30 per cent of its energy needs from renewables by 2030 as part of its drive to diversify energy sources and optimise other assets for power production. Mr. Babatunde Fashola, the Minister of Works, Power and Housing disclosed this yesterday in a keynote address at the 2018 pre-conference workshop of the Nigerian Association of Petroleum Exploratinists (NAPE) held in Lagos. He said that the current component of grid power consists mainly of gas-fired power (85 per cent) and hydropower (15 per cent), there was the need to produce an energy mix that targets a 30 per cent component of renewable energy out of the gross energy produced by 2030. He said: “Let me be clear and unequivocal by saying upfront that our commitment as a nation and government to pursue renewable and low carbon energy at low cost is clear, firm and unshaking. “ But this is not all. It is a commitment driven by necessity, contract, and policy.” The minister said that government had also matched its intent with actions, such as signing of 14 solar power purchase agreement (PPAs) with 14 developers with the potential to deliver over 1,000 MW of solar power. He said that Africa must intensify efforts at improving transmission grid for renewable energy to be effectively developed on the continent. He added that Nigeria as a committed member of the United Nations (UN), African Union (AU) and Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) had adopted several international treaties and policies, which promoted the use of renewable energy. He explained that the development was in line with the national vision to provide incremental power, and then steady and uninterrupted power. The minister emphasised that the Federal Government, recently approved an integrated energy mix targets under Electricity Vision 30:30:30, which targets generation of 30 GW in 2030, with 30 per cent from renewable energy sources. “Africa has trillions standard cubic feet of natural gas reserves, billions of barrels of crude oil reserves and billions of tonnes of coal,” he added. The minister said that government had completed arrangements to concession six hydro dams to private operators under build, operate and transfer (BOT) scheme.