Lagos – Moses Ocheje, the newly wedded Sunshine Stars of Akure goalkeeper, and his wife, Queentina Ugo, escaped death by the whiskers as their car summersaulted on Tuesday on their way to Abuja from Otukpo, where they tied the knots on Friday. Ocheje, in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, revealed that after the wedding, which held amid fanfare and had in attendance so many players from the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), the couple decided to travel back to Abuja, where they were scheduled to start their honeymoon but that on the way, they had a burst tire in their Toyota Camry Muscle car, which led to the vehicle summersaulting several times. However, no life was lost in the incident, even as the couple had continued to thank God for saving their lives. “We were on our way back yesterday (Tuesday) after the wedding ceremony; there is this bending in Lafia after Makurdi. It was at that bend that one of the rear tires busted and the car summersaulted into the bush but we thank God that nothing happen to either me or my wife,” Ocheje said to our correspondent. Meanwhile, Shooting Stars Sports Club have confirmed that 22 of its players were hospitalized on Monday ahead of their midweek NNL clash against Bendel Insurance in Benin for suspected food poisoning. The sides were scheduled to go head-to-head in a top of the table clash in Group B1 of the second tier league, but after a supper of vegetables, players of the visiting team were struck by a common symptom of food contamination. 3SC media Officer, Jubril Arowolo, who confirmed this said: “The players were rushed to hospital about 11:00 pm on Monday following the incident. “Our players are serious in pain and won’t be okay to play the match in Benin. In fact, the cause of the food poisoning can’t be ascertained now, but it could be as a result of vegetable served the players during their supper.” The Week 17 fixture, which was earlier scheduled to hold in Benin City, has thus been postponed after the official complaints by the Oluyole Warriors.