Ahmad Tijjani Abdul Kano – Kano State governor,  Abdullahi Umar Ganduje on Friday failed to appear before the Kano House of Assembly Ad-Hoc committee investigating the authenticity of a bribery video that showed him allegedly collecting wads of dollar bills from unknown contractors. An online newspaper, Daily Nigeria had on October 14 and 15 exclusively published two videos showing Mr Ganduje allegedly receiving a bribe in dollars. Sequel to the dust raised by the videos, the Kano House of Assembly, under the leadership of Alhaji Kabiru Alhassan Rurum constituted a committee on October 15 to establish the authenticity of the videos. Consequently, the publisher/editor-in-chief of Daily Nigeria, Jaafar Jaafar testified before the committee on October 15 where he insisted that the videos were genuine and expressed readiness to swear by the Quran to convince ‘doubting Thomases.’ Ganduje, who instead details two of his commissioners, Mohammed Garba, Information and Culture,  and Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice dismissed the viral video as fake. Garba, who also doubles as the government spokesman explained that his principal absence before the probe panel was hinged on multiple options provided in the invitation letter. He said, “we were able to read the invitation extended to His Excellency, and after analysing the content of the letter critically we were able to identify three options. Either His Excellency responds in writing, sends a representative or appears himself.” Mohamad Garba, who read a written response of Governor Ganduje before the committee said, he did not collect bribe, and would never collect bribe. Garba stressed: “His Excellency has categorically and unapologetically denied collection of bribe as alleged by Daily Nigeria, and his Excellency has not collected and will never collect bribe. The allegations are injurious and damaging to his personality .” He maintained that the alleged video was false, designed to tarnished his image, aimed at reducing his popularity, especially at this critical moment general election is approaching. Garba, therefore, cautioned the Assembly to be wary of Daily Nigeria publisher,  Jaafar Jaafar,  adding that his antecedents in the recent past on how he allegedly maligned and defamed the personalities of the Emir of Kano,  Malam Muhammad Sanusi II, and former Governor Ibrahim Shekarau was still fresh in memory. Responding,  the chairman of the seven-man Ad-hoc committee,  Alhaji Baffa  Baba Dan’agundi said they would scrutinise the written response by the governor and arranged sitting next Tuesday for a Graphics expert to authenticate the video before Mr  Ganduje, Jaafar Jaafar lawyers at a secret location. Babba Dan’agundi, therefore, appealed to the working journalist in the state to ensure fair and just reportage of the committee’s proceeding.