Abuja – Barring any last minute change, there are strong indications that the tenure of Ibrahim Idris, Inspector-General of Police (IGP), which is expected to elapse statutorily on January 15, 2019 will not be extended. Daily Independent investigations revealed that overtures made to the presidency by people believed to have the ears of President Muhammadu Buhari to extend his tenure have been rebuffed. Presidency sources hinted that a powerful cabal is unhappy with Idris’ recent actions, suggesting that he is acting against their interest. The sources cited that the sack of Lawal Daura, former Director-General (DG), Department of State Services (DSS), was corroborated by a confidential report allegedly written by the IGP indicting him (Daura). Daura, they hinted, was believed to be a respected member of the cabal but was inadvertently sacked by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Apart from the cabal being angry with Idris, Aisha Buhari, wife of the president, is also said to be unhappy with IGP Idris over the exoneration of her aide-de-camp (ADC), who was alleged to have embezzled some official funds. Irked by the action of the police, Aisha was said to have directed the DSS to take over the investigation, suggesting that she had lost confidence in the police under the leadership of Idris. Further Daily Independent investigations revealed that President Buhari had planned to sack the IGP since November 2017 over alleged issues of corruption and inefficiency. One of such cases was the controversy he had with Senator Isah Hamman Misau representing Bauchi Central Senatorial District over allegation of favouritism and selective promotion of officers. Idris was said to have lobbied a serving minister from the South-South and a sitting governor from the South-East to plead on his behalf when he got wind of his possible sack. They were said to have separately tried to persuade the president in December, 2017 to reconsider his decision and extend Idris’ tenure until the 2019 elections. Daily Independent further gathered that the cabal cited several reasons why Buhari should drop Idris. It is believed that one of the reasons the cabal wanted the present IGP to go was his rift, not long ago, with the new Chairman, Police Service Commission (PSC), retired IGP Alhaji Musiliu Smith, over alleged lopsided promotions. Last week, the House of Representatives Committee on Police Affairs was mandated to investigate the feud between Idris and Smith over the allegations of lopsided promotions. Daily Independent had exclusively reported in September that the chairman of PSC, on assumption of duty in July, met myriad of petitions demanding the commission to review certain promotions regarded as “lopsided”, which were approved by the immediate past leadership of PSC. A dependable source at PSC had hinted then that “we cannot ignore the petitions”. He had added: “We are going to critically examine the petitions. It is not going to be a total swipe; those who merit their promotions will retain their ranks.” Daily Independent reported that Smith viewed the weight of the petitions and decided not to treat them with levity or sweep them under the carpet. Smith subsequently appointed retired Justice Clara Ogunbiyi to head a committee responsible for the review of the alleged “lopsided” promotions in the police. “The committee is mandated to review all promotions from 2016 till date. After the screening, those who do not merit their promotions would be reverted to their former ranks,” the source had said. Meanwhile, the IGP wrote to the chairman to stop any plan to revert promotions of certain officers. It was also reported in Daily Independent that Smith had told the IGP and his management team, during a courtesy call on him in August, to henceforth attach results of performance of officers to their recommendations for promotion. “Henceforth, result of performance of officers from appropriate training courses must be attached to the recommendations to the commission for promotion, if not, the recommendations will not be considered,” Smith was reported to have said. Dependable sources at Force Headquarters, the presidency, and the PSC reveal that Buhari had had a personal relationship with Smith before he was appointed PSC chairman. In the same vein, Smith was said to have promoted Idris from the rank of Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) to the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) when Smith was IGP and he met Idris at Police Mobile Training Camp, Gwoza, Borno State. The cabal, in order to drive home a good point, was said to have accused Idris of embarrassing the presidency and the ruling party. It was learnt that Idris was being accused of acting most times without the knowledge or permission of the president or the National Security Adviser (NSA). The cabal was also said to have mentioned, among other things, the Osun State election when the IGP summoned the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ademola Adeleke, to Abuja for questioning over allegation of forgery, few days to the election. Adeleke’s summon was highly criticised, prompting the president to revert the order. Meanwhile, the presidency is believed to be searching for a replacement among the Deputy Inspectors-General (DIGs) of Police and Assistant Inspectors-General (AIGs). The DIG Operations, from Plateau State, is said to have an edge over the rest six DIGs among the officers being considered. Others being considered are two AIGs, one of who was in charge of Zone 5 Benin from Zamfara State, now in NIPSS, Kuru, Jos.