ABUJA – President, Coca- Cola West Africa, Mr Peter Njonjo at the weekend, said the Company is set to support fifteen Federal Hospitals with equipment, kits and supplies with total conservative value of about $10.8 million which is equivalent to over N3.8 billion. He made this known at the official launch of the Safe Birth Initiative with the slogan “Let’s bring Mum and Baby home alive”, in Abuja. According to him, Coca-Cola, “we have chosen to join in the fight against maternal and newborn deaths, so that our mothers and babies can come home alive from the maternities. Like everything we do at Coca-Cola, we have been deliberate, strategic and collaborative in developing our approach. “With Coca-Cola’s grant, Medshare will leverage their donor network to source and deliver to these hospitals the required equipment, kits and supplies with a total conservative value of about $10.8 million over N3.8 billion. “ It is because Coca-Cola cares. We care that about 53,000 women die in this country every year, while undergoing the most noble and selfless act of bringing new lives to replenish our world. We care that more than 240,000 new babies die, while their families are still celebrating their arrival. We care that over 80 per cent of these tragedies are preventable, yet they occur every day around our communities”, he said. He said that these lives can be saved, if and only if each one of us as individuals, families, communities, organizations and government would refuse to accept these deaths as our country’s fate and do more to minimize the many factors that cause us this pain. He noted that the issue of safe birth resonates strongly with us also because it affects the wellbeing of women. Globally, Coca-Cola has a commitment to women whom we consider as pillars of the society and also pillars of our business, especially in Nigeria and Africa, where women play a dominant role in our vast distribution and retail network. He stressed that, “We recognise that the many factors responsible for the very high maternal and newborn deaths will require different kinds and levels of interventions. We also recognise that no one platform or programme cannot possibly deal with all the factors. One such factor is the fact that knowledge, skills and commitment alone are not enough to save lives. Technology makes the difference in every aspect, from diagnosis to treatment, and has become increasingly vital in the neonatal area. We want to support the untiring efforts of our hardworking doctors, midwives and nurses who battle against great odds in our public hospitals to manage life-threatening complications affecting mothers and the newborn”. “We have therefore structured the Safe Birth Initiative (SBI) to help address the inadequacy of vital life-saving equipment, kits and supplies for maternal and newborn care in our public hospitals. Through the SBI, we will focus on three specific interventions: Procurement of vital maternal and neonatal medical equipment, kits and supplies; Training biomedical engineers and technicians on equipment maintenance and repairs as well as training the end-users, to ensure the effectiveness and maximum uptime of the equipment; and The third part is working with Medshare and the trained biomedical technicians to repair and reactive the large stocks of abandoned medical equipment wasting away in public hospitals”. Also, the Senior Special Assistant to the President Muhammadu Buhari on Sustainable Development Goals, Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire urged that this kind of gesture be replicated in rural areas. She, however,  said every live of every child and woman count’s and the federal government has demonstrated this saying, live is worth living irrespective of sex, race and religion.