Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday urged the Church to continue to pray for the survival and progress of Nigeria. Speaking at the dedication of Dunamis International Gospel Centre, Abuja, 100,000- seat capacity auditorium, Osinbajo, said that with God, the country would move from glory to Glory and from strength to strength. Singing a song titled, “Miracle worker, your name is Yahweh”, the Vice president said the new church auditorium was a manifestation of God’s glory on the country. “The church must continue to pray for the nation to be able to move from grace to grace and from strength to strength,” he said. Also speaking at the occasion, former president Goodluck Jonathan, said: “The nation was not in its best state, urging the Church constantly standing in the place of prayer for Nigeria. “Let me use this opportunity to thank Christians, especially Dunamis for constantly standing in the place of prayer for the nation. “The situation of Nigeria today is not the best but with your prayers, Nigeria will be great again.” Earlier in his sermon, Bishop David Oyedepo of the Living Faith Church, urged the Senior Pastor of Dunamis, Dr Paul Enenche to see the building and completion of the sanctuary as a fulfillment of prophesy. Oyedepo, who described the occasion as a celebration of great work and great worker (Jesus Christ), said the building was a product of divine visitation. He congratulated the Church for the grace of God to embark on such project and delivered it in good time. Oyedepo however charged Enenche to jealously guard the mandate of God upon his life to be able to retain the grace of God upon his life by remaining humble to the grace of God. Dignitaries at the service included the General Overseer, Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor E.A Adeboye, Pastor Matthew Ashimolowo of the Kingsway International Christian Centre. Others include Bishop David Abioye of the Living Faith Church, President of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Olasupo Ayokunle among others.