Dr. Olayiwola Oladapo, the Director, Strategy, Advocacy and Stakeholder Relations, Chartered Institute of Personnel Management (CIPM), in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU and OYENIRAN APATA, spoke on the golden jubilee of the institute, achievements, as well as some national issues. Excerpts: Sir, CIPM will soon celebrate its 50th anniversary, what does the event mean to the organisation? The Chattered Institute of Personnel Management at 50! We actually call ourselves also the Chartered Institute of People Management. Under the Act that created the institute, we are actually referred to as Chattered Institute of Personnel Management, but the evolution of human resource practice has moved away from the use of the word ‘personnel management’. We are in the course of trying to reflect that change in our name, but appropriately, we are an institute that deals with human resource professionals and that is what we do. Having said that, what do 50 years of existence mean to us? I also need to say that we have been around for 50 years, but we are 25 years of being a chartered institute. We are chattered under the Act 58 of 1992 and that has massive implications for who we really are. We are not just a professional association; we are actually an institute of professionals. What that means is that we have the mandate under the laws of Nigeria to regulate the practice and profession of human resources or the professional practice of human resources in Nigeria. That in summary probably captures what we’ve been doing in the last fifty years. So, it is a celebration of that sacred mandate that we have from the Nigerian people vested in the Act that got us chattered. We are responsible for the development, grooming and regulating the practice of human resource managers. Like we know, human resource is the biggest asset of any nation. Clearly, the people who also manage human resource across different organizations, whether they are public, private or SME’s who constitute probably 70% of organisations in Nigeria, are also the most critical managers we may have. To us, it is celebrating excellence in regulating and developing HR professionals in Nigeria. It means so much to us. So, it is fifty years of existence, but 25 years of excellent development of human resource professionals and regulation of that practice in Nigeria. What would you say are the major landmarks recorded by CIPM in these past 50 years? We’ve got a long list of major landmarks. I will start with the fact that as human resource institute, in fact, one of the first few things we do for the nation and organisation is to ensure that there is a consistent and sustainable pipeline of leadership/talent that emerge across organisations, where ever they may find themselves whether it is in the private or the public sector. As an institute that serves, in the last 50 years we’ve produced some of the most distinguished Nigerians who have led the institute like Dr. Omolayo, Dr. Christopher Kolade and so on. First is the fact that we have walked our talk in producing distinguished Nigerians who have led the institute. Beyond that, we have also been able to massively influence the practice of human resource in Nigeria. Under the chatter that established us no human resource or personnel manager should practice human resource in Nigeria without our certification, licence or validation of their professional competence and so that is a major landmark for us. Through our development programme, regulatory practice, we’ve been able to influence the direction of human capital professional development in Nigeria. We’ve been able to achieve major milestones with public sector organisations, especially in the states. We’ve worked with Lagos State Government in the professionalisation of its human resource management. Lagos is spearheading that whole process across Nigeria. We have worked with Ekiti State government and currently with Oyo State government. We have massively impacted the sector in terms of setting the direction on human capital rules and how resource managers are developed, their career progression and professional delivery of their responsibilities. We are also working with a lot of universities in Nigeria. We’ve found out that some of our universities now provide courses in HR areas. What we are doing is to ensure that the universities can align their curriculum with our own professional programme. So, essentially what ICAN does in terms of regulating the accounting profession is what we do with human resource, so that the gap between the school and the market is an endless bottomless pit in terms of the meeting points. The school produces materials that the market is not asking for. Essentially, we are working with universities like Caleb University, Covenant University, University of Ibadan, University of Lagos and lots of other universities in Nigeria. Our plan is to ensure that wherever HR is taught as an academic programme it starts to reflect our own professional standards in CIPM. Also, we have been able to establish HR standards which are the essential premise upon which we can regulate the practice. We’ve been able to succeed in getting the Nigerian government to also adopt the ISO standards for human resource management in four different areas. We are going to launch these standards at our annual conference, but that essentially is also very critical. The question you might want to ask is beyond our authority to regulate, what do we regulate with? We regulate with international standards and best practices. The beauty is that we have been able to customise those standards to fit our own national context. We just look at those things and we attach them to our environment. We have been to achieve all of that and a few others we have been able to do. We have the biggest membership network of HR professionals in Africa. Shortly before this interview, we just ended a teleconference meeting with our counterpart organisation in South Africa, the IPM of South Africa. I will count that as a major achievement in terms of our collaborations with other international organisations and institutes like ours. We have membership strength of 12,000. So, it is a strong institute membership base and arguably the biggest in Africa and they are quite excited about collaborating with us. We have other collaborations and affiliations with several international organisations who regulate one area of human resource practice or the other. In terms of how we have also influenced the direction of human resource management in Africa, we have helped in setting up the human resource institute in Kenya and Zimbabwe. Kenya came here a couple of years ago and invited us to their parliament for a presentation for a chartered status. So, we also have influence across the African continent. Obviously, we’ve been able to establish our footprint in influencing the direction of human resource management on the African continent. We are talking to Kenya, South Africa, Zimbabwe and we have some relationship with Egyptian human resource professional institute. We are a strong member of the World Federation of People Management and we are on the board championing African Federation of People Management. We also have a key resource, a director in this institute who sits on behalf of the institute on the board of International Standard of HR, ISO standards. So, we’ve been able to honestly influence, not just nationally, continentally but globally the direction of HR. I think that suffices for the few areas where we have been able to make massive landmark in terms of our impact on nation, continent and even the world at large. What would you say are the major challenges of CIPM currently? Talking about challenges, as a regulatory institute, we’ve have the challenge of being able to effectively enforce the mandate of that regulation. A lot of people don’t revert to us on anything that has to do with human resource development or in the hiring of HR professionals or in their discipline. Unlike ICAN, Nigeria Medical Association, the Pharmacy Council of Nigeria which are regulatory bodies like ours. The regulatory enforcement of our mandate has not been as effective as some of those other more established professional regulatory bodies. So, we have a long way to go as a nation. Likely, it is not within our power to enforce. Enforcement is with executive and the legislative arm of government and that is a space that is very weak in Nigeria in terms of practising HR without been members of this institute or without been licensed or certified to practice HR and Instances where you have such. We are also very much aware that the legal system in Nigeria is very challenging for getting people to be prosecuted, that is number one. Similarly, the public sector has not fully embraced the concept of human resource management. What we typically find across public sector organisations is based on the public sector schemes of service. In fact, as we speak, you probably would find the designation of HR managers and such roles in agencies of government and not in core ministries and departments. Some of them that use it probably do so because there is a plan to actually move and transit from admin to the HR. So, currently even that does not exist in the public service and that has created a problem in the proper recognition of the certificate and licences that we give our members in the public sector. It affects their progression in terms of career growth. That is why I said what we are doing is to go through the state government and use Lagos State as a model in trying to reach to other public sector agencies within the states. We are also trying to work with the National Bureau of Establishment to ensure that we are gazetted. You know, government policy is that anything that will become law must be gazetted. So, while they have accepted that we are the regulatory body and they recognise that, it has not been gazetted. At fifty, what does the future holds for the organisation? The future is very bright. We are not just optimistic Nigerians, we are very realistic. We have assets that position us as an institute to occupy the leadership position in Africa, 12,000 members and still growing. Our conferences annually typically attract over 2,000 to 3,000 HR professionals and so the assets of the institute are its people. The 12,000 we are talking about are some of Nigeria’s most distinguished professionals with the massive sphere of influence and what you also call the capital of influence across this nation. In that sense, it offers us the opportunity to help change the focus of Nigeria. We think our greatest asset is our oil, but we are saying it is our people and for us, the opportunity to lead that whole campaign and champion the course for human capital development as the tool to sustainable national development, the prospects are very wide for us. The future is very bright. We have become a very beautiful bride that all other international institutes are looking for our hand in “marriage”. People are seeking partnership with us. Outside of Africa, we are extremely well respected. In Africa, we have a very strong reputation and for us, it portends prospects for opportunities outside of Africa and within Nigeria. 12,000 members, why are we not up to 100,000 members. So, the SMEs are still there, which is an area in which we can have more impact. The public sector is probably the single largest employers of labour in Nigeria. So, the future looks very bright. If we overcome these challenges, I am sure these prospects that I spoke about are going to be achievements we can recall in the next two years. Sir talking about technology, what would be the future of personnel management in an automated work environment where robots are taking over human elements? Part of what we have been working on is advocacy on policies and HR related issues. What does that mean? Well, for instance, during this minimum wage debate, we were on different tv stations. We were on Channels, TVC and LTV talking about issues that border employees. We also spoke about union issues and the rest of them. Now, what are we working on? We’ve seen ahead as the leader because that is one of the roles we have on human capital development. We call it the new world of work. It is not even just people that we are talking about. We are talking about the workplace changing. We are talking about work changing. We are talking about the workforce that will drive that. So, it speaks forth industrial revolution and we are at the vanguard of trying to raise awareness about it. What we’ve found out with robots, an introduction of the industrial revolution, is the fact that it takes away jobs, but creates new jobs. I will give you a wonderful example of how the fourth industrial revolution has changed our world. Traditional operators had the fear that it was going to send people into unemployment, but it has actually helped to create more employment. For example, when the Uber system came, all taxis felt it was the death of that industry. Now, even your own car can do Uber, everybody can be a transporter. The Cab hailing system like they call it, rides on technology. So, there is an argument a lot of times where we talk about only robots taking over human jobs which would happen in some instance. But, you see, human beings will still need to operate and programme the robots. So, before, we may be managing human beings. But, we’ve seen the world that is coming that we will both manage humans and robots. The new manager will not be the manager of only humans, but also robots. Why do you need to manage robots? So, that is another skill that we need to have. I think the danger for us as a nation is that we have not had the discussion. People are still fighting against the introduction of technology. I just want to say that it is not all about job losses, it is about job creation. It is about efficiency that you get. The question for us as a nation is that we should be preparing for the skill set that the new technology will create. While, we will lose a job, we will also create jobs. If we are not doing anything about it now, what we are already experiencing is that foreigners will keep doing those jobs. As we speak, it is not technology, but a lot of our jobs in Nigeria, vocational/artisan jobs, are being done by West Africans. We can see again that the challenge we have is not just about the robots replacing humans, it is also the fact that our people may not have skill set even for the new jobs that will be created. We have people who have gone to school, but are not skilled. Talking about the work environment as relates to effective service delivery, what is your honest assessment of the public service personnel? We are worried about the public sector of Nigeria. I think in our environment and mostly in third world countries, jobs a lot of times, are created for political patronage and expediency. That explains why you get into certain places and you see people lined up. Someone is in charge of in-tray and someone is in charge of out-tray. That correspondence could sit on one desk. In fact, the paper culture that we have is a drain on our economy. Certain things that could be sent by emails cannot be sent by emails. It also speaks to the public service. Is the public service ready for the 21st century?  You go to certain establishment that is meant to be focused on economic statistics and you find people who read languages who have not also been trained. They could read languages, you can have your first degree in languages, but you have not been trained. That is the challenge.