Comrade Godspower Aguh, a political analyst and labour activist, is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the emergence of Atiku Abubakar as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see the emergence of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as the PDP presidential candidate for the 2019 election? Atiku Abubakar is God’s gift to Nigeria to deliver the country from the bad governance of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Atiku is a businessman. He knows what is best in business and leadership. He is reported to be the highest employer of labour. He is a good manager of resources with the good hands around him. Every lover of a better Nigeria is happy over Atiku’s emergence. Atiku is a true democrat and one of the founders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Getting the party’s ticket is not a surprise. After being the Vice President under former President Olusegun Obasajo, he has returned to take his rightful position, which was denied him in the past. The primary election of PDP in Port Harcourt was mature and democratic. It was free and fair. It was the hallmark of democracy in Nigeria and has been commended all over the world. How do see the Atiku/Obi ticket? Do you see giving Nigerians a better future? That is a wonderful combination, a businessman and banker of repute. They will fast fix the nation’s economy, the infrastructure, create jobs, which the APC could not do. This is not a boast or propaganda. From where they are coming from, we know that they will fix Nigeria within two years, which APC could not do in over three years. Obi as a humble man, will work well with Atiku, who is not known to be arrogant. There is no way you can compare the Buhari/ Osinbajo ticket, which has disappointed millions of Nigerians that voted for them under the sun and the rain. It is over belief that Atiku/Obi ticket will not fail Nigerians, but will take the nation to the next level. Considering that President Muhammadu is the incumbent, do you think that Atiku can defeat him in the 2019 election? Let us do the analysis. Going by the figures released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), South East has 7.02 million voters. South South has 8.9 million voters. North Central has 14.2 million voters. North Central has 7.6 million voters; North East has 10.03 million, while North West has 18.9 million. If we do the analysis further, in South South, South East, North Central, and North East, Atiku will have almost 100 percent votes. In the North West, he will get 40 percent. In South West, he will get 50 percent. In South West, South East indigenes have over six million votes for Atiku. When you calculate this, you will see that Atiku will win the 2019 presidential election. Again, APC has disappointed Nigerians. It did nothing on its promises. That is why you see that Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information, has gone into the cooler since Atiku’s emergence. He is no longer talking. What agenda would you proffer for Atiku Abubakar? Personally, I cannot give Atiku an agenda. Before he decided to run for the Presidency, he has already drawn up an agenda. But, I will advise him to be mindful of the people around him. That is what has affected Buhari’s integrity. The cabal around Buhari destroyed his integrity. Atiku has promised to restructure Nigeria. Everyone wants restructuring. He is sure of the masses’ votes. Atiku must face governance if elected. The people are hungry and are crying. Money does not circulate well. The economy is very bad. The past PDP government was better that the APC administration because more than 50 million benefitted from that government. But, under the APC administration, less than 10,000 Nigerians are benefitting. That is why money does not circulate well. These 10,000 people, who benefit from the administration, either transfer the money abroad or bury it in the ground. Our people are suffering. When the economy is bad, the poor people die from poverty, while rich people grow richer, that is why people die every day. Many people now commit suicide because they cannot pay their bills. PDP does not seem to be strong in Lagos and has suffered series of electoral losses in South West. How do you think this would impact on the 2019 general elections? The problem PDP has in Lagos is only because of one person who has been at the helm for 16 years without winning any election. That was why Moshood Salvador, the immediate-past chairman of the party, defected to the APC. The national leadership should look into Lagos PDP. Lagos has a lot of non-indigenes who are in PDP. If we have a credible leader in PDP, who will not betray the party, it will win in Lagos in 2019. In the other South West states, what happened in Osun State exposed the APC, Ambode’s denial of the governorship ticket also exposed what the godfather has been doing in Lagos. Lagos has become one man’s property. It was indeed an opener for Lagosians. Lagosians are now wiser and will resist one man’s modern day dictatorship. Do you think that Jimmy Agbaje, the PDP governorship candidate in Lagos can defeat Babajide Sonwo-Olu of the APC? Agbaje needs to work hard. Getting into government is not a private business of one man. He must be up and doing. He has to be open and speak up on what is happening in Lagos. He should talk about the refuse heaps in Lagos, the bad roads, the suffering of Lagosians. How can he tackle all these? He needs to join forces with Atiku Abubakar’s numerous groups in Lagos so that he can take over Lagos. How do you see the emergence of Emeka Ihedioha as the PDP governorship candidate in Imo State, your home state? I wish to thank God for what He has done in Imo State. The PDP primary election went very well. All the aspirants accepted the result. I was opportuned to attend one of the Ihedioha’s numerous town hall meetings. He said he has no other business except politics. Within three years, he has gone round every village, ward, local government. This made him not to spend in the primary and he won. He is a household name in Imo State. When God wants to give you victory, you enemy will be at war, or asleep. You can see what is happening in APC in Imo State. Governor Rochas Okorocha will not allow Hope Uzodima to go for the governorship and Uzodima will not allow him (Rochas) to go for the Senate. Thus, if Hope Uzodima loses out, he will not take it easy with Rochas and APC. His followers will look for an alternative. We are talking about the masses. Ifeanyi Ararume just want to be a flag bearer of APGA and not to win. Look at his antecedent. He moved from PDP to APC because he could not get a ticket. Now, he has moved from APC to APGA for the same reason. This shows that he just wants to be a flag bearer and not a governor. So, everything goes well for Ihedioha because he realised his mistakes of 2015 when he went for big names, who could not deliver their polling booths. Now, he is working with the grassroots, the masses, the okada riders, the Keke riders and market women, all churches in Imo State are praying for him. Definitely, Douglas House is a straight road for Ihedioha in 2019.