Temidayo Akinsuyi, Tony Ezimakor and Dele Moses Lagos / Abuja / Ilorin – The headquarters of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) was on Wednesday besieged by protesters in their hundreds, demanding the immediate prosecution of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) over alleged financial impropriety during the party’s primary election. The protesters, who came under the auspices of Coalition for New Nigeria (CNN), a body in APC, said the country cannot allow its leaders to get away with brazen act as witnessed during the concluded primaries of the APC. They came bearing placards with inscriptions like ‘Oshiomhole is corrupt’; ‘Oshiomhole must go’; ‘With Oshiomhole, APC will Fail’; ‘ICPC must probe Oshiomhole’; ‘Buhari, Remove Oshiomhole now before it is too late’, among others. Stanley Ohu, Convener of the group, had earlier urged the anti-graft agency to expedite action in the investigation and prosecution of Oshiomhole. “We demand that Oshiomhole resigns owing to the plethora of allegations against him leading to even the DSS inviting him and demanding for his resignation. “We are determined in our quest to arrest the danger faced by our party, the governing APC, occasioned by the integrity-challenged National Chairman, Oshiomhole. “For the avoidance of doubt, we are well aware that Justice Anwuli Chikere of the Federal High Court ordered the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to commence criminal proceedings against Oshiomhole for allegedly diverting state funds into personal use. “Therefore, it is expedient that a man that has corruption noose round his neck is not the fit and proper person to lead a party that has President Muhammadu Buhari, a man known globally for his anti-corruption stance, to remain in office”. Ohu said that Oshiomhole should tread the path of honour and step aside and give the party a new lease of life before the general election. “As you are all aware, our party, the APC, is in serious crisis following the most reprehensible, divisive and widely condemned primaries across the states. The APC which was gaining grounds and welcoming new members is far from the all-embracing party it was when Oshiomhole took over as national chairman. “Given the various allegations of corruption by respected chieftains and members of the APC, we are here calling on the various anti-corruption agencies to begin a comprehensive probe of not only these allegations, but his time as the governor of Edo State. “We assure you that this will not be the end of the Coalition for New Nigeria’s protest until Mr. Oshiomhole leaves the exalted office of the national chairman of the governing APC, the party of change,” he said. Responding to the demands of the protesters, the ICPC said that it will not shield Oshiomhole from probe over alleged corruption practices, if there is any petition addressed to it to that effect. Spokesperson of the agency, Rasheedat Okoduwa, however, said that ICPC will follow laid down procedure for handling allegations of corruption, part of which is that there must be a formal petition duly signed and submitted to it. Okoduwa told the protesters that the commission will check its records to see if there was any petition submitted against the former Edo State governor as claimed by the protesters, promising that such petition if confirmed, will be treated as other petitions. “I have heard you and we thank you people for the peaceful protest here. You have done what you are supposed to do. I want to assure you that your petition will be treated according to its merit and the same manner we treat others,” she assured. Oshiomhole has been in the news following complaints by some aggrieved stakeholders in the party who are unhappy with the outcome of the just concluded primaries. He was quizzed by officials of the Department of State Services (DSS) last week for hours and was asked to resign but he stood his ground, saying he has committed no acts of wrongdoing and that only APC members who elected him can remove him from office. Also a member of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) said the EFCC will soon invite Oshiomhole for interrogation over the allegations as they constitute financial crimes. According to him, there were series of petitions forwarded to the anti-graft agency by some aggrieved stakeholders in the party following the outcome of the just concluded primaries where it was alleged that Oshiomhole allegedly collected bribes to award party’s ticket to the highest bidder. He Is Unfit To Remain In Politics — Saraki In a related development, Senate President Bukola Saraki on Wednesday said Oshiomhole is not fit to remain in politics. According to him, based on the allegations of bribery leveled against Oshiomhole he is unfit to remain as chairman of APC, more so when integrity talk about President Muhammadu Buhari is taken into consideration. Saraki stated this in an interview with newsmen in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, shortly after the 6th remembrance prayer held in honour of his late father, Olusola Saraki. He described a statement credited to Oshiomhole, asking him to resign his position as the Senate President on moral ground as a joke and said the APC chairman lacked locus standi to speak on morality. “That must be a joke coming from Oshiomhole talking about moral ground. I think Oshiomhole has no locus standi to talk about morality today. Oshiomhole is somebody, who has been said to have been collecting not even naira but dollars from candidates and he is being accused by his party’s aspirants and governors. I don’t think he has any moral ground, even to continue to be in politics not to talk about being a chairman of a party. “I remember in those days even Oyegun, they never accused him of something like this. I have left that party. I’m sure the president, based on integrity, knows the right thing to do. So, he cannot speak on moral ground”, Saraki said. APC Chair Can Be Investigated By EFCC, Says Sagay Also speaking on the bribery allegations against Oshiomhole, Prof. Itse Sagay, Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), said the embattled chairman is not above the law and can be investigated by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). “If there is substance in the allegations, I think it is something the EFCC should look into. If anybody feels Oshiomhole has been guilty of corruption, he should go and report to the EFCC. In other words, he is not above the law. “God forbid, if he did such a thing, it will have an adverse effect on the elections and the very future of the country. So, it is something that should be taken seriously but he should not be condemned as if he is guilty of the allegations already”, he said.