Samuel Ogidan and Chijioke Agwu Abuja / Abakaliki – Senators, South-East governors and leaders on Wednesday rejected the submission of the police that the alleged assassination attempt on Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu on Tuesday was a mere case of burglary, calling on the police to carry out thorough investigation on the incident. This is as Ekweremadu also on Wednesday threatened to release the footage of what transpired in his house to the media and the international community if the police failed to withdraw the statement that assassination attempt on his life was a mere case of burglary. It would be recalled that on Tuesday at the plenary session, Ekweremadu had explained to his colleagues what transpired in his house about 4a.m, where some people evaded the security operatives in his house and got all the way to his room where himself and his wife were sleeping, in an attempt to assassinate him. He further explained that all the efforts he made to get the attention of the police failed, including the attention of the Inspector General of the Police. Standing on Order 42 and 52 of the Senate rules during plenary session on Wednesday, Eyinnanya Abaribe, who led debate on the development, expressed concern over the way the police quickly dismissed the incident as a case of burglary, asking why the police are engaging in cover-up. Abaribe said, “The police said it was a mere burglary. We all know that these days are very ominous days for politicians in Nigeria especially for those who are politically exposed as each and every one of us is. For the police to quickly without even interviewing the very person for whom this incident happened to- the deputy Senate president, wife and his son and come out and determine that it was a burglary actually boggles the mind. “We know in this country Bola Ige was killed in his home. We know and also is a fact that the former gubernatorial candidate (in Lagos), Funsho Williams, was killed in his home. “The investigations are still ongoing. For the police to quickly and willingly dismiss this home invasion that could have led to a fatality and their proof was that somebody else was burgled. Nobody knows how they have come to such situation. “If we want to do an investigation, we will do it. I know that in this country a General that was killed was investigated until they found his body and they found that means that if we insist on doing the right thing we will do it. “Our fear today is why is the police engaging in a cover-up? Why is the police continually at any time that it concerns people that do not have presidential oversight or cover, they quickly come out and have a report?” Senators took turns to criticise the police, saying making conclusions on the invasion of Ekweremadu’s home by armed men in the early hours of Tuesday without proper investigation was wrong. Speaking, Ekweremadu, who said that Joshiak Habila, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Operations), came to his house in the afternoon under the direction of Inspector General of Police expressed shock that the police dismissed his case as mere burglary. He said, “In the afternoon, the Deputy Inspector General Police (Operations) came to my house and said it was the IGP who sent him to come and see me. He came with the Commissioner of Police in charge of FCT. I showed them round and of course they were very sympathetic of what happened. “I was shocked when I woke up this morning that what happened in my house was a mere case of burglary. I am at a loss because as we speak, they have not taken any statement from my son who is hospitalised, they have not gone to the hospital to find out what exactly happened to my son. They have invited security personnel attached to me who reported yesterday, some are still reporting this morning. “They looked at the CCTV tapes operated by the DSS and a staff of my house, apparently they were not able to figure it out. So it was easy for them to quickly dismiss what really happened. Unfortunately for them, later yesterday evening, a technician came and was able to figure out and was able to produce the CCTV footage, including how they gained entrance into my house and how they got a way into my room and the fight between them, my wife and my son and all the efforts we made to save our lives. “I am happy that we have that in our custody which the police are not aware of. I am sure that Nigeria will be shocked on what transpired and all the efforts made to save our lives. Now that the police appear to have concluded the case, unless they withdraw the statement that it is a mere case of burglary, I may now be forced to release those footage to the media, international community so that Nigerians and ordinary people judge whether it was a case of burglary or attempt to kill me or whether they just want to come to my house to have a breakfast or have a handshake with me. “I am happy I am alive to tell my story. It appears to me that the man who said it was a mere case of burglary does not know what burglary is about. He doesn’t need any teaching, he just needs to go into the internet and find out what burglary is really about. He can compare if it is the same with what happened in my life. “I also want to appreciate those who said they want to come to my house and provide security service for me with their machetes and Dane guns if the police have failed to do that. If they fail to withdraw so I have to accept those offers, but I don’t want that to be our portion.” After exhaustive debate, the Senate directed the security agencies to carry out full scale investigation into the case. South-East Govs Demand Thorough Investigation Meanwhile, governors in the South-East zone have called for a thorough investigation into the latest alleged assassination attempt on Ike Ekweremadu, his wife, and son. The governors want a fruitful investigation that would result in the arrest and prosecution of the perpetrators of the alleged act. Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, who is the Chairman of the South-East Governors’ Forum, said the governors and leaders of the zone were not satisfied with the police preliminary investigation alleging burglary. Governor Umahi disclosed this on Wednesday at Government House, Abakaliki, while receiving Samuel Adeyemi, the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Zone 6. He said the reason for the call for investigation into the attempt on the lives of the Ekweremadus was to rebuild the confidence of the people in the Nigeria police as being able to protect lives and property of Nigerians. He said if the case was not followed to its logical conclusion, it may lead to loss of confidence in security agencies. Governor Umahi noted that the police report on the matter was not acceptable, adding that a case that led to the near kidnap of Ekweremadu’s son and the act of forcing him to open the door leading to his father’s room was not a mere burglary attempt. Umahi said: “We demand, as people of the South-East, that the police should do a thorough investigation and bring those behind the attack to book. “I also, on behalf of the entire South-East governors, call on the police to try and protect the lives of our people anywhere in the country.” The governor further disclosed that Nigeria’s continued existence would be determined by free and credible general election in 2019 even as he warned that Ebonyi State would resist any attempt to rig election in the state. “Let the votes of Nigerians count; let us not do something that will endanger the lives of the people or the lives of our security agents, because the people are going to resist any form of intimidation to rig the election in 2019,” he said. Earlier, in his address, the AIG in charge of Zone 6, Calabar, Samuel Adeyemi, described Governor David Umahi as a man of peace and a security-conscious person, and assured him of credible and peaceful general elections in 2019. The AIG said the police would remain neutral in the coming general election, adding that their constitutional duty, which was maintenance of peace, law, and order must be followed to the letter. “It is very important to ensure free and fair and peaceful election. It is our promise to assure you that the police will be neutral”, Adeyemi said. Reps To Probe Ekweremadu’s Alleged Assassination Attempt Similarly, the House of Representatives on Wednesday unveiled plans to investigate the circumstances that led to the invasion and attempted assassination of Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu. The House passed the resolution sequel to the adoption of a motion of urgent public importance sponsored by Toby Okechukwu (PDP-Enugu). In his lead debate, Okechukwu observed that the attack happened at the lawmaker’s bedroom leading to assault and injuries on his son. He expressed displeasure that the nation’s security agents particularly the police could term such highly organised invasion and assault on the lawmaker as mere burglary. While urging the House to investigate it, the PDP lawmaker further hinted that there were several unanswered calls placed on the phone of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, and Deputy Inspector General of Police (Operations) during the sad incident. On his part, Danburam Nuhu (PDP-Kano), who argued that the security agents are not doing enough to protect the citizens, called for deliberate efforts toward proffering lasting solutions to the insecurity challenges in the country. Also in his contribution, Gabriel Onyewife (APGA-Anambra) said that the attack on the lawmaker should be approached with utmost concern by all well-meaning Nigerians. While ruling, Speaker Yakubu Dogara mandated the joint Committees on Police Affairs and National Security & Intelligence to investigate the matter and report back to the House.