Shekari David, a 32-year-old farmer in Kaduna state, has confessed that a spirit drives him to rape older women after he was arrested for raping his own mother and mother-in-law, respectively. David made this confession and more after he was recently arrested by operatives of the Inspector General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT). His arrest happened after the police rounded up some suspects in connection with several armed robberies and rape attacks in Kaura Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The farmer has confessed to raping his own mother and mother-in-law who he said are between the ages of 65 and 70. David also confessed to the IRT that his wife had abandoned him and married another man because of his penchant for raping older women. He was reportedly arrested in his hideout in Manchie area of Kaura LGA following a tip-off by a member of a vigilante while a stolen motorcycle was also recovered from him. The vigilante man also described David as a notorious serial rapist who specializes in raping older women residing within Manchie and environ. Members of the community were said to have reported to the vigilante that on two occasions, David raped his own mother and his mother-in-law. In his confession, David said, “I am a farmer and I was once married but my wife abandoned me due to my penchant for raping older women. “I don’t know if I am under a spell but whenever I am drunk a spirit comes into me and I will be going around looking for women. I have been beaten over this issue severally but I still can’t control myself whenever I get drunk. “I raped my mother during our last Moroha Festival after I got drunk. I couldn’t find any old woman to rape and when I got home I found my mother sleeping and I penetrated and raped her. “My mother screamed when she saw me on top of her and our neighbours gathered. Everyone saw that I was drunk and when I became sober I begged her for forgiveness and she accepted. “When my wife heard about it she was angry and she left the house and went back to her parent before she later found another man who married her. “Not long after that, I attended another festival in my wife’s community known as Mahuta and I became drunk again. In the night I went to the house of my ex-wife’s mother and found her sleeping. I then raped my mother-in-law but the woman shouted and people came around and caught me. “I was given a beaten of my life before I was asked to go. I don’t know what usually comes over me when I am drunk. That spirit normally pushes me to rape older women.”