Lagos – The Super Eagles may play their 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Bafana Bafana on Saturday in an empty FNB Stadium. This is because the stadium in South West Township (Soweto) area of Johannesburg, seats 94,736 spectators, with only 7,300 tickets have been sold, pointing to a possible near empty arena on Saturday. Majority of those tickets, we learnt, were purchased by Nigerians who resides in and around Johannesburg. Respected South African journalist, Mninawa Ntloko, tweeted that “Officials worried after paltry 7,300 tickets sold for the Bafana vs Nigeria showdown.” Last month, South Africa played in an almost empty stadium when they played Seychelles. Worried Stadium Management South Africa (SMSA) chief executive Jacques Grobbelaar confirmed the low numbers to SowetanLIVE on Tuesday, while at the same time urging South Africans to buy tickets and support the team. “Of course we are worried by the low numbers‚” he said. “We are playing against one of the best teams on the continent and our biggest rivals. “There is no greater game to go out there with friends and family and enjoy‚ but at the moment the numbers are not looking good. “This is an important game for the country.” However, South African fans on social media have given reasons why they feel it would be a waste of time to watch the game. Mr Mgbamba @Last1left_real, “Why go there to watch   a match we will probably lose or if lucky play a goaless draw” Khoza Siphiwe @siphiweangie “I love my beautiful country and if tickets for Bafana were free I wouldn’t dare go to spoil my day” @MORIE_PAPAANELE “It is simple: open the gates because bafana isn’t convincing of late”. @SKmtshali “Nigerians are the only one’s who are buying those tickets.” @Phaladishuping “They called it upon themselves. SAFA knows that there is not a lot of support when Bafana plays in Joburg. They will be lucky to have 30000 supporters in a 90000 stadium.” In an effort to push ticket sales, the SA Football Association and Stadium Management have called in popular hip hop and pop star AKA. AKA will provide pre-match entertainment for the match that will start at 3pm South Africa time, 4pm Nigerian time. Despite the prospect of a low turn out, Bafana Bafana coach, Stuat Baxter said he was hoping for a good crowd to intimidate the Nigerians after defying the odds to beat the resurgent visitors 2-0 the corresponding fixture in Uyo last June. “When we went to Nigeria it was packed for that match‚” Baxter said. “As you know they are very partisan and hostile. “We would like to think that they will get the same treatment when they come to South Africa. “I don’t think it matters if the public at large think that we played well in our last game or we were great when we played Nigeria away or Paraguay is an interesting team one coming up. “This Nigeria game is big‚ the reputation is big and I hope that there will be South Africans who will be there and want Bafana Bafana to win.”