Abuja – Following the killing of 53 soldiers and an army commandant by Boko Haram insurgents at the 157 Task Force Battalion in Metele village, Abadam Local Government Area of Borno State on Sunday, the upper chamber of the National Assembly on Thursday adjourned sitting for one day in honour of the fallen soldiers. The Senate, however, mandated its committees on Army and Defence to investigate the killings, welfare, and wellbeing of Nigerian troops fighting insurgency. The lawmakers also resolved to visit men and officers of the Nigerian armed forces on the battle field, particularly in the North-East, who are fighting the insurgents. The resolution of the Senate followed a motion by the Deputy Majority Leader, Bala Ibn Na’Allah (APC, Kebbi South), at the instance of the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki. Leading debate on the motion, Na’Allah lamented the condition of the military personnel fighting insurgency in the North-East and also the death of the commandant. The lawmaker urged his colleagues to observe a minute silence in honour of the slain soldiers and their commandant. He also asked the Senate to pay condolence visit to the Chief of Army Staff and families of the murdered soldiers, and carry out a thorough investigation of the circumstances surrounding the killings and welfare of serving soldiers. In his contribution, Andrew Uchendu (APC, Rivers East) urged the Senate to “shut down” for one whole day rather than observing a mere one-minute silence, a suggestion which the Senate accepted. He said, “Mr. President and dear colleagues, I have no reason to doubt the figure (of the 53 dead soldiers), but if that figure is correct, then this Senate must come out and show massive concern, not just one-minute silence. We must shut down for one whole day in honour of those fallen heroes.” Other senators, including the Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, in their contributions, lamented the poor condition and the hazardous tasks of men and officers of the armed forces in fighting Boko Haram insurgency. The Senate, however, urged the Federal Government and military authorities to adequately equip the personnel and take care of their welfare, among others. Atiku Calls For Urgent Funding For The Military Meanwhile, Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former vice president, has called for urgent funding for the military so that they could be well equipped to contain and defeat insurgency in the country. Atiku, in a statement on Thursday said: “We must do everything at our disposal to stop further deaths amongst our servicemen and the civilian population.” The former vice president stressed that it was unacceptable that terrorists and criminals were frequently better equipped than members of the armed forces. He said: “It is the duty of the political elite to put aside any political differences and take a united stand to put an end to this. “The increasing deaths of our servicemen at the hands of terrorists and criminals, especially in the North East and Middle Belt, is a clear sign that our troops need to be better funded and better equipped. “It is true that funds are scarce, but this is an emergency and if we do not take care of an emergency, it becomes a crisis which can lead to a total breakdown of law and order – anarchy in essence. “I have been travelling all over Nigeria and I meet with both Muslim and Christian clerics who tell me that in the North East and Middle Belt, they now officiate over more funerals than they do marriages and child dedications. This is heartbreaking and we must do something immediately to change the situation. “Apart from funding, I advise the Federal Government to review its policy of releasing so-called ‘repentant’ terrorists. “To think that the government can de-radicalise these individuals in so short a time is wishful thinking. Many people, myself included, think that the upsurge in terror activities coming after the release of such detainees is not coincidental.” He urged the National Assembly to suo moto appropriate funds for the military on a fast-track basis. “These are desperate times for Nigeria and desperate times call for dedication to duty of all concerned. “I am tired of issuing condolences for unnecessary deaths. I prefer to make a difference and prevent unnecessary deaths amongst the gallant men and women of our armed forces and the civilian population they took an oath to protect,” he added.