According to a press statement issued by the media and publicity team of the anti-graft agency, the six CBN big wigs and 16 others implicated in the mega fraud were picked up by operatives of the anti-graft agency for stealing and putting into circulation defaced and mutilated Nigerian currency notes to the tune of N8 billion meant for destruction. All the suspects were arraigned at the Federal High Court, Ibadan on Tuesday, June 2, 2015. The trial went on till June 4 in the bid to speed up the prosecution of the suspects by the court. He said: “Instead of carrying out the statutory instruction to destroy the currency, they substituted it with newspapers neatly cut to Naira sizes and proceeded to recycle the defaced and mutilated currency.” The Central Bank of Nigeria said the alleged fraud scheme was uncovered in September 2014 when a routine audit revealed irregularities in the south-western city of Ibadan. “The CBN has also conducted a nationwide audit of all 37 branches of the bank and found that this was an isolated scheme at Ibadan branch,” it said in a statement. “On further investigation ordered by the governor, it was discovered that a systematic scheme, which has been on for several years, was being run in which mutilated higher denomination notes originally meant for destruction were swapped with lower denomination currencies. This practice, known as interleafing, basically labels a box with a higher value than its true content.” The central bank regularly withdraws old or torn notes from circulation to replace them with new ones. It would be recalled that CBN has not rest its oars in the bid to stem the tide of mutilated currency notes from circulation. However, it appears the more the apex bank plays its constitutional regulatory role, the more mutilated currency notes are released into circulation, particularly the N100 notes which have ostensibly lost its value so much that the ugly situation has for the umpteenth times triggered disagreement between buyers and sellers. According findings by DAILY INDEPENDENT, virtually all Nigerians are decrying the widespread circulation of mutilated naira notes in the country, and they have in the same vein been calling on the CBN to nip the untoward trend in the bud, and ensure better management of the nation’s currencies. Most respondents recounted how they found themselves in several cases of misunderstandings while transacting business with the tattered and dirty notes. Little wonder, Prof. Ishaq Akintola, the Director of Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), an NGO, has urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to enforce the ban on sale of new naira notes at parties. Akintola said that the hawkers were aiding and abetting “spraying” of money at parties. “MURIC calls the attention of the CBN to those who sell new naira notes. They are the ones who aid and abet spraying at parties. The Police should be empowered to seize such money and return it to government treasury. Those who desecrate the naira deserve punishment. “Emphasis should be placed on imprisonment for spraying at parties. There should be no option of fine. Akintola also commended the CBN for placing ban on “spraying” of money at parties, saying that the ban was long overdue. He appealed to the law enforcement agencies to enforce the ban in the interest of future generations. Akintola noted that Nigerians spraying money on the dance floor were inducing greed and encouraging crime, adding that the ban on spraying is, therefore, capable of reducing crime in the society. He urged the apex bank to scrap the option of fine for anyone convicted and sentenced after the offender had been prosecuted for violating the ban on “spraying” of money at parties. “The length of jail term may depend on the amount sprayed and the currency used. It should be a non-bailable offence. Nigerians fear to go to jail but they do not mind paying fines. This is why we advocate the scraping of fines for spraying money at parties,’’ Akintola said Health Implications Of Mutilated Notes Besides, not a few Nigerians have been raising concerns over the implications of regular contact with mutilated N100 notes in circulation. A recent report has it that “A laboratory assay carried out on randomly-obtained N100 notes showed the presence of pathogenic and nonpathogenic bacteria colonies like bacillus, staphylococcus aureus and candida. The examination also showed high presence of germs. It added that larger species of Bacillus, an aerobic spore forming rods that stain gram positive or gram variable; and Candida, a genus of yeasts, have no pathogenic potential but if in contact with a person with low immune system, they can cause serious ailment. For instance, tuberculosis is caused by a species of Bacillus microorganism, while Candidiasis is caused by Candida species. Staphylococcus aureus, on the other hand, is one of the more serious disease-causing bacteria in humans. According to Minnesota Department of Health Fact Sheet, it is the leading cause of skin and soft tissue infections such as abscesses (boils), furuncles, and cellulitis. Staphylococcus aureus also causes infections in the bloodstream, pneumonia, or bone and joint infections. The bacteria and fungi, according to the analyst who carried out the analysis, are transmitted onto the notes through contacts with human carriers. However, Adeoye Joshua, a Harvard University-trained doctor, while giving his expert opinion on the implication of bacteria on naira notes, said it is unlikely that the amount of bacteria on the notes can cause infection. He said: “The amount of bacteria matters when it comes to infection. We are not sure whether this amount is infective but what we know is that it can carry it. Despite the risk posed by the dirty, smelly and mutilated naira notes, the question that has remained on the lips of many concerned Nigerians has been: Is the problem of mutilated naira notes in circulation resolvable? Polymer Notes Better Alternative? There are fears that  the clamor for polymer banknotes may not go down well with decision makers at the apex bank as two considerable reasons of the objectives for introducing polymer banknotes is to reduce the level of counterfeiting, and to strengthen its durability. However, beyond the foregoing advantages that are inherent in polymer banknotes, it is sad to note that 15 years after, many Nigerians now reject the polymer notes citing its poor quality and short life span that make it difficult to carry out transactions with them. Mr. Edwin Okezie, a financial expert, said the CBN should consider the plan of bringing back coins into circulation, saying that its absence had resulted in the negative impact on transactions, which had a multiplier effect on the economy. Okezie said the absence of coins is a contributory factor to the ignominious state of the Naira currency noting that lower denominations like N200, N100, could not have been excessively handled and mismanaged by the people, particularly market women and transporters.