YEMI ADEBISI, CHRIS EBONG AND OYIN SOMORIN LAGOS – The way Nigerians react to any policy or information that involves payment of a stipulated due or tax to government has been found to be unnecessarily irritating. Specifically, management and implementation of insurance policies have suffered from this dreadful situation as a number of people do not see reasons to expend money on insuring their properties, health or education of their wards. For instance, recently, the Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA) announced that only about five million vehicles in Nigeria have genuine insurance certificates as captured on the Nigeria Insurance Industry Database (NIID). This, according to the statistics, is an improvement on the reports in 2016 that about four million out of the existing 16 million vehicles plying Nigerian roads have genuine insurance certificates while 12 million vehicles in the country parade fake motor insurance certificates. Insurance in Nigeria has suffered from several challenges ranging from poor perception by the insurance public, lack of trust and confidence of the operators, low penetration which currently stands at less than one percent, poor service delivery and claims management. Other negativities include culture, belief system and low income which instantaneously create apathy among other forces militating against the growth of the sector. The industry currently contributes about 0.3percent to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), according to the rebased economic statistics report by the National Bureau of Statistics as against 16percent in South Africa, 6percent growth yearly growth forecast in Kenya, Morroco and Algeria respectively. Like the country itself, the South African insurance sector is a study in contrasts. The market is by some measures one of the most advanced in the world. It has a premium-to-GDP ratio that is among the highest anywhere, and its insurers are well-regulated, well-managed and innovative. The market is becoming even more sophisticated with the introduction of new legislation. Yet, it is in some ways not a mature market; much of the country is poor, unbanked and uninsured or underinsured. Financial inclusion is limited, and even such basic policies like auto property liability insurance are optional, which is a rarity even in the developing world, both in Africa and globally. However, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), the regulatory agency supervising the industry has made frantic efforts in addressing the menace by deliberately instituting developmental regulation away from the hitherto compliance regulation. Some of the initiatives introduced to stem the tide include the Market Development and Restructuring Initiative (MDRI), introduced in 2009. Under the MDRI, the six out of 16 compulsory insurance policies in the 2003 Insurance Act were brought to the fore for public sensitisation, enforcement and compliance. According to the commission, the initiative was crafted to open up the market through compulsory insurance for sustainable growth. But nine years after the launch of the six compulsory insurance policies nationwide, insurance industry operators are still grappling with the enforcement. Investigations conducted by Saturday INDEPENDENT showed that the industry is still far from realising the objective, which is to ensure that Nigerians are compelled by law enforcement agents to patronise these compulsory insurance policies with the overall objective of getting more Nigerians into insurance net and increase the industry’s premium income as well as the its contribution to the Gross Domestic product (GDP) of the economy. The compulsory insurance policies are those classes of insurance made compulsory by law, with the objective of providing protection to third parties and the general public. These include Builders Liability insurance under the Insurance Act 2003 and the Lagos State Building Control Law 2010; Construction All Risks insurance, Occupiers Liability under the Insurance Act 2003 and Lagos State Law; Employers Liability, (Group Life) under the Pension Reform Act 2004; Healthcare Professional Indemnity under the National health Insurance (NHIS) Act 1999; Motor Third Party Liability under the Insurance Act 2003. Builders Liability Insurance requires that all owners or contractors of buildings under construction that are more than two floors must purchase insurance cover to provide compensation in event of bodily injury, death and property damage to workers at construction sites and affected members of the public in the event of collapse of the building and other construction risks. The Occupiers Liability Insurance requires that all owners or occupiers of public buildings, whether private or public, should provide the insurance cover under the National Insurance Act 2003 and the Lagos State Building Control Law 2010. According to the 2003, a public building is any building that is not 100 per cent used by the owner for residential purposes. Public buildings include tenement houses, hostels, residential buildings occupied by tenants, lodgers or licensees, and any other building to which members of the public enter and exit for the purpose of educational, recreational or medical services. Employer’s Liability or Group Life Insurance requires that all employers of labour with more than three employees provide insurance cover for them as required by the Pension Reform Act 2004. The penalty for non-compliance with this law is N250,000, record of conviction, and in addition the place of business may be sealed up. The Healthcare Professional Indemnity Insurance is the policy that stipulates that all licensed health care providers and medical practitioners such as doctors, nurses, pharmacists, etc should provide insurance cover under the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) 1999. The law stipulates that they should have insurance that will protect their patients in case of accidents or fatalities (death) resulting from professional negligence. This type of insurance provides compensation to patients and their relatives in the event of involuntary murder, disability, shock and injury suffered by patients as a result of the negligence of Health Care Providers. The penalty for non-compliance with this law is a possible revocation of licence by the National Health Insurance Council. The third party motor liability insurance requires that every motor vehicle user should insure the motor vehicle against liability as to death, bodily injury or damage to property of a third party arising from the use of the vehicle. The penalty for non-compliance is a fine of up to N250,000 plus one year imprisonment. Enforcement of these insurances was one of the objectives of the industry regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) in launching its Market Development and Restructuring Initiatives (MDRI) in 2009. After the MDRI launch, NAICOM also launched the compulsory insurance policies in the six geopolitical zones of the country. The launch witnessed many activities by the industry players and the regulator such as road shows, posters, distribution of hand bills and other means of advertisement and awareness campaigns. But despite all these efforts, it was found out that the industry is yet to achieve its objective in this regard. Indeed, pushing of the retail insurance from all sense of judgment is becoming a lot easier for the industry than the enforcement of the compulsory insurances. Speaking with Saturday INDEPENDENT, Mr. Godwin Wiggle, former Chairman of NIA, confirmed that the greatest challenge to the industry operators has remained enforcement of compulsory insurances. According to him, the recent report on 12 million vehicles plying Nigerian roads with fake insurance certificates is an indication of how much the industry loses to the fake operators as well as how much revenue government at all levels loses to them. He regretted that one of the things that make fake insurance operators to thrive in their business is because Nigerians like short cut in doing things, adding that those who patronise them are Nigerians who don’t want to follow the right channel in doing things. He urged Nigerians to ensure that they get their insurance services through the right channels because the fake operators will have nothing to offer to them in the event of claims. He also advised government to play its role in this regard, pointing that although the insurers are doing their best in pushing the compulsory insurances like the third Party Motor Insurance which they do through Nigeria Insurance Industry Data base(NIID), government, has a big role to play in enforcement of other compulsory insurances like the compulsory builders insurance. Wiggle, said “more and more Nigerians, now make effort to buy the third Party Motor insurance from genuine operators because the Road Safety officials are enforcing it in different states with heavy fines on defaulters. “If a number of state governments and industry operators have approached for enforcement of builders insurance, enforcing it for security of lives and properties in their states, more Nigerians would patronise the policy. This has become necessary because Nigerians like to be put under compulsion before they can obey laws.” Also Lady Isioma Chukwuma, managing director and chief executive officer, Nigerian Reinsurance Corporation, who spoke on the need to implement the compulsory insurances nationwide, said the industry has lost a lot on account of the non-enforcement of the policies. “Against this back drop, the institute has embarked on awareness campaign in order to create awareness among Nigerians.” The Insurers Committee, at its June meeting, said it has taken decision to embark on rebranding of insurance industry with the youth as their main target. Kazeem Lawal, a Lagos based surveyor and valuer, blamed insurance companies for insincerity in this cause of negotiation for transaction. “Many of these insurance companies don’t even know what they are doing. For example, a house may worth the value of N20 million but because they don’t want to  lose their customers, they insure the property for half the value and when the problem comes the claims given would not be able to cover the property destroyed.” Mrs. Adams Georgina, a land lady in Ogun State, who spoke with our reporter, expressed her regrets on insurance transactions. According to her, many of these insurance companies don’t come clean when it comes to dealing with their clients. She stressed that many of the insurance marketers are only desperate to sell their products. “I am a landlady in Lanfenwa, this year there was a heavy flooding which destroyed part of my building. When I called the so-called insurance people and told them about my ordeal, I was expecting them to say they would take care of it but did you know they started giving me excuses. The thing is that these insurance marketers don’t tell one the real things, maybe because they are desperate, they can sweet tongue one into taking a policy with them. A policy that they would never tell you the hidden clauses in them, if only they come clean from the beginning one would know exactly what one is dealing with.”