Lagos – Nigerian passengers are currently going through harrowing experiences across the nation’s airports following the depletion of the country’s airlines’ fleets. Most of the nation’s carriers are currently battling with shortage of aircraft in their fleet, while some have had to drastically reduce their operations. The fleet of the airlines in Nigeria had reduced by 40 percent since the beginning of the year with Med-View, Arik Air, and Air Peace badly affected. At the Lagos airport, several passengers to Abuja, Port Harcourt, and Kano struggle to secure air tickets as most of the airlines battle to operate as scheduled. For instance, Med-View Airline has reduced its domestic operations to just one flight daily to Lagos-Abuja with its Boeing 737-500 aircraft, while it was learnt that Dana Air was going through re-certification with the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). Apart from the duo, other airlines like Air Peace, Max Air, Aero Contractors and Azman are equally going through the same challenge of depleted fleet, while Overland Airways, with its ATR 400 aircraft, still restricts its operations to less viable airports in the country. On Monday, for instance, it was gathered that passengers of Dana Air were transferred to Overland Airways, which flew them to their destinations. Besides, some passengers who also booked with other airlines are finding it difficult to travel as scheduled. Just last Thursday, as a result of the depleted fleet, one of the major carriers in the country had to move forward its departure time to Abuja by two hours. The flight that was originally scheduled to depart at 1:00p.m was combined with its 11:10am flight to Abuja with Jos airport passengers as a result of inadequate aircraft in its fleet. Some passengers who had earlier confirmed their booking missed their flights for arriving a bit late to the airport, as their seats were allocated to other passengers. Also, the depleted fleet of the nation’s airlines had brought intense pressure on the existing carriers, which are equally experiencing scheduling difficulties. Caution was almost thrown to the winds on Wednesday as some passengers of Azman Air, at the Murtala Muhammed Airport Two (MMA2), Lagos, were denied boarding after arriving the airport 20 minutes before departure when check-in was supposed to close 30 minutes before take-off. A source close to the airline told our correspondent that Azman had to close counter on time to meet up with other schedules in order to create additional flight because of the huge demand. But Mr. Chris Iwarah, the Corporate Communications Manager, Air Peace, told journalists on Thursday that the airline would rescue the stranded passengers across the country. Iwarah assured that the airline would soon deploy more aircraft to service destinations currently experiencing air travel difficulties, agreeing that it reduced its aircraft fleet by five recently. He declared that the carrier was concerned about reports of shortage of scheduled flights across the country and was ready to do everything within its capacity to ease the pain of air travellers. The airline confirmed that the nation had been facing air travel difficulties since it reviewed its flight schedule downward on account of five of its aircraft it pulled out of service and sent abroad for C-check. He said: “In the last few weeks, we have been inundated with demands for flights by members of the flying public who wish to travel, but could not secure seats as almost all our flights on major domestic routes are fully booked. We are genuinely concerned about the plight of the travelling public and sincerely empathise with them. “The situation became dire after we recently pulled out five of our aircraft from service for maintenance abroad and had to necessarily review our flight schedule downward to avoid delaying our valued customers. A check on our reservation platform indicates that almost all our flights are fully booked till the end of the year. “We, however, are aware of the role we play in ensuring seamless air travel in Nigeria and are not going to let down our dear country and members of the flying public now that they need us the most. We urge members of the flying public not to entertain any fear. “Beginning from Sunday, most of our aircraft that went for C-check will start to return to join our operations. We are soon going to schedule more flights and deploy more aircraft across our domestic routes.” He added that the airline had also made plans to cater to the upsurge expected during the Yuletide period. He explained that a lot of flights would be scheduled from around December 17, 2018 to seamlessly take those travelling for Christmas and the New Year to their destinations. He added that as an airline that prioritises safety and places a premium on the lives of guests and crew, it had undertaken comprehensive maintenance of most of its aircraft to ensure their readiness for the end-of-year operations.