VICTOR OTUYA, MACAULAY WILSON and JOHN AMUDO OGHARA – Professor (Mrs.) Cecilia Otete Okobiah, the Vice Chancellor, Western Delta University, Oghara, Delta State, has said that her dream is to build an entrepreneurship centre of excellence to serve as the flagship for national economic growth and development. Addressing a press conference as part of activities marking the combined 3rd – 7th Convocation and 10th Anniversary of the institution, Professor (Mrs.) Okobiah, said that in this era of graduate unemployment she was poised to build a centre of excellence to produce graduates that would become the economic drivers of the nation. She noted that global economic recession and unemployment have compelled the need for universities to look towards the direction of producing graduates that would be not only self-employed but also employers of labour. She disclosed that Western Delta University has made provisions for vocational skill centres in the pursuit of the laudable objectives, commending Olorogun Williams Makinde, the Managing Director/Chief Execution Officer of DESOPADEC, for keying into the vision. While highlighting the activities of the week long events, the VC remarked that the university has made giant strides in the area of producing quality graduates who were competing favourably in the labour market, won laurels in academics and sports within the 10 years of its existence. The vice chancellor who also said she was determined to make the institution a centre of academic excellence, added that the school has placed priority on training and retraining of the personnel through provisions of grants and direct financial assistance to staff to enable them attend conferences within and outside the shores of Nigeria. She said, “We have also tried to give direction on the structure of the university by organising seminars on how to write award winning research for grants. We encourage staff to involve students in action research activities in their lecture classes.” She also disclosed that the school has made reasonable progress in the area of accreditation of additional faculties by the National Universities Commission (NUC). She listed criminology and security studies, international relations, law, accounting, business administration and political science as some of the new courses approved for the school.