LAGOS – The political gladiators are presently strategising to ensure that the coast is clear for them their successes during the forthcoming general elections, which is just few months away. The political contest in Lagos State may just be between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the major opposition party in the state. Political observers believe that the APC may be more favourable going by its antecedents, as PDP had not been able to win the highest political office in the state even when they had achieved that in the other five states in the South West. However, the APC may believe that it would be difficult for that position to change now, especially when Moshood Salvador, the PDP’s former state chairman, had jumped ship and joined the ruling party. The APC, expectedly, had taken advantage of Salvador’s to give him the huge task of spearheading its campaign organisation, naming him the Director General (DG) of the campaign organisation of its governorship candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in Lagos West, as well as the DG of the campaign organisation of Buhari/Osinbajo joint ticket in Lagos State. APC had seen Salvador’s defection to it as a good opportunity to boost its success at the general elections having taken note of his great achievements in the area of membership mobilisation during his one year tenure as PDP chairman in the state. Salvador on his own said the huge task given to him was not something he could not handle, even as he had promised that he would deliver two million votes for Sanwo-Olu in the forthcoming election. Recently at the inauguration of the campaign office of the DG in Lagos, where Sanwo-Olu was a special guest, Salvador promised to deliver. According to him what APC achieved in 2015 was below its capacity, adding that he would strategise and ensure that everyone was carried along to ensure that victory was achieved for Sanwo-Olu and the President Buhari/Osinbajo joint ticket. He stressed that his priority was to carry everyone along, including the aggrieved party members who had just been reconciled. He said he would move to all the 57 Local Government Areas (LGA) and Local Council Development Areas (LCDA) to canvas for votes, pointing out that it was not something new to him as he had great capacity to mobilise. He said the task could be huge, but achievable. Salvador stated that he had already set a target for himself and would soon map out plans on how he would start the operation. He said he would like to work from the grassroots as they were in the majority and would give the votes, so, he needed to be close to them. Salvador stressed: “The challenge before me is to make sure Sanwo-Olu wins in Lagos State with landslide victory and President Buhari is returned. It is an assignment given to me and I can assure you that it will be delivered. “The achievement of APC as a party is there for everyone to see. We would be relying on these achievements to tell Lagosians to return APC to power. The record of achievements is there and it is better to continue with a winning party. “APC has not been able to maximise its capacity. I will bring my experience to bear to ensure it performs maximally at the forthcoming elections. What APC got in 2015 would be a far cry from what we want to do in 2019. My target is to get two million votes for APC during the governorship election in Lagos. “I will not fail because they are aware of my capacity before the task was given to me. It may look huge. But, it is achievable. The party is a performing one and with that at the back of our minds, it will be easy to convince voters to vote for our great party.” Salvador, while explaining to the party faithful, appealed for peace, saying, “I am appealing to all APC aggrieved members to sheathe their swords, remember that we are working for the victory of the party, the party is above any one individual. “So, we must put the party’s interest first. Put our grievances behind us. Get to the field and tell everyone that APC is one through our actions and what we say to bring the party back to governance in 2019.” The PDP has however described Salvador’s dream of delivering two million votes for APC as a mirage. It taunted Salvador when it said he was only boasting, wondering from where he hoped to get the two million votes he planned to give to APC. Seye O’Dairo, candidate for  House of Assembly, Ikeja 1 Constituency, said that Salvador was only dreaming. He said he contested for the Lagos West senatorial seat in 2015 and was defeated at the primary. He wondered where he would get the two million votes that he had promised APC. He added: “How many people went with him to APC when he defected to APC? I don’t understand why he wanted to deceive them. I know that very soon, they would find out his pranks. He was busy telling people that he would leave with 5,000 members and I don’t know the people that went to APC with him. Now, he has come up with this other story. It will not be long before they will find out that he has played a fast one on them.” The activities that were going on in Salavdor’s campaign office may suggest that he was really working hard on the two million target and that might not be a mirage as being insinuated by the PDP if the opposition do not match their words with actions. Even though it may too early to judge, but the number of support groups and activities at the former chairman’s office might just suggest that the APC chieftain was not joking with that assignment and was bent on delivering good result. Having registered 62 political parties by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Lagos State this dispensation, the political landscape was expected to be agog with every political party warming up with all forms of strategy, some of which may not be feasible, to occupy Alausa, the APC as a party seem to be more disposed to gaining voters attention since not much has been seen from the main opposition camp PDP which should be used to access the performance of the party. The governorship candidate, Jimmy Agbaje, was expected to match Sanwo-Olu, but from the look of things, Agbaje does not seem to be exuding the kind of heat that was expected in terms of preparedness for the campaign which is less than four days to go. Agbaje and PDP’s posters have not been seen on the streets of Lagos as a major opposition party. Observers have been wondering if all had been well with the party internally. Much had been expected from Agbaje who was not new in the business, having contested against the incumbent Governor Akinwunmi Ambode in 2015. With Ambode’s inability to secure a second term ticket, one would have expected that Agbaje would have seen that as a good opportunity to show Sanwo-Olu that he was a guru in the business. However, this might not be too late, as only time would tell if Sanwo-Olu would not be scared of Agbaje’s muscles when ever he decides to flex them.