Lagos – The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and GTI Capital Group, at the weekend, affirmed their commitments to working together for the development and activation of the Nigerian football economy for increased contribution to the nation’s output. Amaju Pinnick, President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), had at the weekend, led other board members of the football house on a courtesy visit to GTI Capital Group at its head office in Marina, Lagos. Other board members at the visit included Seyi Akinwunmi, the NFF First Vice President, and a board member, Akin Majekodunmi. Abubakar Lawal, the Group Managing Director, GTI Capital Limited, said the investment banking group was committed to the development of a “football economy” in Nigeria by investing in key infrastructure and resources that would help to engender sustainable development of Nigerian football. According to him, GTI Capital is leading private-sector initiatives that would change the face of football in Nigeria by harnessing the globally renowned passion of Nigerians for football into mutually beneficial investment vehicles that simultaneously drive football development and reward passionate supporters and investors in football. Pinnick commended the ongoing initiatives at GTI Capital, noting that a strategic partner like the investment banking group would complement the efforts aimed at transforming football in Nigeria. He said the NFF under him was determined to make a difference in football governance in Nigeria and as such, will need the support of committed private sector partners like GTI Capital. According to him, with his re-election as the NFF President, he was more determined to pursue serious initiatives that would take Nigerian football to the next level in order to leave behind a strong legacy. He said his interactions with the GTI Capital have shown that the company was on the right track to help transform the Nigerian football landscape and build a virile “football economy”, which will undoubtedly energize fresh opportunities for all stakeholders. In his remarks, Managing Director, GTI Asset Management & Trust Limited, Amos Aledare, noted that in today’s world, football had been evolving as a distinct economic sector and major revenue earner in countries where its capacity to deliver this contribution has been properly recognized and harnessed. He lamented that football has unfortunately remained an untapped tool for economic development in Nigeria, expressing optimism that the collaboration between NFF and GTI Capital would lead to a rebirth of the Nigerian football sector.  He added that the GTI Capital-NFF partnership represents a new dawn for the Nigerian football industry.