Uyo – Onofiok Luke, Speaker, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, has said that his decision to elevate Governor Udom Emmanuel’s second-term bid against his National Assembly aspiration is to ensure the sustainability of the existing peace in the state. The Speaker said that judging from the insecurity, kidnapping and politically-motivated killings experienced in the past, and the peace experienced within the over three years of Emmanuel’s administration, it has only become patriotic for all to elevate the interest and future of Akwa Ibom State above individual concerns. Speaking with journalists in Uyo, the state capital on Thursday, Luke, who is chairman of publicity and image management committee of the Divine Mandate Campaign committee, called on the people of the state to re-elect Governor Emmanuel for continued peace, security, industrialization and infrastructural development. He stated that the existing peace in the state has created an enabling environment for the industralisation policy of the present administration to thrive, adding that this has led to the establishment of industries and many investors turning their searchlights to the state. The Speaker said the government has also invested massively in the provision of power infrastructure through the different power substations built in the state to boost power supply and promote the citing of industries within the state. In further recognition of the fact that industries cannot thrive in a hostile environment, the Speaker said that the governor has been working with security agencies in the state to make sure that lives and property of citizens are secured. He said that plans are under way for a security trust fund to be established in the state for security officers, adding that the trust fund, which will have the backing of the Legislature, would take off in the second tenure of the governor. Luke encouraged the people of the state to be patient with the state governor and not judge him based on the circumstances of his being governor, stating that the economic recession at the onset of the administration affected the financial fortunes of the state. He added that every government in the state after the return to democratic rule in 1999 had to struggle through its first tenure to find its feet and that it was in their second term in office that previous governments performed very well. The Speaker assured that his party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) will work to promote integrity before, during and after the forthcoming elections, to ensure that no fault is found with the victory of the party come 2019. To achieve this decency of campaigning, he said the campaign organization has set up a legal unit to advise candidates, media handlers and supporters of the party on world-class approaches electioneering. “We are running our campaign based on issues. We cannot do anything without God. Our campaign is anchored only on God. It is only God who can give the grace, the enablement, and the resources to make sure that we have the development that we need. “Two clear themes come out very clearly on which we stand for Udom Emmanuel to be re-elected: we have enjoyed peace in Akwa Ibom since he became governor. We were all here and we knew about what used to happen in the past. We don’t know why these things happened but we have seen change in that and we want that peace to continue. “We don’t have issues of very dicey security like child abduction and even the issue of militancy anymore due to the leadership disposition and grace of God upon the life of the governor and his character; he has been able to engender peace in the state. For the sake of that peace to continue, we want him to be re-elected.