Twenty-two out of the invited 23 players started training in Asaba on Tuesday in preparation for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against South Africa in Johannesburg on Saturday. Only France –based forward Samuel Kalu is expected on today, as 14 players joined their colleague on Tuesday morning. Eight players reported on Monday. Those in camp are Captain Ahmed Musa, goalkeepers Daniel Akpeyi, Theophilus Afelokhai and Ikechukwu Ezenwa. Defenders in camp are Ola Aina, Olamilekan Adeleye, Semi Ajayi, Bryan Idowu, William Troost-Ekong, Leon Balogun, Kenneth Omeruo and Jamilu Collins. Oghenekaro Etebo, John Ogu, and Mikel Agu, are the midfielders in camp as Kelechi Iheanacho lead the forwards in camp that also included Moses Simon, Victor Osimhen, Henry Onyekuru, Alex Iwobi, Isaac Success and Samuel Chukwueze. Nigeria need just one point from Saturday’s to qualify for the tournament, but a combination of national pride, assumed rivalry between both teams and commitment to avenging a stinging defeat by the Bafana Bafana in Uyo 17 months ago has adorned this match with a totally different garb. On Matchday 1 of the qualifying series, South Africa won 2-0 with goals from Tokelo Rantie and Percy Tau right inside the Godswill Akpabio Stadium, as Coach Gernot Rohr sent out a young, inexperienced Nigerian squad. However, that slap (the first ever loss to South Africa in a competitive match) stirred the formidable spirit in the Eagles and they swept all before them to earn a 2018 FIFA World Cup ticket with a match to spare. However, the memory of that defeat has not gone away, which was why the Eagles have pulled no punches since the 2019 AFCON qualifiers resumed in September, winning all three matches to bounce to the top of the pool and standing at the door of qualification with a match to spare. The Nigeria delegation to Saturday’s big match will depart the country aboard a chartered flight from the Benin City Airport on Thursday evening. The Eagles are expected to have a feel of the picturesque FNB Stadium on Friday afternoon by 3.30pm. Meanwhile, Onyekuru has promised goals galore on Saturday if selected by the coach. In an interview with AOIFootball.com, the striker, who scored a brace against Kayserispor, said that he was fired up ahead of the game. “It was a good weekend for me in Turkey, but now I want to focus on the national team. “It won’t be an easy match but I’m confident we can get the desired result in Johannesburg,” Onyekuru said.