ADO-EKITI – Traditional rulers in Ekiti state have condemned the leadership style of the immediate past Governor Ayo Fayose alleging that the custodians of traditional institution were poorly treated The monarchs, during their maiden meeting with the Governor Kayode Fayemi in Ado-Ekiti , spoke of how their salaries were not paid regularly and their allowances slashed to 40 per cent . They said the situation got to a point where some obas get sitting allowances as low as two thousand or four hundred naira. Led by their chairman, Oba Oluwole Ademolaju, the Oloye of Oye- Ekiti ,the monarchs said it was unfortunate that custodians of the culture and tradition of the people could be treated in such a shabby and despicable manner where peanuts approved for them could not be paid while some people were living grandiose life style. The monarchs appealed to Governor Dr Kayode Fayemi, to revisit their welfare packages that have been bastardized in the last four years. They also called on the governor to be compassionate on them and return their rights and privileges that have been denied them in the last four years, urging that their plight be looked into within the ambit of available resources. The Obas also used the opportunity to appreciate the governor for the cars he bought for them five years ago which is what majority of them were still using. They however lamented that about 13 obas who were crowned after the exercise were denied official vehicles by the Fayose government. They gave kudos to governor Fayemi for giving over 120 cars to all Ekiti Obas during his first tenure adding that it was unprecedented in the history of the state and Nigeria at large. Earlier, Governor Fayemi had solicited their support for his administration adding that government cannot move forward without the support of the traditional institution. Assuring them that his administration would complete all abandoned projects before his tenure lapses, the governor promised to partner with them in his drive to develop the state as all projects would be based on the needs of the people. He assured them of adequate security in all communities of the state by restoring the vigilante and further strengthening of the security forces to ensure better welfare for them adding that peaceful coexistence was the only antidote for development. Fayemi said: “I know that there are various projects also that my government started which relate to your various communities, in the course of my visits during the campaign, I noticed that many of those projects had remained at a standstill and your expectation is that having returned from my sabbatical leave that those projects should come to fruition and completed in the various communities where they are located. “We would do our best to try and do an assessment of those projects in the shortest possible time and see how we can quickly effect its completion within available resources. We would try not to leave any project abandoned.