ABUJA – The House of Representatives Committee on Niger Delta has said it would emphasise the completion of existing projects in future budget considerations for the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs. Hon. Essien Ayi, Chairman, House Committee on Niger Delta, disclosed this at the end of an oversight visit by the committee to selected projects of the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs in the region recently. Stephen Kilebi, the Deputy Director of Press in the ministry, in a statement, noted that that committee condemned the rate of uncompleted projects in the Niger Delta region. “We are not impressed by the level of uncompleted projects in the Niger Delta region. That was why we have taken the pains to go round since on Tuesday, from Delta to Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and today, we are in Cross River State; to see things for ourselves, to guide us on the next budget,” he said. It is of note that Dr. Usani Uguru Usani, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, has not stopped to emphasise at different fora the constraints of completing some of the projects he inherited in the ministry since he assumed office three years ago, especially, the East West Road and the Skills Acquisition Centres. Ayi said that his committee was not impressed that the East West Road has not been completed in spite of all financial investments on the project by the Federal Government in the past 12 years. It would be recalled also that during an assessment tour of the East West Road by the Federal Government Inter-ministerial Committee led by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Dr. Usani Uguru Usani, and his colleague in the Ministry of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, recently, it was discovered that contractors would require about N100 billion to complete the East West Road project. This discovery, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, said culminated in the Federal Government’s directive that the remaining work on sections 1 to 4 of the project be transferred from the Ministry to the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (N.S.I.A) for funding.