LAGOS – Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Ibrahin Idris, said, it has burst a notorious gang which specialized in kidnapping people for ransom. The gang was believed to have also been involved in kidnapping children. They were said to have nabbed by the IRT detectives led by Abba Kyari, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) in Abia State. IRT source gave the names of the suspects as: Kenneth Anaba, Emmanuel Izuchukwu, Ikechukwu Ajagbu, Joshua Samuel, Emmanuel Azumara, Chinedu Samuel, Ukonu Anurika, Chidinma Okpara, Chimezie Okpara and Favour Christopher. Crime Tracker gathered that one of their members was arrested after a woman was kidnapped, leading to arrest of other members. The victim whose name IRT could not provide was said to have been kidnapped in September 2018, in Aba, Abia State. It was further gathered the gang successfully collected a ransom of $13000 from the victim’s relatives before she was released. Police sources also disclosed that some members of the gang were part of a group of kidnappers who earlier escaped from Abia State Police Command Criminal Investigation Department (CID) with police rifles sometime in 2017. They were also accused of  using the rifles to terrorise residents of Abia State. Crime Tracker also learnt that in the course of investigations IRT got wind of one Kenneth Anaba, who was among those who escaped from the police custody in 2017.  He was said to have been trailed to his hideout at Ogbor Hill area of Abia where he was arrested through the aid of one of his girlfriends. An Ak47 rifle belonging to the police was allegedly recovered from him. According to the police, Kenneth confessed to have carried out several kidnappings around Abia State. Kenneth 29, hails from Ugwunabo Local Government Area of the state. IRT source told Crime Tracker that the criminal escapes of Kenneth. He was said to have confessed to police that: “I kidnapped a man with my car along Force Road and we took the him to our camp at Ogbor hill, where he was for four days until a ransom of N500,000. I got N150,000 as my share.  I took the man’s vehicle to a hotel around Ogbor hill and the vehicle was tracked and I was arrested.  I was detained at State CID, Umuahia and I led the police to arrest my friend, Chikodi Akoma who introduced me to kidnapping.  While we were in custody, the gate to the cell was left open and we escaped, stealing five police rifles.  I ran to Aba, where I started robbing people with the gun I stole from the police.  I recruited three of my friends known as Samuel, Ikone and Charles and we robbed a man returning from a bank on Aba Owerri Road of N200,000.  I got N30,000 as my share, we then robbed aother man who has a grocery store at Ogbor Hill and we took the sum of N450,000 from him. I got N150,000. One of my friends, Chinedu then suggested that we should go into kidnapping. He showed us the house and car of the person he wanted us to kidnap around fly over area of Aba. We monitored and kidnapped him close to his house and we took him to Umugo in Aba and kept him. I gave my gun to Chinedu to watch over him at the camp and I searched the man’s car and found N1.2million which I took without allowing other gang members to know.  I then left the camp. When Chinedu and others at the camp started demanding for ransom from the man he told them that he had money in his car which I have taken.  Chinedu became angry with me saying I betrayed and warned me not to get close to him. He carried on with the job and collected ransom from the man’s family. The job that got me into trouble was from a woman we kidnapped at Umosaka area of Aba. The woman was with her friend at the time we kidnapped her. Charles was the person that brought the gun we used for the job.  The woman paid us in dollars and the value in naira was N5million. I got N1.5million as my share and we released her. Chinedu Samuel, according to the police said: “My first operation was brought to me by a friend known as Topic from Ebonyi State, I am a commercial bus driver. They invited me to drive them.  The first person we kidnapped was in Aba town and we got N800,000 and I got N150,000. I used the money to pay house rent. The second job was brought by one Ike and we kept the man in Ike’s house, but our gang leader stole the money. The third one I did was with Izu, Joshual  and four others. Stanley was the person that brought the job and N500,000 was paid, and I got N120,000 as my share. Anwulika told us to go out with a car and look for any woman with a child who doesn’t have a husband and we should talk to the girl and collect the baby. One of our gang members Stanley told us that he knew a girl who has a baby. He wanted to toast the girl and her child started crying then we gave the girl money to buy some biscuits, then we stole the child from her. We also stole another child we saw on the road in Mbaise in Imo State. We gave all the kidnapped children to Anwulika, who paid us N200,000 each for the children.”