Benin – The Ambrose Alli University (AAU), Ekpoma chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) on Wednesday, unanimously resolved to fully comply with the resolution of ASUU’s national executive committee (NEC) to resume a total and comprehensive nationwide indefinite strike. Dr. Monday Igbafen, chairman of the AAU ASUU, who noted this in a statement, called on Nigerians to hold government responsible for the consequential negative effects and accompanied paralysis of the ongoing ASUU strike. Igbafen also accused the government of a deliberate systematic destruction of education sector with particular reference to public universities in the country through adoption and implementation of neo-Libra policies. He said: “Government must not be allowed to continue on this part of annihilation of public universities in the country through the promotion of a regime of commercialization of education, inadequate funding, flagrant disregard for agreement and promotion of impunity”. While underscoring the necessity of the union’s strike in the face of government’s failure to confront the erroneous challenges facing the education sector in the university, Igbafen affirmed that the goal of the strike is to compel government to address the issues of funding for revitalization of public universities based on the FGN-ASUU MoU of 2012, 2013 and the MoA of 2017. “Reconstitution of the current government team to allow for a leader and chairman of the FGN-ASUU renegotiating team who has the interest of the nation and its people at heart.” “Release of the forensic audit report on the enhanced academic allowances (EAA) payment, settlement of all outstanding academic allowances (EAA) and mainstreaming of same into salaries, beginning with the 2018 budget. “Payment of EAA to ASUU members at the University of Ilorin without further delay. Payment of all arrears of shortfall in salaries to all universities that have met the verification requirements of the presidential Initiative on continuous audit (PICA) Provision of a platform by the FG for ASUU to engage governors on the proliferation of universities, underfunding of university education and undue interference in the affairs of state universities”. While calling for the release of PFA operational license to Nigerian University Pension Management Company (NUPEMCO), the ASUU chairperson said that the union is committed to continue with the strike till government retraces its steps from the path of destruction of public education in the country through abysmally low annual budget allocation to the education sector. Meanwhile, academic activities have been paralysed in AAU Ekpoma following the withdrawal of services by members of the union.