Following a mass protest by members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), popularly known as the Shiites, over the continued detention of their leader, Ibrahim El Zakzaky, about 130 members of the sect were recently arrested by the police and charged to court. El Zakzaky, held along with his wife, is being incarcerated for over three years now over alleged acts of terrorism and breach of the peace, although the courts had granted him bail several times. Government’s action came against the background of several crises in the Northern part of the country involving some Islamic sects, the climax of which is the Boko Haram insurgency, which has claimed several thousands of lives, especially in the North East geo-political zone of the country. During their protest marches, innocent lives are always lost whenever security men try to stop them. The Shiites, in their thousands, always block the roads and sometimes throw stones and destroy vehicles, whenever security operatives attempt to check them. During their last in the periphery of Abuja, some of the Shiites were reportedly killed, where many of them were arrested. However, members of the sect through their spokesman, Ibrahim Musa faulted moves by the police to brand the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) as a terrorist group, saying that they would resist such. But, Nigerians have been wondering how the Federal Government could resolve the perennial clashes between the Shiites Movement and security agents. FG Should Release El Zakzaky, Dialogue With Shiites – Bishop Dr. Bernard Isokun Otaigbe, a Benin-based Pentecostal Bishop, said: “The present All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government should be blamed for the unending clashes between the Shi’ite movement and the security agents. This is because the incessant clashes started soon after the clash between the movement and the conveyor of the Chief of Army Staff in Kaduna during which some of their members were killed by the Army. “This led to the arrest of their leader (Ibrahim El Zakzaky) and after a long time in detention without bail or being charged to court for prosecution they approached the court to seek for his bail which was eventually granted, but because of the present administration’s fragrant disregard for the rule of law, they refused to release him which led to the present frequent protests by the members of the movement. “I refused to agree that members of the movement are always violent each time they are protesting, because, we have not been told that any of them had been arrested with sophisticated weapons other than stones or pebbles in their pockets. “To start with, let the Federal Government release their leader first, and keep him in close monitoring for some time and if  the security agents discovered that their leader’s freedom is still creating security problem in the country, they can go into peaceful dialogue with them and find out what they want. “By so doing, we may find out what their problems are and the solution. No human being is entirely useless. These people could be rehabilitated to be useful to the society. “I therefore submit that their leader should be released as ordered by the court. Thereafter, a panel should be set up to look into the movement’s activities and through the panel’s report, the security agents will be able to get some links that would assist them solving the problem. “If we have a government that is proactive, we won’t have this type of problem. The problem of Boko Haram refused to end till today because we started the solution with force knowing full well that not all problems are resolved with force, especially when blood is involved.” Govt Should Set Up Peace Committee On Shiites Conflict – Activist Comrade Prince Kehinde Taiga Chairman, Committee for Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Delta State chapter, In his contribution, advised the Federal Government to come up with an ad hoc committee to broker peace between the Shiites movement and the security agencies. He traced the frequent clashes between the Movement and security agencies to the lack of intervention by the Federal Government. While he felt that it might be difficult to get them to a round table discussion, Taiga said the government should reach out to the head of the group through a conflict resolution committee as this would go a long way in resolving the conflict. Taiga: “Federal Government has to come up with an interventionist committee to resolve the issue. Most contemporary issues are majorly resolved through conflict resolution committees.” FG Should Release El Zakzaky, Dialogue With Shiites, Restrict Processions – Entreprenuer Jethro Audu, a Minna-based entrepreneur Let me start by commiserating with the families that lost their loved ones during the clash between the Shiites Movement of Nigeria who are protesting the continued incarceration of their leader, and the Nigerian security agencies, some of them who sustained injuries while their operation vehicles were razed by aggrieved Shiites. “I blame both the Federal Government and members of the Islamic group. The group could not have attacked the security forces if the Federal Government had addressed their issue which has been dragging on for almost four years. I think it has become a case of one being pushed to the wall or desperate to force the Federal Government to release their leader, not minding if it were legally and morally right or wrong to take the laws into their hands to press home their demands. “I want to believe that members of the Shiite believe as Nigerians they have the rights to freedom of movements into and around Abuja. But, they may not be aware that their presence and comportment could infringe on the rights of other Nigerians, whose peace they may have violated on the course of their procession. That perhaps is where the Federal Government had to come in. “I believe the security forces cannot just see the Shiite members and start shooting at them. There must have been some sort of provocations that warranted the shooting. What I read is that the Shiite members first blocked the road and when the Nigerian Army on their way to Kaduna State, could not access the road, in trying to clear the road, the group started pelting stones on them and this provoked the soldiers, which responded by firing at them. “The question should be how to avoid such attacks in the future. I left one of such groups because of some of their teachings, which are in clear variation from what we see on today’s Nigeria, or based on the reality on the ground. “We seem to practice Islam different from what is obtainable in other parts of the world by being avoidably violent, when there is no reason for that. The Federal Government can avoid such clashed between security forces and religious leaders, Islam in particular, by dialoguing with leaders of the various sects and restricting their processions. “I don’t think it is wise and safe to take their procession to the federal seat of power and expect not to being challenged? Though they were said to be ‘unarmed’, by their body language they were out to fight or attack anyone that stands on their way. “Islam is not the only religion in Nigeria, but has anybody cared to ask why they easily go violent at the slightest provocation. Is there any kind of orientation or ideologies that members of certain Islamic groups are bequeathed with that is in sharp contrast with the laws of the land? “I can point out some loopholes that give rise to these kind of daring traits among some of these Islamic groups which the relevant government agencies should not ignore to avoid future occurrences “I really don’t know what transpired or what the federal government has seen or discovered about their leader. But, I am using this opportunity to appeal to the Federal Government to look into their request and if possible release their leader.” FG Should Investigate The Shiites – SDP Chieftain Daberechi Johnson Ekeruo, a chieftain of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), stated: “The frequent clashes between the Shittes Movement and security agents are another indication that something is wrong with us as a nation. “The Federal Government should verify where members of the Shittes Movement come from. Do they have any external backing? If yes, who are the people behind them? “The Federal Government should deal decisively on any traditional ruler who allows his subjects to enlist in the group.”