LAGOS – The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) Tier-Based Minimum Solvency Capital (TBMSC) at the weekend suffered another round of defeat as the Commission finally cancelled the policy in a circular made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT. The circular issued by the Commission and signed by its Director, Policy and Regulation, Mr. Agboola Pius, on behalf of the Commissioner for Insurance, Alhaji Mohammed Kari, on stated: “Pursuant to the powers conferred by the enabling laws, the commission hereby withdraws and cancels the circular dated August 27, 2018 with reference number NAICOM/DAPCIR/14/2018 and titled Tier Based Solvency Capital Policy for Insurance Companies in Nigeria.” The TBMSC, most controversial policy of the Commission had suffered a lot of attacks from its introduction having earlier been challenged at the Federal High Court where an injunction restraining the Commission from implementing the new policy framework was obtained. The Commission at the verge of implementation of the policy has cancelled the initiative, adding that the withdrawal and cancellation of the proposed policy take immediate effect. The development, analysts believe, may nullify the case in court, as it seems the shareholders, who had earlier taken the regulatory body to court, has no basis to continue the court case. Our findings show that with the new development, the status quo has returned with Non-Life Insurance Firms continuing to operate with a minimum of N3 billion capitalisation; Life Insurance Operators to maintain N2 billion and Composite Insurers are to maintain N5 billion minimum capital base. The pending case filed by Sir Nnamdi Nwosu and Seven others Vs the National Insurance Commission, demanding the regulatory body to suspend its tier based recapitalisation exercise may also suffer a defeat but the twist to the withdrawal and cancellation of policy by the NAICOM is that the shareholders who went to court to challenge the policy have threatened to demand compensation before the case can be put to a rest. According to them, the decision by the insurance industry regulator to withdraw and cancel the policy would not amount to the end of their litigation. They vowed to press further to seek compensation as they have expended money on engaging solicitors and processing the case. One of the leaders of the shareholders’ group, who spoke to an online newspaper, was quoted as saying that NAICOM has to pay for its missteps, stressing that shareholders would not remain silent and watch regulators live above the laws put in place to direct their affairs. He said shareholders would henceforth begin to challenge all wrong steps taken by regulators which are inimical to their investments, noting that the case filed in court will not die a natural.