As the electioneering for the general election continues, Executive Secretary of Orji Uzor Kalu Foundation (OUKF), Rev (Mrs) Jemimah Kalu, has re-affirmed the foundation’s desire to sustain its pro-poor projects. According to Kalu, who is also the Coordinator of OUK Movement, OUKF has over the years, through various interventions and initiatives, provided succour to indigents citizens across the country. While acknowledging the financial support of the founder of the foundation, Dr. Orji Kalu, whom she described as a philanthropist extraordinaire, Kalu urged beneficiaries of the foundation to live up to expectations. Addressing over 300 beneficiaries of the zero-interest petty traders’ loan, free health initiative and transport empowerment scheme of the foundation in Alayi, Abia state on Tuesday, the retired permanent secretary urged prominent Nigerians to complement efforts of the foundation in alleviating poverty in the society. She said, “As you are aware, OUKF has initiated many humanitarian initiatives with special focus on youth and women empowerment, health and human capital development. “Our focus is to alongside other stakeholders drive sustainable development across the country. “As a not-for-profit organization, we shall continue to initiate projects that will give the masses a sense of belonging” Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Mrs Sarah Ekeoma, a petty trader in Igbere, expressed gratitude to the foundation for its unrelenting efforts in supporting the masses. Her words, “We sincerely appreciate Dr. Orji Kalu, for taking care of the poor. “When he was governor, he empowered the poor by providing free education, scholarships, free health services and above all, good infrastructure. “Nigerians, especially Abians, will not forget the former governor for empowering people, families and communities beyond the South East” While praying for the quick recovery of Kalu, the beneficiaries also promised to galvanize grassroots support for the senatorial bid of the former governor under the All Progressives Congress (APC). They equally pledged their support for the President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government.