Respect for leaders and elders forms an integral part of the society particularly here in the African clime, where to a large extent, the respect one accords elders or leaders determines how much home-training a person has. Inasmuch that elders or leaders deserve to be honoured, women have been faulted to accord much respect to their pastors than their spouses. How true this is, who deserves more honour between a woman’s husband and her pastor and whose counsel (pastor’s or spouse’s) should she heed to are part of what INDEPENDENT Believing posed to some church heads and here is what they have to say. Excerpts: Pastor James Ajibike, Christ Apostolic Church, Garment Of Glory Int’l- Every God Fearing Woman Must Learn How To Extend The Honour Given To Her Pastors To Her Husband In Order To Enjoy And Experience Divine Blessings This observation is very genuine. You see some women giving their pastors due respect than spreading it to their husbands. The Book of 1st Peter 2 verse 17 stated that we should honour all men not only the pastors. It is God’s command that all men have to be honored. It commands good blessings and long life to any woman that tends to be doing such to her husband. Meanwhile, some of the reasons it is very difficult to some women is because of the intimacy, love making, age barrier, educational status etc. But I classify this set of women as unbelievers who lack the Holy Spirit. Sarah was a typical example of a woman that gave her husband due respect. She extended her respect to the priest also to her husband by calling him ‘My lord’ therefore every God-fearing woman must learn how to extend the honour given to her pastors to her husband in order to enjoy and experience the blessings made in the Bible. Bishop (Dr.) Priscillia Otuya, President House Of Regents/Mothers Of The Nation For Peace And Development-Many Homes Have Been Broken Because Women Are Listening To Their Pastors Instead Of Reading Their Bible And Obeying God It is true that women tend to respect their pastors more than their husbands. Women are subjected to a lot and the pastors are seen as representatives of God that can proffer solutions and most often the problem they encounter is either marital or financial problems and that involves the husband too so the next likely place to turn to is the Church or their Pastors. I once said in an interview that women should know who they are; some women don’t know their left from their right. As a woman, know the God you serve because there is the confidence that comes with knowing God. If a woman knows her God she would be able to balance things.  Many homes have been broken because women are listening to their pastors instead of reading their Bible and obeying God. For example it is not the place of your pastor to tell you not to wear earrings, but the place and right of your husband if you are married and that of your father as a young single lady. I repeat it is only your husband that has the right to tell you what to do and not any Pastor. Pastor Isaac Atundaolu, Christ Apostolic Church (Mount Of Ease)- Whatever Respect Women Give To Their Pastors Is To God Indirectly And Not To The Pastors It is because women are more religious than men and also have humility than men. It is not that women do not respect their husbands but, they give more to their pastors because, they believe he is next to God and also a representative of God on earth. Thus, whatever respect they give to their pastors is to God indirectly and not to him. However, women see their pastors as someone they can commune with when it comes to family issues in particular. Pastor Okechukwu Nwafor, Senior Pastor Living Fountain Apostolic Minsitry (LIFAM)- When You Don’t Respect Your Spouse, Your Respect To Any Other Authority Is Fake In this case I believe charity begins at home. Every married woman should respect the spouse because your husband is head of the family, likewise married men, when you don’t respect your spouse, your respect to any other authority is fake; when the home is good, it will show outside. Apostle Sought Out Emeka- Our Pastors Are Worth Our Respect As Well As Our Spouses My view on this is that it depends on the point such observation is being considered. But nevertheless, balance should be stroke in everything we do. Our pastors are worth our respect as well as our spouses. Jacqueline Ogoh -Any Woman Who Is  Honouring Her Pastor More Than Her Husband,  Is Operating In Huge Error (Same Goes For The Man Who Treats His Female Boss With More Love And Honour, Than He Accords His Wife) My take is this.  No woman is permitted by God to honour her pastor more than her husband. The Bible which contains the word of God says every woman should submit to her own husband and respect him. In the book of Ephesians 5, from verse 22 to the end, you will clearly see God’s instructions about marriage there.  You will also find the same in the book of 1st Peter chapter three. Therefore, any woman who is honouring her pastor more than her husband, is operating in huge error (same goes for the man who treats his female boss with more love and honour, than he accords his wife). God established marriage, has high regard for the marital institution he created. You can only score points in that institution, by following his words to the latter. Some women know this fact but they deflect to their pastors great honour and respect because they feel, for example,  that their ‘’good for nothing womaniser and beer guzzling husbands” do not deserve such respect, since they themselves don’t have or display any respect for their lives.  They channel all the respect to the pastor who looks blameless and sneaky clean in his well dry cleaned suit, forgetting that holding a Bible all the time does not make him an ‘’over perfect being’’ but a normal human being,  who will also one day come under God’s divine judgment,  just like they and their own husbands would. The pastor is the husband of another woman who can also throw his shoes and ties in the wrong place like some husbands do.  He may not drink or openly womanise but he may have some other vices his sweet wife covers with maturity, to make sure God’s work goes on smoothly.  So woman who systematically worship idols, in the form of their pastors are contravening scriptural laws. God says clearly that we should neither make nor worship idols. It is forbidden to make your pastor your God. When such a thing becomes too much and God gets jealous, he can cut short the pastor’s life,  to endure no one takes his place as the  Alpha and Omega.  The pastors who truly want to live long must ward off those who hero-worship them. Those are the type of worshippers who will make you hear that a big time pastor slumped and died. Is not all the time that witches and wizards kill people. Some people who are hero-worshipped, who engage in self praise and just rotate about in it are playing with fire.  God kills his reckless opposers; it took him a lot to be God.  So he does not joke with his place.  No way!  He made the husband the head of the home deliberately and also gave the husband the blue print to work with in the same Ephesians 5 which is my favorite scripture on marriage.  Though we are talking about women not men here, permit me to reiterate the scriptural advice that the husband is to love his wife sacrificially, just as Christ,  the husband of the church,  loved the church the church sacrificially and had to die to protect the church. According to the word of God, leadership on the part of the husband must be wrapped in sacrificial love and the study of the word of God for the nurturing of his wife.  So dear husbands, stop watching Arsenal and Chelsea matches when you can’t teach your wives and kids what Psalm 23 entails. Husbands, help your wives to stop the ‘’Pastor or Daddy addiction”. Wives, stop allowing your husbands to make you miserable, due to their disobedience to the word of God. Showing your pastor greater honour, while giving your husband lesser honour is a disservice to God. It attracts no divine accolade.  God will never tell you, ‘Well done my mighty daughter for that.’ You should respect and honour your pastor but never above your own husband. It is like honouring a lawyer more than the judge. If your husband sends you packing for dishonour (although not biblically acceptable), will you pack to the pastor’s house as his second wife?  God was not drunk when he said you should respect and submit to your husband, he knew your husband could misbehave but he still gave you that command all the same. That is because he knows that your good behaviour will win your husband to him and save his soul. Following God’s word, even when it is difficult, brings great reward.  That was why God honoured  Abraham and made him the only father of many nations, whose enviable level of obedience to God is still highly respected today.  Respect God’s word and He will honour you. Don’t worry about whether your husband deserves it or not, just do your part.  Obey God.  Put your respect channel in order. Reset it. Your peace and blessings will begin to pour in now. Archbishop Magnus Atilade, Baptist Church- The Place For One’s Spouse Is Different From The Place Of A Pastor Or One’s Children It is very dangerous for a woman not to honour her husband, vice-versa. Take a servant of God as a representative of God and your husband as your partner as the place for one’s spouse is different from the place of a pastor or one’s children. Husbands and wives should love and respect one another; they should also reciprocate one another’s love and be considerate of their feelings. I, for example will not want a person to love me in an amorous way but to treat me as a servant of God. On whether to heed to a spouse instruction or that of a cleric, I will advise that depending on the subject matter to know who to give heed to but above all, one can seek the face of God to seek direction on any issue. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 