The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has recorded a total income of N8.30 billion for the Group and N3.82 billion surplus before tax for the year ended 31 December 2017. This represents an 86 per cent increase in gross earnings when compared to the N4.46 billion achieved in 2016. Surplus before tax grew by 5,629 per cent in the same period. This was unveiled at the 57th annual general meeting of the Exchange on Thursday, June 7, 2018. The Exchange Group comprises four subsidiary companies namely; Naira Properties Limited, Coral Properties Plc., NSE Consult Limited and NSE Nominees Limited. The Exchange also has interests in NG Clearing Limited and Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc as joint venture and associate company respectively. Just as the AGM was on, the equities market was recording another bullish performance as the NSE All Share Index (ASI) rose 1.6 per cent to settle at 39,042.11 points while year-to-date return strengthened to 2.1 per cent. Commenting on the annual results, Oscar Onyema, CEO, NSE, said “this positive performance, after the significant headwinds witnessed over the past two years, affirms the resilience of our market and its potential as a catalyst of economic growth in Nigeria and the hub for Africa. Focus on executing our robust strategy of cost efficiency, products and revenue diversification, as well as innovative and improved operational delivery, underpins this strong performance”. According to Abimbola Ogunbanjo, President, National Council of NSE “ We have deployed a new four year corporate strategy that will reposition us as a more investor friendly and customer centric exchange hub in Africa. With this new strategy, we are poised to deliver superior performance for our multi-faceted stakeholders especially issuers and investors who continue to access our market to raise and save capital respectively”. In 2017, market capitalisation from N16.185 trillion in 2016 to N22.917 trillion, representing a growth of 41.59 per cent as the All Share Index appreciated by 42.30 per cent from 26,874.62 points to 38,243.19 points. The market also achieved new listings across diversified product classes with 41 bonds, 19 equities, 5 ETFs and 15 Memorandum Listings. In recognition of its performance in the year under review, the Exchange was rated third best performing stock exchange in 2017 by CNN, awarded CSR Company of the year by Lagos Chamber of Commerce & Industry and named Employer of The Year by HR People’s Magazine. The Exchange, in partnership with the Debt Management Office, launched FGN Savings Bond, Green Bond and Sukuk to promote financial inclusion in Nigeria just as it commissioned Tier 3 designed data centre with cloud computing capabilities. At the AGM, members of the Exchange approved the Audited Financial Statement of The exchange for the year ended 31 December 2017, and the reports of the National Council and the Auditors thereon. Also, the following were re-elected to the National Council, Mr. Abubakar B. Mahmoud, SAN, OON; Erelu Angela Adebayo; Chartwell Securities Limited (Represented by Mr. Oluwole Adeosun) and Equity Capital Solutions Limited (Represented by Mr. Kamarudeen Oladosu). 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 