P’Harcourt – Rivers State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Felix Obuah, has charged the Super  Eagles to approach every of their ongoing World Cup match with a winning mentality. Obuah stated in a statement in Port Harcourt that he was confident that Super Eagles would not disappoint as he has fervently prayed to God to grant the team a good outing. He advised the players to put behind them the disappointing in their last two warm-up friendlies against England and the Czech Republic, and approach all matches with the conviction that all things were possible with God. “I have prayed, just as I believe that millions of other Nigerians have also prayed for Super Eagles to come out victorious in their group, qualify for the next round; to the quarter finals and victory all the way. “There are two basic truths which will play out for the Super Eagles in this World Cup.  One, their opponents would see them as underdogs and take them for granted, but with God on their side, they will spring up surprises that will shock all those who have written them off. “Secondly, Super Eagles have a history of rising to the occasion when they are least expected.  They are known for their grit, doggedness and a fighting spirit,” he said. Obuah who is President/Sole Sponsor of Go-Round Football Club of Omoku, a side plying in the professional league, re-emphasized that football was a game where anything can happen, adding, “That is why it is not mathematics which must follow the rules of addition, subtraction, multiplication.” The State PDP Chairman who is also the Sole Administrator of Rivers State Waste Management Agency (RIWAMA) also charged Nigerians not to relent in their prayers for the Super Eagles even as he urged supporters and Nigerians living in Russia to come all out and cheer the boys to victory. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 