United States President, Donald Trump, has attacked Germany’s migration policies as criticism of child detention centres at the U.S.-Mexico border intensifies. Trump used social media to falsely suggest that the influx of asylum seekers in Germany has caused a spike in crime. On Monday morning, he tweeted: “The people of Germany are turning against their leadership as migration is rocking the already tenuous Berlin coalition. Crime in Germany is way up. Big mistake made all over Europe in allowing millions of people in who have so strongly and violently changed their culture!” He added: “We don’t want what is happening with immigration in Europe to happen with us!” Images released on Monday morning showed segregated children detained in cages inside a warehouse in Texas, after journalists were given access for the first time. The segregation has triggered an international outcry, with the United Nations human rights chief on Monday urging Washington to stop separating migrant children from their parents at the U.S. border, describing the policy as “unconscionable”. Germany opened its doors to more than one million asylum seekers in 2015, a policy much criticised at home and abroad that has in recent days looked as though it might derail the coalition government. Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, defended her decision to welcome migrants, saying: “It was an extraordinary situation and I made my decision based on what I thought was right from a political and humanitarian standpoint.” His tweets came as senior Republicans continued to call into question the hardline policy. Melania Trump, the first lady, also appeared to question the treatment of migrants. In a statement last night, she said she “hates to see children separated from their families”, while the former first lady, Laura Bush, said the policy “breaks my heart”. Trump later tweeted that Democrats were to blame for the state of affairs. “It is the Democrats fault for being weak and ineffective with Boarder Security and Crime (sic),” he said. “Tell them to start thinking about the people devastated by Crime coming from illegal immigration. Change the laws!” Crime has fallen off dramatically in Germany, with the country’s internal ministry reporting last month that criminal offenses in Germany totaled 5.76 million in 2017, the lowest number since 1992, leading to the lowest crime rate for the country in more than 30 years. Merkel’s open-door migrant policy is widely blamed for the rise of the right-wing AfD, now the main opposition party in Germany’s federal parliament. More than 1.6 million migrants, mostly Muslims fleeing wars in the Middle East, have arrived in Germany since 2014. This spring, the Trump administration ordered prosecutors to charge every person illegally crossing the border. Children traveling with the adults have been separated and placed in detention centers. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 