Mohammed Mansur Dan-Ali, the Minister of Defence, touched the fresh wounds of a cross section of Nigerians who had been irked by the actions of rampaging herdsmen when he said that the anti-grazing laws operating in some states should be suspended. It would be recalled that states like Benue, Taraba, Ekiti and recently Abia enacted the anti-open grazing laws to check the activities of nomadic herdsmen who had been killing and maiming farmers across the nation, especially in the Middle Belt, destroying farmlands and other properties. Thousands of people have been killed since the herdsmen stated their onslaught, even as they kidnap people for ransom. Women are not sparred as the marauders rape at will, injuring and killing their victims. Dan-Ali said the suspension of the ant-open grazing laws would reduce tension in the states affected by the farmer/herdsmen killings, especially in the Middle Belt, where the herdsmen are known to have even attacked Churches and seminaries, killing clerics and other worshippers. Dan-Ali made the recommendation on Tuesday, June 5, 2018 after a security meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. He said: “There is need to employ other channels with the affected states to reduce tension by suspending the implementation of the anti-open grazing law while also negotiating safe routes for the herders. “There is a need for the Nigeria Police and Department of State Services (DSS) to prosecute all the suspects arrested in the affected states while negotiating safe routes for the herders.” Dan-Ali recommended the launch of a Joint Task Force operation, similar to ‘Operation Safe Haven’ in Jos, with headquarters in Gusau, Zamfara State, to cover Zamfara and Birnin Gwari axis of Kaduna State, where incessant kidnappings and killings had also been happening. Giving his support, Ibrahim Idris, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), who was also at the meeting, said that a team comprising the Military, Police and Civil Defence would be deployed to Zamfara State in two weeks to secure lives and property of the people. Others present at the meeting were Mohammed Babagana Monguno, the National Security Adviser (NSA), and Ahmed Abubakar, the NIA Director-General. Senate Asks Minister To Withdraw Comment Soon after Dan-Ali’s controversial call, the Senate the next day asked him to withdraw the comment. Senate’s action followed a Point of Order by Senator Barnabas Gemade (APC-Benue North East) on the floor of the Senate. Gemade urged the Red Chamber to ask Dan-Ali to withdraw his statement regarding anti-grazing law. Gemade said the call was not necessary, adding that it was worrisome for such a statement to come from a cabinet member that ought to help find solution to incessant killings in the states. He said: “Mr. President, distinguished colleagues, this matter is very critical and I need to bring it out. “Seven people were killed in Kwande Local Government Area in my senatorial district yesterday. “We are under siege by armed men who kill and destroy farms and homes every day. “Yesterday, there was a Security Council meeting, which was presided by President Muhammadu Buhari. “At the end of the meeting, the Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali, asked Buhari to stop anti-grazing laws in Benue and Taraba states.” The lawmaker expressed concern that President Buhari was being ill-advised by his appointees. Contributing, Sen. John Enoh (APC-Cross River) said killings in Nigeria had nothing to do with anti-grazing laws, even as he urged the Senate to rise above sentiments in dealing with killings across the country. Senator Emmanuel Bwacha also disclosed that five persons were killed on their way to farm in Takum Local Government Area of Taraba State the previous day and urged the Senate to be united against killings in Nigeria. The President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, thereafter put the point of order to a voice vote, and the ‘Ayes’ had it. Having learnt of Dan-Ali’s suggestion, Nigerians had been wondering if the anti- grazing laws be suspended in the states that had enacted them bearing in mind the way the herdsmen had been killing people and destroying farmlands and communities in parts of the nation. In other words, should the Federal Government take this advice? Has the Federal Government has the powers to abrogate laws appropriately passed the state Houses of Assembly FG Should Ignore Dan-Ali’s Suggestion – NCP Chief Nzeh Ebetu Nnakwe Osuji, Imo State-based veteran journalist, former House of Assembly aspirant and now a member National Conscience party (NCP), did not buy the minister’s idea. He said: “Dan-Ali should tell Nigerians why he is saying that the anti-grazing laws in states should be put on hold. As the Minister of Defence, he knows what we are passing through as a result of cattle grazing. “Now that he is canvassing for the suspension of the anti-grazing laws, the Federal Government should look before it leaps in order not to compound an already disturbing situation. If he does not back his position with cogent verifiable reasons, the Federal Government should ignore him. Let No Body Listen To Him – LP Chieftain Adidanwa Jeremiah Ekeukwu is a community leader in Owerri North area of Imo State and a Local Government chairmanship aspirant under Labour Party (LP). Hear him: “The anti-grazing law has been widely acknowledged as one of the solutions to arrest the menace of the Hausas/Fulani herdsmen. “So, why is the defence minister saying that it should be suspended? Let no body listen to him.” Ranching Will Check Herdsmen’s Killings – Don Benedicta Pam is a lecturer in one the nation’s higher institutions. She said that as a Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali might have his reasons for suggesting that the anti-grazing law be suspended. She added: “But, for the Federal Government to take his advice or not is entirely a different thing, which I for one, is not in support of. “I see the Fulani herdsmen as one out of millions of farmers in Nigeria who have invested in cow rearing, their own kind of farming for profit making. So, if other farmers confine their cows, pigs, birds or anything they have in their farms to avoid going out to destroy other people’s properties, why can’t the Fulani man buy land to keep his herd or go into ranching as a way of ending constant skirmishes between the Fulani men and farmers? “The Minister of Defence is talking like his kinsmen and he is entitled to his own views. But, I am talking on national interest. He should encourage Fulani herdsmen to buy land where to keep their cattle and then source for food to feed them, instead of allowing the herds move about destroying people’s farms and properties.” Dan-Ali Is An Affront On Federalism – Rights Activist Comrade Austin Osakue, a Benin based human rights activist and Executive Director, Foundation for Good Governance and Social Change, declared: “I must tell you that the Minister of Defence is on his own.  In advanced societies that minister ought to have resigned his position because he does not understand that there are three levels of government, the federal, the state and the local government. “In a federal system, it is the responsibility of the Chief Security Officer of the state, who is the governor, in conjunction with the House of Assembly to make laws for the peace and development of the state. “The Minister of Defence knows that he has not carried out his responsibilities of defending the entire Nigeria against the rampaging Fulani herdsmen. The anti-grazing laws by the states are efforts by the state authorities to protect their own citizens from the rampaging Fulani herdsmen. “The Minister of Defence’s statement advising the Federal Government to suspend the anti-grazing laws is an affront on federalism, an affront on the Nigerian people, an insult to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The Federal Government should not take that advice instead should ask the Minister of Defence to proceed on leave. “Public opinion so far shows very clearly that Nigerians are not in support of that statement of the Minister of Defence. The National Assembly that makes laws for this country is also not in support. “The Houses of Assembly that have gone to make laws and the ones which are yet to make theirs will not support that statement that he has made. “So, that statement was irresponsible. It was reckless. He deserves a sack if he refuses to resign by himself.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 