Ndukwe Iko, a former governorship aspirant and House Of Representatives candidate in the 2015 election, has said Nigerians must separate politics from President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent declaration of June 12 as the country’s Democracy Day, saying that the President had done enough to warrant re-election. He also said that former President Olusegun Obasanjo has nothing to worry over the $16 billion his administration allegedly spent on power project with nothing to show for it if he is innocent. He  spoke to CHIBUIKE CHUKWU. Excerpts: Some Nigerians believe that President Buhari’s June 12 Democracy Day declaration was belated and that he did so to curry the favour of South West ahead  the 2019 election given that he has not met people’s expectations. What is your take on this? There is no favour to curry from the South West because they are for the APC. I don’t think South West should expect more than they have presently. They have the vice presiden. All the governors in the zone, apart from Ekiti State, are APC. I don’t think that there is anything to worry about South West loyalty to the president. In terms of what he has not done to deserve re-election, I don’t think any president has done more to the region than President Buhari. Just look at the constructions going on everywhere in South West. There are ministerial appointments from the region every now and then. So, I don’t think there is any favour to be curried from the South West. What Buhari did was to announce the winner of the June 12 election, which had been in the minds of millions of Nigerians. He simply said Abiola won the election and he returned the honour to whom honour is due. It is not a victory for the South West alone, but a victory for the whole Nigeria. Buhari told us that Abiola won the election, which was an open truth. The president did the right thing by declaring June 12 the Democracy Day. Is it not right for the President to ensure a post mortem swearing-in and for INEC to issue a certificate of returns to Abiola’s family so that he will be duly recognised as Nigeria’s former president? Well, righting wrongs takes a lot of processes. The first process is just acknowledging that an election took place and that there was a winner. It is the same thing NADECO has been clamouring. But, mind you, the president doesn’t have the power to declare anybody the authentic winner, but the electoral commission has that power. When that time comes, INEC will revisit their archive. Thank God, a person like Humphrey Nwosu is still alive and he will be called upon to work closely with INEC to get the official result. Then, government will take it up from there. I will urge every Nigerian to remove partisan politics from what Buhari has done. It is very unfortunate that many past  presidents did not do it. It is even more painful that some people are adding time factor to this, because election is very close. Which time would he have done it and people won’t read meanings to it? Now, look at the day of the investiture, those who worked tirelessly to make sure that the June 12 issue, which is one justice Nigerians had been clamouring for, did not see the light of the day, were absent. They have not even said anything about it. I am talking of somebody like former President Olusegun Obasanjo. He worked tirelessly to make sure that June 12 never saw the light of day. There are also others like Abdulsalam Abubakar and Ibrahim Babangida, the major culprit among them. He has never spoken. There is a conspiracy of silence among them because they know that the most courageous man in Nigeria today has taking the right decision. But, do you think that based on achievements, President Buhari deserves re-election? He deserves it 100 percent; he deserves it more than how Obasanjo wanted three terms of office in 2003. For instance, for a long time, Nigeria has not had a structure of governance that encourages good financial management. I don’t know when you heard of JAMB, NEPA or even WAEC generating any money? Rather, government continues to put in money into some of them. During recession, Customs reportedly generated money more than ever before, just because of prudence and good financial management of the present administration. I think somebody whose government is doing all these should be given a second term. On security, we have plethora of problems. For instance, when we were thinking that Boko Haram is curtailed, this herdsmen issue surfaced. It remains a mystery how the herdsmen menace had continued. That is why I am tasking the government to do more work in that area. On corruption, for two former governors to be jailed 14 years each in less than two weeks speaks volume of what this administration is doing to fight corruption. Their trials started since 2007 and just three years into Buhari’s administration, they were convicted. That will show you that something is being done in the judiciary. We have been clamouring for a high profile conviction and now we have it. I think we should applaud the present government instead of bringing partisanship into it. But the same government has refused bail granted to some persons like Ibrahim El-Zakzaky and Dasuki… (Cuts in) Anybody who is uncomfortable with them still remaining in detention can carry placard and peacefully demonstrate. But, let me tell you, government sees beyond what we see and there could be dangers associated with releasing them. The first duty of the government is to protect the populace. The court has not come out publicly to award any penalty against the government for not carrying out the bail order and you don’t know why. Before El-Zakzaky was incarcerated, nobody knew about him and what he was doing in Kaduna, blocking roads against users, Christians, Muslims or any other person, as long as you do not belong to his sect. By the way, where is the sect coming from? From Iran. In Dasuki’s case, he is an accessory to a very large ongoing investigation. Some of the people he accused came and denied, while some came and owned up to collecting money. There is no way such important instrument to the EFCC will be released. He should be kept in a place where he keeps giving such information. Former President Obasanjo recently raised alarm that his life is in danger and that the Federal Government was perfecting plans to wrongly accuse him. Do you think the former president is raising the right alarm given that some people said he was just telling the government what it should know? The first alarm he raised was a letter through which he accused the government of what they were doing rightly or wrongly, especially in the fight against corruption. Then, the president made a remark on the $16 billion spent on power during Obasanjo’s time, of which he replied that the president was ignorant. Then the frame-up allegation came. I don’t know how he got the information. But, if Obasanjo is going to equity with clean hands, he shouldn’t have anything to worry about. If he has a case to answer, then he should wait for a day in court to answer it. There is nothing to be afraid of because we are in a democratic regime. Obasanjo is not above the law. His allegation that his life is in danger is a weighty one and if I am government, I will investigate it. He should tell us how and who is endangering his life. Saying also that somebody is trying to hang a charge on him is also grave. He has a lawyer and should approach court. How can you assess governance in your state, Abia? To assess Governor Okezie Ikpeazu at times is very difficult because if you go to some parts of the state, you see things on ground. But, if you go to the other areas, practically, nothing is happening. Building roads and other infrastructure are not the only works of government. Government should pay salaries also. Abia needs true change. It does not mean removing the governor, but encouraging him to do more. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 