Lagos – The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has said that global passenger traffic data for April 2018 rose by 6.2 per cent compared to April 2017, which was down from a 12-month high of 9.7 per cent in March. IATA said that comparisons with the year ago period were impacted by developments a year ago -including the comparatively late timing of Easter in 2017, which boosted April traffic. April capacity, according to IATA, increased by 5.9 per cent, and load factor climbed 0.2 percentage point to 82.3 per cent, which was a record for the month of April, surpassing last year’s record of 82.1 per cent. Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s Director-General noted in the report released by the association that demand for air transport has continued to be above the long-term trend. He, however, said that increases in airline cost inputs, most notably fuel prices, meant that the world was unlikely to see increased stimulation from lower fares in 2018, compared to previous years. According to the global body, April international passenger demand rose 4.8 per cent compared to April 2017. All regions recorded year-over-year traffic increases, but all were behind the pace of growth reported in March. Total capacity climbed 4.9 per cent, and load factor slipped 0.1 percentage point to 81.4 per cent. Asia Pacific carriers posted an 8.5 per cent traffic rise in April, strongest among the regions. It was the first time since December 2017 that Asia-Pacific airlines led in growth. Passenger traffic has continued to trend upwards at an annualised rate in the region of 10 per cent, supported by robust regional economic expansion and ongoing growth in the number of flight options, which translated into time savings for passengers. Capacity rose 7.6 per cent and load factor improved 0.6 percentage point to 81.0 per cent. African airlines’ had a 5.1 per cent traffic increase in April as capacity rose 4.6 per cent, and load factor edged up 0.4 percentage point to 72.8 per cent. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 