LAGOS – Mudashiru Obasa, Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, on Monday commended the Federal Government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari for recognising the late MKO Abiola for his struggles for democracy in Nigeria. Deliberating on the matter, which was brought under the issue of urgent public importance by Sanai Agunbiade, the House Majority Leader, the lawmakers commended Lagos State and the Federal Governments for declaring June 12 and May 29 as national holidays in the country. He lauded the Federal Government for following the good example laid by the state government to accept the days as national holidays. Agunbiade recommended that the House should raise a monument in honour of MKO Abiola and other unsung heroes of democracy. The Speaker, who also lauded President Buhari for his action, noted that the Lagos House annually raised the June 12 issue, seeking for national recognition. He said, “President Buhari has done very well in this regard considering his military background. His action is praiseworthy and for giving Nigerians the national holidays, he has promoted national unity.” To this effect, the Speaker directed the Clerk of the House to write a commendation letter to President Buhari. In the same vein, the state Assembly has lauded the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) over the successful congress held across the country. It noted that the APC leadership was able to reach a consensus while carrying all party members along. Obasa also asked the Clerk to write congratulatory letters to President Buhari on the success of the convention, Adams Oshiomhole as the leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu for upholding the party and how they have all managed internal democracy for the success of the APC. Desmond Elliot (Surulere I) submitted the report of the ad hoc committee on the Bill for Promotion of Lagos State Tourism Board. The House adjourned sitting until Friday, June 29 for further hearing. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 