Just one week after Kim Kardashian met with United States President, Donald Trump, to argue the case of a great-grandmother sentenced to life in prison over a first-time drug conviction, the POTUS took action.   He granted clemency to Alice Marie Johnson on Wednesday, commuting the life sentence of the 63-year-old Tennessee woman who was found guilty of cocaine conspiracy and money laundering charges.      She has been in federal prison for more than two decades, NPR reported, during which time supporters have argued for her release, pointing out the non-violent nature of her offense and the fact that she’s been a model prisoner. Kardashian tweeted on Wednesday alongside a link to the news. “So grateful to @realDonaldTrump, Jared Kushner and to everyone who has showed compassion and contributed countless hours to this important moment for Ms. Alice Marie Johnson. Her commutation is inspirational and gives hope to so many others who are also deserving of a second chance,” she added. In a statement, the White House said Johnson “has accepted responsibility for her past behavior.”   “While this administration will always be very tough on crime, it believes that those who have paid their debt to society and worked hard to better themselves while in prison deserve a second chance,” the statement says. Prior to Johnson, Trump had issued five pardons and one commutation; he’s considering others. Johnson, 63, said Trump had given her another chance in life and restored her to her family. Kim Kardashian West had lobbied for her release, meeting the president last week. The White House said Johnson had been a model prisoner and worked hard to rehabilitate herself. At an emotional reunion with her family outside an Alabama prison, the former prisoner thanked Trump and Kardashian West, saying she was “free to live life and free to start over.” “I have a lot of catching up to do with my family. I can’t wait to get back on the workforce and get back to my community,” she told a gathering of family members and supporters comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 