ABUJA – The Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU) has suspended its over six weeks old strike following the intervention of the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and others. However, negotiations continue on Monday, June 4, 2018. Comrade Josiah Biobelemoye, National Chairman of JOHESU,  while  briefing newsmen in Abuja after the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the group, blamed the strike on the insincerity of the government negotiating team. According to him, “We note with dismay the insincerity and unseriousness exhibited at the negotiation table by the government negotiating team which led to the breakdown of further negotiations and unnecessarily prolonged the strike action”. He however called on members to remain peaceful in the face of the intimidation and report any case of harassment to the national body of the union. While applauding the Senate President for his efforts in resolving the crisis, Biobelemoye said, “Due to the intervention of the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki who through his love for the suffering masses displayed high level of statesmanship and sincerity of purpose by putting some machinery in place with a view to permanently resolving the issues in contention.” His words:  “The various gains from the meetings with the Senate President were presented to the NEC of JOHESU, after an exhaustive deliberations and discussions, the NEC in session approved that the six weeks old strike be suspended this day, Thursday, 31st May, 2018 because of the sympathy the unions have for the suffering Nigerian masses and also to pave way for further negotiations to continue on Monday 4th June, 2018. It would be recalled that a non-governmental organisation (NGO) got an ex-parte Court order directing JOHESU to suspend the strike within 24 hours and report back to work. In its ruling, the  court took over the negotiations between JOHESU and Government in its Alternative Dispute resolution (ADR) centre. The court however resolved that, “JOHESU and government side are to nominate their representatives in the ADR process within 24 hours of the NICN judgment. ” “The Federal Ministry of Health and Federal Ministry of Labour shall nominate officers that have authority to negotiate on its behalf i.e the Honourable Minister of Health and Honourable Minister of Labour shall not be part of the committee. “The agreement reached at the ADR centre will be registered in the court as judgment binding on both parties. “JOHESU is to initiate the process of allowing normalcy to return to hospitals within three days. Both parties were ordered to maintain status-quo ante bellum while negotiation lasts.” JOHESU therefore stressed that the strike actions is neither ill nor politically motivated but in a bid to save the health sector from imminent collapse.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 