The Managing Director of Prestige Assurance Plc, Dr. Balla Swammy has stated that the Gross Written Premium (GPW) of the company rose from N2.614 million in 2016 to N3.809 million in 2017. Swammy said this at the company’s 2017 Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos. Reports say that the GWP is the total premium of an insurer less reinsurance and ceding commissions. The Prestige Assurance boss said that the growth in GPW in the year under review was achieved as a result of the relocation of the Abuja, Ikeja and Kano branches to profitable centres. According to him, the action resulted in an increase in the premium generated by the branches. Swammy said that the Profit after Tax (PAT) for the year under review grew from N222 million in 2016 to 532 million. “The PAT figure represented 140 percent growth over that of 2016. Though no dividend was declared for the year under review, in order to erase accumulated loss for the year 2015 and 2016, the company has raised earnings per share to N9.90 kobo from N4. 13 Kobo,” he said. He stressed that the company was on the right track to declare a dividend in 2018 since the accumulated losses had been wiped out. Speaking on re-branding measures to reposition the company, Swammy said Prestige Assurance had activated its social media platforms. “These include facebook, twitter, and Instagram among others with growing followership,” he said. Commenting on the state of the insurance industry, he commended underwriters for achieving prompt payment of claims. Swammy said that the future of the industry depended on sound underwriting; prompt settlement of claims, proper fund management, and innovative information technology. “I must not fail to applaud co-practitioners for ensuring insurance claims are paid within 21 days as stipulated by the industry’s regulator, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM),” Swammy said. Ebola Outbreak: World Bank Disburses $12million Grant, Warns On Risk Of Spread The World Bank through says it has activated its Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility (PEF) cash window, to make its first cash disbursement, providing a $12 million grant to assist in the response to the recent Ebola virus outbreak. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has warned of the “significant risk” that the outbreak of the Ebola virus in the Democratic Republic of Congo spreads to neighbouring countries, as the number of confirmed cases rises again placing the World Bank issued pandemic catastrophe bonds and swaps into focus again. The body noted in what it described as warning of the “significant risk” that the outbreak of the Ebola virus in that country may soon spread to neighbouring countries, as the number of confirmed cases rises again placing the World Bank issued pandemic catastrophe bonds and swaps into focus again. The outbreak of the Ebola virus in the Democratic Republic of Congo could become a qualifying or eligible event under the terms of the coverage provided by the Class B tranches of pandemic swaps and catastrophe bonds that were issued through the PEF transaction by the World Bank’s International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) last year. The response by the international community to stem the spread of the outbreak has been significant, with the World Bank itself activating its Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility (PEF) cash window, to make its first cash disbursement, providing a $12 million grant to assist in the response to the recent Ebola virus outbreak. As the cases keep rising, WHO has warned of the potential for regional spread of the disease outbreak into other countries as well. “When we last updated on the outbreak on May 23, 2018 there were 28 confirmed cases of the Ebola virus from within three health zones in Equateur Province, Congo. As of June 3rd, the figure has risen to 37 confirmed cases, as the disease outbreak continues to spread”, it was stated. The WHO explained in its latest update, “From  April 4, 2018 through  June3, 2018, a total of 56 EVD cases, including 25 deaths (overall case fatality ratio = 45%), have been reported from three health zones in Equateur Province. The total includes 37 confirmed, 13 probable and six suspected cases from the three health zones: Bikoro (n=26; 10 confirmed, 11 probable and five suspected cases), Iboko (n=25; 23 confirmed and two probable cases) and Wangata (n=5; four confirmed and one suspected cases).” Additionally, the number of contacts being followed up has risen as well, from 600 as of May 2, 2018 to now 880 as of June 3,2018 In addition, an update yesterday from the WHO warns of the potential for the Ebola virus outbreak to spread into neighbouring countries, which would heighten the risk to the pandemic catastrophe bonds and swaps. “There is a significant risk of spread of the ongoing EVD outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to neighbouring countries because of the geographic proximity, high volume of movement of people and goods across borders and along the Congo River, insufficient national capacities to prevent, detect and respond to EVD cases, and other factors which may enable transmission,” the WHO warned. An emergency committee of the WHO concluded, “Neighbouring countries should urgently strengthen preparedness and surveillance in order to mitigate the risk of international spread.” Swiss Re to acquire 13.81% stake in Kenyan insurer, Britam Global reinsurance giant Swiss Re with interest in Nigeria’s Leadway Assurance Limited is set to expand its global network to Kenya with the acquisition of a 13.81 percent stake in Britam Holdings, Kenya’s largest company in the life insurance and pension annuity sector, for an undisclosed fee. According to an announcement, Swiss Re will acquire 348,504,000 ordinary shares in Britam from one of its key shareholders, Plum LLP. Once the deal is completed, which remains subject to regulatory approvals from the Capital Markets Authority, Insurance Regulatory Authority and the Central Bank of Kenya, Swiss Re will hold roughly 13.81per cent of the issued ordinary shares of the Kenya domiciled player. According to reports, Britam claims just over a fifth of the Kenyan life insurance and pension annuity market, and executives in the Kenyan life industry have previously underlined the growth potential of life business in the region owing to low penetration rates. At the same time, Britam has entered into a conditional investor agreement with the reinsurance giant, which sees Britam agree to adhere to certain corporate governance, information and compliance and governance standards. The announcement states that the investment of Swiss Re in Britam will provide the latter with a number of benefits, including the fact Swiss Re is to share its experience in mergers and acquisitions, international expansions and capital raising, as well as enhancing Britam’s financial flexibility and underwriting capacity. Furthermore, Britam is expected to benefit from Swiss Re’s industry knowledge and technical expertise, as well as its global network of investors and market participants. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 