The lack of Investigative journalism is also a major problem of the Nigerian Media. The modern day journalist should go beyond simply telling the people what they see, but should also go further to unravel facts which are hidden or which may be suppressed. Investigative journalism is the hallmark of a good journalist, and there are many lessons to be learned from journalists in more advanced jurisdictions such as in Europe and America. The Libya Slavery scandal we recall was exposed by investigative journalisms. CNN correspondents actually went to Libya themselves and posed as persons interested in buying slaves. The transactions were all caught on tape, and the story received worldwide attention and rekindled the debate about slavery. In Ghana, investigative journalism also led to the exposure of judicial corruption and sparked an inquiry and subsequent indictment of corrupt judicial officers, following the release of a documentary by revered investigative journalist, Anas Armeyaw Anas. Despite extensive pressure to keep his findings confidential, Anas released them to the public after behind the scenes negotiations with the President and Attorney General of Ghana. The documentary which showed 12 high court judges, 22 other circuit and district court judges, and 140 other court officials accepting bribes and demanding sexual favours in order to obtain favourable judgments, sparked an unprecedented constitutional and political crisis in the country’s judicial system, previously one of its most respected institutions. Come elections 2019, it is expected that journalists will be on the ground investigating widespread and brazen acts of electoral malpractice, as such will help the courts in deciding the propriety of the elections if they become subjects of litigation. Another problem we observe in the media is that when they break a developing story, they fail to follow these stories to their conclusion such that the public is left with wrong or incomplete information. Having such incomplete or inconclusive information is just as bad as not being informed or having incorrect information. The media must therefore be more proactive in their reporting, and every developing story of public interest should rightly be followed to its conclusion. Our final criticism of the media is the issue of fake news. This problem has become particularly pronounced in the social media age such that the U. S. President has consistently criticised American news outlets for carrying fake news. Fake news is a terrible weapon which can be used by miscreants to skew the mind set of electorates for or against candidates. It is important to highlight some cardinal rules governing journalistic ethics: 1. Accuracy and Fairness: a. The public has right to know. Factual, accurate, balanced and fair reporting is the ultimate objective of good journalism and the basis of earning public trust and confidence. b. A journalist should refrain from publishing inaccurate and misleading information. Where such information has been inadvertently published, prompt correction should be made. A journalist must hold the right to reply as a cardinal rule of practice. c. In the course of his [sic.] duties, the journalist should strive to separate facts from conjecture and comment. 2. Privacy: As a general rule, a journalist should respect the privacy of individuals and their families unless it affects the public interest. a. Information on the private life of an individual or his [sic.] family should only be published if it impinges on public interest. b. Publishing of such information about an individual as mentioned above should be deemed justifiable only if it is directed at i) Exposing crime or social misdemeanour; ii) Exposing anti-social conduct; iii) Protecting public health, morality and safety; [and] iv) Preventing the public from being misled by some statement or action of the individual concerned. 3. Decency: a. A journalist should dress and comport himself in a manner that conforms to public taste. b. A journalist should refrain from using offensive, abusive or vulgar language. c. A journalist should not present lurid details, either in words or picture, of violence, sexual acts, [and] abhorrent or horrid scenes. d. In cases involving personal grief or shock, enquiries should be carried out and approaches made with sympathy and discretion. e. Unless it is in furtherance of the public’s right to know, a journalist should generally avoid identifying relatives or friends of persons convicted or accused of crime. 4. Discrimination: A journalist should refrain from making pejorative reference to a person’s ethnic group, religion, sex, or to any physical or mental illness or handicap. 5. Violence: A journalist should not present or report acts of violence, armed robberies, terrorist activities or vulgar display of wealth in a manner that glorifies such acts in the eyes of the public. 6. Public Interest: A journalist should strive to enhance national unity and public good. 7. Social Responsibility: A journalist should promote universal principles of human rights, democracy, justice, equity, peace, and international understanding. 8. Press Freedom and Responsibility: A journalist should strive at all times to enhance press freedom and responsibility. The media must not allow themselves to be used as tools for misinformation and the dissemination of propaganda by politicians and interest groups in the upcoming elections, rather their duties should be to closely monitor the electoral process and keep the public reliably informed so that they may in turn make informed choices. The Role Of The Judiciary In The 2019 Elections The judiciary has the sacred role of interpreting laws and deciding the rights, responsibilities and liabilities of parties to a dispute. Elections are perhaps the most hotly contested and dispute issue in the courts, such that after every election, there are most likely going to be petitions by aggrieved persons alleging malpractice. Nigeria has over the years seen very tumultuous and violent elections typically characterized by the entire spectrum of electoral malpractice at both the federal state and local levels of government. Has the Judiciary helped improve the quality of elections in Nigeria? The more direct question is why has the court consistently failed to successfully change executive (presidential and gubernatorial) election results, even where there is sufficient evidence showing massive election fraud and even when there are increasing numbers of disputed elections. Since the end of the World War II, courts have determined the outcome of about 50 countries’ presidential elections, yet none has been reversed. Not even in Mexico, the Philippines, or Nigeria with the highest frequency of disputed elections, had presidential election results been annulled by the judiciary. It is only in Panama, that court successfully annulled the presidential election in 1989 (Hernández-Huerta, 2015). There are four interrelated explanations why the courts consistently fail to upturn presidential elections in Nigeria, and also in Africa as a whole. First, is the legal burden of proof of evidence placed substantially on the petitioner(s). The burden of proof of evidence simply requires the petitioner to provide concrete materials of evidence to show cases of multiple/underage voting, falsification of results, ballot stuffing, and non-accreditation of voters, among others. The material evidence required include essential election data like voters registered, used and unused ballot papers, result sheets, and other materials which are at the custody of the electoral body. The Electoral Commissions in African countries are consistently unwilling to release election materials for forensic studies and court use. When access to election materials is denied, the standard of proof would be incredibly difficult to be discharged by the petitioners. It is unsurprising, therefore, that the report of Election Reform Committee (ERC, 2008), Nigeria reproached the Electoral Commission for frustrating “several election petitions due to failure to provide evidence, thereby jeopardising the petitions of litigants”. Second, is the legal clause of “non-compliance with the provisions of law” and that “did not affect substantially the result of the election” which has been incorporated in most electoral laws including our Electoral Act. Section 139 (1) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) in Nigeria provides that an election shall not be liable to be invalidated by reason of non-compliance with the provisions of this Act if it appears to the Election Tribunal or Court that the election was conducted substantially in accordance with the principles of this Act and that the noncompliance did Not affect Substantially the result of the election. This section is subject to prevarications, misinterpretations, and, often at times, misuse. Before an election is invalidated, both conditions of “non-compliance with the provisions of law” and “affect substantially the result of the election” must exist together. It is not enough to establish evidence of fraud, but such evidence must “affect substantially the result of the election” to warrant invalidation or annulment by the court. What constitutes “non-compliance” that “did not affect substantially the result of the election” remains the prerogative of the judge. How the court interprets and applies this section in election matters has been appalling, particularly when the judiciary is known to be very dependent on the executive arm of government, as it exists in many African countries. The cases of Awolowo v. Shagari (1979) and Buhari v. Obasanjo (2003) elucidate how the courts interpret the clause in Nigeria and elsewhere in Africa. Section 34(1) (c) (ii) of the 1979 Constitution of Nigeria required the winner of a presidential election to score at least one quarter of the votes cast in two-thirds of the 19 states of Nigeria. Alhaji Shehu Shagari, a presidential candidate met this constitutional requirement in 12 states instead of a minimum of 13 states. The Supreme Court admitted that “the evidence established this non-compliance in only one state,” but ruled that the shortfall of one state has “not affected substantially the result of the election.” Also, the Supreme Court in Buhari v. Obasanjo (2003) admitted evidence of election frauds to include “massive fraud,” “violence,” “inflation of election results,” INEC’s refusal to tender before the tribunal the certified true copies of the Presidential polls, among others. Despite this, the court ruled that the extent of these frauds was not sufficient to cancel the entire poll. This clause of “non-compliance with the provisions of law” and that “did not affect substantially the result of the election” is a giant jurisprudential step backwards. Even more puzzling, is whether the standard actually used by the Supreme Court to decide the cases relied on that Section, or were there other informal rules unknown to the public, which are frequently used by the court to decide postelection petitions. In Nigeria, four out of five members of Akwa Ibom State Governorship and Legislative Houses Election Tribunal were found guilty of financial inducement from State Governor, Victor Attah and subsequently upheld the Governor’s 2003 Election (Ugochukwu, 2004; 2011; The Guardian, August 22, 2004, p. 19). Also in 2003, Justice Okwuchukwu Opene and Justice David Adeniji of the Appeal Court Received bribes of 15 Million naira and 12 Million naira, respectively, and delivered controversial judgments on disputed election petitions. The outcomes of election adjudicatory processes are largely produced in response to very narrow but powerful interests. Legal technicalities such as refusal of the Judge to admit some sensitive exhibit thereby excluding substantial evidence or even when a sensitive exhibit is admitted, such evidence is ignored in the course of judgment. Other examples include situations when Judges or court staff members manipulate court dates to favour one particular party; judges grant long adjournments, or frivolous ex parte orders or injunctions for a price in order to buy time. Still other technicalities include delays in constitution of or total refusal to constitute election tribunals, or disbandment of election tribunal due to deliver judgment, that is, results which are in contradistinction with the votes cast. Judges in Nigeria have earned promotion after delivering “political” rulings. Chief Awolowo criticized the appointment of Justice Atanda Williams as the Chief Justice of Nigeria before his appeal to the Supreme Court was heard (Ebenezer, 2014). Justice George Oguntade was elevated to the Supreme Court after delivering the “required judgment” on the 2003 presidential election, while Justice James Ogebe, the Chairman of the tribunal that determined the 2007 presidential election petition, was appointed to the Supreme Court in 2007 by the President, just days before the judgment of the tribunal he chaired was due to deliver its judgment. Uncompromising judges are either suspended to pave way for the required ruling or their promotion stagnated for refusing to deliver a political judgment. Justice Isa Ayo Salami, President of Court of Appeal of Nigeria, was suspended because he refused to do the biding of the executive. Simply put, evidence of election fraud, upon which various courts relied to nullify gubernatorial elections in ten states, also existed in other states where courts did not nullify the elections in Nigeria. The nullification of Dr. Chris Ngige, a gubernatorial candidate of Anambra State in 2003, and Professor Osereheimen Osunbor a gubernatorial candidate of Edo State in 2007 were due to the influence of political godfathers who want to teach them lessons by using the judiciary to oust them from office (The Guardian, March 2008, p. 8; Vanguard, June 08, 2015, p. 1). This does not suggest that the elections which produced Governor Ngige and Governor Osunbor were free and fair, but that intra- party conflicts between the patron-client interests resulted in the use of the incumbency power at the central government by the patron to remove the governors. Although there have been regular elections in Africa since the 1990s, most elections were not free and fair, and the electoral justice system has had limited impact or effect on the quality of election. Huntington (1991) argues that in any democratic country, where there are “sustained failure of the major opposition political party to win office necessarily raises questions concerning the degree of competition permitted by the system (p. 8).” Democratic consolidation is not only a function of having frequent or regular conduct of elections, but also of the credibility of elections. A credible election is that which must have been conducted substantially in accordance with the principles of the electoral act and do not contradict the freely expressed will of the electorates. The essence of the court’s intervention has always been to promote democratic culture, strengthen the confidence of the people in the democratic process, and promote constitutionalism and due process in the political system. But data on elections have not shown significant improvement on the conduct of free and fair elections; neither do the countries experience regular alternation of executive powers notwithstanding over two thousand election petitions in three election years. Available statistics of the outcome of disputed elections in Nigeria, just like in most African countries, show that courts have not significantly addressed the issue of electoral fraud. The number of elections invalidated by courts is quite insignificant while presidential elections have not been invalidated by courts in spite of admission of election frauds and irregularities. This increases the propensity for sustained electoral fraud, reinforcing the theoretical approach that the courts enforce the electoral deal of the dominant interest groups. It strongly indicates that partisan politics plays an important role in electoral justice system, both in the process of admitting of valuable evidence and evaluating complaints. Achievements of the judiciary as electoral watchdog and umpire Despite the observed failings of the court system in improving the quality of elections as a whole in Nigeria, the judiciary has stepped up in some key occasions with an activist attitude to intervene in glaring cases of electoral fraud and see that justice is done. The cases below are an illustration of the efforts of the judiciary in ensuring free and fair elections in Nigeria: 1. AWOLOWO v. SHAGARI [1979] 12 NSCC 87. In the above case, Shagari had secured 5,688,857 votes as against Awolowo’s 4,916,651 votes. The issue then became whether in addition to securing the highest number of votes in the presidential elections, Shagari had secured at least one quarter of the votes cast in 2/3rds of the states of the federation? Shagari had secured 25% of the votes cast in 12 states. That was still less than2/3rds of 19. The Supreme Court adopted the reasoning of the elections tribunal and reasoned that 2/3rds of 19 states could be arrived at by dividing the votes cast in the 13th state, in this case, Kano, rejecting Awolowo’s contention that the Electoral Decree of 1977 as amended in 1978 did not admit of fractionalization of a state. 2. AMAECHI v. INEC [2008] 5 NWLR (Pt. 1080) 227, In the above case, Amaechi had contested the nomination of Celestine Omehia as candidate of the PDP for the Rivers gubernatorial elections, claiming to be the authentic candidate as he had won the PDP primaries. While the judicial process was ongoing, Celestine Omehia had not only contested the elections, but had emerged victorious and had been sworn in as governor. The Supreme Court not only declared Amaechi to be the proper candidate of the PDP for that election, but went ahead to order that since PDP had won the elections, Amaechi be sworn in as governor, replacing Celestine Omehia who was ordered to vacate the position. The Court reasoned that: a. INEC was empowered by law to monitor primaries meaning that only candidates that won at primaries monitored by INEC are eligible to contest and in this case, it was Amaechi; b. As there was no room for independent candidacy, votes are cast for parties and not the individuals; c. If the Court orders a re-election a dangerous precedent would be set that whenever a party improperly substitutes a candidate for elections a re-election must be ordered even if the candidate’s party did not win the elections; d. The PDP having undermined the Supreme Court’s decision in the earlier case of UGWU v. ARARUME [2007] 12 NWLR (Pt. 1048) 368 which was similar to Amaechi’s by refusing to field a candidate for elections upon being ordered to field Ararume, the candidate who won the PDP primaries in Imo State, they could not be trusted not to undermine the Supreme Court again if a re-election was ordered. 3. BARR. ORKER JEV v. SEKAV DZUA IYORTYOM [SC. 164/2012; delivered on 30 May 2014] The issue was who between the 1st Appellant and the 1st Respondent won the ACN primaries of 12 January 2011 for Buruku Federal Constituency of Benue State. The Supreme Court found that that it was indeed the 1st Respondent that was the authentic candidate for the elections, his having won the primaries. Sadly, unlike in Amaechi’s case above, the apex court could not order that the 1st Appellant be made to vacate the Buruku National Assembly seat for the victorious 1st Respondent despite the fact that the ACN had in contempt of clear orders of the courts below forwarded the 1st Appellant’s name as candidate for the election, given the clear provisions of section 141 of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) that any person who has not participated in all stages of the elections cannot be declared winner of the elections. Nevertheless, the 1st Appellant was ordered to vacate the Buruku National Assembly seat and fresh elections were ordered. 4. OBI v. INEC [2007] 11 NWLR (Pt. 1046) 565 Obi who had spent the better part of period after the elections fighting in the courts to realize the mandate of the Anambra people that he govern them found that he had little time to spend in the office of governor eventually. The ousted Ngige had spent almost all of the four-year period. What was Obi to do? INEC had indeed conducted fresh elections for the gubernatorial seat in Anambra and a new governor eventually sworn in. This was another instance where the courts could have been rendered impotent. Here again, the courts rose to the occasion, not only to do justice but to jealously guard its powers and relevance. It interpreted section 180 (2) (a) of the Constitution in such a way as to reinforce Obi’s right to the gubernatorial seat for an unbroken period of four years from the date he was sworn in. The Supreme Court reasoned that: a. There was no rule of law that provided for elections at both the federal and state levels to be at the same time as that negates principles of federalism; b. The issue of tenure of office was a constitutional interpretation matter and not an election petition matter for the electoral tribunal which in any case had already declared Obi to be winner of the gubernatorial elections; c. Succession to the office of governor can only be through an election conducted in compliance with the provisions of the Constitution (at p. 671672) d. Since where as in section 180 (3) of the Constitution as a result of impracticality of conducting elections the predecessor outstays his four-year term, this would not stop the successor governor from having a full four-year term, subsequently, this should also be extended to a governor who starts an elected term much later after the election as a result of exigency; e. Ngige’s swearing in having been declared null and void by the Court of Appeal who found he did not win the election, his oath taking could not be extended to Obi in order to consider the tenure of office to have started running; 5. Action Congress of Nigeria & Anor. v. INEC Action Congress v. INEC [2007] NWLR (Pt. 1048) 26 The issue in this case was whether INEC could disqualify a party’s sponsored candidate from contesting elections without recourse to the courts. The Supreme Court held that INEC could not usurp the role of the courts by becoming the determinants of which candidate was guilty of offences as mere indictment by an administrative panel of enquiry did not detract from the person’s presumption of innocence. For INEC to disqualify candidates on the basis of allegations therefore there ought to be a trial and conviction. 6. BUBA MARWA & ORS. v. ADMIRAL MURTALA NYAKO & ORS (2012) LPELRSC 141 Popularly known as the tenure elongation case, this was a consolidation of appeals involving governors Nyako (Adamawa), Silva (Bayelsa), Imoke (Crossriver), Wamako (Sokoto) and Idris of Kogi State. They had participated in previous elections and their victories annulled by the courts which ordered reruns. Again they emerged winners and were sworn in again as governors of their respective states. They claimed that the period they had spent in office prior to the reruns be discounted for the purpose of determining the end of their tenure and that a new tenure should be deemed to have commenced after they took the 2nd oaths of office. It fell on the Supreme Court to again consider section 180 (1) (2) & (3) of the Constitution which it had already done in Peter Obi’s case. This time it arrived at a different conclusion. The Supreme Court reasoned that – a. The taking of Oaths of Office and Allegiance by a Governor marked the commencement of his tenure. It is immaterial that there was a rerun election. The first oath of office continued to count; b. The second oath of office taken after the rerun election was said to be superfluous; c. Upon a construction of section 180 (2) (a) of the Constitution a person elected during the rerun election cannot be said to be elected for the first time under this Constitution if he was declared winner in the previous election that was cancelled. (QUARE: what happens where the rerun election is for a 2nd term election?); d. The governors would have taken advantage of their misdeeds which made the courts annul the previous elections if they were allowed to elongate their tenures. 7. HOPE DEMOCRATIC PARTY v. JONATHAN AND ORS. (APPEAL NO. 263/2010, DELIVERED ON 14/11/2011). The issue herein was the validity of election tribunal judgments delivered after the mandatory limitation period of 180 days from the date of filing as provided in section 285 of the Constitution 1999 (as amended). The Supreme Court found that the provision was clear enough, and gave effect to the provision, dismissing the appeal as the time within which judgment could be validly given had passed. Points to note include: a. The petition must be filed within 21 days of the election; b. Tribunal delivers judgment within 180 days; c. Appeal must be heard and judgment delivered by the Court of Appeal within 60 days of the tribunal’s decision; d. The Supreme Court would then give its decision and reserve reasons for the decision at a later date if the appeal gets to it; All the above were clear and unambiguous provisions and the Supreme Court in keeping with the hallowed principle that its role was not to make laws adhered strictly to the provision of section 285 with a view to pursuing certainty in the law. 8. A-G FEDERATION v. ABUBAKAR [2007] 10 NWLR (Pt. 1041) 1 The Supreme Court protected the right of then Vice-President Abubakar to remain in office, despite his decamping to a different political party from that of then President Obasanjo by emphasizing that the vacation of office as a result of cross-carpeting provision of section 68 (i) (g) of the Constitution applied to National Assembly members alone. It did not apply to the Vice-President upon a construction of sections 135, 143, 145 and 146 (3) (a) and (c) of the Constitution which dealt with removal of the President and his Vice. The Supreme Court reasoned that it was not stated in those provisions that the Vice-President could be removed for decamping to another party. What is the common thread that runs through all of these cases I have cited in this Nigerian Corpus Juris? The valiant efforts of the Nigerian Courts, the Nigerian judiciary to create a level playing field and entrench fair play and equity in our interaction with each other in the political space. This is the role of the judiciary in the electoral process, a role which they must reprise come 2029. The judicial arm of government must ensure that miscreants do not take advantage of electoral fraud to steal the mandate of the people. THE UWAIS REPORT During the general elections held in 2003, a total of 574 petitions were filed. However, in the elections of 2007, a total of 1,475 petitions were filed. Fresh from the universal condemnation of the manner in which the 2007 general election was handled, the then President Umaru Yar’adua set up the Electoral Reform Committee headed by former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Mohammad Uwais, for the purpose of recommending appropriate reform measures to the electoral system and rebuild the confidences of Nigerians in holding credible elections. The Committee assembled evidence, 1,466 memoranda and public hearings were held in 12 selected States and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) at which no less than 907 representations were made. Some highlights of the Committee recommendations include removal of INEC from the list of Federal Executive Bodies; Adoption of independent candidacy; procedure for appointment and removal of INEC Chairman and members of the board; Funding of the Commission; Dates of elections; Increase in the number of election tribunals; To shift the burden of proof from the petitioner to INEC to show on the balance of probability that the elections were indeed free and fair, Adoption of specific procedure rules made for election petitions; Ensuring the conclusion of election disputes before swearing in of newly elected officials; and reduction of the length of time that should be spent in adjudicating on election petition (not more than 6 months altogether). Unfortunately, the report has yet to be implemented and the problems it identified remain unresolved and may yet serve as obstacles to free and fair 2019 general elections. The judiciary as is must however use their constitutional powers as they always have in ensuring that justice is done in the event of electoral disputes. Judicial offices must also strive to resist corruption, especially in the light of recent indictments of judicial officers for various acts of corruption and misconduct, which has negatively impacted the confidence of the public on the judiciary. Perhaps the way the judiciary handles litigation arising out of the 2019 general elections may serve to restore that public confidence. The hotly contested 2019 elections will also be the ultimate test of how far the judiciary has come as arbiter and independent watchdog in the electoral process. CONCLUSION The media and the judiciary are the focus of our discourse because they play very crucial roles in the electoral process, roles which are key to the gradual improvement of the quality of our democracy. We must conceive both the media and judiciary as institutions that owe the public a responsibility of safeguarding the electoral process from abuse, just as the stakeholders in both institutions must see themselves as owing such noble duties to the public. Journalists and judicial officers alike must put the interest of the general public first as they play their part in ensuring a free and fair electoral process. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 