Lagos – One of the Most Valuable Players (MVP) in the 2017 edition of the annual NNPC/Shell Cup, Ernest Ojelum, has won an International Summer School Scholarship to the United Kingdom. The announcement coincided with a reception to welcome Ojelum and the other MVP, Iyobor Arase, after a weeklong training tour in The Netherlands. Ojelum, a student of Henson Demonstration School, Benin City, will be joining other international scholars at the University of Sussex later in the year in an all-expense paid programme. Announcing the scholarship award on Monday in Lagos, Mr. Igo Weli, General Manager External Relations of Shell Nigeria,described the emergence of Ojelum as the outcome of a painstaking process involving the partner University of Sussex and Henson Demonstration School. “We are delighted that our new partnership with the University of Sussex has brought a whole new excitement and incentive to the NNPC/Shell Cup to validate our belief that education and football can go hand-in-hand.” Reinforcing this defining principle behind the 20-year old tournament, Mr. Roland Ewubare,  the Group General Manager of National Petroleum Investment Services (NAPIMS), expressed excitement at the yearly improvement to the tournament, which he said has made the NNPC/Shell Cup a standard in youth sports competition. “We are encouraged by the emerging partnerships with Feyenoord and University of Sussex that has changed the whole motivations around the tournament, making it a household name in every part of Nigeria,” said Ewubare who was represented by the Deputy Manager, Community Relations of Public Affairs Department of NAPIMS, Ms. Julie Utang. An elated Ojelum said: “The announcement of my name as one of the MVPs at the finals in 2017, has transformed my life and world of experience because the exposure by NNPC and Shell are far beyond my expectations. Sometimes I think perhaps I’m dreaming.” His father, Mr. Humphrey Ojelum, echoed similar surprise noting that youths stand a better chance of success in sports with a solid foundation in education as promoted by NNPC and Shell. Also speaking, Arase charged youths to hold firm to education while pursuing other interests particularly sports, saying: “If I had been out of school, I’m not sure I would have had this early opportunity of training tour in The Netherlands, among other benefits I’ve received from being part of the NNPC/Shell Cup.” The 2017 edition of the leading youth football tournament started in May 2017 with the preliminary matches involving some 54,000 students from 2,750 secondary schools across Nigeria competing for honours. At the finals played at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos, last year, the Henson boys defeated their counterparts from Holy Ghost College, Owerri, Imo State by 2:0 margin to emerge champions of the 19th edition of the 20-year-old tournament. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 