As the Muslim world bid farewell to Ramadan 1439 (2018), Nigerian Muslims are beginning to recount their experiences of the last one month of fasting and abstinence from drinking, eating and sexual intercourse from dawn to dusk. A cross section of those who spoke with DAILY INDEPENDENT described their experiences during the 9th month of the Islamic calendar as no doubt the best in their lives. I’tikaf In Makkah Was My Best Ramadan Ibadah
– Ambassador Yomi Mumuni An Abuja-based security expert, Ambassador Yomi Nurain Mumuni, told our correspondent that the I’tikaf he had in Makkah was the best of the Ibadah he engaged in during this Ramadan. Mumuni said, “I’tikaf in Makkah was my best Ramadan Ibadah. “Completing the 2018 Ramadan was like every other year, but we give thanks to Allah for the strength and mercy that was showered upon all of the Muslim Ummah during the period of fasting. “The act of worship I enjoyed most during the just concluded Ramadan was I’tikaf (seclusion in the mosque during the last 10 days) and definitely, I did it in Makkah, Saudi Arabia, the Muslim holiest mosque. “Each of the lessons I learnt during Ramadan came with different nuances, but, Dua Al-Istikharat (prayers for Allah’s guidance) really got to me. “Ramadan has become an annual journey for all of the Muslim Ummah. Personally and collectively as experienced by the Ummah, it doesn’t pass by without any challenges, but it remains an exercise we look forward to every year. “On foodstuffs, this year’s Ramadan had a lot to do with foodstuffs, because beforehand, commodities had become almost exclusively for the rich, since the arrival of the N360 to the dollar rate”. Mumuni added that, “On government help, we Nigerians should understand that there is no way a barber can cut a man’s hair without his presence. We must first change our ways. How? Stop depending on the government before correcting the wrongs, otherwise each and every government will always embark on taking undue advantage of the citizens.” My Best Ibadah Was Giving To Charity – Mr. Bello Awuni Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Lagos, Mr. Bello Muhammed Awuni said he used the period of Ramadan to give to charity. Bello, a financial advisor (Islamic Insurance/Takaful Agent) said; “My best Ibadah was giving to charity”. “Praise be to Allah who made me witness the end of Ramadan 2018. Although, I didn’t perform I’tikaf this year due to my busy schedule at work, my best Ibadah was giving to charity despite the little I have.” On the best lesson learnt, he said “the Hereafter is a reality”. On challenges, “Relatively normal,” he opined, adding that “those challenges were stepping stones to becoming a better person”. “The prices of commodities have been high before Ramadan and there is every possibility of its continuance even after Ramadan. We can only appeal to the government to make food a surplus commodity for every citizen. If necessary, they should provide subsidy on foodstuffs in the quarters where necessary. With my outreach and exposure, I have come to know that lots of Nigerians are very hungry.” Ramadan Taught Me Spiritual Forgiveness – Imam Tijani Ayolo Imam Ahmad Tijani Ayolo, Chief Imam and Head of Mission of Al-Falaah Islamic Society of Nigeria, believes his biggest take-away from Ramadan 2018 was the fact that it taught him spiritual forgiveness. Ayolo said, “Ramadan taught me the spirit of forgiveness”. “First, all enjoined Ibadah were very dear to me, as I had to put in all my best. May Allah (SWT) accept it all (Amin). I spent the last ten days with my congregation. We engaged in lots of Adhkaar, Nawafil, and recitation of the Glorious Qur’an. We also prayed for all and sundry, especially the oppressed Muslims of Palestine, Myanmar and Rohingya. “Ramadan taught me the spirit of forgiveness, especially as shown by President Muhammad Buhari to the family of the late MKO Abiola, who he conferred with the posthumous award of Grand Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic (GCFR). Forgiveness is the only panacea that can move the human race forward. “Time management was also at its peak, as I had to shuttle between scheduled and impromptu events. The family and people that look up to us as leaders also had their fair shares, waLlaahu mustaan. “The prices of food stuffs were partially high, and this was a result of direct human influence, as caused by the hoarders of goods that seized the period to exploit the populace. “As per government intervention, it is important that we enlighten the populace through sensitisation and awareness that we are doing harm to the community by such dastardly acts. Also, the faith-based organisations will need to exhort their adherents to stick to the first rule…Humans first! Allah will not change any nation except they change what they harbour in their hearts”. I Didn’t Give Up To Challenges During Ramadan – Barrister Mutiat Orolu-Balogun Barrister Mutiat Orolu-Balogun, Coordinator, Hijab Rights Advocacy Initiative, Lagos, however, in her own contribution said she did not give up to the challenges she encountered during the Ramadan fast. Orolu-Balogun said, “I didn’t give up to challenges during Ramadan”. “Although I did not perform I’tikaaf/Umrah, observing congregational Taraweeh prayers was the Ibadah I enjoyed most during the just concluded Ramadan fast. Doing it gave me a sense of the unity of Muslims, humility regardless of your status, and the special joy of Ramadan. “So many lessons could be learnt from Ramadan. First, no Ibaadah is difficult if you focus on Allah and you do it within your current capacity/capability. Shaytan just gives us excuses to prevent us from achieving success. Also, reading the Qur’an in a language you understand after reading it in Arabic also does wonders to the soul, enriches your knowledge and rejuvenates your awareness of your life purpose. “This year’s Ramadan was quite challenging, but I didn’t give up. I tried to increase my will power, delegated some duties and postponed others till after Eid so that I could focus more on the duties of Ramadan. “On the prices of food items, I did most of my Ramadan shopping before the month started, so I didn’t have to buy a lot. I also got others from my previous sources, so the price remained the same. However, I heard complaints of a slight increase in the price of fruits and tomatoes from people. “I’m not sure if the government has control over this matter in the kind of economy we run. When demand increases, and there is corresponding increase in supply, we expect the price of goods to be steady and remain largely the same. However, we still have price hikes in Nigeria, especially during festivities. “I believe it is the Nigerian mentality to cash in on whenever there is an increase in demand, regardless of the supply levels. In other climes, food is usually cheaper in Ramadan and during other festivities. Ramadan Taught Me How To Show Love And Care For The Needy – Mustapha Nuhu “My best act of worship was the recitation of the Noble Quran. The fact that the Qur’an itself was revealed to Prophet Muhammad (SAW) during this month was indeed the best thing to happen to Mankind”, says Mustapha Nuhu from Kwara State. “No. I didn’t perform I’tikaf as I would have loved to. As the bread winner of the family, I had to find what the family would eat on a daily basis. And if I go on I’tikaf, that means the family I left behind will not eat. This is not a good trait of a responsible father and husband, as taught to us by the Prophet”, he stated. He said Ramadan taught him to show love and care for others, especially the needy. “Ramadan taught me to show love to others and care for the needy”, Nuhu stated. “It is somehow difficult to fast on an empty stomach. “Prices didn’t really change compared to before fasting, except beans which increased from N550 per mudu to N600. “Government can help the situation by providing loans to farmers to help them produce food items, so as to help force the price of farm produce and foodstuffs down during the fasting period. The higher the quantity of goods, the lower the price”. DAILY INDEPENDENT rejoices with Nigerian Muslims and their counterparts all over the world on the successful completion of this year’s fast. We pray to Allah to accept it as an act of worship and unite the Muslim world under the umbrella of pristine Islam (Amin). As we rejoice, let us celebrate the Eid in halaal ways by eating and drinking that which Allah has allowed for mankind. Let us not return to sins, all in the name of Eid-ul-Fitr funfairs or get-togethers, where unlawful acts such as free-mixing of males and females, nudities, songs and dances that corrupt the minds, etc. are encouraged. Eid-ul-Mubarak 1439 AH (2018) To All Our Esteemed Readers. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 