People in the rural area should be the target of banks in the financial inclusion drive and not people who reside in major cities, Lateef Owoyemi, a former president of the Nigerian Institute of Chartered Accountants (ICAN) has said. He argued that while looking into this, cultural and religious practices of the people should be taken into consideration. He said that a major part of the Nigerian population is Muslim, adding that some do not want to open accounts with banks because the banks charge interest, adding interest Islam frowns at interest banking. He stated if this were done, the high proportion of the people who are outside the banking system in the country would drop drastically. He, therefore, urged the government to introduce more non-interest banking policies so that people who want to practice non-interest banking can participate in banking system. He also called on the banks to introduce non-interest products so that those religion or abhors interest on loans and other services can participate in the banking system. The former president of ICAN also said that the banks are not doing enough to enhance financial inclusion in the country because they charge high interest on the funds available to them. According to him, Nigerian banks charge as high as 20 per cent on loans and give as low as three per cent on savings. This, he posited, makes savi8ng at the banks unattractive. According to him, the current practice encourages people to have more than one bank account. He called on the federal government to reduce interest rate in the country so that more can come into the banking system. He stated that there is no point relating interest rate to inflation. Frank Oshanugor, former Corporate Affairs Manager of the defunct National Clearing and Forwarding Agency (NAFCA), said here are huge advantages when people engage in banking. Some of these advantages, he said, compel people to imbibe the culture of saving. “Once there is bank around you, the desire to save will be there. Oshanugor lamented that a lot of people both in the rural areas and cities don’t save. He added that some don’t even know how to save, but by creating awareness and the presence of bank officials, people will be motivated to save. He said that one of the greatest challenges the entrepreneurs in the country have is that a lot of them wanted to invest in one business or the other, but they don’t have the capital to start. He said that with the culture of savings,   business men and women will have capital to invest. The former NAFCA image said even though you want to take loan, if you have some substantial amount as your savings it becomes easier. He said that another advantage is that it reduces the chances of people falling victim of armed robbery. “The moment people are no longer keeping their money at home or carry large sum about, robbers will hardly come to knock at your door at night or during the day. According to Oshanugor,  another advantage is that the fact that you are familiar with a particular bank or banking with a particular bank, tendencies are that you  stand the  chance of assessing loans from such banks for developmental purposes. “For instance, I operated a bank account with one microfinance bank here in Lagos. I had about N100,000 in that account, sometime last year, I ran into some financial crises, and when I approached them, they assisted me with loan of N350,000. With that, I was able to solve the problem. But if I was not known to that microfinance bank, chances were that they might not likely look at my face.” He said the part of the challenges of getting banking to the grass root is that most people in the rural areas are illiterate. “They need a lot of sensitisation, they need a lot of awareness, they need education, you need to really carry them along to make them understand that their money is safer in bank; that gone are the days when you go to put your money under the pillow. The moment you let them know that their money is safer in the bank, they will patronize the bank”. Oshanugor said. For Ifeanyi Nwokolobia, a shipping magnet, said bank officials should start educating the rural dwellers saying this will bring about the success of financial inclusion. According to him, these people are not as exposed as people in the urban centres. “They do not know the advantages of keeping money in the banks. Some of them think that once you put your money in the bank, you may not get it again or that when you want to access the money, that it will be difficult accessing it. He also called on the banks to improve their services, adding that in the rural communities; at times you have only one bank servicing over five to six communities. “There are some cases they will come to the banks and spend several hours either because of poor services, or because customers were some many and only few hands in the bank to attend to them. Some of them queue in the banks for several hours to collect their money or to deposit; such could discourage some from putting their hard earned money into the banks. If banks improve on their service delivery, definitely, people will patronize them.” Nwokolobia also said that with financial inclusion drive, there is window of opportunity to create jobs. Also speaking on the issue, Enobong Akpabio, the erstwhile second vice president, Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association Women (NECA Women), said that Nigerian banks should be creative in their drive for customers, adding that the banks should invest more resources in their financial inclusion programmes. She added that it is the banks that will benefit at the end of the day since their funds to do business will increase. Akpabio called for the deployment of more funds to the microfinance banks, as, according to her, it is people at the low end of the economy that patronise microfinance banks. She argued that if more funds were given to microfinance banks, which serve the poor, they would expand their services and bring in more people into the banking sector. She added that most of the banks are seeking more customers in the cities, which, she stated are full of people who already have bank accounts. She called on them to take their campaign to rural areas where majority of the people who do not have bank accounts live. Abiola Adediran, who provides advisory services in the areas of finance strategy and transformation, told Sunday Independent that government should provide funds that people at the low end of the economy can access. She said that most of the people who are not in financial system are not finally aware and may not have the resources to be part of the system. She, therefore, called a massive awareness campaign so that people will be made to know about the financial system and the benefits that accrue to participants. Adidiran called for the introduction of product hereby people can access loans without having an account with a bank, adding that a customer should not be compelled to deposit money in a bank before they can access fund from a bank. She posited that the banks in the country need to be more creative in the type of products they churn out so that the non-banked segment of the Nigerian population will see the to engage the financial system. In his view, Zeal Akariwe, founder and chief executive officer of Graeme Blaque Advisory, said that there is need to encourage/facilitate community/microfinance-based banking in the country in order to enhance financial incusion. He called for the development of nationwide asset registers, saying that this this will allow for small movable assets to be used as collateral for small loans. He called on government to address inflation adequately, adding that inflation is a natural deterrent to savings culture and it also makes credit expensive. The financial expert called for the enforcement of the cashless policy; give incentives to the un-banked and make spending cash punitive (after ensuring. Akariwe, however, called for the promotion and regulation of mobile money solutions giving of incentives to banks to explore and introduce financial products that are culture friendly to the various regions. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 