Lagos – An online marketplace, 1Market, has pioneered a market platform that seeks to bridge the gap between global buyers and African suppliers (manufacturers) starting with Nigeria as well as creating an accessible ecosystem for showcasing, promoting and selling exclusively Made-in-Nigeria Products. The launch of the platform which took place in Lagos had in attendance some of the products manufacturers, partners and the media. Speaking at the event, Mr. Enyika Iheanyichukwu, Founder, 1Market.ng, said the online marketplace was borne out of the need to project the country’s and indeed African’s products to the world and to prove that our products can measure up to international standards. According to him, “1market.ng is a proficient platform birthed to solve sales problems for Nigerian manufacturers/producers as well as create an enabling community of both online and offline entrepreneurs, where buyer around the world connects with Nigerian creative designers, sellers and services to shop for quality and unique Nigerian-made products. “Despite the phenomenal global interest in the online media space, it is disappointing that Made-in-Nigeria/Africa products do not have good coverage.  It is also frustrating for global and local consumers that these products are hardly accessible online. Where they are accessible, the prices appear prohibitive. This is the gap that 1market is designed to close. “1Market will help Nigerian producers reach greater number of potential customers worldwide, reach new partners and distributors of their products, create products improvement and competitiveness, and increase their profits.” The platform is basically a virtual market place set up to give a face to the macro and micro producers/business owners, provide opportunity for young aggregators, accelerate the growth of their companies and expand the reach of their medium enterprises by giving them a state-of-the-art platform to showcase and sell their goods at minimal costs, bringing to the world the best of Nigeria most never knew existed. In his presentation at the event, Mr. Nwachukwu Henry, Head of Business Development and Strategy, 1Market.ng, said: “We are in control of our country’s future each time we make a purchase. So, be mindful of your purchase decisions and choose wisely. Nigerian people spending Nigerian Naira on Nigerian products equal Nigerian jobs. These jobs are the foundation of a thriving economy. If every Nigerian spent an extra N3.33 on Nigerian-made products, it would create almost 10,000 new jobs. And, if every builder used just 5 percent more Nigerian-made products, it would create 220,000 jobs.” Henry said 1market.ng has a mission to become the market leader in online promotion and sales of Made-in-Nigeria products. “Our intention is to bring together from all over Nigeria the manufacturers and distributors of Made-in-Nigeria products in a single platform and allow Nigerians and other international consumers access to these products in large scale and at bulk prices. “We have in the last few months worked assiduously to build the 1market platform and formed different alliances with manufacturers, logistic companies, and others. All these are geared towards an effective launching of the platform, he added. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 