If Spanish authorities thought that announcing a two year suspended sentence for Cristiano Ronaldo and a fine of €18.8 million would unsettle him before kicking the ball at the ongoing World Cup in their opening match against Spain, they got it all wrong. In fact, it is believed that the action of the Spanish authorities might have motivated the World Player of the Year to do the impossible on Friday with his first hat-trick at the World Cup. The second day of the World Cup began with Ronaldo being “sent to prison” but ended with Portugal’s captain fantastic scoring a sensational hat-trick against Spain. Before he kicked a ball in anger in Russia, reports emerged that the superstar has agreed to accept a two-year jail term — Spanish law states that a sentence of under two years for a first offence can be served on probation and not behind bars — and pay a fine of €18.8 million as a result of alleged tax evasion regarding image rights. It was a day that brought with it a generous helping of incident, not least the grand arrival on the scene of Ronaldo, who wasted little time setting yet more records tumbling. However, despite his sentence breaking mere hours before his country’s World Cup opener, it hardly appeared to affect his concentration. The 33-year-old scored his 51st career hat trick, which is equal to the total number of trebles scored in the history of the World Cup. Ronaldo, whose magnificent free kick earned a point for Portugal in the 88th minute, also became only the fourth player to score at four separate World Cups, joining Pele, Miroslav Klose and Uwe Seeler in an incredibly exclusive club. Most players usually fade after hitting the 30 years mark, but not with Ronaldo. He has become more fearsome with age. Now 33, he has found a way to not only continue doing what he does on a weekly basis, but also in the biggest of games on the biggest of stages. A look at Ronaldo’s record before and after his 30th birthday demonstrates his dominance. Before he turned 30, 52 goals in 118 games for Portugal, but since turning 30, 32 in 33. He is now one of just four players to have scored in four World Cups, but this simple fact does not tell the whole story. Of the others, Miroslav Klose has 16 goals, Uwe Seeler 14, Pele 12. Going into this match, Ronaldo had three: one each in 2006, 2010 and 2014. He doubled his tournament total in the space of one night. What a display it was. He won a penalty and scored it. Won a free-kick and scored that, too. In between, he was fortunate with an ordinary shot that De Gea inexplicably spilled, although that’s what Ronaldo does, even to world class opponents. He unsettles them, disturbs them. They never know what is coming next. Portugal were at the verge of losing this game. Having led twice and allowed Spain to level up. Three minutes after Spain leveled up, they took the lead and with two minutes of regulation time left, Portugal got afree kick at the edge of the area, an excellent position for Ronaldo to score. He pulled his short up, revealing his muscular thigh. And when he hit the ball which sailed over the wall and into the top right corner, De Gea was rooted to his line. What a goal, what a finish – and what a game. “It was one of those matches in which every goal changed the balance of power. Portugal led, Spain drew level; Portugal led again, Spain equalised; Spain took the lead, Portugal pulled it back. Six goals, six swings. If this is repeated as the final next month, no-one will complain. Heavyweight title fights get rematches; why not this?” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 