Abeokuta – Adebiyi Adeleye, a member of Ogun State House of Assembly representing Remo North State Constituency, said he had gone on exile to protect himself from attacks. The lawmaker, who addressed a press conference from his self-imposed exile, alleged the governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, was after his life. Adeleye, who was arrested by men of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad last Monday, alongside 18 others, said his life and those of his family members were no more safe in the state. While recalling his experience in detention, which lasted 72 hours, Adeleye said he was kept with hardened criminals while those who were fasting amongst them had to carry over their fasting as they were not allowed to break their fast. The lawmaker alleged that some of the officers at the SARS office queried why he had to leave APC but said he had left the party. According to him, the OC SARS told him that he was arrested for murder, armed robbery and conspiracy as against the allegation for which they were arrested initially. Adeleye said it took the intervention of another lawmaker in the state who got across to the Secretary to the State Government, Taiwo Adeoluwa, before he was released while others were charged to court. He said the police had to rush to arraign the other accused persons when he threatened to expose the conspiracy against him and his people. The lawmaker said he had to flee when news filtered in that he was to be re-arrested and arraigned separately. He said: “I was at the constituency office when the SARS came and instructed us to lie down. I introduced myself as a sitting lawmaker in the state but they told me they were less concerned about my identity. “We were taken to Abeokuta where I was told the state government wrote a petition against us and we were made to write statements on arms possession, thuggery, and cultism. “The following day, we were brought before the OC who told us that we were arrested for murder, robbery, and conspiracy and my immediate response was, ‘who did we kill? Who did we rob?’ “A colleague who came to the station got the SSG on phone and he was asking me what was I doing in another party and that was the same question the officers were asking me. “I was reluctantly released and I insisted they either release my supporters or I go to the press and, the following day, they rushed to the court. I have never seen such frivolity in my life. “I got information that I was to be re-arrested and had to flee into hiding because my life was no more safe and that of my family members because same night my family members were attacked.” The SSG was not available to speak with the press as none of his phone numbers was available, while no member of the governor’s information crew was ready to talk. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 