“The Young Shall Grow and the old shall go.” Dele Sobowale 2018. My apologies to those expecting part two of this article last week. It was not due to ethnic or religious partiality. Nothing of the sort is responsible as this article will show. I detest all those who shoot their way into power or were beneficiaries of stolen mandates whether they come from Ibogun, Daura or from my own hometown, Agbowa-Ikosi in Lagos State. I regard all past and present military rulers as the worst types of armed robbers alive. Nothing will ever change that perception. Last week I had to clear my mind about my late brother, without which a mental block would have set in. It would have been impossible for me to write anything else. Blood, I have discovered, is even thicker than writer’s ink. Now we can proceed with today’s business. “Politicians are their own grave-diggers. Will Rogers, 1879-1935. When the first old false historian accused the other of squandering $16 billion on power and he asked, rhetorically, “Where is the power? Where is the power?” he mentioned nobody’s name. But, a response came soon enough, which reminded me of an incident about sixty years ago in our neighbourhood in Lagos. It will help to shed light on the matter. One of the neighbours had raised alarm that her chicken was missing. All efforts to find the bird proved abortive. Then one person suggested they should call the jujuman. He came and just as he was about to cast a spell on the thief, the wife of a notorious burglar raised her voice. “Please don’t cast the spell yet on the thief; wait until my husband returns, and I will ask him about the chicken.” When Buhari mentioned about $16 billion spent, numerous voices were raised in defence of only former President Olusegun Obasanjo. Did they know something the rest of us don’t know? One of them, a chameleon, who changes his colours depending on who is announcing “Food is ready”, Femi Fani-Kayode, ex-this, ex-that under Obasanjo, volunteered the information that Buhari was indicted by a probe into the operations of the Petroleum Trust Fund, PTF, during Abacha’s administration. Even if true, even a dunce knows that an indictment handed down to someone for fraud committed from 1996 to 1998 does not exonerate another individual accused of swindling $16 billion from 1999-2007. I will return to this matter later to illustrate how politicians and “militicians” take themselves to the cemetery of public opinion. A more ridiculous rejoinder came from the fellow calling himself the spokesman for Obasanjo. OBJ must have a knack for appointing such incompetents as his echoes. His major line of defence consisted of telling us that Obasanjo has explained all about the funds in his book. Really? When was the first and last time the answer to a commission of inquiry was offered by an accused writing a book instead of appearing before a panel if inquiry? Obasanjo, in fact, bluntly refused to appear before any probe panel to answer questions. He offered to send written statements which will constitute his own defence; but no appearance before a panel. Houdini, 1874-1926, US magician and escape artist. Just in case readers get away with the impression that Obasanjo’s refusal to appear before the House Committee established to probe the power sector scam was an aberration, let me quickly disabuse their minds of such a notion. Obasanjo was a serial subject of various inquiries and he was a Houdini when it came to escaping open inquiries, only to turn around and claim innocence. Let me quickly provide three well documented examples. It took Buhari almost three years to have the audacity to spend billions of naira on anticipatory approval in 2018. It took Obasanjo only the first week in office in 1999 to release N10 billion to Chief Tony Anenih (Mr Fix-it) for what was billed as Poverty Alleviation Programme, PAP. Till today, there is no report anywhere detailing how the N10 billion vanished. Emboldened by that violation of the Nigeria constitution, he graduated in 2006 to spending N140 billion for the Census that year. (See: THE GUARDIAN, 23 August 2006 “Senate Grills Usman, Soludo over N2 trillion oil funds”). But, “the Mother of all swindles” was the looting by Obasanjo’s government of the accounts of the Petroleum Development Trust Fund, PDTF. All these and other corrupt practices are documented in my book PDP: CORRUPTION INCORPORATED. It has been in the public domain for several years and nobody, Obasanjo included, has challenged the facts. Read it and you will come to the conclusion that Obasanjo’s self-righteous posture is not only undeserved, it is contrary to the facts available. There is no need to summarise the entire chapter. But, like a serial felon, Obasanjo refused to appear before the Senate Ad Hoc Committee. Instead, on 16 March 2007, he sent a badly reasoned letter which failed to address the subjects of the Senate probe. The artful dodger was at work once again. But, even with his clever footwork, like Ali Shuffle, Obasanjo could not escape the conclusion voiced by Senator Daisy Danjuma who declared that “I was shocked, disturbed at the extent of gross abuse of office, privileges and misapplication of public funds….PDTF was paying for services that were outside its mandate and this was a regular feature in the report.” Among disbursements authorised was the release of funds to purchase a PEUGEOT 607 Sedan car with all options for a lady of easy virtue. I have the facts, so nobody should challenge that – unless they want to embarrass the “lady” – now living in well-deserved obscurity. I leave untouched for now the scam called :Duty Waiver” – which reached its zenith under Obasanjo; the establishment of Transcorp and how Obasanjo was gifted 2 shares at fifty kobo for colluding with the Director General of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, to get Transcorp listed despite violation of listing regulations. The “collaborators” in Transcorp later sold their shares at N7.50 when it was listed on the Stock Exchange. They got millions of unwary Nigerians into trouble when they off-loaded their shares. The price went as low as 70 kobo at one point. It was pure abuse of office – which in any other country would have been the subject of major public hearings. But, Obasanjo knows we don’t have a responsible and patriotic National Assembly. He even insults them at will and gets away with it. Obasanjo’s defender should go and find something else to do. You can try, but deodorizing sh*t does not turn it to something you want to eat. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 