Instead of bemoaning the failure of the Rule of Law and Constitutionalism in Nigeria, I would suggest that we should rather be attempting some critical examination of why some people appears to be perpetually unable to conform with the dictate of the law instead. A hungry man, we are told is an angry man. I think it is also true to say that a hungry man is generally aloof to the aesthetics of constitutionalism or the niceties of Due Process as his primary concern is to meet his basic needs for survival within his immediate economic milieu even if such has to be done via the anarchic and sundry deviant routes. It is so easy for us to take some cheap denigrating shots at people who manifest deviant tendencies without first probing the “why” and “how” of those manifestations. Specifically with respect to our apparent inability to live by the rules as prescribed by the society, it has to be said that a law that ignores the general wellbeing of the people is certain to suffer the neglect or direct disobedience of those it was meant to regulate their conducts. That is why it is very important that as we seek to build a society that is based on law and order that we equally take into account the conscious elevation of the material wellbeing of the people therein especially the most vulnerable of the lot. It was more out of ignorance of the critical connection between the economy and constitutional democracy that we made jest of the last Ekiti phenomenon wherein the people were prepared to abandon the decency of Dr. Fayemi and embraced the neo-trumpist gadu-gadu of Gov Fayose at the polls which was universally derided as being of the “stomach infrastructure” variety. Needless to say that Fayemi in his second coming should by now understand the strong interconnection between hunger and political decency: people need to feed well in order to calmly appreciate the value of legalism. For a democracy to be truly deep and indeed endure, it must first answer the basic questions of the availability of daily bread. Human beings would not necessarily see anything attractive in democracy if it does not redress their material conditions. Unfortunately, students of constitutional law have tended to focus more on the purity of the political process instead of on the material conditions needed for the rule of law to thrive. It is true that man cannot live by bread alone but it is even truer that without bread man would be unhappy and even die. Therefore, put on any rational scale of preference, the homo sapiens will always prefer to be alive than to be immersed in abstract constitutional erudition. President Buhari and all others wielding executive powers in this country today should first seek to use the enormous constitutional powers at their disposal for the provisions of economic and social security for the citizens by all legitimate means possible before dwelling in fanciful projects like restructuring. We are not by that pushing for an ideological stance that would sacrifice the social and psychological wellbeing of the people for purely material gains. Never. Constitutional studies have been the subject of criticism lately for its previous seemingly studied neglect of economic issues impacting on the texts of the governing document but this criticism has now, to some extent, been taken into account by the emergence of the aptly named constitutional economics as a separate discipline of study focusing on this hitherto ignored relationship. How the connection between state powers and the economy impact on society has started to agitate the minds of scholars who are now engaged in this specialised field of legal studies. Constitutional economics, as the name implies, seeks to analyse the specific interconnectivity between constitutional issues and the orientation, structure and functioning of the national economy. The American economist, James M. Buchanan, who coined “constitutional economics”, received the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in 1986 for his “development of the contractual and constitutional bases for the theory of economic and political decision-making.” He rejects “any organic conception of the state as superior in wisdom, to the individuals who are its members.” This philosophical position is, in fact, a subject-matter that ought to be at the heart of constitutional economics – the people. This helps to avoid a one-dimensional understanding of the polity. What we have been trying to establish here, so far, is to construct the nexus between the two critical fields of human endeavour, i.e., government must seek to bridge the gap between the haves and the have not; encourage the Dangotes through appropriate taxing to contribute, as a legal obligation, to the welfare of the community well beyond the current miserly notion of corporate social responsibility. Buchanan believes that a constitution, intended for use by at least several generations of citizens, must be able to adjust itself for pragmatic economic decisions and to balance the interests of the State and society against those of individuals and their civic rights to personal freedom and private happiness. Constitutional economics draws substantial inspiration from the reformist attitude which is partially characteristic of Adam Smith’s vision even as it considers Buchanan as the modern-day counterpart to what Adam Smith would have called “the science of legislation” – laws with human face. A few weeks ago this column sketched around the conceptual problem concerning the relationship between social justice and progressive constitutionalism, the type I sincerely hope that the ruling party, the APC, should henceforth take as its governing cornerstone. Concurrently with the rise of academic research in the field of constitutional economics in the U.S. since the 1980s, the Supreme Court of India for almost two decades has been encouraging public interest litigation on behalf of the poor and the oppressed by using a very broad socialised interpretation of several articles of the Indian Constitution. This is a vivid example of a de facto practical application of the methodology of constitutional economics to real life situations. On the contrary, Nigerian legality seems to work better for the rich and the powerful in society. That is why it is far easier to jail a man who stole a tuber of yam in our “courts of justice” than the censor the one who emptied the treasury. Since many countries with transitional political and economic system continue to treat its constitution as an abstract legal document that is disengaged from the economic policies of the state, the practice of constitutional economics becomes therefore a decisive prerequisite for democratic development of both the state and society. The constitution becomes helpless in the face of wide-spread social discontents and anarchism. Elections, for example, shall continue to be a charade as long as the majority of the voters see their occasional participation in the process as a necessary economic quid pro quo in which their votes are more or less for sale to the highest bidder. That is why our “voters” are presently nothing but mere periodic and disposable invitees to political jamborees as incorporated by the so-called godfathers and political merchants. In all true democracies where the electorate has been economically empowered and materially liberated, party members dutifully fund their own parties and not what we see today where “members” are paid, uniformly clothed and bribed in order to play the roles. The moment the people are helped to overcome their economic predicaments, they will begin to see their votes as proprietary bargaining chips in the complex political arena and no longer as tools to cast their ballots as directed by the party boss. That cannot be democracy and, more regrettably, also not constitutional. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 