Mrs. Falmata Abubakar, mother of Abubakar Shekau, leader of the dreaded Islamist sect Boko Haram, has stated that she has no clue as to the whereabouts of her son or even his current condition. Speaking with the Hausa Service of the Voice of America (VOA) in the village of Shekau, Yobe State, she said, “I don’t know whether he is dead or alive, only God knows, I have not seen him in the last 15 years.” In a report published on Thursday, VOA said the village’s elders and leaders took its team to the woman, who further revealed that her son, Shekau, left the village for Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, as a young boy in search of Islamic knowledge. She said he was an “almajiri boy” and walked around the streets of Maiduguri looking for food. According to her, it was in the course of seeking Islamic knowledge that her son came into contact with the Boko Haram founder, Mohammed Yusuf, adding that the late Boko Haram leader was the one who indoctrinated her son. “I did not set my eyes on him since he came into contact with Mohammed Yusuf,” she said. “I know he is my son, and everyone knows a mother’s love for her son, but our attitude to life is different. “He has put so many people in serious difficulty; I pray that God guides him right.” Falmata insists she will not curse her son, saying, “He has chosen a path different from the one on which we’d put him; only God knows what he has become now.” The VOA also reported that Shekau’s late father was the Imam of the village Mosque before his death. It added, however, that residents of the village said they used to hide the identity of their village for fear of being associated with the Boko Haram leader. Shekau is notorious for leading the deadly Islamist sect responsible for the deaths of thousands of people in Nigeria as well as neighboring Cameroon, Chad and Niger. He is also known to have carried out many raids leading to death and destruction of many towns and villages across the North-Eastern part of Nigeria. Shekau had taken over the leadership of the sect after the death of its founder, Yusuf, who was killed in police custody. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 