Abuja – John Odigie-Oyegun, outgoing National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has explained why Rochas Okorocha, Imo State governor, lost out in his attempt to hijack the concluded congresses of the party in the state. He stated that “there was a united voice” of relevant Imo APC stakeholders against the governor. Odigie-Oyegun made this disclosure in response to an accusation of witch-hunt leveled against him and the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) by Governor Okorocha, saying the accusation was baseless. Okorocha had, among other things, alleged that Odigie-Oyegun unleashed vendetta against him because of his opposition to tenure extension for the present NWC. Odigie-Oyegun, however, wondered why it was only Okorocha that was being witch-hunted. Fielding questions from journalists during a press briefing over the weekend to officially announce his withdrawal from the APC national chairmanship race, Odigie-Oyegun said the governor was being economical with the truth. He observed that Okorocha “wasn’t the strongest force behind the objection to tenure elongation, so why is his case different? I don’t think it is necessary to go into the details.” He added, “Well the processes are still on and it is not good to answer you in details; but the answer lies in one fact: that he is not the only one who opposed the so-called tenure elongation, how come he is the only one being witch hunted? “When you look at the totality of the events in that state (Imo), I think you can get a clearer picture of what is going on there. There is a united voice calling for a different way of doing things, so to speak.” Chief Odigie-Oyegun’s view was corroborated by Senator Ben Uwajumogu, who on Friday resigned his position as Secretary of the 2018 APC National Convention Organising Committee. Speaking at a separate press briefing, Uwajumogu lamented that APC has become a laughing-stock in the entire South East, and made to bear the brunt of the maladministration of one man. He stressed that 95 percent of Imo State indigenes and indeed South-East members of the APC are unhappy with what is happening in Imo State, describing it as a basket of fraud under Governor Okorocha. “South-East indigenes are ashamed that the only state that we have that is being run by APC is being run the way we have seen it in the last few years,” he lamented. “There was no choice but for me to detach myself from that government. I am happy now that I have resigned. “I am aware that the governor is supporting and promoting certain South-East citizens to run for positions that have been zoned to the South-East. “I am also aware that now that I am no longer the secretary of the convention, no one will accuse me of manipulating the result of that convention.” Okorocha is believed to be sponsoring a number of candidates from the South East in the coming APC NWC election. This is allegedly in opposition to the decision of the South East caucus of the party to return those who currently are serving in the NWC. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 