A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos recently delivered what could be seen as a landmark judgment. The court ordered President Muhammadu Buhari to “urgently instruct security and anti-corruption agencies to forward to him reports of their investigations into allegations of padding and stealing of some N481 billion from the 2016 budget by some principal officers of the National Assembly.” The court also ordered President Buhari to direct the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), or appropriate anti-corruption agencies, to commence prosecution of indicted lawmakers without delay. The judgment was delivered by Justice Mohammed Idris, following a mandamus suit no: FHC/L/CS/1821/2017 brought by Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), a civil society organisation (CSO). The court also ordered President Buhari to “direct the publication of the report of investigations by security and anti-corruption bodies into the alleged padding of the 2016 budget.” In the suit brought against the President and Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Justice Idris further held that President Buhari, in the exercise of his executive powers, has a duty to ensure compliance with the provisions of Article 22 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. It held further that the President was expected to use his executive powers for the public good of Nigeria. The court also granted an order directing Buhari to “urgently halt alleged attempt by some Principal Officers of the National Assembly to steal N40 billion of the N100 billion allocated by his government as ‘zonal intervention’ in the 2017 budget.” Buhari was also ordered “to closely monitor and scrutinise the spending of N131 billion (accrued from increased oil benchmark) allocated for additional non-constituency projects expenditure, to remove the possibility of corruption.” The court held that “SERAP, being a human rights non-governmental organisation, has sufficient interest in the way and manner public funds are being utilised in this country.” Reacting to the judgment, SERAP’s Deputy Director, Timothy Adewale, said: “This judgment confirms the pervasive corruption in the budget process and the prevailing culture of impunity of our lawmakers as well as the failure of the authorities to uphold transparency and accountability in the entire budget process and implementation. “The judgment is an important step towards reversing a culture of corruption in the budget process that has meant that many of our lawmakers see the budget more as a ‘meal ticket’ to look after themselves than a social contract to meet people’s needs and advance equity and development across the country. “This is a crucial precedent that vindicates the right to a transparent and accountable budget process and affirms the budget as government’s most important economic policy document, which is central to the realisation of all human rights, including the rights to health, water, and education. “We are now in the process of obtaining a certified copy of the judgment. SERAP will do everything within its power to secure the full and effective enforcement of this important judgment.” SERAP last year, filed the suit after the organisation said it received “credible information from multiple sources that the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) have completed investigations into the allegations of padding of the 2016 budget, completed their reports, and indicted some Principal Officers of the House of Representatives and the Senate, and that the accounts of some of the principal officers containing allegedly illicit funds have been frozen, and that the case files for the prosecution of those indicted were ready.” Thus, should President Buhari prosecute lawmakers indicted in the budget padding scandal as ordered by the court? The Lawmakers Should Be Arraigned – Don Dr. Patrick Awuwu Atafomen, a Benin-based Political Science lecturer said: “If what the lawmakers allegedly did is a punishable offence under the Nigeria laws, they should be arraigned and tried under such laws. We don’t need to make much fuse about it, especially when the order came from the court. “Nigeria is a democratic country and everybody is equal before the law. Therefore, the allegation should be investigated through due process and let the law take its course without any contradiction.” ‘Indicted Lawmakers Should Face The Music’ Ndubuaku Ihejimba Akuwuihe, a member of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and an ex-councillor, said: “Budget padding is bad. He who indulges in it should face the music.” Buhari Should Comply With The Court Order – ADP Chief Chief Isaac Nnadiuto Egbufor,  a member of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), stated: “The President should comply with the court order and prosecute them without delay. The court has done its work and as you know, budget padding is a disservice to the nation. If the president prosecutes them, let him tell Nigerians the outcome of the prosecution ‘Buhari Cannot Prosecute APC Lawmakers’ Mr. Silas Kolo, a MInna-based politician, said: “I would say no. Look, all these are politics. In an ideal situation, I would have supported that the lawmakers be prosecuted because they are not ghosts, but well known members of the Senate or House of Representatives, who collaborated with some cabals in the Presidency and civil servants from the relevant Ministries to perfect the deal. “But, prosecuting them wouldn’t be that easy because they mostly, if not all, belonged to the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) and you and I know that anything that affects any member of the party in the name of corruption will never see the light of the day, not in this Buhari time. “Yet, the Federal Government claimed to be fighting corruption. So, to me I think it is better we save the monies that would have been used in probing them for something else. Maybe, those of them indicted should be punished instead to serve as deterrent or maybe they would repent. “Prosecuting them, where will you get the lawyers, ‘decent or incorruptible’ enough to do that without them personalising the issue by way of going back to drum up sentiments and by so doing create more problems that will cause more wastage of money than solving the immediate problems. “It wouldn’t be odd prosecuting the indicted lawmakers in an ideal situation and not what the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubarkar Malami, and his cohorts are doing or in the present day Nigeria justice system, else we would be chasing shadows. “There are more glaring cases indicting members of the APC, but how many of them have seen the light of the day? But, let the case be against member of any opposition party, let’s say the PDP, you will see this government deploying all its arsenal to ensure the person is disgraced or destroyed. “So, I suggest we face something more serious than listening to what is happening in the courts.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 