Osogbo – Olapade Agoro, the National Chairman of National Action Council (NAC), has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to throw in the towel, saying that the president remained unfit and incapable to guarantee peaceful coexistence of Nigerians in the face of sustained killings across the country. Agoro, in a statement, a copy of which was made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT in Osogbo, said that the recent killings of innocent people in Plateau State is an indication that the country is sitting on a keg of gun powder that is ripe for explosion any moment. He explained that while the arsonists were killing people in Plateau, President Buhari and his officials were laughing at the APC convention, which he described as April fool’s convention. He said that the president is unfit and not capable to guarantee the peaceful living, coexistence and stability of Nigeria as expected. According to him, “as APC-led government’s April fools’ convention celebration at Eagles Square in Abuja Saturday June 24, 2018 was ongoing, another set of 70 innocent people were same day reportedly massacred in Plateau State, thus turning the entire state into grave yard. “That turned the once upon a time very peaceful, progressive and European weather like situates into Dracula horror state. I demand that President Muhammadu Buhari immediately throw in the towel as he is unfit and non capable to guarantee the peaceful living, co-existence and stability of Nigerians as expected of respected nations globally. “Allowing all these horrible situation to occurred and more than 250 human lives allowed to waste on the altar of political incompetence and uselessness must convince all reasonable and discerning people of the civilised world that Muhammadu Buhari’s Federal Government is precariously allowing Nigeria to sit on kegs of gun power ready to explode any time. “It behooves to say out loud and clear that if the yet-to-be-found answers to the Boko Haram intransigencies in the North East that has claimed up to date hundreds of thousands of human lives and left millions homeless and or migrants is allowed to spread unchecked, the future of what we now know as Nigeria shall be without disputing and questioning too bad, too evil and too retrogressive than Buhari met it and would want to leave behind for his children to live in and be proud of.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 