President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday June 6, 2018 recognised June 12 as Democracy Day, thereby shifting the celebration from May 29. He also officially recognised the late Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola (MKO) as the winner of the June 12, 1993 election which was annulled by the Gen. Ibrahim Babangida military junta. Chief Abiola, it would be recalled, died in detention after he was arrested while trying to retrieve his stolen mandate from the military, as he was allegedly poisoned. The announcement, which came via his official Twitter handle, @MBuhari, was said to have been decided on after due consultations. According President Buhari, the late Chief Abiola, the acclaimed winner of the botched June 12 election, was awarded the National Honours of Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR), the highest ward in the country, meant for Presidents, while Abiola’s running mate, Ambassador Baba Gana Kingibe, and the late human rights lawyer, Gani Fawehinmi, were awarded Grand Commander of the Order of Niger (GCON), the second highest honours award meant for the nation’s Vice Presidents. There had been clamour from across the country, especially South West, for official recognition of June 12 as Democracy Day and the acclaimed winner of June 12, 1993, the late Chief Abiola declared. However, it is worthy to note that the June 12, 1993 election was annulled while Prof Humphrey Nwosu, the Chairman of the then National Electoral Commission (NEC) had gone far in announcing the results of that ill-fated election, with Chief Abiola in clear lead. Till date, the full detail of the result of that annulled election is still shrouded in mystery. Buhari, in announcing the Federal Government decision on June 6, 2018, wrote: “Dear Nigerians, I am delighted to announce that, after due consultations, the Federal Government has decided that henceforth, June 12 will be celebrated as Democracy Day. “We have also decided to award posthumously the highest honour in the land, GCFR, to the late Chief MKO Abiola. “Chief Abiola’s running mate, Ambassador Baba Gana Kingibe, is also to be awarded GCON. “Furthermore, the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi, SAN, tireless fighter for human rights & democracy, & for the actualisation of the June 12, 1993 elections, will be posthumously awarded a GCON.” President Buhari followed the announcement by the presentation of the honours on June 12, 2018 at a grand event in Abuja, which was attended by the families of the late Chief Abiola, that of Chief Fawehinmi, Kingibe himself, as well as the pro-democracy activists across the country. However, since the announcement and the award proper, there had been divergent views from across the country on whether President Buhari should officially declare the late Chief Abiola as a former President of the country. Thus, the question arose: Should President Buhari declare the late Abiola as a former President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, when the result of that election was not fully announced? Yes, Abiola Should Be Declared Former President – Don Dr. Nelson Omoifoh Otobore, a Benin-based university lecturer and human rights activist, stated: “I will wholeheartedly support the declaration of late Chief M. K. O. Abiola as former President of Nigeria because he contested and won the presidential election of this country in 1993. “Nigerians are enjoying uninterrupted democracy for almost 20 years now because of what happened to Chief Abiola. The only way to reward him as a fighter and hero of Nigeria’s democracy is to place his photograph among those of the former Presidents of this country.  I believe many Nigerians will share this view because it will not be enough to declare June 12 of every year a public holiday without making the man who made that date to be indelible in Nigeria history an object of that subject.” Otobore continued: “By honouring posthumously late Chief M.K. O. Abiola with the highest national award bestowed only on a sitting or former President of Nigeria, President Buhari has, by implication, declared the result of the June 12, 1993 presidential election which was discovered to have been won by Chief M.K.O. Abiola.  Therefore, late Chief Abiola should henceforth be known and referred to as former President of Nigeria, irrespective of whether he sat on the presidential seat or not.” Buhari’s Declaration, A Usurpation Of Judicial Function’- VATLAD However, the Vanguard for Transparent Leadership and Democracy (VATLAD), in its response, declared that the conferment of the title of Grand Commander of Federal Republic (GCFR) posthumously on late Chief Abiola, presumed winner of June 12, 1993 presidential election, was a usurpation of constitutional functions of the Judiciary by President Buhari. The group maintained that the declaration would pose direct threat to the constitutional functions of the Judiciary as enshrined in Section 6 of 1999 Nigerian Constitution (as amended). Comrade Emmanuel Igbini, National President of VATLAD cited the case of Chief Arthur Nzeribe and his Association for Better Nigeria (ABN) instituted sometimes in 1993 as why declaring June 12 as Democracy Day and honouring Abiola with GCFR’s title was faulty. Igbini said that though his group joined millions of democracy-loving Nigerians to applaud the decision of President Buhari to seek to address the injustice of June 12, 1993 Presidential election, the process adopted by the Federal Government in trying to redress the injustices was faulty. He recalled that Nzeribe and his Association for Better Nigeria (ABN) had instituted a matter in court to stop the process of June 12, 1993 and their prayer was granted by a competent court of law. According to Igbini, the decision of the court mighy be perceived as ‘bad’,, but, he stressed that only a superior court of law can set it aside. He said: “No superior court of law has set aside this ‘bad’ judgment 25 years after.” Igbini, while urging the Federal Government to immediately withhold the award, Igbini urged President Buhari to direct the Attorney General of the Federation to approach the Court of Appeal to seek to set aside the existing judgment of the High Court issued in 1993 and for the Court of Appeal to direct the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conclude the process of officially announcing the results of the June 12, 1993 Presidential election. Declaring Abiola Former President Will Put Anti-Democratic Forces To Shame – YPP Chieftain Chief Obinnakwem Nkem Ibeakolam, a member of the Young Progressive Party (YPP) and former chieftain of the defunct National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), said: “The decision by President Buhari to declare June 12 every year as Democracy Day in place of May 29 is, to me, the greatest achievement he has recorded so far. “You know, ethnic politics has been the bane of the nation’s march to greatness. Interestingly, on June 12, 1993, Nigerians of voting age wisely set aside their various tribal, religious and ethnic backgrounds and said, ‘Let bye gone be bye gone’ by voting massively for Abiola, a Yoruba man, and his running mate, Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, a Hausa, both of them Muslims. “Even the then Presidential candidate of the National Republican Convention (NRC), Ibrahim Tofa, was defeated by Chief Abiola in his Kano State base. “But, the forces of darkness later called Nigerians fools by criminally annulling the election acclaimed locally and internationally as the most credible in the country’s history without any cogent reason. “Abiola later paid the supreme price while trying to reclaim his mandate. “Therefore, President Buhari should go a step further to declare him a former President because it is clear to all that he (Abiola) won that election. “Declaring him a former President will put the anti-democratic forces, who denied him his mandate, to shame. “It will also serve as a deterrent to any plot by anybody to perpetrate such a monumental unpatriotic act again in future.” Declaring Abiola Former President Will Not Serve Any Purpose – APGA Stalwart Dr. Clement Obinwunne Ohiaku, an Owerri-based chieftain of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), stated: “I am very much in support of any measure to immortalise Abiola. But, I do not think that declaring him former President will serve any purpose. “Granted that he won an election to rule this country, but he was denied the opportunity to do so by the military regime of General Babangida 25 years ago. “So, if you declare him as a former President, what can we point out as his achievements? Who were the ministers and aides that worked with him? How many years did he rule? “This is why I am saying that we should only immortalise him and should not declare him former President because he was never sworn in as a President.” GCFR Award Is Enough For Abiola – Politician Abdulrazak Bello, a Minna-based politician cum businessman, on his own, stated: “No, I don’t think that declaring M.K.O. Abiola former President of Nigeria would be okay or necessary and in the best interest of the country. “President Buhari has already done enough by according Abiola with Nigeria’s highest national honour even though some people had argued that such honours shouldn’t be for the likes of Abiola. “I see what President Buhari did as more of politics than genuine because of the concentration in trying to pacify the west or in order to continue to command their support of his administration now that the 2019 general elections are less than a year away. “Buhari is technically lifting political ban on the Abiola family and in doing so, watch and see what will happen in the nearest future. I listened to what many of the dignitaries were saying, casting aspersions on previous administration for not doing what Buhari did after 25 years or so, trying to make himself sort of a saint. “But, I am aware that the former President Goodluck Jonathan had wanted to name the University of Lagos after Abiola. But, some Yoruba elders were said to have kicked against the idea. Now, Buhari is now seen as having done something no other person would have done. “I am happy with what the literary icon, Professor Wole Soyinka, told Buhari concerning Abiola and former Head of State, Sani Abacha, linking it with some of the wrong policies of the President Buhari-led administration. So, I see what is happening as purely political. “Abiola is not the only Nigerian that has been politically wronged or disenfranchised by governments, be it federal, states and local governments. In fact, I see what is happening in our democratic setting as our own brand of democracy, or, what I would regard as a slight mixture of democracy and dictatorship, pampering a section of the country and frustrating others just to achieve political gains. “That is why I will not be wrong to say that the Igbo or the Eastern Nigeria are not part of this government and nothing is being done about that, hence I am afraid that doing anything more for the Abiola’s family, maybe declaring him former President, will bring bad blood among other ethnic nationalities. “There is no record anywhere in Nigeria today from the electoral umpire headed by Professor Humphrey Nwosu to show that Abiola won the 1993 Presidential election. What we were told or the only near evidence we have today is that the then electoral commission chairman was stopped from continuing with the announcement of the results. “As a Middle Belter or somebody from one of the North Central states, I believe we have been battered for so long by this administration, particularly the unprovoked killings by armed bandits or Fulani herdsmen, and nobody has cared to apologise to us. “That is why I believe that going beyond what the President has done so far will illicit negative reactions from other Nigerians on how a President elected by Nigerians, irrespective of religion or political difference, is concentrating on the West alone. “Or, how would you expect us from the Middle Belt to feel considering what we have been going through under this Buhari’s government. If he declares late MKO Abiola as ex-President, other regions will react. “Already, there have been reactions because I saw a report by a group from the East demanding that the day Biafrans were massacred should be declared as public holiday. That is what I meant by the President’s actions giving rise to agitations by groups wanting similar recognitions.” ‘Buhari Should De-Annul June 12,1993 Poll, Declare Abiola Winner’ Professor Ayo Adesopo of the Public Administration Department of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, has called on President Buhari to de-annul June 12, 1993 Presidential election and declare MKO Abiola winner of the election. Adesopo while reacting to whether President Buhari should declare late MKO Abiola former President of Nigeria, said such action was necessary, adding that all recognitions and benefits accorded the office should also be given to him posthumously. He explained that de-annulment of June 12 election would properly address the injustice done to Nigerians 25 years ago by the military. According to him, “We view what President Buhari has done as a very good first step in a new beginning, which has to be built upon. “To properly address the injustice of June 12, we demand that the election result be fully declared and Basorun Abiola declared president posthumous. “He should be recognised as a past Nigerian president and accorded the honour and full privileges attached to that position. “The greatest honour President Buhari would do to the memory of Basorun Abiola is to ensure that the incident of democratic abortion like the annulment of June 12 election never happen again in Nigeria. “ While describing June 12 as a significant day in Nigeria’s political history said it is the day true democracy was born in the country.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 