Nobel Laureate Prof. Wole Soyinka  has said that former President Olusegun Obasanjo is the least worthy of former Heads of State to champion the nation’s political recovery process. Soyinka, who spoke in Abuja at a gala dinner and award night hosted by the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture as part of programmes of the 67th World Congress of the International Press Institute (IPI), maintained that by championing the nation’s political recovery process, Obasanjo has “crossed the red line.” News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Soyinka, a guest of honour at the occasion, described Obasanjo as  a hypocrite, disclosing that he would soon launch a book where he articulated his claims, even as he stressed the need for the younger generation to take over the country reins of governance. Soyinka said: “I have brought out a publication which title is in Latin, but it means ‘Who watches the Watchmen’. “That publication is coming out simply because I will like to see new blood in government in this nation. I think this corrupt and hypocritical geriatrics should stop recycling themselves. “They should stop trying to co-opt their former cronies to take over the reins of governance in this country. “On July 4, at Freedom Park in Lagos, the pamphlet will be unveiled and will confront Obasanjo with his crimes of the past, which incidentally, are not being newly articulated. “I say again that people are their own greatest enemies, because they forget very fast. Obasanjo is the greatest hypocritical leader this nation has ever produced.” He said contrary to claims by some people, he had nothing personal against the late former Military Head of State, General Sani Abacha. Soyinka, who was responding to a question on why he had always displayed open hatred for Abacha, stated: “You say I don’t leave Abacha alone even after death, it is not true. “If I am walking through the street, and I see a structure raised in honour of a torturer, a murderer and a thief so recognised by the entire world that we are still chasing his loots all over the world, I cannot keep quiet. “If I see a structure or monument in honour of that person, I have the responsibility to tell whoever did so that you cannot be serious with fighting corruption.” Soyinka congratulated the Nigerian journalists for bringing IPI Congress to the country for the first time, adding that the timing was remarkable. “The timing is remarkable in the sense that IPI is being hosted by a nation whose current President, Muhammadu Buhari, is somebody I refer to as ‘born again’ democrat. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 