ADO-EKITI – The former governor of Ekiti State and a second term aspirant, Kayode Fayemi, narrowly escaped being gunned down yesterday during a grand reception held for him by members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. An unidentified gunman who was said to be a police officer was said to have shot sporadically into the crowd hitting four people in the process and narrowly missing Fayemi. A source says one of those hit by a bullet has died in the hospital. One of those shot was the former member of House of Representatives, Hon. Michael Opeyemi Bamidele also known as MOB. Bamidele who was the former Lagos State Commissioner for Information was said to have been hit in the stomach area and on his arm. He and other victims are currently receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital in Ado-Ekiti. As at press time, the Commissioner of Police in the state was not able to confirm the true nature of the incident. Sounds of sporadic gunshots caused commotion at the nearly successful event as people ran in different directions to escape the scene. The massive rally, attended by chieftains and supporters of the party began at Akure Airport with a motorcade and terminated at APC secretariat located at Ajilosun area in Ado-Ekiti. Another source says that the policeman was trying to protect the dignitaries from being mobbed by those who were trying to extort money from them when the policeman misfired the gunshot that hit Bamidele on the hand and the other person in the chest. According the publicity secretary to Fayemi, Taiwo Olatunbosun, the shooting was done by detractors. He said that, “Ikere-Ekiti journey to Ado-Ekiti, a distance of about nine kilometers, lasted two hours in a heavy traffic that was punctuated by four gunmen suspected to be agents of the state government, who strategically positioned themselves at the party’s secretariat in Ado-Ekiti for the attack. “One of the assailants dressed in mobile police uniform was apprehended and he is now helping the police in their investigation. They fired gunshots aimed at Fayemi, but hit a former lawmaker, Opeyemi Bamidele, after the former minister had taken a few steps forward before the bullets hit the target. “Bamidele and other victims were immediately rushed to the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti, where doctors are seeing to his treatment.” He gave other victims’ names as Olabode Joshua, Olanrewaju Gbenga, Adebayo Ogunjemilehin, Ogunmodede Oluwole and Alex Adeleye. Before the crisis, Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, and Fayemi while addressing party members said he had come home to rescue Ekiti from the pangs of poverty and wanton neglect caused by the PDP administration. Akeredolu applauded the party members for putting behind them the post primary crisis, saying that with the crowd he saw today, Ekiti remains the stronghold of the APC. “Fayemi has returned with full force to reclaim the land. He needs your support and this task shall be achieved in the mighty name of God,” he prayed. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 