The die is cast and the first preliminary group “D” match against Croatia in the much talked about FIFA 2018 World Cup in Russia comes up this Saturday, 23 June. As I write this column, I can feel the Super Eagles love with their acclaimed “world best” jersey produced for them by NIKE, a sports wear manufacturing firm, which superlative touch of design for the Eagles had become a global discourse and that has taken the euphoria of the team above the FIFA competition, which has to do with football skills, technicality strategy, cohesion, purposeful drive of professionalism towards making an indelible impact rather than getting lost with the universal ovation of the beautiful kits. Today is the real duel for the Nigeria national team in Russia and all eyes on the Super Eagles and her German manager, Gernot Rohr, whose proficiency will be put to test with his crew who have promised to deliver the World Cup for the president of Nigeria, General Muhammadu Buhari (Rtd), in their recent visit to the presidency at Aso Rock before their departure to Russia. It is no doubt that the team has marked itself down for victory in today’s match having vowed not to let the nation down, as it will approach every match in the tournament as it comes. The Nigerian side that has shown so much interest in their NIKE kits for the FIFA tourney may be seeing much more than their expectation on the field of play than the colourful designed green jersey with which it has to execute the Croatian duel. I pray the ecstasy of the jerseys does not become the unconsciousness spirit of the team during the 90 minutes duration of play. And if it does, Nigeria is doomed! I remembered vividly in 1994 and the jerseys the Eagles used in the United States for the execution of that FIFA Mundial. It was a beautiful kit for the team but the kind of euphoria that is greeting this sets of NIKE kit for the Russian squad was absent with the  case of U.S ’94 squad kits. Having said that, there was less consciousness on the team kits, as we are witnessing today over the 2018 squad jerseys. I just hope the talk of the jerseys and the admiration will not take off the shine of the team because in the case of U.S ’94, Nigerians had every cause to celebrate the gallantry of that team as led by late Stephen Okechukwu Keshi as captain. Although, football jerseys do not win matches, contrary to the views of this particular squad, who are already carried away with the illusion and belief of the colour of jerseys on their body, as ambassadors of Nigeria in this glamorous football fiesta, but skills do. Football is a beautiful game, so if you wear a beautiful piece of kit in showcasing your skills and professionalism on the ball, the tournament becomes yours, but if you allow the ecstasy of the beautiful dresses to override your purpose and professionalism, then, the entire essence of the game is defeated. A Country like Cameroon has never come out with exciting jerseys. The Indomitable Lions, as they are called, are known for skin tight jerseys, preferably called “body hug” in executing competitive matches. The Anglophone country is quite known by CAF and FIFA for always turning out with funny kits; not withstanding in both Italia ’90 and US ’94 FIFA Mundial, the Indomitable Lions dazzled the world. The Cameroonian team humbled Argentina 1-0 and proceeded to the second round where it almost got into the quarter finals of Italia ’90 under the captainship of legendary Roger Miller, who also mesmerised Rene Higuita the (popular scorpion save) goalkeeper of Colombia. This wonderful and spectacular representation of Cameroon by the Indomitable Lions was achieved with colourless and unexciting jerseys. Therefore, I charge the Eagles today to look beyond their beautify jerseys and do the business of football to humble Croatia. This is my prayer. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 