The Delta state PDP has had a long history of dominating the political space in Delta and they had designed a system of rotational governorship within the three Senatorial districts. Starting with Chief James Onanefe Ibori experiment in 1999-2003 and quickly followed by Dr. Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan tenure from 2007-2015, the baton of leadership went to Dr. Senator Ifeanyi Okowa in 2015, which will ultimately dovetail into  another PDP candidate in 2023. The Delta model is so far fool-proof and seemingly just, in its implementation. What is expected to play out in the coming years will depend on the key players in the future, hoping and believing that the PDP will not run into any turbulent waters ahead of 2019 and 2023. One does not envisage any opposition party giving the ruling PDP in Delta any headaches or a run for its money. If a desperate APC is bent on rigging other parties out of power in 2019 it would mean a bloody declaration of war of sorts in the State. It would take more than a politician of the status of a Goliath to cause the collateral damage to the body polity of Delta PDP or any other PDP state in the Niger Delta region. The pace of Governor Okowa in touching lives of unemployed people who now enjoy skills in several areas of human endeavour,   thereby, making them self- employed and not depending on white collar jobs that are in short supply for now, is remarkable. The emphasis on road construction across the three senatorial districts, particularly, in the most inhospitable riverine territories of the Delta South reaches of the state, would open up the disadvantaged zone to investors. It is pleasurable to know that Governor Okowa also believes in providing quality education to the education loving people of Delta state. Secondly, Delta, known for leading the country in sports festivals for many years, is already working assiduously to upgrade facilities at the Asaba Township stadium, named after a late proud son of Delta state, Mr. Stephen Keshi, a former National coach and captain of the Super Eagles. The Governor Okowa Movement is already gathering momentum as the Delta skyline is awash with billboards and larger than life Posters heralding his trumpeted second term in 2019. With the recent one hundred percent victory at the Local government polls on January 6, the party and, by extension, Governor Okowa had ingrained his influence and acceptability at all the nooks and crannies of the state. The opposition voices which came swiftly on the heels of the results were seen as soured grapes, as they did not campaign fiercely to contest the polls. Chief Ortega, the APC chieftain, who last contested governorship on the APC platform, cried out feebly against the conduct of the polls and described it as shambolic. The outcome was predictably as in all the states where local government polls took pace were swept by the ruling parties in the states- like Kano, Lagos and even Akwa Ibom states. All the states worthy of their names ensured that they did not lose one inch of their territories to an opposition party. And so it was with Delta state, the Big Heart, which completely overwhelmed all the other contending opposition parties. One of the slogans that swept the people of Delta off their feet was the mantra – ‘Prosperity For All Deltans.’ Many people in Delta state are prepared to hold Governor Okowa to his promise to generate wealth for all. With the upcoming Africa Athletic games in Delta state soon, the fast paced work to update the Asaba stadium is in the right direction, and for the period the games will last, wealth would percolate to all corners, especially, the hospitality industry- hotel owners and even food vendors would stand to benefit from the large delegates of athletes visiting Asaba- Delta state Capital. The tartan tracks for athletes and the Swimming pool is being put in place to make the competition truly competitive with accompanying economic benefits to the people of Delta state. Another of area of concern to the people of Delta is the health sector and it is heart- warming to learn that huge amounts had been devoted to eradicating the spread of the- child killer disease, measles, in the state. The issue of keeping the peace in Delta space is of paramount concern to Governor Okowa, whose Deputy, Barrister Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, recently summoned a meeting of militants under the aegis of the Niger Delta Avengers, who had given an ultimatum to start blowing up oil installations in the region. The Delta state initiative is coming at a time when the price of crude oil had reached a new height of 70 dollars per barrel, which implies economic boom for Nigeria and Delta state as an oil producing state. Such security sensitivity is welcome and worthy of note, especially, in terms of getting more money from the Federal allocations to an oil producing state. Any fresh outbreak of hostilities in the Niger Delta region could mean devastating outcome for the peoples and the greater pollution it could cause to the people whose waters had long been poisoned by unredeemed oil exploration. The pre-emptive Otuaro meeting is great service to humanity and the peoples of the Niger Delta. The militants’ threat could degenerate to the use of brute force by the Federal security operatives with helicopter gunships and fighter Jets raiding the mangrove swamps with dire consequences. All well- meaning Niger Deltans will join the Delta state government to ask the Avengers to sheathe their swords and machine guns and opt for dialogue again. As we have been told over time and space- Jaw Jawing is better than war warring. Any fatal blow on the economic jugular of the Nation will be counter- productive to the well- being of the peoples of the Niger Delta. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 