Yesterday, June 5, was World Environment Day (WED). With this year’s theme, ‘Beat Plastic Pollution,’ the United Nations aims to find ways to combat single use of plastic. The tentative slogan could be “if you can’t reuse it, refuse it.” But is Nigeria ready for a new world without plastics? Around the world, polythene and other plastic materials used for food handling are being phased off. In 2016, France banned the use of plastic cutlery. It became the first country in the world to enact a ban on plastic dinnerware. As of 2020, French picnickers, in lieu of plastic plates, cups and cutlery, will have to use bio-sourced, compostable equivalents – or, perhaps, return to the old-fashioned wicker picnic hamper, packed with reusable china, silverware, wine goblets, and after-dinner coffee mugs. The law was a subset of France’s 2015 Energy Transition for Green Growth Act, a sweeping initiative designed – in the words of then President Francois Hollande – to make France “an exemplary nation in terms of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions, diversifying its energy model and increasing the deployment of renewable energy sources.” It will also, in one fell swoop, eliminate the nearly five billion plastic goblets that the French have been tossing each year into landfills. Plastic has a near-eternal shelf life; so its use contributes, in no small measure, to the heap of non-degradable garbage that fuels climate change. In 2017, Kenya enacted the world’s toughest law banning plastic bags. Kenyans producing, selling or even using plastic bags will risk imprisonment of up to four years or fines of $40,000, as the world’s toughest law aimed at reducing plastic pollution came into effect. The east African nation joins more than 40 other countries that have banned, partly banned or taxed single use plastic bags, including China, France, Rwanda, and Italy. Many bags drift into the ocean, strangling turtles, suffocating seabirds and filling the stomachs of dolphins and whales with waste until they die of starvation. “If we continue like this, by 2050, we will have more plastic in the ocean than fish,” said Habib El-Habr, an expert on marine litter working with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in Kenya. Here in Nigeria, little or nothing is being done to arrest this issue of plastic waste, even as states like Lagos had identified wastes that found their way into the drainages as causes of floods that threatened lives and property. In commemoration of the WED and the World Oceans Day 2018, Nnimmo Bassey, director, Health of Mother Earth Foundation (HOMEF), in an article published by Environews, described the plastic pollution menace as a haunting reminder of the harm that mankind is doing to the environment. Fight Against Desert Encroachment (FADE) Africa, yesterday, hosted an exhibition at Didi Museum in Victoria Island, to promote plastic pollution awareness in our communities. However, tomorrow, the Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) would be raising awareness on plastic waste pollution reduction, thereby encouraging a revolutionised lifestyle in Nigeria. NCF plans celebrating the event in form of an inter-school competition. There will be arts/crafts exhibition where students’ groups will showcase artworks/crafts made with plastics, thereby showcasing their talents and creative instincts. This will take place at NCF Headquarters, Lekki Conservation Centre (LCC), Opposite Chevron, Lekki by 9am. Environmental Rights Action/Friends of the Earth Nigeria (ERA/FoEN) is, as expected, very concerned about plastic wastes in the country. Hence it called on government to begin a sensitisation campaign on the dangers of plastic waste and set up recycling plants for these plastics. Philip Jakpor, ERA/FoEN head of Media and Campaigns, said the theme of this year’s WED was apt. “It captures a major problem we face as a nation totally reliant on fossil fuels. Some of the raw materials for making plastic are from crude oil and so the more plastic we produce, be it polythene bags, sachet water bags or bottled water, the more we must drill oil and pollute oil-bearing communities. “On the scale that we can all observe, the plastic menace is evident in blocked drains, gutters and in our water channels. Most are littered with plastics. The unfortunate aspect is that these plastic products are not bio-degradable; hence they will remain as they are for thousands of years. “What government must do is to look at a deliberate shift from plastics to other bio-degradable products within the framework of a post-oil economy. The fast food companies, water bottling companies and other related establishments that are the real culprits in the plastic tsunami must be compelled to look at and adopt newer forms of packaging, that will not harm man and the earth,” he said. As things stand, Nigeria seems to be getting up from its long slumber on the issue. According to Ibrahim Jibril, the Minister of State for Environment, the Federal Government is working on a national policy on plastic waste management to regulate use and disposal of plastic waste in the country. Jibril made the announcement on Saturday, May 2, 2018 in Abuja at a news conference to begin the commemoration of the 2018 WED. The minister said the present administration attached much importance to the development of the environment. He added that the Federal Ministry of Environment, in collaboration with critical stakeholders, had developed a national strategy for the phase-out of plastics. According to him, the ministry is also developing a national plastic waste recycling programme, as well as establishing plastic waste recycling plants across the country in partnership with state governments. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 