Several factors are responsible for the failure to meet the 30 percent target. The licensing of spectrum process is not quite encouraging because of the slow pace in giving out the required spectrum. Another major challenge is the Right of Way (RoW) which the existing telecoms operators and Internet Service Providers have been battling with in recent years. The states and local governments have not been confrontational in this resolving the issue. Also of importance, is the need to have good broadband pricing that will encourage existing investors to invest more and attract potential ones.” The telecommunications industry is one that is characterised by significant upfront investment in spectrum licenses, equipment purchases, and network infrastructure roll-out among others. But at the very top of the list is bureaucracy, which Merriam Webster dictionary defines as a system of administration marked by officialism, red tape, and proliferation. The Emir of Kano and former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Muhammadu Sanusi II, during his presentation at the 2018 US-Nigeria Investment Summit in Washington DC, recently, stated that the high cost of Internet in Nigeria is attributable to bureaucracy and taxation. The Inclusive Internet Index of the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) recently ranked Nigeria as the country with the most affordable Internet in Africa. However, when price is compared with minimum wage, the ratio for the cost of 1GB of Internet data in Nigeria is higher than some other African countries. Based on the timeline of the Nigerian National Broadband Plan 2013-2018, 3G connectivity is supposed to have spread to not less than 80% of the population by the end of 2018. But NCC has been playing on both the defence and offence — threatening to revoke licenses while also highlighting the reasons Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos) are not building telecom infrastructure. This will in no way help the achievement of the activities spelt out in the broadband plan. That bureaucracy is responsible for the high cost of Internet is not far from the truth. It has been estimated that InfraCos will have to pay a combined ₦600 billion to the 36 state governments in Nigeria as Right of Way (RoW) charges, which can often be as high as 50% of the entire cost of building infrastructure. RoW is the legal instrument that gives permission to lay fibre-optic cables along specific routes through facilities that are typically government-owned like roads, water, power lines, etc. State governments request for as high as N25,000 as against a recommended charge of N145 per metre of fibre for RoW. This exuberant cost, among other expenses, is then transferred along the value chain which drives up the price to the end-users. Apparently, the present administration is not giving the same level of cooperation to MainOne to serve other parts of the state. Giving free RoW to build infrastructure will definitely go a long way to boost penetration while also reducing the cost to the end users. “In Nigeria, the cost of RoW is high, and there is no harmonisation of RoW fees and processes across agencies at different tiers of government,” Media Relations Director, GSMA, Claire Cranton says. According to her, there are also long delays in the processing of the permits which contribute to the affordability and availability of access to Internet services. Despite having 5 companies bringing submarine cables into the country, there’s still a prevailing lack of infrastructure penetration. InfraCos and telcos have to acquire real estate for their constructions while also battling with high RoW charges. And furthermore, significant operational expenditure goes into ensuring the sites remain up and running. In Nigeria, having a higher spread of infrastructure is about how deep a company’s pocket is. Infrastructure sharing has the potential of broadening broadband penetration, and it also makes it easier for new entrants into the market. Despite their importance and potential contribution to the nation’s economy, telecommunications-related equipment are not on the CBN’s list of items that are valid for foreign exchange (PDF). This means InfraCos and telcos have to get foreign currencies at higher rates from the parallel market. Policies and regulations within the sector don’t really address how to make access affordable while also limiting the impact of the factors that are driving up the price of Internet. We can agree that there’s the need for a strong regulation that would enhance the collaboration among players which is still lacking. And enforcement of the existing policies and regulations is key. There’s also the need for regulations that facilitate the cost-effective use of infrastructure and resources by service providers like permission to share active elements of network infrastructure among others. Multiple taxation and unfavourable conditions for the industry in terms of access to foreign exchange only serve to exacerbate the high cost of delivering Internet services and, by implication, the cost of access to Internet services. GSMA Media Relations Manager, Claire Cranton reveals that a research by the organisation in 2015 showed that there are 26 different taxes and fees levied on mobile operators as well as consumers in Nigeria which include 12 taxes that are specific to the telecommunications sector. More investment and attractive Regulatory Climate Will Boost Penetration Last year, Ericsson announced that global mobile broadband penetration has increased by 10%, reflecting a 0.6% to 2.8% rise in gross domestic product (GDP). According to Ericsson’s report titled “How Important Are Mobile Broadband Networks for Global Economic Development?”. The data from 135 countries, including Nigeria, were examined. It points out that previous reports have examined fixed broadband, and researchers have only been able to estimate its effect on economic growth. The study, on the other hand, has been able to conclude the introduction of mobile broadband has an immediate positive effect on a country’s economy, and a longer-term knock-on effect as mobile broadband gradually spreads to different economies. “Many countries in the developing world have used mobile broadband technology to leapfrog in their economic development in the past 10 to15 years,” Harald Edquist, master researcher in macro-economics at Ericsson Research and one of the report authors said. “I believe that if these countries and others continue to invest wisely in mobile broadband, they will have an excellent opportunity to continue to reap the benefits of continuous productivity improvements and new economic opportunities that simply would not be possible without mobile broadband.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 