Former President Goodluck Jonathan on Friday, June 1, commiserated with the Aboderin family on the death of Wale Aboderin, Chairman of Punch Newspapers. According to him,  the deceased chairman would be sorely missed because of his deep commitment to national development. Aboderin died on Thursday May 31 at a private hospital in Lagos at the age of 60. A statement issued by Dr. Jonathan’s media adviser, Mr. Ikechukwu Eze, said the ex-President also noted that Mr. Aboderin left a legacy of hard work and passion for a just society. “He was a man who invested hugely in the cause of the ordinary people and worked altruistically for public good.  The high value he placed on social capital was evident in the height to which he took Punch; expeditiously repositioning the newspaper as a credible voice for equity, national unity, good governance and democracy.” Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State and his Oyo State counterpart, Senator Abiola Ajimobi   equally expressed sadness over the death. Ambode, in a condolence letter he personally signed and addressed to the Punch Managing Director, Mr Demola Osinubi, described Aboderin’s death as a sad development. “With deep sympathy, the Lagos State Government wishes to condole with the management of the Punch Nigeria Limited and the entire family of the founder, Chief James Olu Aboderin, on the sudden death of the Chairman, Mr Wale Aboderin, on Thursday, May 31, 2018. “The Punch has earned its place as a great medium for the expression of views and dissemination of news and intelligence on account of the high standards of ethics and the vision of its founding partners. “The death of Mr Wale Aboderin is a sad development at a time this media institution can benefit more from his leadership and direction,” he said. Ajimobi, described the deceased chairman as an illustrious son of the state, and a lovable brother and consummate gentleman. The governor expressed sadness that death cut short the dream of the foremost entrepreneur and affable administrator, whose magic wand, he said, had further entrenched the Punch as a dominant force in the newspaper industry. Ajimobi said, “That the Punch newspaper now prints simultaneously in Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt is directly attributable to the business acumen, dexterity and go-getting efforts of my late brother, who toiled day and night to sustain the family’s business legacy.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 