Jalingo – An African adage has it that a shrub cannot make a grass, neither can a grass make a tree. It is also true that a tree cannot make a forest. This saying connotes that a single person cannot achieve much task vis-‘a-vis  when more than one is involved. Thus achieving a goal requires a degree of collectivity, this assertion  is more pronounce in Leadership. A leader cannot do it alone to make impact in governance. He needs the supports, assistance and co-operation of others. Governor  Darius Dickson Ishaku of Taraba State, no doubt, has achieved a lot in his three years  as the Governor of the state  because of the  support and cooperation he is receiving  from his deputy, Eng Haruna Manu. For instance, Jalingo , the State Capital, which looks like  a village before the Ishaku’s administration  is now  competing with other State Capitals as a modern City. The network of roads, the solar energy electrification punctuated by street  lights, the gigantic and state of the Art  Green House project  sited in between the state University and the College  of Agriculture Jalingo and others  too numerous to mention have made the state capital an envy of others in terms of development and growth. To say that the state capital is growing on a fast lane is stating the obvious. The facelift so far given to the state capital is such that those who knew it before 2015  cannot recognise it now. No wonder when the Governor and his Deputy, Eng Haruna Manu indicated interest to contest in the April 2015 general election, that the electorates gave them their votes with the conviction  that as an Architect and Engineer, they  have what it takes to transform the state, which they proved to Tarabans that they  both worth their salts and the people of the state are now happy and  counting their blessings. It is a matter of fact that the Deputy Governor, Engr Haruna Manu is Loyal to Him to the core. The impressive Land mark in the state can also be traceable  to this Loyalty because unlike in some States where the Governors  and their Deputies are usually at cold war, the same cannot be said of Taraba state, the relationship between the Governor and the Deputy is said  to be cordial, thus the myriads of achievements that have been recorded in the state. While Governor Darius is from Takum Local Government Area of the Taraba Southern  Senatorial  Zone, the Deputy  is from  Gassol Local Government Area of the Central Taraba Senatorial  district. Our Correspondent reports that since the creation of the state in August 1991, this is the first term that the Southern Zone has produced a Governor,  that the Northern  Senatorial  Zone  produced the former two terms Governor in person of Rev Jolly Nyame from 1999-2007 and   handed over to  Late Pharm Danbaba Danfulani Suntai of Bali Local Government area of Taraba Central Senatorial  zone, Suntai who assumed  office as the Governor of the state from April/2007-October 2012 when he was involved in a plane clash on  his way to Yola, the Adamawa state capital and his then Deputy Alh.  Garba Umar  (UTC) was sworn-inn as the Acting Governor and later on sacked by the supreme court in Abuja and his impeached Deputy Alh. Danladi Sani Abubakar  (Contact) was reinstated by the supreme court that sacked Garba Umar which Sani acted for six months until he transmitted power to the Darius/Manu led administration. Our investigation revealed that before the ban on political parties was lifted, many people had wanted the Deputy Governor to also gun for the governorship race or Senatorship race come 2019 but he refused to do so because he still remain Loyal to his Boss. It was against this background that despite pressure from other people to Darius to drop him and pick another running mate in the forthcoming general election he refused to listen to his antagonists. It was gathered that Ishaku was disposed to working with Manu as his Deputy because he has found him a worthy ally to work with. A source close to Government House confided in our correspondent that both the Governor and the Deputy had never dis agreed on any issue unlike some other Governors   who are normally in disagreement with their Deputies to the effect that the Deputy will want to seek for the same  post with their governors and where it is not possible, they decamp to other parties. But the case of the duo has been that of partners in progress without one antagonizing the other. Unlike in other state where Governors sees their Deputies as spare tyres, the case of Darius and Manu is said to be a different ball game because both of them have mutual understanding  existing between them in the course of duty. The Governor is said to be  carrying along his Deputy in the running of his government thereby giving him a sense of pride and belonging  as a Deputy of a state. It was also gathered that in many assignment usually given to him to carry out on behalf of the governor,  were normally  done well to  the satisfaction of the governor, hence he does not want to part ways  with him in a bid to take the state to the next level in the next tenure, to this end, the Governor is well pleased with his Deputy. Tarabans are looking forward to a sustained cordial relationship between the duo. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 