Smuggling of parboiled rice from across the borders, mainly Benin Republic, is creating a major disaster for the rice industry in Nigeria as well as upsetting the country’s economy, Sunday INDEPENDENT investigations and interactions with stakeholders have shown. What is utmost concern to Nigerian government is the rising rate of importation of parboiled rice from Thailand, particularly to Benin Republic of less than 12 million people compared to Nigeria which has been experiencing reduction due to intensification of production of local rice through the Central Bank of Nigeria’s anchor borrowers’ programme. A visit to the borders witnessed a beehive of activities with all manner of products, but, largely rice as the security agencies make brisk business from the illegal operation. This may have prompted recent pronouncement by Audu Ogbeh, Agriculture and Rural Development minister to the effect that government will shut the land border between it and a neigbouring country in a few days time to avoid smuggling of foreign rice into the country. Ogbeh, who did not mention the particular country and border, said that shutting the borders had become necessary to encourage local production and sustain the economy of the country. The minister said that a neighbouring country was bent on destroying the economy of the country and discouraging local production of rice, hence the need to shut down the border. “Our other problem is smuggling.  As we speak, a neighbour of ours is importing more rice than China is importing. They do not eat parboiled rice, they eat white rice, they use their ports to try and damage our economy. I am telling you now because in a few days, you will hear the border has been shut, we are going to shut it to protect you, us and protect our economy,” Ogbeh said. However, Sunday INDEPENDENT gathered at the weekend that the minister is yet to come out with a policy action weeks after the pronouncement, a development that is causing anxiety among stakeholders. Although some stakeholders view the proposed action as a failure on the part of government to properly man its borders or control the security agencies, Aminu Goronyo, National President of Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) has commended the Federal Government on the move stating that it is a welcome development which is appreciated by Nigerians especially rice farmers in the country. But, these developments seem to have reduced the efficacy of the policy as foreign rice still dominates the market. For instance, Benin imported 1,647,387 metric tonnes of rice from Thailand in 2017 alone. Further investigations showed that Thailand’s import of rice to Benin has been steadily on the increase, 805,765MT in 2015, and 1,427,098MT in 2016, while official import from Thailand into Nigeria was steadily declining. Nigeria has an estimated 189 million people while the population of Republic of Benin is about 11 million people. In 2014, 1,239,810MT was imported into Nigeria. It declined to 644,131MT in 2015, and to 58,260MT in 2016, reaching an all-time low of 23,197MT in 2017 and if this trajectory remains on a downward path, Nigeria may not be importing rice by 2020. According to some analysts, the flow of rice imported from major Asian origins to Benin for onward shipment to Nigeria is a factor that should not be ignored in the regional rice trade in West Africa. Also, the ECOWAS data indicates that over half of the rice Benin imports is sold into the Nigerian market. Port of Cotonou statistics show about 2.4 million metric tons (MMT) of cereals arriving at the port in 2014, over half of which is rice. USDA data show about 700,000 MT of net rice and wheat imports, coming under lower duties, another reason for the large volumes of cereals transited through Benin, and made easier than in Nigerian corridors out of Lagos. Rice is by far the most important commodity for the Benin Food Importers Association. However, what should be of most concern is the fact that Nigeria consumes parboiled rice exclusively, while Benin prefers white rice. Rice consumption in Nigeria is almost entirely of parboiled rice. In West Africa, only Nigeria consumes parboiled rice. Other West African countries including all the neighboring countries to Nigeria (Niger, Benin, Cameroon, Chad) are not consumers of parboiled rice. In Africa, only South Africa is the other major country that consumes parboiled rice. Consequently, some analysts believe that these shipments of parboiled rice from India and Thailand into Lome, Cotonou and Douala ports is a very fair estimate of smuggled rice into Nigeria as none of these countries have internal consumption of parboiled rice. David Cowan, Citibank, African Economist, in a recent publication, Nigeria Heads To The 2019 Elections What Kind Of Economic Recovery Should We Expect, observed that the growth seen in second half of 2017 would gain momentum in 2018 and into 2019, adding that “the recovery will however be constrained by, politics and lack of real progress with reform – both policy and structural – until after the February 2019 elections.” Continuing, Cowan said, “On the one hand, business confidence has returned and the performance of the agricultural sector remains positive. But there are still quite a variety of different estimates for growth in 2018. One problem is that while we remain positive about the agricultural sector maintaining its current growth rates going forward as import substituting production continues to pick up, we have some words of warning: There is still a need for more investment in medium to large scale agricultural projects which seems lacking; The geographical impact of the upturn in the agricultural sector is somewhat uneven; And the imports are still competitive.” However, some stakeholders have faulted government’s banning of borders as panacea to sustenance of local firms producing rice. Emeka Okereke, Director General, Enugu Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ECCIMA) wondered the sustainability of the action as it may also be at variance with ECOWAS protocol. “As patriotic as the intention is to encourage local production, this will rather compound our problems when we cannot for now satisfy the huge demand gap. I think that this will even encourage sharper practices and induce more institutional defects. As good as the intentions are, more pragmatic steps are required rather than this quick to fix action.” Adeola Elliott, former Chairman, Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) Agric and Agro Allied Group has faulted the language of some of the minister, adding, “One expects intelligent manager to initiate solutions to problems not to close shop completely because of operational challenge. If Ogbeh closes the border because of rice smuggling, then all agencies operating at the borders will become redundant and join the league of unemployed people.” Wale Oyekoya, Chief Executive Officer of Bama Foods,  sees this as another political statement because, according to him, there is an existing  law and policy that prohibit this current summersault policy. “It’s not necessary for the government to shut the borders instead, the government agencies along the borders such as Nigeria Custom Service, immigration and border patrol need to do their jobs and stop the bribery and corruption that is killing our economy and nation,” Oyekoya said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 