There is no doubt that President Muhammadu Buhari is not one of the typical deceitful politicians or leaders dotting the crowded political landscape. Also, many seem not to doubt his ardent desire to rid corruption-ridden Nigeria of the cancerous menace that has, over the years, eaten deep into the fabric of the nation. However, what many Nigerians with discerning minds doubt is whether those in the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) associating or working with the 76-year-old president have since May 29, 2015, ever been on government’s same page with him on the orchestrated anti-corruption crusade. There is an age-long adage that says a single tree cannot make a forest. Some even say that in the round leather game popularly known as football, woe betides a coach that foolishly builds his team around a particular footballer. From experience, imminent colossal defeat awaits such a team as it would be in disarray if anything untoward happens to the “indispensable footballer”. One of the shortcomings of the anti-corruption fight is that in spite of existence of anti-corruption agencies, success or failure of the exercise has been largely built around President Buhari, who is erroneously being perceived by the opposition and even some APC leaders, as the only person fighting corruption. Some are even not convinced that the president’s administration is seriously fighting corruption because, according to them, the war is one-sided and is yet to be extended to alleged looters in APC. When the president was crisis-crossing the country in 2014 for support, he promised that if elected, his administration’s three-pronged programme would be corruption, economy and insecurity. Since his government marked its third anniversary on May 29, 2018, mixed reactions have been trailing performance of his administration in these specific areas. The way the government utilises the next eight months will largely determine the fate of the president and his party in the decisive elections commencing in February 2019. Although the president is determined to ensure success of the anti-corruption war, I am not sure he knows there are man-made factors militating against efforts of his government. This is why corruption is ferociously fighting back. Nigerians, irrespective of political, religious or ethnic affiliations, see the enormous damages graft has inflicted on our national life and want looted funds recovered and those involved, punished to serve as a deterrent. However, there is a clique comprising influential individuals that have amassed a lot of ill-gotten wealth and in conjunction with their gullible sympathizers, will go to any extent to ensure failure of the anti-graft war. Speaking recently in Abuja at opening of the Headquarters of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), President Buhari had disclosed that his short-lived military regime was overthrown in 1985 for fighting corruption by General Ibrahim Babangida. His regime had on December 31, 1983, sacked President Shehu Shagari who led four-year old civilian administration from office thereby truncating another democratic dispensation in Nigeria’s history. Recalling his sad experience, he said “My last time to fight corruption, corruption fought back successfully”. I was removed and detained for three years. I was in detention when my mother died. I was only released when she died but that did not deter me. In spite of that, my objective of fighting corruption remains steadfast”. Which was why since he came into office in 2015 as civilian president, he has repeatedly assured that his administration is unwaveringly committed to corruption war. If in the past, military rulers that referred to themselves as “corrective” could leave office more corrupt than politicians they overthrew, was there justification for the military to have overthrown Buhari in August 1985? If Buhari and by extension, his deputy, late Major-General Babatunde Idiagbon, were overthrown in a bloodless coup for fighting corruption AS claimed by Buhari, was it that Babangida and his men were dissatisfied with the way graft was being fought then? And of course, having been in office for eight years, did corruption not assume monstrous dimension under IBB as being perceived in certain quarters? The period the military was at the helm of affairs, spanning about 38 years, was not to tackle corruption but essentially to pursue their inordinate selfish ambitions. Ironically, Buhari seems not to be learning from history. Having been overthrown as military head of state by his professional colleagues 33 years ago, for fighting corruption as he claimed, now as civilian Head of State, some chieftains of APC, who, ordinarily, are expected to support him, are singing discordant tunes over his administration’s anti-corruption crusade. This is worrisome! At the commissioning of EFCC’s headquarters on May 15, 2018 in the presence of important dignitaries, including Commonwealth Secretary-General, Baroness Patricia Scotland and former South African President, Thabo Mbeki, Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, as if he earlier had grudge against President Buhari, said it was wrong for the president to lay claim to being the only upright man in Nigeria. He added that though the president is known internationally to be corruption-free, he is not the only corruption-free person in the country since, according to him, there are millions of Nigerians that have not bowed their knees to god of corruption. Dogara should stop misinforming the public as there was no time Buhari claimed he is the only person of proven integrity in Nigeria that is battling corruption. Why do our leaders, especially elective office holders, have delight in washing their dirty linens in public, thereby portraying the country and its pauperised citizenry in bad light before the global community? I never imagined that Nigeria’s No. 4 citizen could utter this profoundly ridiculous statement at an event attended by eminent foreign personalities. If he had nothing new to say he should have kept quiet. He is just a typical example of APC leaders that do not feel comfortable whenever Buhari is commended for the way the anti-corruption war is being pursued.  In spite of its identified shortcomings, are the members of the governing party not supposed to take up the crusade as a collective responsibility instead of seeing it as solely that of the president? Is the war against corruption president’s programme or that of APC which all those in authority at various levels should key into to ensure its success? Is it not a shame that almost three years since the president sent a bill to National Assembly to be passed into law so as to give the anti-graft war more teeth, it has been gathering dust on their shelves? Rather than use that occasion to tackle the president publicly, as he did unashamedly, Dogara ought to have let the gathering know how far NASS has gone with the president’s earlier request for them to review the growing list of archaic laws inhibiting seamless prosecution of looters and prompt passage of new laws to effectively fight corruption. By now, the president should realise that as long as APC, as well as those in the Executive, Legislature and Judiciary are not on the same page with him, the anti-corruption crusade will not achieve desired result. By the way, when will Nigerian leaders attain political puberty to enable them discharge their duties responsibly and patriotically? 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 