He said: “You bring the Director-General of NCAA, who is a regulator of the industry to be part of establishing an airline. So, you are now telling me that you want to be a judge in your own matter. You are bringing all the agencies heads to be part of the committee for that purpose. Is that how taxpayer money is being used to form a committee, set up for the purpose of a national carrier when you are saying that it’s going to be private sector driven? “The government appointed Transaction Advisers, we were expecting that the Transaction Advisers would set up the framework of how this is going to be achieved before we comment, but the minister jumped the gun by saying 24 December, we will have a national carrier in which case it means there are things that have not been communicated to us that they know and we do not know. Iyayi, however, said that the government could set up a new national carrier for the country, but requested for a level playing field and transparency in the entire exercise. “The national carrier issue for us, we are asking the government to explain how it intends to achieve the purpose and we are also asking for the transparency the government offered because if it is going to be transparent, we ought to by now have the framework by which it is going to be set up, which we don’t have,” he added. Also,  Barr. Allen Onyema, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Air Peace, wondered why the government was using public apparatus for a private venture. He explained that steps taken so far by the government indicated that there was an imbalance in the whole exercise, stressing that investors in the carrier were not known to anyone in the sector. “If we are saying it is going to be private sector driven, why are we using the apparatus of government for a private airline to come on stream? This is an aberration. Is it a national carrier being run by the government or you are running a private sector? If it is a private sector, why are you using the apparatus of the government to set it up? “Already, the government is creating an imbalance in the system. Are the investors Nigerians or foreigners? If they are foreigners, what is the percentage of their ownership of our commonwealth because they are going to ravage our foreign reserve to the benefit of their countries, so, what is their percentage? He queried. Grp. Capt. John Ojikutu, in an interview with our correspondent advised that for Nigeria to have a national carrier, the shareholding for technical investors and partners should not be above 40 percent while credible Nigerian investors should have a maximum of 20 percent in the carrier. He added that Federal and State Governments investments in such a carrier should not exceed 10 percent while the Nigerian public through the stock market could have the other 30 percent. He maintained that at any time the foreign technical investors wanted to divest from the airline, their shares must be sold through the stock market, stressing that anything short of this could not be called a national carrier that Nigerians would be proud of. Also, Capt. Nogie Meggison, Chairman of AON, said that the body was at a loss to the need of a national carrier at this point in time in the history of the nation. He insisted that the body was not averse to the government providing a conducive operating business environment and a level playing field for the establishment of a private sector driven flag carrier, but said the idea of using taxpayers’ money to float the airline in 2018 was counter-productive and inimical to the overall interests of the present crops of private entrepreneurs. He insisted that national carrier could only result in a huge distortion to the current market and would be a huge drainpipe to government’s treasury. He urged the government to provide clarity on the agenda of the airline. He added: “Is it for job creation or for profit? Also, we need to know the steps being taken in the establishment of this national carrier, especially when viewed against the background that Sirika had indicated that this airline will commence operations on December 24, 2018. “Moreover, this model is no longer practicable worldwide as, in the ’70s, 80 percent of the airlines in Europe were government-owned airlines. Today 98 percent of the airlines have been privatised.” Besides, Abdulrasaq Saidu, the General Secretary of Association of Nigerian Aviation Workers (ANAP) insisted that the plan of the government to re-establish a new national carrier for the country by December would fail. Saidu insisted that the plan was impossible and not feasible, stressing that the government was playing politics and there was no sign of seriousness from the government. He also noted that there was no how a new national carrier would be floated without the government paying the severance packages of the former national carrier, Nigeria Airways. “They are playing politics, to form a national carrier is not one day. You need technical partners. Are they going to take over Arik? They cheaply sold Nigeria Airways, which we don’t know how much it was sold for and you want to float a national carrier. The airline was wrongly liquidated. I challenge them. Nothing is working in the aviation industry today. “I challenge them to come out with facts on the proposed national airline and let us see how they will run it. They are chasing shadow without paying Nigeria Airways workers. First, they can’t succeed without telling us how Nigeria Airways was sold. “National carrier is not a motor park issue, it’s not something you just bring an aircraft and start flying; they need personnel to be trained. December is at hand but there is nothing on ground to suggest that national carrier is coming up.” Besides, Capt. Yunusa Kazaure, the former pilot with Nigeria Airways doubted the commitment of the government to the re-establishment of a new national carrier for Nigeria. Kazaure, in an interview with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT insisted that for the government to set up a new national carrier for the country, it should not be more than nine months and wondered why the government was yet to do so almost three years later. Kazaure declared that from all indications, the government lacked the will to set up a new national airline for Nigeria, stressing that the engagement of transaction advisers by the government was a wrong step, which would not achieve its desired results. He explained that to have a dominating national carrier, Nigeria would require at least three to four long-range aircraft in the class of Boeing 767, 777, Airbus 380 aircraft and others. He said the aircraft could operate into United States, Dubai, United Kingdom, South Africa and some other long haul cities, but insisted that this would not also make it compete with the established carriers on the continent like the Ethiopian Airlines, Kenya Airways and even South African Airways. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 