LAGOS – The Lagos State government on Saturday demolished over 500 shanties and illegal structures within and outside the Oko-Oba abattoir and Lairage Complex in Agege area of Lagos State as part of efforts to ensure adequate upgrading and transformation of the complex for improved operations. Oluwatoyin Suarau, the State’s Commissioner for Agriculture, disclosed this while reviewing report of the demolition carried out by officials of the state Ministry of Agriculture in collaboration with the Ministry of Environment, Lagos State Environment and Special Offences Enforcement Unit, Department of State Security and Operation MESA. He said that the clean-up exercise included all shanties and illegal structures inside the abattoir and along Fagba-Railway section of the abattoir complex. According to him, the government’s motive for carrying out the clean-up exercise was to improve the hygienic condition of the complex and ensure best practices in the red meat value chain and not to witch-hunt anyone. He said: “I want us all to see this exercise as a positive development in the red meat value chain and not as government’s instrument to disrupt activities at the complex. “Rehabilitation of the facilities at the Oko-oba abattoir is to ensure that operations at the complex meets international standard.” While restating the government’s commitment to ensuring best practices in the red meat value chain, he stressed that the clean-up exercise and the completion of various projects within the complex would be of great benefits to stakeholders in the complex and to Lagosians, adding that it would ensure wholesomeness in production, processing and consumption of meat in the red meat value chain. The commissioner stated that the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode administration had put in place and implementing planned policies and programmes aimed at changing the face of abattoirs and slaughter slabs across the state. He explained that completion of projects at the Oko-Oba abattoir complex would result in an upgraded abattoir equipped with a standard clinic to take care of people and other emergencies in the complex. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 