After reciting the Tashahhud, Ta’wwuz, and Surah Al-Fatihah, Hazrat Khalifatul Masih V (aba) stated: Hazrat Ukasha bin Mihsan was a companion of the Holy Prophet (sa). Hazrat Ukasha bin Mihsan is counted among the most senior Companions. On the occasion of the Battle of Badr, he joined as a cavalier and also broke his sword. Upon this, the Messenger of Allah (sa) handed him a piece of wood, which, in his hand, became as if it was a very sharp sword, made of high-quality iron. Thus, he fought with that until Allah the Exalted granted victory. Later, he joined the Holy Prophet (sa) in all the other military campaigns using the same sword. That wooden sword remained with him till he passed away. The sword was called ‘Aun. The Holy Prophet (sa) gave him the glad tiding, ‘You will enter Paradise without any reckoning.’ At the occasion of the Battle of Badr, the Holy Prophet (sa) referred to him as the best cavalier of Arabia. It is narrated by Hazrat Abu Hurairah (ra) that, “I heard Allah’s Messenger (sa) saying, ‘From among my followers, a party of seventy thousand will enter Paradise, whose faces will glisten like the full moon.’” Hazrat Abu Hurairah (ra) narrates that, “On hearing that, Ukasha bin Mihsan stood up, and lifting his covering sheet he said, ‘O Allah’s Messenger (sa)! Pray that may Allah make me one of them.’ The Holy Prophet (sa) prayed, ‘O Allah! Make him from among them.’ Another man from the Ansar (Muslims native to Medina) stood up and said, ‘O Messenger of Allah (sa)! Pray so that Allah makes me one of them also. ‘The Holy Prophet (sa) replied (Arabic), meaning ‘Ukasha has succeeded ahead of you in this regard.’” Hazrat Mirza Bashir Ahmad Sahib (ra) has written a very beautiful commentary on this and has analysed the incident. He writes that, this incidence contains a treasure chest full of spiritual insights. Firstly, we learn from it that Allah the Exalted has blessed the ummah with the spiritual blessings of the Holy Prophet (sa), so that a large number of them will attain a very high spiritual status. Secondly, the Holy Prophet (sa) was granted such nearness to Allah the Exalted that God immediately responded to his supplication about Ukasha. Thirdly, from this incident showed that the Holy Prophet (sa) desired to invigorate the sense of striving (for the cause of Allah) to whole of his Ummah and declined to pray individually. Fourthly, the Holy Prophet (sa) did not decline in a manner which would upset and hurt the feelings of the Ansari making this request. Rather, he declined in a most subtle manner. Huzoor (aba) narrated a long faith-inspiring incidence that how Ukasha bin Mihsan expressed his dedication and commitment to the Holy Prophet (sa) and sought Allah’s forgiveness and pardon, at which the Holy Prophet (sa) addressed everyone and said: “Whoever desires to see my companion in paradise should look at this old gentleman.” Hence all the Muslims stood up and began kissing the forehead of Hazrat ‘Ukasha (ra) and congratulated him for he had attained a high status and friendship of the Holy Prophet (sa). Ukasha bin Mihsan was martyred during the Khilafat of Hazrat Abu Bakr (ra) and was buried in same blood-stained clothes they were martyred in. This incident took place on 12 Hijri. Hazrat Kharjah bin Zaid (ra) was one of the Companions of the Holy Prophet (sa). His daughter, Hazrat Habibah bint Kharjah was married to Hazrat Abu Bakr (ra) and was the mother of Hazrat Umme Kulthum. The Holy Prophet (sa) established brotherhood between Hazrat Kharjah bin Zaid (ra) and Hazrat Abu Bakr (ra). He was a chief from among his tribe and was considered amongst the noble companions. He had taken the oath of allegiance in ‘Uqbah. After migrating to Medina, Hazrat Abu Bakr (ra) had stayed at his house. He took part in the Battle of Badr and during the battle of Uhud he attained the status of martyrdom whilst fighting with immense bravery and valour. Hazrat Kharjah (ra) and Hazrat Sa’ad bin Rabee’ – who was the cousin of the Holy Prophet (sa) – were buried in the same grave. Hazrat Kharjah (ra) had two children out of which one was Zaid bin Kharjah who passed away during the Khilafat of Hazrat Uthman (ra). Hazrat Kharjah’s second child was Hazrat Habibah bint Kharjah who was married to Hazrat Abu Bakr (ra). At the time of the demise of Hazrat Abu Bakr, she was expecting. Hazrat Abu Bakr (ra) had mentioned “I am expecting a daughter from her” and thus she gave birth to a baby girl. Another Companion of the Holy Prophet (sa) was Hazrat Ziyad bin Labeed. He accepted Islam during second pledge of Aqabah along with 70 Companions. In Muharram of 9th Hijri, the Holy Prophet (sa) appointed different collectors for Sadaqah and Zakat so Hazrat Ziyad was appointed the collector for the area of Ḥaḍhramaut. He continued his service there till the time of Hazrat Umar’s (ra) Khilafat. After being relieved of his duty he moved to Kufa and passed away there at the age of 41. Another Companion of the Holy Prophet (sa) was Mu’attib bin Ubaid. He had no offspring so his nephew Usair bin ‘Urwah was his sole inheritor. Hazrat Mu’attib bin Ubaid participated in the Battle of Badr and the Battle of Uhud and was martyred on the day of Rajee’. The incident of Rajee’ is that in which ten Companions were martyred. Some people from the tribes of ‘Azal and Qarah approached the Holy Prophet (sa) requesting some help to preach to people, who were inclined towards Islam. The Holy Prophet (sa) sent a party of ten Companions. However, as it was later discovered that these people were lying and had come to Medina due to the instigation of Banu Lihyan, who had plotted to take revenge on the killing of their chief Sufyan bin Khalid. Banu Lihyan had promised the tribes of ‘Azal and Qarah many camels in reward for doing this. When these treacherous people of ‘Azal and Qarah reached between Asfan and Mecca they discreetly sent a message to the Banu Lihyan that the Muslims are accompanying them, so they should come forth. Two hundred young men of Banu Lihyan, among whom were one hundred archers departed in pursuit of the Muslims and seized them in Rajee’. Rajee’ is the name of a place. Ten people could not stand up to two hundred soldiers. All these Companions were brutally martyred. Another companion was Hazrat Khalid bin Bukair (ra), who was a Badri companion (those who took part in the Battle of Badr). Hazrat Khalid bin Bukair, Aaqil, Hazrat Amir and Hazrat Ayaas all accepted Islam in Dar-e-Arqam. All four brothers were the first to accept Islam in Dar-e-Arqam. The Holy Prophet (sa) established a bond of brotherhood between Hazrat Khalid bin Bukair (ra) and Hazrat Zaid bin Dasna. He took part in the Battle of Badr and the Battle of Uhad. Hazrat Khalid bin Bukair (ra) was among those who were martyred in the incident that took place in Rajee which has been mentioned earlier in which ten Muslims were deceived and killed. The Promised Messiah (as) writes in one of his books, “We are ever grateful to God Almighty, Who bestows great favours upon us and removes our sorrows. We send salutations of peace upon His Prophet (sa), who is the leader of the Jinn and men, and leads the pure hearted towards the heavenly gardens. May peace be upon his Companions, who rushed as if intensely thirsty towards the fountain of faith, and in the abyss of darkness they were enlightened with the excellence of knowledge and morals.” In another place, the Promised Messiah (as) states regarding the Companions (ra): “They were like lions on the earth in the day and hermits in the night and serve as shinning stars of the faith. (By being like hermits in the night means that they spent their nights in worship). They all are the recipients of God’s pleasure.” May God Almighty enable us to improve our intellectual and moral conditions and also the standards of worship at night. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 