Frank Aigbogun, publisher of BusinessDay has  tasked Nigerians to hold politicians aspiring to take the driver’s seats in  2019 on realization of effective  road map for the power sector. Aigbogun,who spoke  at the round table power sector discussion hosted by Sahara group in Lagos,said the development was necessary in order to ensure that the sector creates enabling environment for the nation’s economy to thrive. He also picked holes ey stakeholders in the power sector seem to have different opinions as what constitutes the major challenges in the sector. Speaking,the  chief executive of Sahara Group, Kola Adesina, lamented that the stunted growth of the power sector was  due to the   non-cost effective  tariff structure. Adesina,who said  since the takeover of Egbin power plant,his company  has injected over $400 million to return the plant to installed capacity of 1,200 Megawatts, however regretted that lack of ability of Distribution Companies, Discos to pay for electricity supplied and load rejections compelled the facility to drop generation between 600 to 800 Megawatts. Lagos state Commissioner for Energy, Mr. Olawale Oluwo,observed that technical losses due to infrastructure inadequacies pose  serious challenges because power distribution companies are rejecting load and  not also generating enough revenue to support their operations. He  explained that due to the inefficiencies, the state government has embarked on an ambitious power project that will bring about energy security for the State. The Commissioner said the Power Reform Programme of the government which is the Embedded Power Project will take off in July 2018. Dr. Eugene Edeoga, head procurement of the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading (NBET) Plc, who faulted  the position of  some of the stakeholders that present tariff regime is the bane of the industry,advised the power distribution companies  to look inward and improve on the efficiency and stop blaming their inadequacies to tariff. He argued that if the Discos have adequately metered customers they would be in a position to pay for power supplied to them. He said if the tariff is reviewed upward as they are canvassing, those on estimated billing would not be paying as much as they are currently billed. In his remarks, Mr. Ayigbe Olotu, group finance officer of Sahara group, said the total amount owed Gencos for electricity supplied is approximately N800bn, but when interest is added, it amounted to over N1trillion. Olotu said that  monthly  the about N30 billion is added to the bill, adding that most of the projects in the sector are not bankable and lenders and the industry can no longer pass credit review of financial institutions. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 