The Edo State House of Assembly on Monday constituted a five-man Ad Hoc Committee to investigate Victor Edoror, the Deputy Speaker, over allegations of breach of legislative powers. Hon. Kabiru Adjoto, the Speaker, who constituted the committee at plenary, said the deputy speaker was being accused of divulging an official secret to the public. Adjoto explained that the obvious thing to do was to investigate the allegations, saying that they were weighty and capable of bringing the house to disrepute. He named members of the committee to include Messrs Nosayaba Okunbor, (APC Orhionmwon East) who would serve as the chairman, Victor Asein (APC Owan West) and Osaigbovo Iyoha (APC Orhionmwon Oredo East). Others are Mr. Festus Edughele (APC Esan South-East) and Mr. Patrick Iruobe, member representing PDP Esan North East 1. The Speaker said that the committee has up to June 27 to submit its report. Meanwhile, the house has adopted a business calendar of 65 days for the first quarter of the fourth session of the Sixth Assembly. The motion to adopt the business calendar was moved by the Majority Leader, Roland Asoro, member representing (APC Orhionmwon South) and seconded by the Chief Whip, Iyoha (APC Oredo East). Ovre-Eku Community President Hail Abraka Monarch, Others Over Edo/Delta Boundary Dispute Chief Joseph Ukueku, President General of the Ovre-Eku Community, has commended Air Vice-Marshal Lucky Ochuko Ararile (rtd.), the Avwaeke I, Ovie of Umiaghwa-Abraka Kingdom in Ethiope East Local Government Area of Delta State; Chief (Mrs.) Faith Majemite, Chairman, Ethiope East LGA and Hon. Evans Ivwurie, Member, Delta State House of Assembly for their interest in addressing the sufferings of the those affected by the raging crisis between Edo and Delta states over the boundary dispute. Chief Ukueku noted that commendation became necessary for them to do more and for others to emulate them in the fight against injustice. He expressed concern over what he described as “lukewarm attitude” of other traditional rulers along the bank of River Ethiope over the plight of the people for not stopping PRESCO from the forceful acquisition of their heritage. “Our Traditional rulers should not wait until PRESCO succeed chasing us away from our traditional heritage through the forceful and embarrassing acquisition of our land. “All the kings with communities along the bank of River Ethiope, starting from Igun, Eku Abraka, Obiaroko and Umutu should come to our aid because the boundary as known to us that brought peace and harmony before the arrival of PRESCO is along Ecowa Estate, Sakpoba, Jackson line and Usiomo River. They are all in Benin and not in Delta,” he stated. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 