Like him or loathe him, any poll conducted now to determine the popularity of President Muhamadu Buhari in the south west in particular and Nigeria as a whole would reveal an uptick from the level it could have been before the announcement of adoption of June 12,1993 Democracy Day. That’s the positive fall out of the presidential pronouncement that late chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola is the winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, annulled by then military head of state, Ibrahim Babangida, IBB, 25 years ago. For the first time since the emergence of president Buhari and the ruling party, APC in the centre stage, practically all Nigerians of all political persuasions, creed and religion are in total agreement with president Buhari’s action of recognising MKO Abiola as a president that was robbed of the opportunity via the annulment of his election and adopting June 12, the day the election was held as democracy day. Owing to the overwhelming approval and endorsement of the decision by a vast majority of Nigerians, Aso Rock must still be agog with chest thumping and back slapping advisers for that incredible accomplishment. Barely one month ago, l had written and published an article titled “Who Is Advising President Buhari and Who Is He Listening To?” In that piece, l wondered aloud how Mr president’s policies were being formulated and cited a couple of policies by the establishment, of which one was pragmatic and the other uninspiring and as such a sort of albatross. To put things in context, allow me reproduce a copious portion of that article which goes thus: “In the light of the aforementioned change in mindset which clearly attests to some concessions that Mr. President made after a superior argument or reasoning was presented to him, what informed his decision not to reward the party faithful that helped him finally clinch power after three futile attempts in 2003, 2007, 2011? The bile stemming from that indiscretion is now in the public realm via a public letter written by nPDP, the renegade members of the former ruling party, PDP that helped Buhari snatch power in 2015. Their gripe is that they have been left in the lurch after president Buhari took residence in Aso Rock villa through their collective effort. In order words Mr President is being accused of being unfair in his decision to not share the ‘spoils of war’ with the political generals, who fought shoulder-to-shoulder with him in the battle to evict Goodluck Jonathan and PDP from Aso Rock villa. Whoever is or are advising Mr President in that aspect is/are certainly derelict in that duty and are guilty of causing Mr President the avoidable stress and the APC the turmoil that’s on the verge of consuming the ruling party. How about the decision to go against the unwritten principle of appointing heads of the armed forces and other security agencies from across the broad spectrum of all the political zones in Nigeria as practiced even by the military which is autocratic by nature? As it is now constituted, except for the chief of defence staff and chief of Naval staff, all the heads of the military and security agencies from chief of army staff, chief of air staff, director general of the state security service, inspector general of police and director general of Nigerian intelligence agency, chairman of economic and financial crimes commission, EFCC, are from the northern part of Nigeria and all of them are practicing Muslims. In a country that regards itself as circular, it’s against natural justice”. To be candid, when l made the foregoing assertions, l had no inkling that the nation was on the cusp of a policy tsunami that has the capacity to mend the political chasm that was created by the annulment of MKO Abiola’s presidential victory 25 years ago. I’m convinced that in more ways than one, the political reconciliation that president Buhari’s proclamation of June 12 as the new democracy day and honouring MKO Abiola with the award of the Grand Commander of The Order of The Niger, GCFR, (the highest honour of the land) ushered into the polity is comparable to the positive effect that the Truth & Reconciliation policy of late leadership icon, Nelson Mandela, had on South Africans, after the apartheid regime was ousted. The above conclusion is derived from the fact that the injustice done to black South Africans via apartheid perpetrated in the form of white minority oppression of black majority population is, in many ways, akin to the annulment of MKO Abiola’s election as the president of Nigeria on June 12, 1993 by the military class. The assertion above is justified by the fact that the annulment of MKO Abiola’s election was a manifestation of military tyranny over Nigerians, who were denied their choice of a president which they freely expressed through the ballot box. This is more so as that election has been adjudged to be the freest and fairest in the annals of Nigerian politics. Apart from waking up MKO Abiola’s ghost via the honour accorded him by president Buhari’s official recognition of June 12, there is also a striking addition to it. Although by nature soldiers hardly apologize, on June 12th, 2018, the very stern and seemingly unbending president Buhari apologised on behalf of Nigerians to Abiola family for the injustice done to their patriarch. At that point, the soft side of Buhari which he had masked as a military head of state in the mid 1980s and in the past three years of calling the shots in Aso Rock villa was revealed and, to say the least, it was quite stunning as it represents a sea change. In the run up to the 2015 general elections, l wrote a widely published opinion article titled “When A Public Mistake Requires An Old Fashioned Apology” in which l had argued that the two main candidates for the president, then retired army general Buhari and incumbent President, Goodluck Jonathan, were under obligation to apologise to Nigerians for their leadership mistakes or indiscretions as public officers. But none of them heeded my advice. Nonetheless, it came to pass that the challenger, Buhari, went on to defeat the incumbent president, Goodluck Jonathan. Again, at this juncture, it is apropos to put my analysis in proper perspective by reproducing an excerpt from that article: “…It is based on the foregoing that the HBR article “When A Public Mistake Requires An Old Fashioned Apology” is very poignant and relevant to our current situation in Nigeria, as it discusses public mistakes by leaders and how they can control the damage to regain respect. Incidentally, both Jonathan and Buhari have had the rare opportunity of ruling Nigeria at different times-Buhari as military head of state, some thirty years ago and Jonathan as the sitting democratic president. In the course of leading Nigeria, both men must have made mistakes, which are obviously hunting them especially in this period of campaign for election as president. Onyibe, a development Strategist and former Commissioner in Delta State, wrote in from Lagos. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 