OGHARA – Oghara Youth Association (OYA) has unanimously endorsed Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to be returned as Governor and Hon. Ben Igbakpa as a member representing Ethiope Federal Constituency in the forthcoming 2019 general election. The coalition of supporters, under the umbrella of Ben Igbakpa Political Forum (BIPOF) ably led by Comrade Favour Ededey, made their position known at the weekend in Oghara, Ethiope West Local Government during a rally. The confidence which was unanimously reposed on the Governor and Igbakpa, leading House of Representatives hopeful by a voice vote was sequel to a motion moved by Hon. Brain Ehwarieme and seconded by Ganiya Festus. The massive crowd of supporters who did not only endorse Governor Okowa and Igbakpa matched from Ovade through Otefe, Kuomintang, Otumara, Ogharefe to other places for hours echoing the need for the delegates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to ensure they conform with the already established formula for political positions. Ededey reminded of the established system within the PDP, which allocated a maximum of eight years each to Ethiope East and Ethiope West Local Government Areas for the position of House of Representatives seat. “We have a common sharing formula in Ethiope Federal Constituency. Under the platform of the PDP, Ethiope West got it first and served eight years through Hon. Halims Aguda.” “The following eight years was served by Ethiope East, which is rounding up its turn. We are now demanding that the opportunity returns to Ethiope West from 2019 for another eight years,” he said. The Special Adviser to Governor Okowa on Youth Development said the massive show of support for Igbakpa is because “we have tested him before, he performed very well, and we want him again. He’s a legislator to the core.” “Without a political position since 2015, Igbakpa’s reputation continues to grow in leaps and bounds across Ethiope Federal Constituency. He continues to maintain the confidence of his people through devoted acts of philanthropy and support to the people,” he stated. In his reaction, lgbakpa, a former member, Delta State House of Assembly, and a former Commissioner of Transport, thanked the youths for the confidence reposed on him, assuring to deliver purposeful representation to the people of Ethiope Federal Constituency. He assured the teeming supporters that he was overwhelmed with the warm and rosy rally accorded him. “We are bonded by the same constituency. My decision to contest is borne out of my personal conviction and wide consultation and by the grace of God, it is a grace project,’’ he stated. Speaking further, Igbakpa said, “I never disappointed the people of Ethiope. I shall put in the same zeal and enthusiasm which l used to serve the people of my primary constituency when voted into power. I will redefine the parameters of representation with an unwavering commitment to constituents. “Secondly, youths shall be given their rightful place in the scheme of things, especially in Federal recruitments. I will make frantic efforts to engage the youths in the spirit of equity, other aspirants should allow the Reps to seat to move to Oghara in 2019,’’ he reiterated. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 