LOKOJA – Professor James Apam, the Resident Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission for Kogi State, has expressed disappointment with non-collection of thousands of permanent voter cards (PVCs) across the 21 local government areas of the state. The REC gave the disapproval Wednesday in Lokoja at a press briefing to intimate the public with the activities of the commission in the state. The REC stated that while the commission is registering new voters and treating the cases of the already registered voters, adding that it has also commenced the issuance of PVCs to those who registered before the 2015 general elections. Apam noted that as part of the commission’s responsibility to   register all eligible voters through the continuous voter registration, said that it has registered a total of 245,195 persons and printed the same number of PVCs between April and December 2017. He, however, lamented that only 59,078 cards were issued out leaving over 200,429 yet to be collected by their owners. He added that as at May 2018, the commission had printed 112,333 PVCs for those who registered freshly and the inter-state transfer of voting points, saying only 7,943 persons came for their cards even as he assured those who registered in 2018 of the early releases of their PVCs. The INEC boss appealed to those for applied for inter state transfers and those seeking for replacement of their PVCs to exercise patience as efforts are in top gears to print and issue them without much delays. According to him” We are fully aware of the hiccup associated with distance that played out during the registration exercise which is still playing out now in the issuance of the printed cards but we encourage them to go to the Local Government Council areas to collect their cards. “Registrants are also reminded that the Continuous Voter registration (CVR) exercise is still ongoing and would continue till 60 days to the general elections of 2019. I therefore encourage those who are eligible and have not registered to avail themselves of the opportunity to visit our nearest registration points and get registered” He pleaded. The commission however enjoined the people of Omala, Bassa and  Dekina LGAs to bear with them as they had to suspend their activities due to security breaches occasioned by the Fulani herdsmen attacks in the areas. He urged the security agencies and the traditional rulers to bring the situation under control to enable his men to resume at their duty posts. He commended the press for their unflinching support for the activities of the Commission saying the Journalists in the state have always stood by the Commission both in thick and thin periods. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 