Lagos – Multiple crises that trailed the conduct of the ward, local and state congresses of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may have forced the party leadership to postpone its national convention to June 23, DAILY INDEPENDENT has learnt. The party first chose May 14 for the convention where it will elect leaders who will pilot its affairs for another four years. It was later shifted to June 2 despite pleas from party members that it should be moved to later June when the ongoing Ramadan fasting would have been concluded. The party later settled for Saturday, June 23, 2018. In a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Bolaji Abdullahi, the party added that the inauguration of new party executives will subsequently hold on June 25. Though the party hinged its decision of the new date on the Ramadan, sources said the primary essence is to allow the party quickly put its house in order ahead so as to avoid a parallel convention which may lead to further disintegration of the party. DAILY INDEPENDENT had exclusively reported last week that the party leadership is already enveloped in fears over what may transpire at the convention following multiple crises and parallel congresses held in various states and the ultimatum issued to the party by aggrieved PDP bloc in APC known as New PDP. Our source said the APC congresses have further exposed the underbelly of the ruling party, noting that it is seriously fragmented as states which were hitherto believed to be peaceful erupted in crisis. According to him, many stakeholders of the party were very surprised that a parallel congress could hold in Lagos which is believed to be in the firm grip of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a national leader of the party, who was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari to head the party’s reconciliation team. When Tinubu was appointed, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State said the reconciliation team should not bother come to his state because “Ondo is at peace and does not need any troubleshooter”. However, contrary to the governor’s claim the ward, local and state congresses were marred with violence as many were injured including serving lawmakers and party chieftains. During the state congress, thugs invaded the venue of the parallel state congress of the party attacking no fewer than 50 politicians, journalists and passersby. The thugs arrived the venue of the parallel congress, BTO Event Centre in Akure, the state capital, in nine vehicles while the accreditation of delegates across the state was ongoing. One of the buses was filled with guns and dangerous weapons. The thugs numbering no fewer than 25 chased the delegates out of the hall, destroyed the ballot papers, tables and chairs, the electronic gadgets and broke all glass wall used in decorating the front of the event centre. The National Assembly member representing Idanre/Ifedore federal constituency, Bamidele Baderinwa, was beaten blue and black. He was stripped naked by the thugs while his orderly fled the scene. He left the scene in his torn white native attire. Senator Ajayi Boroffice was said to have made a U-turn following the disruption of the state congress of a faction loyal to him and the former deputy governor of the state, Alhaji Alli Olanusi. Also attacked included the Osun State Commissioner for Regional Integration, Bola Ilori and other chieftains of the party including Tolu Babaleye, Idowu Otetunbi, the candidate for the Publicity Secretary of the faction, Leye Akinola and the Director General of the Segun Abraham Campaign Organisation, Eko Davies. In Imo, it is uncertain whether Governor Rochas Okorocha will remain in the ruling party following the crisis that marred the congresses in the state. The same also happened in Oyo, Anambra, Delta states and so on. Our source said the party leadership decided to seize the opportunity of the Ramadan to unite all warring parties ahead of the convention. He said while President Buhari and the party leadership are already holding talks with the new PDP bloc, the Tinubu reconciliation team will have a huge task on its hands in moving across the country to reconcile aggrieved members in the affected states ahead of the convention. While lauding the role Tinubu played in uniting the 33 governorship aspirants in Ekiti State, he said the next three weeks will be crucial in determining the fate of the party. “Based on what we witnessed during the congresses, there was no way we could have had the convention on June 2. The congresses have really shown us that the party is more divided than we think. Even in states that we thought were peaceful such as Lagos, there was a parallel congress not to talk of states with established case of crisis. “The next three weeks will be make or break in the life of the party. I think the reconciliation committee headed by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will have its hands full in moving across the states but we are confident they will do a great job. “We saw what they did in Ekiti with the party’s governorship aspirants. They held series of meetings with the aspirants both in Lagos and Abuja and the result now is that all the aspirants have agreed to rally behind the winner, Dr. Kayode Fayemi” he said. Also speaking, Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State, who is the Chairman of the Media Subcommittee of the Convention Committee, revealed that the shift in date of the convention from June 2 to June 23 was occasioned by the need to give every party member their constitutional right to free religious practice and not put undue stress on the Muslim members who are fasting. He also confirmed the report that the Tinubu committee is working underground to reconcile the aggrieved members before the new date of the convention. However, speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Abuja, Bolaji Abdullahi said the report that the new date was arrived so as to allow the party put its house in order was unfounded. Shedding light on what transpired before the new date was arrived at, Abdullahi, who said the June 23 date is final, said, “That is not exactly correct. As a matter of fact, there was no time we said we are going to do our convention on June 2. It was just a proposed date and you cannot point at a single statement that the party issued through me that says that our convention will hold on June 2. “The moment we constituted the Convention Committee, it was important for us to reconcile with them the date that will be suitable for this exercise. Some people proposed June 2, but there were also so many other people who felt it will not be politically sensitive for us to hold a convention during Ramadan. “But there were contending argument that there was nothing in Islam that says we could not do convention during Ramadan. “So, we were going back and forth with this argument until the Convention Committee came back to say even in terms of logistics, we may not be ready by that June 2 and that many of our members are traveling for Umrah (lesser Hajj). So, we feel it is best we fix a date after Ramadan and that was when the party now decided that June 23 will be an appropriate date” “So, it had nothing to do with any issue being put forward about whether crisis will occur at the convention or not. It is just a matter of looking for a convenient date for everyone”, he said. Also speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Tony Momoh, a national leader of the APC, said even if there is implosion in APC, it cannot lead to the downfall of the party as that will not be the first time an implosion will occur in a political party. “If there is implosion in APC, will it be the first? Has there not been implosion in PDP? Yes the PDP lost in 2015 but it didn’t lose in 1999 when there was an implosion. “I was there when Barnabas Gemade wanted to be national chairman and then Sunday Awoniyi also wanted the same position. Then a list emerged at the convention. I wrote about this in my ‘Democracy Watch’ column. A lot of people were very angry and came to invade the place. “They later formed a parallel group and went to set up a three-storey building and police went and drove them out. Many occasions like that we have had implosion and the party didn’t collapse. “So, if the possibility of putting our house in order is there, then it means it will not implode. If putting our house in order is what will make it not to implode, then we have to put our house in order. But I am telling you that the party imploding or not is not a function of new PDP leaving,” he said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 