Reporting from Geneva,Switzerland – The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), yesterday petitioned major International Oil Companies (IOCs), Shell, Chevron, Mobil and others over anti-Labour policies, practices and activities in Nigeria. Comrade Williams Akporena, NUPENG`s President, gave the petition while addressing the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Committee on the Application of Standards at the 107th International Labour Conference in Geneva, Switzerland. Akporena, in his presentation titled: “International Oil and Gas Companies repressive anti-Labour activities in Nigeria”, said the major IOCs are the Shell Petroleum, Chevron, Mobil, NAOC-AGIP and Total E&P. He said the policies of the IOCs have seriously affected the membership and capacity of the unions. He said the anti-Labour activities of these companies have not allowed unionisation and also frustrate efforts of the union to unionise, as against the ILO conventions and extant Labour law in Nigeria. “The status of NUPENG as a trade union has been adversely affected by repressive anti-labour/union activities of multinational oil companies. “The struggle against this form of workers exploitation is almost three decades old, and it has been a herculean task. “Membership of the union has been seriously depleted; indecent work entrenched resulting into upsurge in crime and social dislocations and defiant behaviours. “These international oil companies through various policies and practices entrenched anti-labour and union organising situation in the Nigerian oil and gas industry, ‘’he said. He said these anti-labour and anti-union situations include refusal to allow unionisation of contract and service contracts workers, fragmentation of contracts into thousands to frustrate the efforts of the union in organising precarious. “Others are making workers to sign pre- engagement of non- membership of union and this makes precarious workers dread associating with the union”, he added. He also noted that wages pay to workers by the IOCs in Nigeria are so poor and very ridiculous; adding that an average precarious worker is paid less than $200 per month. “As a result of the prevalent practice of casual and contract employment policy by these multinationals, the workers are denied collective bargaining power and in some instances, where a Collective Bargaining Agreement was signed, the all-powerful multinationals through their contractors refused to implement despite all entreaties. “More worrisome is the wicked elopement of contract workers severance benefits by contactors to these IOCs. “A Nigerian would work under harsh and hard conditions for several years receiving peanuts and yet while the contract ends, his or her severance benefits are taken away by contractors hired by an international oil company. “Most times when confronted they feign ignorance of the whereabouts of the contractor, ‘’he added. He also said that the health and safety condition of the workers was disheartening which constantly exposed them to hazardous chemical. He added that there is no personal protective equipment, no access to medical facility, no annual vacation, no insurance cover and long hours of work with no time off from work. He said that the practice of casualisation and precarious work in the Nigerian oil and gas industry was introduced and entrenched by Shell and other IOCs followed. He, however, said: “As we speak Shell has stopped employing workers on permanent basis for the past 20 years” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 