Lagos – There is  palpable fear among subscribers of telecoms service providers over threat by the Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) to increase voice and data services tariff if the Federal Government commences the collection of 0.005% levy on all electronic transactions into a National Cyber Security Fund account within the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The body  said the development would affect some businesses, especially the telecommunications services and  has vowed to pass the cost of the levy to the subscribers of the service providers. In the recent weeks, there has been uneasiness among subscribers who have been clamouring for a reduction in the charges of the operators, coupled with other issues such as poor network service, termination of unused data and illegal deductions. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Mr. Deolu Ogunbanjo, National Association of Telecommunications Subscribers (NATCOMS) President, frowned at ATCON’s threat to increase tariff charges for subscribers, stating that  the new electronic transaction levy of 0.005 per cent as reflected in new Cyber Crime Bill will add burden on already laden telecoms subscribers and consumers in the E-payment sector if implemented. “The 0.005 per cent e-transaction implementation will be a direct burden on the already laden subscribers in the telecommunication sector. “Please operators should work with the industry regulator (Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC) and look ensure that government is not adding more responsibility that will in-turn be transferred on subscribers. “I am so sure the Cyber Crime bill did not say telecommunication subscribers should be ripped off. “The subscribers are even being shortchanged as at today because they don’t get value for their hard-earned money. For anybody to contemplate an increase in tariff will be unjustified,” Ogunbanjo stated. Oseji Mordi, a Lagos-based Engineer said the planned hike will further impoverish many Nigerians. “Already, many Nigerians are struggling to meet their basic needs. If this type of step is taken at this trying period, many people will be denied the opportunity to communicate. It will have negative impact on micro and macro businesses,” he said. Also speaking, Mojisola Akinyemi, an undergraduate in Sagamu, Ogun State, condemned any move to increase any telecoms tariff at this time. She said students will run into academic downtime if they cannot afford telecoms services. She said: “Our government should not take this threat lightly. In fact, everybody should be ready to protest just as we do whenever there is any fuel increase plan. We are even struggling to buy credit because of the current economic state of the country. Any increase by the telecoms operators must be resisted.” Recently, Mr. Olusola Teniola, ATCON President said the proposed compliance with the CyberCrime Act 2015 – collection and remittance of levy for national cybercrime fund will further strangulate the struggling telecoms service providers in the areas of operations and finance. According to him, “The businesses which are to be affected if the proposal takes effect include GSM Service Providers and all telecommunication companies; Internet service providers; Banks and other financial institutions; Insurance companies and Nigerian stock exchange “The eventual implementation of this levy of 0.005% would cripple if not render useless government and private sector efforts to speed up the broadband penetration in Nigeria and our Association has a mandate to protect the investment in the telecom industry from undue pressure from the government in the form of yet additional burden on our members that are already overtaxed by all tiers of governments.” He said ATCON believes that any premeditated actions that are capable of killing the telecoms industry must be eschewed by all tiers of governments in Nigeria as the perceived benefits of imposing this levy on aforementioned businesses have the direct capability to erase if not destroy the achievements that have been made since the telecoms sector was liberated. He advise government review this directive as it would affect some macro-economic elements such as loss of employment and we as Industry will have to increase prices to cover the collection, processing and pass on these costs to the 150 million subscribers. In November, 2016, the Association planned to increase data service tariff, but the move was met with stiff opposition by many Nigerians which made the Nigerian Communications (NCC) to suspend the planned increase expected to take effect on December 1, 2016. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 