ABUJA – Dr. Philip Ojo, Director General of National Agricultural Seeds Council [NASC], has said Nigerian seed sector is estimated to generate over N2.2 trillion over the next 3 years. Ojo, who revealed this on Tuesday in Abuja at the SeedConnect Conference and EXPO 2018, said the seed sector would employ more than 18 million people along agricultural value chain within the time-frame. According to him, “It is estimated that 10,355 metric tons of Early Generation Seeds [EGS] will be required to produce 918,743.28 metric tons of certified seeds which in turn produce 103,079,253 metric tons of food from 46,250,733 hectares for the next three years. “This is expected to add N2.227 trillion to the Nigerian economy and employ18,500, 293 farm families along the agricultural value chain.” He explained that as a result of tremendous growth in the sector that the number of accredited seed companies has increased from 36 companies in 2018 to 157 as of 2016, adding that processes were on-going to accredit more seed companies across the country. He also stated that Nigerian seed companies have dominated West African markets, adding that over 60 per cent of quality seeds sold in the West African sub-region emanate from Nigeria. He, however, lamented the activities of the unscrupulous individuals who indulge in the sale of fake seeds to farmers, warning that his agency, saddled with the mandate of regulating seed companies, would spare no efforts in arresting the perpetrators of this heinous crime. He said the Seed Council Bill is being reviewed by the National Assembly, adding that stringent punitive measures would be taken against individuals and seed companies who engage in acts inimical to the progress of agricultural development in Nigeria, particularly in the seed sector. Also speaking, Chief Audu Ogbeh, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, said quality seeds are critical to the development of agricultural sector, noting that there would never be serious agricultural development without quality seeds. To this end, he announced that the Federal Government was going to replace Growth Enhancement Support Scheme [GES] introduced by the immediate past administration with Agricultural Input and Mechanisation Service. Ogbeh further explained that under the new arrangement, the Federal Government would recruit and train three agricultural input distributors in each of the 774 local government areas of the country to guarantee that Nigerian farmers buy improved and quality seeds and fertilizer for high yields. He also added that the distributors in the new arrangement would be supported financially by the Bank of Agriculture [BoA]. The minister, therefore, tasked all stakeholders in the seed sector to work assiduously in eliminating fake seed peddlers, adding that the success or failure of any agricultural activity depends to a large extent, the type of seeds planted by the farmers. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 