Metaphorically speaking, the forthcoming governorship election contest in Ekiti State can be likened to the historic Kiriji/EkitiParapo war of 1870-1886. Indeed and in truth, the electoral contest slated for  July 14, 2018 offers the Ekitis a new paradigm shift against the background of their present social, economic and political situation. A quick recall of the historical past of the Ekitis vividly reminds of the gallantry of their ancestors during the eponymous inter-tribal wars tagged the EkitiParapo wars. The wars, which ended all the wars in Yorubaland was unarguably the last and most protracted military campaign that plagued the Yoruba nation. As history reveals, Kiriji war broke out because of the unacceptable policies and maladministration, which the Ibadan hegemons established on the Ekiti people after the former’s significant role in the 1840 Osogbo war and her victory over the Ijayes in 1862 which indisputably pronounced her as the competent successor of the old Oyo Empire as the head of Yorubaland. Then, Ibadan hegemons had stationed its administrators, otherwise known and popularly referred to as Ajeles, in other parts of Yorubaland, especially in Ekiti and Ijesha, which upset the two towns who were not ready, like any other towns to accept Ibadan as the Yoruba head. Indeed, the last straw that broke the camel’s back was the suppressive and obnoxious ways the Ajeles manhandled the Ekitis and the Ijeshas. These and many other aspects of tyrannical rules compelled the two groups to wage a 16yearwar of attrition against the Ibadan political suzzainrarity. Again, the Ekiti people have today found themselves more or less in the same historical conjunction. While they are not confronted by the Ibadan hegemons this time around, they are no doubt entangled in the gripping hold of a re-incarnated protégé, Mr. Peter Ayodele Fayose, who though an indigene of the state had his early childhood and adolescent tutelage and upbringing in the ancient city of Ibadan. By all standards, Mr. Peter Ayodele Fayose, current governor of Ekiti State, has since he assumed leadership, left no one in doubt that he is governing a conquered race. Anyone who is familiar with the character traits of the average Ekiti will readily confirm that Fayose, whose four years of agonising second term tenure ends October this year, has high disdain for the ‘Omoluabi’ culture of the Ekitis. The focal point of his policy, which is the ridiculous ‘Stomach infrastructure’, is nothing but a mere mesmerisation of the social condition of the people and a grand conspiracy to deceitfully impoverish the Ekiti people. Indeed, the past three and half years of Fayose’s misgovernance and maladministration has poignantly and painfully revealed the folly and foibles of the Fayose phenomenon. It is a naked truth that in the last four years of this deceitful government, there are no clear-cut policy direction, nor a well-articulated welfare programmes for the people. While the state failed to carry out any meaningful developmental projects in all the 16 local governments, Fayose’s government has enforced a tyrannical regime of multiple taxation in the drive to increase internally generated revenue (IGR). Before he assumed power, the monthly IGR under the innovative and creative leadership of then Governor John Kayode Fayemi was N600 million. The government of JKF graduated the IGR of Ekiti from a paltry N60million when he assumed office. At every point in time, JKF would make public announcement about the geometric growth in the state’s IGR. However, since Fayose, aka Oshokomole took over, he has jettisoned this transparent approach to governance. Not only has he dubiously expanded the tax net, he has continued to keep the total monthly IGR a guarded secret. When recently the governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) and immediate-past Minister of Mines & Steels Development, Dr. Fayemi, challenged  Fayose to a public debate on Ekiti finances, especially on the IGR over the years and its uses, the Fayose boasted that nobody could summon him to disclose information on Ekiti finances aside the state Assembly, whom he erroneously argued has the mandate to carry out oversight on him! What a disdainful and an inglorious way to treat the people. The emperor in power has succeeded in reducing the people to second class citizens living on the fringe of existence as they have been completely impoverished. All the laudable social security programmes instituted by JKF in his first term have long been jettisoned. A visit to any community in Ekiti will reveal despondency and hopelessness by the people who were once living in affluence and abundance. What an irony of life? In the past, it is not uncommon to hear an Ekiti man boasting about his fortunes. Today, he has lost all that honour and dignity, no thanks to Governor Ayodele Fayose. I grew up in Ekiti to learn about the inspiring dignity of an Ekiti man who was ready any time any day to call off the bluff of an arrogant neighbor or fellow by saying in the local parlance: “mii je lore” meaning literally, I don’t feed from your hand” or “you don’t feed me”. Today, the reverse is the case, courtesy of Fayose’s wicked contraption called “stomach infrastructure”. The policy is one inhuman enactment that has emasculated the treasured dignity of an Ekiti. It is a ridiculous creation by Oshokomole to degrade our people and reduce them to faithless beings who could no longer see or discover the latent potentials in themselves as people of great ancestry. Consequently, the Ekitis at home and in the Diaspora should see the forthcoming governorship election as a great opportunity to stop Fayose and his surrogate, Prof. Olusola Eleka, his deputy whom he planned to plant in his stead as successor. The Ekitis must resolve in one collective breath to put an end to Fayose’s inglorious campaign of continuity by voting en masse, Dr. Fayemi in the July 14 election. The election should offer all Ekitis the right opportunity for atonement in foolishly voting for Fayose in the first instance. While the people did not on their own volition vote for him in the true sense of the word, they have actually acquiesced as he misgoverned. Now is the time for Ekiti electorates to reject Fayose and his proxies. They must say never again to the Ajele politics that have reduced them to second rate citizens and allow a collective rescue mission. The rescue and reclamation battle should be fought and propagated as Ekiti ancestors successfully routed the Ibadan hegemons during the Kiriji/EkitiParapo wars. It is not over until it is over! The time to say ‘Never Again’ is now! John Ajayi, FNIMN, NGE, is a veteran journalist, social commentator and Publisher/CEO of MARKETING EDGE MAGAZINE, a leading marketing and advertising publication based in Lagos State. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 