The President of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Mr. Kunle Mokuolu, has called on the Federal Government to provide a proper framework that would ensure better housing delivery for Nigerians. Mokuolu, while assessing infrastructure growth under Buhari’s administration in the last three years, scored the government high in road and power but expressed reservations about the housing sector. He told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the Federal Government would succeed better in its mass housing drive if more private sector participants are allowed. According to him, housing delivery in advanced countries fared better because they are run by the private sector. The NSE boss, however, advised the Buhari administration to create the enabling environment for private sector initiative. “Housing should be off the hands of the government, housing should be totally privatised, and the government should provide the policy and laws that would back housing delivery. He said that government needed to concern itself with social housing for those who cannot pay rent because they were either out of job or had other financial handicaps. Mokuolu also advised that social housing should be restricted to the local government level and that when such economically disadvantaged citizens found their financial footing, they could start to pay rent or buy homes. “Federal Government is to provide the framework to ease the delivery of housing. I am not really satisfied with the housing delivery, some things must be in place to achieve this. “We must begin to produce our steel ourselves and that is why Ajaokuta Steel Rolling Mill is too important. Whatever it takes to produce steel in this country, the government should just do it,’’ he said. He said that the steel component was important in building high rise buildings as the nation’s population was growing geometrically to accommodate more people in fewer spaces or land. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 