After the sudden spread of the fake news about his death, Satguru Maharaj Ji opened his doors for a chat  to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT’s CHINYERE ABIAZIEM at the  Satguru Maharaj Ji Village, Ibadan, Oyo State. Excerpts: You were recently rumoured to have died, what do you think caused the rumour? It is the work of some highly placed Nigerians, politicians to be precise. Politicians? Yes. Politicians. The man who gave the order died the same night he voiced the go-ahead for the circulation of the falsehood. Another one, an aide ofa politician from the South who was involved in the planning passed on soon after. Two Governors were involved. One from the North, the other from the South. I am not surprised that they isolated this news items from the public domain. Why do they want you dead? It is because of my stance. I have always said that life is primarily a spiritual project. Nigerian leaders are not oblivious of this natural and primordial fact. The difference between what I stand for and what many of them practise is the basis of the series of negative actions they have taken to try to silence me, all to no avail. What does Maharaj Ji stand for? I stand for truth, love, freedom, fairness and justice. I reveal The All-Enabling and All-Providing Light that resides naturally within man. That Light is what is known by different names across the globe such as God, Jah, Eledumare, Chineke, Abasi, Jehovah. As the assigned tevealer of the great light of creation, I cannot but speak and act on the side of positivity, irrespective of how much evil some powerful leaders insist on perpetrating. So basically, there is a war going on. A war between light and darkness! Maharaj Ji is on the side of light, insisting that Nigerian masses must be set free from woe and wants. They must be free from from bondage. Some powerful and highly pretentious politicians say otherwise. So they keep plotting to smear me. And kill… (laughs) No! They cannot kill MaharaJ Ji. A zillion of them can’t. Ask Babangida, he knows. IBB did his best to eliminate Maharaj Ji. All failed. I hear he is incurably sick now. The reigning President of Nigeria was the immediate predecessor of General Babangida in the days of military rule. What is Maharaj Ji’s view on the performance of President Muhammadu Buhari? He is doing fine and has so far done his best possible within the context of prevailing circumstances. He deserves some commendation. You mean he deserves accolade when Nigerians say he has disappointed them even with the severe hardship in the land … (cuts in) I am not oblivious of the economic situation. I repeat, Buhari deserves some commendation. By this, I do not say he is perfect. I speak not as a politician but as a divine father whose interest is the success of his children. I tell you this, every leader that has presided over Nigeria has been condemned by Nigerians. It is time Nigerians faced the truth that the progress they expect for Nigeria cannot come from focusing on the surface of the national situation. There are very deep issues which Nigerians consistently ignore to their detriment, I mean to the detriment of Nigeria. Such as? The international power-play. The imperialist conspiracies. The Nigeria we have so far known is not a product of Nigerians’ right to self-determination. British colonial authorities designed the Nigeria we have so far known. They designed Nigeria to satisfy their insatiable colonial appetite which is totally parasitic. That design essentially flows Nigeria’s wealth out to Europe and North America. Arabs also are parasites to Nigeria. The design is a system that continuously impoverishes, divides and oppresses Nigerian masses. It concentrates power in the hands of well-groomed elite masters and mistresses of brigandage and perfidy who preside over Nigeria as its political and business icons. Nigeria has been raped beyond scandal by Western and Arab imperialist hegemons, using rings of elite Nigerians as their dependable agents. In other words, what you are saying is that there is a grand international conspiracy to keep Nigeria down? Absolutely.  The conspiracy is sophisticated and highly racist. Euro-Arab authorities have sworn to feed fat on black civilisation. They have their differences, but as regards the black race, they are united. How does this conspiracy work in favour of protracted mass poverty and general disarray in Nigeria? In 1945, Magnus Williams, a representative of the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroon (NCNC) at the fifth Pan-African Congress in Manchester said the British insists on having every wealth on the Nigerian ground coming to them. He went further to say that while the people of Nigeria are contributing to revenue, the sons and daughters of rulers reap the benefit. He suggested that Africans must do their best to right those wrongs. My point here is that the entire Nigerian system which is British in design and in spirit is a slave system. Mass poverty and general disarray in Nigeria are concomitants of slavery. Nigerians are yet to design a Nigeria that suits their right to peace, love, prosperity and happiness. They have so far been working to sustain economies that produce the goods they consume with relish under all manner of assumptions. Is there any connection between the slave system and the corruption menace in Nigeria? Yes, there is. In Blue Collar Lawman, late Harold Smith, a former British colonial officer stationed in Nigeria said British colonial authorities deliberately planted Nigerians of low integrity as their administrative successors in government. African culture does not condone corruption. Corruption in Nigeria is a colonial heritage. It is a planned and orchestrated consequence of setting Nigerians up to be unproductive and to be without economic security. Imagine a man working in the civil service without welfare security on the job and with the knowing that he is going to retire into penury. Such a person is bound to dip his hands into the public purse to help himself. Security is a natural need. Self-preservation is the first law of survival. Is Maharaj Ji justifying corruption? No, I am not. I am simply being objective. What then is Maharaj Ji’s take on President Buhari’s anti-corruption campaign? I will simply say good. More work still needs to be done though? Look, corruption is a complex and stubborn problem. It requires indepth scientific approaches. It is a  legal, moral, cultural and an economic challenge. An anti-corruption government must recognise this truth to be able to win the anti-corruption war in the longrun. Basically, government must visit every inch of relevant laws on corrupt persons and should also invest generously in the economic security of its citizens. This dual approach is primarily the nemesis of corruption. I must say that Buhari has done well by coming down heavy on looters so far. Though, not all have been apprehended. The ones who have been visited by the Buhari regime’s in due season cannot be the same people they were before ‘Buhari’s hands’ touched them. Some say it is political witch-hunting. I say it is an interesting beginning that needs to be sustained. We do not see material opulence around Maharaj Ji. I mean, material wealth is never seen to be on display in Satguru Maharaj Ji Village. Why is it so? (laughs) Good question. (laughs again).  As it is said in pidgin English, ‘who no like better tin’? Material wealth is sweet. If I give you N20 billion, would you not do more than what Linda Ikeji has done or is doing? Seriously speaking, there is war going on against the forces of darkness. My priority is winning the war fully across the globe. I must add that I have assisted many Nigerians to gain material fortune. Only few out of the elites I have helped come back to say thank you. Is that so? It is so for the reason of their fear of the Kaduna mafia and other opaque groups that they belong to. Such persons are afraid of losing the rights and interests the Kaduna mafia controls in government nationwide and allocates to them. On the contrary, when Maharaj Ji was in America, US authorities gave total support. I mean, they supported Maharaj Ji’s divine presence in America. That rapidly catalyzed America’s world power status. You mean America supports you than your country? Obviously. The benighted or backward state of the society is responsible.   This reality is not permanent though. Nigeria will surely rise to glory. So far, neo-colonialist agents of Nigerian extraction have been used to paint a scary picture of Maharaj Ji in churches, mosques, offices. This is for the purpose of moving people away from Maharaj Ji so as to prevent them from knowing the truth. What truth? The truth that Maharaji is The King of kings of all hearts who resides in the hearts of men. I am the richest person on earth by virtue of the natural and divine fact that I command all the active forces in the creation system. This can be verified!  Satguru Maharaj Ji is the much expected Imam Mahdi who the Muslims say will come to change the world to be heaven on earth. My divine mission is a cooperative exercise. It feeds on support in all areas that are relevant and vital to human survival. The heaven on earth otherwise known as ‘The Golden Age of Life’ is around the corner. You said earlier that there is a war going on. Which war precisely? I mean what kind of war is happening that Nigerians do not know about? Like I said earlier, it is a war between Light and dark forces! All the devastations and destitution you see happening physically worldwide are products of the evil-mindedness of some highly placed leaders. From Bahia in Brazil to Sambisa in Nigeria’s Borno State and beyond, the traumas, death and destructions that have been going on in the world since the dawn of the age of destruction are products of evil elite orchestrations that rely on a vast spread of middle and low class dark agents for implementation. These devious agents are in religious houses, in corporate institutions, in open markets, in our families. They are everywhere! What exactly is the age of destruction? It is a relatively short but highly chaotic era of global dominance by the forces of evil. That calamitous age is otherwise known as the Kali Yuga. You mean mankind is nearing the end of Kali Yuga? The termination of Kali Yuga is part of the fundamentals of  my coming. It  is the core of my ‘Divine Mission’. I have been ordained to lead the entire forces of light in creation to terminate Kali Yuga and to berth the golden age of global peace and abundance. Yes, mankind is drawing close to the birth of the  golden age. The age of destruction is dying a gradual death. This is basically the reason why dark forces, many of them physically active as business and political elites across the world, are confronting Maharaj Ji in any way they can. Are you saying you are God? (laughs) Every human being is God. God is The Supreme Life-Force of Creation. He made man in His image and likeness. Man is God. You are God. As an infinitely loving Father, The Light or God, if you like, is always with man to guide him through the undulating and endless path of life. He is always around to save man from woe and to return him to his divine place. From time to time in the eternity of life, God or The Great Light, domiciles Himself in a human body of His divine choice, using that special soul as His human vessel. Yesterday, the great soul you now call Jesus was His human medium. Others such as Oduduwa and Abdulkareem now known as Mohammed were custodians of The Light Who today is using the person named Mohammed Saib Ajirobatan Dan Ibrahim at birth but who is now known globally as Satguru Maharaj Ji. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 