Since Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of State for Aviation announced December 24, 2018, as the date for the re-establishment of a new national carrier for Nigeria, there have been divergent views. OLUSEGUN KOIKI, CHRIS EBONG, and OYENIRAN APATA write: The plan to re-establish a national carrier for Nigeria by past governments after the liquidation of the former, Nigeria Airways in 2004, by Chief Olusegun Obasanjo’s government is seen as a volatile decision in many quarters but the current government has vowed to go ahead with the project. Since the airline was liquidated, succeeding governments had unsuccessfully attempted to bring back the carrier, but during the electioneering campaign of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2014, he had promised to ensure the country had an airline it could truly call its own while the final severance packages of the ex-workers of the airline would be paid in full. Within three months the government berthed, in August 2015 to be precise, the government set up a National Carrier Committee, which it was gathered presented its report to the government, but nothing was heard about the committee again until the government set up a Transaction Advisers for the same purpose. In an interview with journalists recently in Lagos, Sen. Hadi Sirika, Minister of State for Aviation, did promise that the government would unveil a new national carrier for the country before 2019, but declared that the model to be adopted would not be like the past where the defunct carrier was 100 per cent owned by the government. He maintained that the government would not commit any taxpayer funding into establishing the proposed new national airline. In a bid to make it a reality, the government, he said, substituted the adviser on the establishment of a national carrier, Lufthansa Consulting, with Airline Management Group, explaining that the decision was made to avoid a conflict of interest in the future since Lufthansa Consulting was a subsidiary of an airline group. Sirika explained that part of what the Lufthansa Consulting required from the Federal Government for the national carrier was that it would not be charged any taxes, which he said, was against the country’s laws. He added that part of the reason the government decided to set up a national carrier was to gain from the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM), recently inaugurated by the African Union. He said: “It was impossible for us to continue the procurement with the Lufthansa Consulting. What we did since they are many ways to substitute them with another company that has no appendage with any other company that may be interested. So, more of neutral companies took over the place of Lufthansa,” he noted. “At the time Nigeria was pushing for the SAATM, we had Nigeria Airways and we thought we would take advantage of it. Now, we don’t and our airlines, for one reason or another, have not grown to that capacity and this is why the government felt that we should set in motion to create a robust carrier that will take advantage of this SAATM for the benefit of the Nigerian people. “So, I believe we are on the right course. I believe that this private sector-led and driven airline once established will become the dominant carrier in Africa because of the market in Nigeria. Its centrality to Africa, by its geography, is God-given. And with the market of 173 million people, this is a large population and Nigerians travel almost for nothing. So, if you talk of advantage, Nigeria is in a vantage position to take advantage of this SAATM.” Besides, in the month of May, Sirika told the nation that a new national carrier would be re-established by December 24, 2018 He inaugurated a nine-man committee, (Fast Track Task Force), to ensure the sanctity of the take-off date of December and other agreements reached with the transaction advisers and selected Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, the Managing Director of Nigerian Airspace Management Agency as Chairman of the committee to realise the target deadline. Other members included Capt. Muhtar Usman, Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA); Capt. Abdulsalami Mohammed, Rector, Nigerian College of Aviation Technology; Mr. Akin Olateru, Commissioner for Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB); Capt. Tilmann Gabriel (a representative of National Carrier Transaction Adviser); Layi Are (a representative of Transaction Adviser for MRO and Aviation Leasing Company); Mr. Chidi Izuwah, the Acting Director General of Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC); while Mr. Ben Tukur, Technical Assistant to the Minister of State for Aviation, will serve as the Secretary of the committee. Again, less than two weeks ago, in furtherance of its resolve to establish the national carrier, Sirika met with Boeing Aircraft Manufacturer to discuss the issue with the company. However, expectedly, players in the industry received the decision of the government with mixed feelings. The antagonists of the project specifically said that using taxpayers’ funds to set up a new national carrier was an abuse of office and contrary to the earlier assurance by the same government that the airline would be private sector driven. They also accused the government of lack of transparency in the entire project, stressing that the government was working in isolation. Mr. Roland Iyayi, the Chief Executive Officer of Top Brass Aviation, in an interview with our correspondents in Lagos, said that the establishment of the carrier was in flagrant disobedient to the earlier statement of Sirika. He pointed out that Sirika had said in several fora that government would not invest in the impending national carrier, but would only create an enabling environment for it to thrive. He, however, said that the steps taken so far by Sirika had shown that government may be the major investor in the project. He explained  the report of the Transaction Adviser on national carrier and other projects of the government were jettisoned by the government, stressing that the involvement of government officials like the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and the Managing Director of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) indicted that fairness and transparency had been thrown overboard. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 