Last week Friday, President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law the bill granting financial autonomy and independence to State Houses of Assembly and Judiciary. With the new law, according to the Senior Special Assistant to President Buhari on National Assembly Matters, Ita Enang, “The amounts standing to the credit of the judiciary as well as the legislatures are now to be paid directly to them. This grants full autonomy now to the two arms at the state level.” However, the law, which is awaiting formal transmission to the states, has received mixed feelings. While the officials of the states’ judiciary and legislature are in the joyous mood over what they describe as independence from incompetent and clueless leadership of some chief executives, some of the aides of the governors have expressed disappointment at the action of the president in signing the bill, particularly, this time. To some analysts, the frosty relationship between the executive and the legislature at the federal level, which has culminated in the alleged fleecing of the masses, by the legislature, due to the autonomy, is anything but, bad precedent for the polity and a kind of warning signals for the likely inevitable consequences on the nation. According to Friday Ameh, Lagos based analyst, “It is unfortunate that Buhari has decided to surround himself with some politicians and technocrats who do not mean well for this country. Believe you me, his good intention may turn out to be another thing as the legislators the states may have learnt enough from their counterparts at the national level and hence continue with politics of acrimony and intimidation.” Another analyst said, “What we want is total restructuring and true federalism as separation of power would be meaningless without restructuring the polity.” However, Adeola Elliott, former chairman, Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Agric and Agro allied group); Adewale Adeoye, executive director, Journalists for Democratic Rights (JODER); Hon. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, Chairman, Osun State House of Assembly Committee on Information and Strategy; Hon Johnson Erijo (Isoko South 2); Samuel Mariere (Ughelli North 1) and Angela Nwaka  (Aniocha South), Delta State House of Assembly, Femi Bamisile, former Speaker of Ekiti State House of Assembly, Mr Adeshina Ogunlana, the chairman of the Ikeja Branch of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr Jiti Ogunye, lawyer and public affairs analyst, and Adewumi Oni, public commentator and writer believe that the law would strengthen the nation’s democracy and ensure that all arms of government at the state level operate unhindered. According to Elliot, “It is a step in the right direction. Our democracy is still nascent. More of such amendments are needed from time to time, to strengthen our democracy. The governors have constantly used issue of funds to manipulate the legislators to bow to their whims and caprices. Some governors ought to have been impeached for gross ineptitude and abuse of offices but for the control of remuneration’s lines of legislature and judiciary. It is a new dawn for both arms of government to be proficient in the course of their duties without let. This will curtail the rascality of the governor’s and bring in sanity, seriousness and efficiency in the governors’ day to day governance schedules. Evidently, this will strengthen our democracy, as we will now witness best international practices. “The governors will agitate but are powerless to resist it, as this is a constitutional provision. I wish the horrible ones amongst them will throw in the towel. They make no efforts to improve their administrative competence. Some, simply because they have control over legislature and judiciary remunerations’ lines, keeps them in fool’s paradise. Thanks to this amendments that will now keep them in the paradise of good governance. We expect to witness intelligent statecraft from them henceforth. There will now be appropriate checks and balances without timidity from legislature and judiciary.” He, however agreed that with the law in place there may be constant frictions between the legislators and the executive, as the assemblies would want to exert their independence. “Yes it will bring constant friction. Just as we are getting results from the frictions at the federal level, so we are bound to get results. Each arm is doing its work with caution. Though, it slows down activities, but it is a solid structure for our democracy. This is a perfect principle of checks and balances. The common man is the beneficiary and also our nascent democracy. The same thing will play out in the states. It will eliminate arms of government conspiracy to sustain corruption. It is a structural approach to eliminating corruption from our body politics,” he added. To Adeoye, “This should be taken with mixed feelings. The independence of the Judiciary and Houses of Assembly are necessary for democratic reforms and growth. But we should also be careful in being over excited. “We need to be sure that Federal Government will not emerge in the future that will use the House of Assembly and the Judiciary in the States to fight state governments or undermine such institutions if they appear to be against the Federal Government. “I think ultimately, what matters is the independence of the states and not just the institutions within those states. The Federal Government should ensure control of more resources. The state judiciary and Houses of Assembly (HoA) can still be independent even if their monies are in the kitties of the States. “We should ensure the FG has less power. The states should be empowered. There are no precedents indicating that FG is morally upright than the states. We hope the signing of the bill will not resort to the FG appropriating and manipulating the Judiciary and HoA in each state.” Adeoye warned that the new law should not substitute for the call for restructuring; pointing out what Nigeria needs for survival is a return to true federalism. “The signing of the bill cannot substitute the clarion call for the restructuring of Nigeria. There has always been the desire of the FG to muzzle the states. The states also want to muzzle the institutions in those states, so I think the law should have made the Judiciary and HoA independent without necessarily taking their means of survival away from the states where they operate. It means this law does not entirely eliminate the independence of the judiciary. It may be another attempt to strengthen the garrison state and take away the soul of states by reducing their dominion. “The responses from the state governors are based on various considerations. Some do it for personal gains, some for genuine and honest reasons. I have to let you know that the Bill did not enjoy widespread consultations. The public hearing was not extensive enough. Only history can determine its relevance but as at now, laws can be good or bad on paper, depending on the hidden intentions. What many Nigerians want is the restructuring of the country for regional autonomy and self-determination. We should be careful to avoid beautiful but empty plots to subvert this fundamental demand,” he said. Oyintinloye commended the Federal Government for approving the independence of the state judiciaries and assemblies, describing the autonomy bill as an impetus for good governance. He said with the assent of the president to the bill, “democracy had received a new impetus, a new lease of life and a new sense of direction.” According to him, President Buhari had given meaning to the tenet of separation of powers, maintaining that the president had reset democracy and governance for better productivity, performance and accountability. Oyintiloye pointed out that the assent to the bill would no doubt put everyone on its toes, including the executive arm of government to deliver more qualitative service to Nigerians without fear or favour. He said that though, state governors might not like the new law because it will remove the state assemblies from their manipulations, he pointed out it will also reduce the influence of the governors over other arms of government. He however added that the development will not breed constant friction between the executive and legislature as being witnessed at the federal level, saying rather it will guarantee and strengthen the principle of separation of power among the three arms of government. Meanwhile, Honourables Erijo, Mariere and Angela Nwaka of Delta State House of Assembly have lauded the new law saying it will serve the best interest of Nigerians. Erijo, who noted that the legislature was the symbol of democracy as other arms of government existed during military rule, said the financial autonomy granted the legislature was not just liberation for the legislature but for the populace. According to him, the legislature and judiciary had been tied to the apron spring of the executive before now, stressing that the independence given to both arms of government would help to nurture the nation’s democracy. He maintained that the independence of the legislature and judiciary would further strengthen effective checks and balances and improve service delivery. On his part, Hon Samuel Mariere said the new law would help to ensure a more robust and effective representation to constituents. Also speaking, the member representing Aniocha South Constituency, Hon Angela Nwaka called for caution on the development as members of the legislatures were not used to autonomy granted. She said it was a joyous thing to have autonomy as it had been clamored for, but advised members of state legislatures not to be carried away with it, saying though there would be some challenges but would definitely enhance effective representation. Femi Bamisile, former Speaker of Ekiti State House of Assembly said the autonomy was a welcome development stressing that it would go a long way in strengthening the nation’s democracy The ex- Legislator recalled how the Ekiti House struggled under his leadership to secure partial autonomy under the Engineer Segun Oni-led administration. According to him, only Rivers State Assembly was enjoying autonomy as at that time. “We must commend President Muhammadu for taken bold step, even though it is long overdue. Under my leadership as speaker, we fought tirelessly for autonomy but what we got was partial autonomy. I must commend Mr President, this is a singular act that would strengthens the nation’s democracy.” Ogunlana, said it was a step in the right direction in achieving proper separation of powers in government “I am excited about the President’s signing of the Bill. It is in furtherance of the doctrine of separation of powers, which was designed to make democracy what it is as opposed to monarchy where you have fusion of powers. “When you have separation of powers without financial independence, it becomes a problem because whoever controls the purse, controls how you act. So far, the executive has been the controller of the purse, the Judiciary used to approach the executive for financial handouts, virtually all the Chief Judges go ‘cap in hand’ to be in good terms with their governors if they want anything for themselves or their sector of government and they are afraid of going against the bidding of the executive. “They actually were not equal before now but the signing of the Bill will enhance and promote the independence that we have been advocating.” Ogunye said, “Assenting the Bill is highly commendable and moving forward, I hope that it will help strengthen our democratic institutions in the judiciary and legislature. “However, financial autonomy requires financial and physical responsibility before now, the executive had been the controller of the purse. The executive had been the ‘feeder of the judiciary and the legislature, the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN), had for a long time, been canvassing for judicial autonomy and welfare of judicial staff. This is a welcome development.” Ogunye, however, cautioned against financial recklessness and impropriety that may arise from the financial autonomy granted to the judiciary and legislature. In a similar vein, Mr Abel Diah, the Speaker, Taraba State House of Assembly, commended Buhari for assenting to the law granting financial autonomy to state Houses of Assembly. Adewumi Oni commended Buhari’s action, saying, it will whittle down governor’s influence over judiciary. “This is definitely a welcome development. Coming on the backdrop of unhealthy manipulation of state judiciaries and legislators by the State Governors as a result of the Governor’s hold on the allocations due to the Judiciaries and Legislators. This will hugely whittle down the influence of the Governors over both the Judiciary and Legislative arms of government. “This amendment will also further strengthen the nation’s democracy as these arms of government have now attained true independence. Hitherto, the two arms have to depend or wait on the State Governors for their monthly allocations and this has been a major impediment in dispensing true and fair justice, as well as hampered the law making powers of the Assemblies. There have been cases of compromise by the Judiciary and Legislative arms because of their reliance on the State Governors. “It will also promote transparency and accountability by the Judiciaries and Legislators. Direct credits from the Federation account means unnecessary or coercive deductions by the State Governments can now be avoided, and the two arms can now take responsibility for their expenditures and also properly account for such expenditures. “Furthermore, the time lag between the time the fund is received by State Governments and the time of transfer to the Judiciary and Legislative will be removed, thereby improving efficiency of government. This will definitely limit the highhandedness and autocratic tendencies of some of the Governors. The fear of impeachment by independent legislators will keep the Governors in rein and act as a check for their excesses.” Oni however noted that the amendment will likely be viewed negatively by the Governors because their influence on the Legislators and Judiciaries have been greatly whittled down. “However this is in the best interest of our democracy and the citizenry.” He expressed doubt that the development may breed constant friction in the short run between the arms even as it will ensure that there are checks and balances against the excesses of the executives and that the Judiciary will also act as an umpire between the Executive and Legislative arms to resolve frictions that might surface. Monday Ubani, second vice president, Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, said the law would enable the judiciary address infrastructural decay in the system. In an interview with Realnews, Ubani posited that the call for independence of judiciary was long overdue. “Overtime we have been discussing this issue that our judicial system is not working well especially with regard to accelerated hearing of our cases and quicker dispensation of justice. Part of the problem is actually the independence of the judiciary and if you look at the financial autonomy, they are battling with infrastructural issues, welfare of judges and the chief judges of the states do not have financial autonomy. “With this amendment done on the constitution guaranteeing financial independence to the judiciary especially at the state level, you find out that some of these problems will be sorted out. The chief judges will now be in-charge of money budgeted for them. They are no longer going to the governors to ask for money. The only thing we need to do now is to check the activities of the chief judges of states so that we would not solve a problem and create another one.” Also,  Abdulaziz Ibrahim, lawyer, said the law was a step in the right direction in achieving proper separation of powers in government. “I’m very happy that senate passed the law and for Buhari signing it. The law is a good one. But the truth is that it is a serious issue because it would enable us know whether judicial workers are good managers of resources.” Meanwhile, Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa has said the bill on the financial autonomy for state Houses of Assembly and judiciary was made possible by collective efforts from relevant stakeholders. According to Governor Okowa, “I want to place on record that the constitutional amendments involved the National Assembly, the State Houses of Assembly and eventually the final bill is assented to by the President. “So, it is a result of the constitutional amendment in which both tiers of government have been effectively involved in the decision making and I think that it is important that any section of the constitution that is finally signed into law is the constitution that we have given to ourselves as a people to operate. ‘’Every arm of government is involved in its making, but, very important, as a state, as soon as it is finally transmitted to us we will be implementing the law as it is because, we have sworn to adhere to the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Be rest assured that we will do so and just for all of us to realise that financial management is a very difficult thing to undertake. ‘’I believe that both the Speakers of the Houses of Assembly and the Chief Judges of states are experienced enough to handle their affairs along with the distribution of funds in line with what is budgetary available and will be able to manage it in such a manner that all of us will be on the right path in terms of accountability.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 