BAUCHI – Bauchi citizens have been charged to use their vote to get politicians’ commitment on the provision of infrastructure and social amenities in their communities. The charge was given Monday by Saheed Mustapha, the Coordinator Policy and Sector Support of WaterAid Nigeria, during a workshop organised for Civil Society Organisation (CSOs) and media practitioners by WaterAid Nigeria held at Command Guest House, Bauchi. He said, “As we are approaching 2019 election, this is the time politicians will come to us to canvass for votes so we should get their commitment on issues that affect our community. “We need to get them to sign a pledge card to prioritise our needs when they win elections because, with this kind of commitment, they will come back to fulfil their promises when they get to the office.” He stressed the need for citizens’ engagement in various communities by engaging politicians on issues that affect them rather than voting for religious and ethnicity. He also challenged participants to educate the citizens on the vote for Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) campaign to get government support to provide social amenities to the people especially the rural dwellers. “We must all make WASH campaign a priority during and after the election in order to improve the living standard of the citizens. “We need to improve people’s knowledge to demand accountability and their wash right.” Also speaking, David Ayodele, the state Co-ordinator of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Media Network, said the organisation planned to embark on sensitisation of communities on prevention of pipe-borne water diseases in the state. He said WASH Media Network was committed to ensuring that the people have access to clean water and promote personal hygiene in the communities. “We have to embark on sensitisation to communities on challenging issues of water and sanitation to prevent pipe-borne diseases in the communities. “Due to the unavailability of clean water sources and poor sanitation, some of the inhabitants were threatened with the spread of diseases such as diarrhoea and cholera,” Ayodele said. He said the network discovered that the problems of poor water supply and sanitation often left most women and children on queues for several hours. He said, “Those that cannot endure are forced to travel long miles in search of an alternative source of water, which may not be fit for drinking.” He, however, urged the government agencies and ministries to provide more sources of potable water in the communities. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 