Prophet Deyekola Ademola Bamigboye, popularly known as ‘Egan Jesu’ is from Christ Apostolic Church, Kings and Queens Assembly, Ilorin. In this interview with CHINYERE ABIAZIEM, he says the current massive killing by the herdsmen is masterminded by enemies of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s led government. He also gives reasons why Nigerians should arise from their slumber before it is too late among others. Excerpt: Election is next year and there is so much fear in the land that the election may not hold because of the killings across the land. What is your take? It’s not my take but what the Lord has said so let me start with what the Lord has said because by my take I’m a human being like you so next year election may not hold because the enemies of God are all around. There is corruption in the land; take it from me that the killings around are not from the president but from those deep necked into corruption. So are you saying that the president is innocent? Yes he is innocent. The fact is that the people most especially some retired ex-generals who are neck deep in this thing and they know that they may not get what they want from him now gave guns to the herdsmen who now go about killing people. Will a normal man who wants people to vote for him decide to be killing people when the election is near? I am not a politician but let me tell you. This killing is not from Buhari. Members of the National Assembly and most of them are seated in their parlours with other people throwing stones into the public in order to cause chaos and Nigerians must be fervent in prayers so that we will not witness a coup that will lead to the death of the headsman. Do you think President Buhari is doing enough about the economic situation in the country? You see somebody who is the head of affairs will need everybody to cooperate with him. There are two things on ground and you can take it from me. There is economic problem in the land and at the same time, there is corruption in the land which is the brain of economic destruction. So if somebody says that he’s fighting corruption and wants the economy to grow, the ones who are neck deep into corruption will want to bring him down. Everyone must work hand in hand for the economy to work out, it’s not the job of the president alone we have the work of the National Assembly, the ministry but if this people are still corrupt, no matter what the leader is doing, you cannot see the result. So the Lord is warning the nation to pray fervently because the wrath of God will come down. Some Nigerians believe that the President is not innocent due to his action and inaction in giving a clear order to the military in tackling the killings. You will see something when he’s about to sign the letter for money from the senate and you are saying that he is not doing anything to help the situation. People that have skeletons in their cupboards will want to destroy his life, so the whole nation should come together and pray so that the justice of God may prevail and sadly enough we have many pastors getting it wrong. I’m not saying that religious problem is not there due to the sentimental killings but corruption is a disease and if not overcome, Nigeria has no future, quote my word. How do we overcome corruption as a nation? Through prayers, because someone who is out there to fight corruption cannot fight it alone. 2019 elections may not hold. These people are hell-bent in destroying this government and even His Excellency must pray fervently that God will remove those in his cabinet, those people who will not co-operate with him because some may have skeletons in their cupboards and you know that if the president should know that they are not holy enough, he will deal with them so this corrupt people have more power even more than the commander-in-chief himself. Mixed reactions have trailed his intention to run in next year’s election, what is your view? There is an evil force battling with Nigeria and that’s where the prayer lies and this evil force comes in the name of religion and it’s in three ways and one is the force of religion which is covering their heads in the name of religion, killing people and that’s the problem facing 2019 election and before someone will win the election this force must be tackled. I have never seen where General Muhammadu Buhari calls for prayers, Muslims or Christians please pray that we must have peace. I have never seen any person like that just folding his arms. Negligence sometimes can get you into trouble, quote my word. But what exactly is your view on his intention to run again? Yes, constitutionally it’s a welcome idea on its own part. I am not a politician and I am not going to contest any day, I’m preaching the word of the Lord but one thing I want to tell you is that as the sitting president, he has a clear future if he prays. The Bible says I’m about to destroy a city and if my people will rise to pray I will hear them, so he needs to do something. You earlier said religious leaders are the problem of the nation? Yes. I said that there are evil forces hiding under religion. What is your assessment of the president’s performance so far? So far so good to me as a person he is trying particularly on the issue of electricity. It is only those who are corrupt that will say that electricity is not improving. That electricity supply perhaps improved in your area does not mean others are enjoying stable power supply. Yes, you see Nigeria is overpopulated; the government of the past did not do anything to help the nation and let’s not deceive ourselves, something that someone has destroyed for 16 years, so we Nigerians are not patient enough, we are expecting that correction can be done within three years. So the caterpillars have destroyed a building for 16 years and you want the architect to rebuild it, lay the foundation and perfect it within three years? Is that what the people are expecting? If you say that he’s not good, then vote him out, the only evil that can destroy his life is religion. You are from Ilorin, what can you make of the allegations levied on Bukola Saraki and the governor of your state? The truth must be said. Ilorin is unsecured. I am not calling names but the facts are there for people to see. The people arresting them may be arresting them due to political reasons. I am not a politician so I am not judging anybody but let me tell you something. Saraki must pray fervently because in the nearest future he will take some steps whereby the house will be divided into three. So he must pray very well and pray for forgiveness because the hand of God is upon him. I’m not a judge or a politician but I only take my car, goes into the streets and then come back to the church and preach but he must be very careful. Whatever a man does, God knows. How about the governor sir? The governor, I don’t know. I’m not a politician but I’m a pastor and prophet but when somebody is arrested and you are well known like in the church, some elders are very close to the pastors more than others. People who are close to me I gave them cars, foods. When I want to organise an event they help me organise it and somebody arrests them one day saying that they are my boys. So something is wrong somewhere and I’m not a politician and I don’t want to say anything about that. The Christian Dapchi girl, Leah Sharibu is still held hostage due to her faith, what is the way forward? You see religion is pushing us nowhere in this country, so we must be very careful if we want peace to reign. There must not be enmity between the religions whether Christian or Muslim. I may preach to you as a pastor to accept Jesus as your Lord and personal saviour but I cannot force you to accept Him. Okay sir on a general note, do you have any advice for Nigerians and maybe fellow clerics? Let me say that my fellow clerics even after knowing about the murder of a priest refused to stand as one as a body. Let’s put sentiment apart, Nigeria belongs to God not to the Christians alone or the Muslims or pagans alone. So everyone should possibly pray against the evil geniuses in the land, there is evil in the land. In conclusion, Nigeria must fight the evil in the land if they want to eat the fruit of the land. That’s my advice to them. How do you see the alleged plan to impeach President Buhari? You see sometimes God will use your enemies to correct your life. If you say that Buhari is the one killing people, he’s the one giving guns to the people and burning houses but the people in the National Assembly who have cow even in Benue even more than anybody, are they not the ones employing the herdsmen? They fighting Buhari is not in the interest of the nation as we all know. Everyone have their own grievances. They are looking for the sympathy of the masses, knowingly or unknowingly so that’s what I’m saying. I am not supporting any group neither am I in the National Assembly or the House of Representatives. Neither do I have anything to do with them but what I am saying is that the masses should raise their hands in prayers and the Lord will bring down the evil forces in the nation. We need to get out of this corruption since the bible says that righteousness exalted a nation. In Lagos, Benue, Ekiti and go everywhere the sponsors of thuggery are the politicians, almost 90% of them. This is why Nigerians need to rise and pray. On the national prayers you are suggesting, does it have a time frame? No the Lord did not tell me anything like that. But our president should solicit for prayers. The heads of churches should pray and the Muslims should also pray. The Lord said if I’m to destroy a city and the people rise up and do the right thing I will spare their land so what I’m saying is that the evil geniuses aiding corruption so we must prepare both spiritually, financially and  with everything that we have. Until God raises somebody who will savage their plans we need to raise our voices to heaven that’s what I’m talking about, our people are just lying in laxity. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 