The on-again, off-again and now on-again summit between President Donald Trump and North Korea’s leader Kim Jong Un is set for next week on a secluded island off the coast of Singapore, in southeast Asia, Abcnews.com has reported. Both delegations have been in the small city-state nation since the end of May preparing for the historic June 12 meeting, which the White House said Tuesday would take place at the Capella Hotel, a five-star luxury resort on Sentosa Island.’ The American team has already set up shop at the Capella Hotel, a short drive away from the main business center of the country. Joe Hagin, the White House deputy chief of staff, has reportedly met the leader of the North Korean delegation, Kim Chang Son, at the Capella to discuss the details of the summit. The two are finalizing the security, protocol and logistical details. The luxurious main reception area and guest villas were designed by Sir Norman Foster, a famous British architect who restored the former colonial buildings that once were used to house the British military during Imperial rule. The Capella has already stopped accepting bookings for the summit period, according to an executive in the hospitality industry, an early indication the hotel would be either where Trump would stay or the site of the summit. The Capella, which sits on 30 acres of lawn and rainforest, has banned journalists from entering the property since the U.S. delegation arrived. A Washington Post reporter was expelled from the grounds after trying to speak to the diplomats. Kim Jong Un’s hotel The North Korean delegation has been seen coming and going from the Fullerton Hotel, an old colonial building that was once the main post office. The hotel has a stunning position on the marina surrounded by modern skyscrapers that have sprung up on reclaimed land in the past decade. Singapore is picking up the costs of the massive security that will be required to host the event. Local media reports helicopters and planes will patrol the air and hundreds of police will monitor the various venues. Singaporean Defense Minister Ng Eng Hen told reporters over the weekend, “It’s a cost we’re willing to bear to play a small part.”  comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 