Greece and Macedonia on Sunday signed a historic preliminary agreement to rename the small Balkan nation the Republic of North Macedonia, ending a row that has poisoned relations between the two neighbours since 1991. “This is a brave, historic and necessary step for our peoples,” said Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras. “We are here to heal the wounds of time, to open a path for peace, fraternisation and growth for our countries, the Balkans and Europe,” he said. “Our two countries should step out of the past and look to the future,” said Macedonia Prime Minister Zoran Zaev. “By signing the agreement… we have really moved mountains,” he stressed. But as the two countries’ foreign ministers signed the deal Greek protesters clashed with riot police, who beat them back with tear gas near the small village of Pisoderi, 25 kilometres (16 miles) away from the ceremony. A woman was hit on the head by a rock and a man was being treated for breathing trouble, health officials said, as around 500 demonstrators waving Greek flags tried to approach the signature ceremony. The accord aims to start unravelling one of the world’s longest diplomatic disputes, which began 27 years ago with   Macedonia’s declaration of independence but whose roots date back centuries. “The time has come again to sing happy songs in the Balkans,” Tsipras said, moments before the document was signed by the foreign ministers. Zaev and several of his ministers arrived by speedboat at the picturesque fishing village of Psarades under a sunny sky, on the southern bank of Lake Prespa, one of the natural boundaries between the two countries. Tsipras and Zaev embraced on the village dock and were treated to a standing ovation by gathered dignitaries. United Nations under-secretary-general for political affairs, Rosemary DiCarlo, longterm UN negotiator, Matthew Nimetz, EU diplomatic chief Federica Mogherini and EU enlargement commissioner Johannes Hahn were on hand, snapping pictures with their smartphones. Nimetz, who turned 79 on Sunday, and was given a birthday cake, has been trying to broker a solution since 1994, first as a U.S. envoy and subsequently on behalf of the United Nations. But it was the election of Zaev in 2017, replacing nationalist prime minister, Nikola Gruevski, that proved crucial. An economist and former mayor of Strumica, Zaev made a rapprochement with Greece a priority to secure his country’s membership of the European Union and North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), blocked by Athens for years. After the signature, Tsipras crossed over to the Macedonian side of Lake Prespa for lunch, becoming the first Greek prime minister to visit the neighbouring state. Since 1991, Athens has objected to its neighbour being called Macedonia because it has its own northern province of the same name, which in ancient times was the cradle of Alexander the Great’s empire – a source of intense pride for modern-day Greeks. The two premiers, born just months apart in 1974, have bucked strong hostile reactions at home to push ahead with the agreement. Tsipras has been accused of treachery by Greek hardliners, and on Saturday defeated a vote of censure against his government amid protests and clashes with police outside parliament. In Macedonia, President Gjorge Ivanov plans to exercise a one-time veto option to block the deal that the nationalist opposition has called a “capitulation”. The Macedonian parliament is scheduled to start debating the agreement the coming week. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 