Let us go to Ogun State to prove the point that a nation can look inwards for salutary social and economic development without kowtowing to the humiliating demands or concessions of outside powers. Communist China did it decades ago and is today a durable superpower, threatening to overtake the United States as the global Number One powerhouse. When we relate this to what is happening in Ogun State’s economy under Governor Ibikunle Amosun, we can safely conclude that we had a picture of how he would handle the state right from his first year in office. While still new at the Government House, Amosun staged the maiden edition of the Ogun State Investors Forum, signalling a serious intention not to play politics with the economy of the state. The initiative saw more than 40 industries springing up in a state that had continually witnessed the death and dearth of industrial establishments over the years. Amosun’s move delivered investments which, some watchers concluded, brought in billions of naira worth of investments. These, in turn, have created hundreds of jobs, primary and secondary. These are spread across the state through a deliberate government policy that is determined to give every area of the state a share of the new lease of life which the era of Amosun is bringing. Here we can see that the government has learnt a lesson or two from the challenges associated with concentrating all your resources in only a few areas. That was what befell the nation when we had Lagos as our federal capital, necessitating the strategic move to Abuja. Amosun’s shrewd demographic economics led Ogun in 2014 to bring in investments worth N690b. It made the experts to number the state as one of the few states in Nigeria ‘’that made the biggest strides towards the national frontier of good practices.’’ Now this is what the World Bank says about this surge in salutary investment in Ogun: ‘’Ogun, one of the lowest ranked overall performers in both 2008 and 2010, is one of the top performing states in 2014…Thanks to a concerted effort across federal and state authorities, and in collaboration with the private sector, Ogun improved on three of the four Doing Business indicators benchmarked. The construction permitting system was radically overhauled, with the state authorities decentralising the approval system with a committee put in place to monitor delays. Building permit applications and payments could now be made simultaneously in district offices close to operational bases of businesses without bureaucratic delays. Private professionals approved by government could now issue environment- impact assessments in accordance with the conditions and templates set out in a framework agreement. The certificate of completion would then be issued on the spot, immediately following the final inspection.’’ You would expect that after such applause from a body that hardly showers praises, Amosun would go to sleep. He would beat his chest and declare: “’What more do I need to do after a whole World Bank has given me more than a pass mark.’’ But the global monitor and corporate money lender isn’t Amosun’s boss; nor is he answerable to it. He is accountable to the people, whom he must seek to satisfy at all times. And so even after he had been so hailed for rescuing Ogun from the club of backward debtor states, Amosun has since gone ahead to stage more editions of the Investors Forum in Abeokuta. Observers gather that the government had ‘’expanded the Bureau of Urban and Physical Planning into a full-fledged ministry and (has) adopted reforms that fast-track  the process for obtaining development permits from six weeks to two weeks and land permits to one week.’’ Governor Amosun says his administration’s ‘’one-stop shop will enable potential and existing investors to go to only one office in order to process …permits…to purchase land, obtain certificates of occupancy\governor’s consent; to access the internal revenue service; to acquire land for agriculture; and finally to access the Legal Advisory Desk—all under one roof.’’ These are some of the infrastructure put in place Amosun’s government to make it painless for investors to take full advantage of the vast business opportunities in Ogun. Yet that is not all. There has also been a security template to contain the atmosphere of unrest Amosun inherited. He had to displace insecurity for a conducive environment that would assure Nigerian and foreign entrepreneurs that their lives, property and businesses are all safe in any part of Ogun. Right before our eyes we have seen how insecurity has ravaged Nigeria’s northeast, Middle Belt and Niger Delta region. The lesson is that a nation can recharge its economic and social fortunes more by bending inwards for innovative ideas and purposeful leadership. It’s not by dependence on foreign loans or on so-called currency swap deals with superpowers. The power to tame our monster challenges lies within not without. That power is the people, our inexhaustible natural resources and a disciplined, selfless leadership. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 