After Super Eagles 2-1 loss to Three Lions of England last Saturday in their last but one friendly match before the summer World Cup in Russia in 10 days’ time, Coach Gernot Rohr, on Sunday named his team for the FIFA World Cup. Goalkeepers: Ikechukwu Ezenwa The only indigenous player in the team, who plays for Enyimba football club of Aba, made his international debut in the country’s 4-0 demolition of Cameroon in Nigeria’s third World Cup qualifier. He has no World Cup experience. He lacks not only composure but also international exposure, a very big minus in his bid to lay claim to Nigeria’s number one spot. Similarly, he has problem dealing with crosses. In short he is nervy, and this was responsible for the penalty conceded against Cameroon in Yaounde. Nigeria would have won the game if not for that error. He will need to improve on his weaknesses before the World Cup. Off the pitch, he is a very lovely person, ready to express his mind. Daniel Akpeyi Akpeyi plays his professional football with South African Chippa United. His underwhelming performance against South Africa in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier in which Nigeria lost 2-0 has made the coach to lose confidence in him. His performance against Argentina in the friendly last November worsened his case as he was very nervous. He seems to have lost self-confidence and his case was not helped when Francis Uzoho replaced him in the second half of the friendly. Uzoho’s nerve-calming performance served to highlight Akpeyi goalie’s flaws. He is experienced, very good at penalty kicks. His greatest error is that he can handle pressure. He allows stage to overwhelm him. He is not good at organising his defenders. He’s also not good at corner kicks. He is not expected to play any major impact at the World Cup. At best he is going to be the third goalkeeper. Francis Uzoho He is the team’s first choice goalkeeper. He’s tall, agile and is getting used to play for Nigeria. He is strong, agile and is not lacking in confidence. The way he denied Robert Lewandowski the ball in a one-on-one situation in the friendly against Poland speaks well of his decision making. He is good in corner kicks.  Though the second England goal last Saturday was his fault, the team would have lost scandalously if not for him. But putting trust in Uzoho for a big event like the World Cup might be risky due to his lack of experience. But his performances in the four friendly games against Poland, Serbia, DR Congo and England are encouraging. He will make a good impact in Russia since selected. At the moment, he is the best goalkeeper that the team can rely on, unless something happens. Defenders: Elderson Echiejile His greatest asset is experience, having played in one World Cup. He won the Africa Cup of Nations in 2013 for Nigeria. He is strong and can help in the attack. He has scored goals for the team. During the World Cup qualifier against Cameroon and Zambia, he was exceptional in the way he marked Cameroon strong man, Bassogog. He missed the final qualifier against Algeria last November due to injury. But his problem is dwindling performance. Serious competition from Shehu Abdullahi is undermining his influence. He is the second most experience player in the team. This player who grew up in Benin is a quiet player and very gentle. Kenneth Omeruo Omeruo has resuscitated his career. His performance against South Africa in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier in which the country lost 2-0 speak volume of his performance. But he has turned the tide with his cameo performance when he replaced Leon Balogun in the game against England last Saturday. His greatest asset is his ability to play at the right of defence and also as central defender. He is strong aerially, good tackler of the ball. He likes to play long balls, likes to dribble. He was instrumental to Nigeria winning the Africa Cup of Nations in 2013. He was also influential in Nigeria’s qualification for the 2014 World Cup. Shehu Abdullahi The qualities that define a defender are with this newly discovered player. He’s very strong in aerial duels, also very strong in tackling. He’s ball interception is excellent and also good at blocking the ball. The player is also good at short passes and because he is not afraid of tackling, he commits a lot of fouls. In terms of national team experience, he is very young in that if selected this will be his first World Cup appearance. He does not have the experience needed in a major tournament. William Troost-Ekong What stands him out is that he is a workaholic. He is very strong aerially and a good tackler of the ball also can also intercept well. His man-to-man marking inside the box is excellent. He really commits fouls in the box.  He does not display any weakness that is noticeable. He is very active in the social media and very lively personality. His partnership with Leon Balogun at the central defence has been excellent. In fact they are referred as the Oyibo wall. He will be very important to Nigeria’s success at the World Cup. He is a team player and an easy going person. Leon Balogun He is one of the defenders that have really made the Super Eagles a strong defensively. He has put his height to good use aerially where he is strong.  His strengths lie in excellent tackling, dribbling and ball interception. Why he joins the attack when Nigeria has a corner kick. His passing are a times faulty and he holds on too long to the ball. He commits a lot of fouls often. His partnership with Troost-Ekong at the centre of the defence has stabilized the defence. Off the pitch, he is a team player. He makes friend easily, and an interesting personality. Chidozie Awaziem He is a player who can play any position in the defence. He is strong, very good at tackling and also blocking of the ball. He can intercept well. His ball holding is a bit suspect. He is also strong aerially, likes to play long balls. He is not well accepted in Nigeria because of past errors. He is likeable person. Tyronne Ebuehi He is good aerially and can dribble. He can also tackle. He can also intercept. However his ball passing is suspect. He likes short passes. He has not been convincing playing at the right side of the defence. He loses concentration easily. He was the weak link against Serbia. The two goals conceded came from his wing.  He is not quick at recovery when he joins the attack. He is very jovial person. Bryan Idowu His ability to play in multiple positions has proved to be a major asset. Primarily a left-back, he’s equally adept at filling in on the right, in the centre and at the base of the midfield. He’s an individual with high energy levels; possesses high levels of endurance which allow him to cover a lot of ground over the course of a game. His work rate and stamina levels are building blocks for his indefatigable performances that endear him to fans. He is consistent, has strong interception and tackling ability. He possesses the right attitude. He needs work on his aerial game, where he can be beaten by bigger and stronger forwards. Not much is known about his life style. Midfielders: John Obi Mikel The team captain, most experienced player in the team. He missed 2010 World Cup due to injury. Was a member of the team to the 2014 World Cup in Brazil. He can play as an attacking midfielder or as a defensive midfielder. A good passer of the ball; he loves through balls, can dribble and rarely loses concentration. He is a leader and commands the respect of the players. He’s most influential in the team. Very jovial. But because of age may not be able to play full 90 minutes of high tempo. Ogenyi Onazi The team assistant captain plays both as defensive and attacking midfielder. He has knack for through balls, can pass well, and a good tackler. His ball interception is excellent. He is also good at taking shots. But of late he is losing his tacking ability. He needs to improve on this for him to be relevant in Russia. He is not that good aerially. He commits a lot of fouls, a very likeable personality, a comedian. He will improve the team if he works on his tackling. John Ogu Very strong player and has a lot of power. He can tackle very well. His positional play is excellent, discipline and can pass very well. He is very calm with the ball. He is not very mobile. He has always been unlucky with his invitation. Hopefully he can make it this time around. Off the pitch, Ogu is quiet person. If he makes the team, he will be a good backup to Mikel Obi since he can play in front of the backline. Wilfred Ndidi He is very strong aerially and also very strong in tackles. His concentration is very strong. Since he made his debut in the team he has held on to his defensive midfield position in the team. He has really improved the team defensively. He joins the attack when the team is on attack and can also recover quickly. A team player and very disciplined. He tackles excellently. Not easily provoked. Very likeable and easily makes friend. His presence will be a good plus to the team in Russia. He’s one of the reliable in the team. But he needs to work on his tackles as he miscalculates occasionally. Joel Obi He can play as attacking midfielder. His positives are that he is good at tackling and ball interception. He likes to play short passes, can cross well.  His concentration is suspect, poor crossing, holds on too long to the ball his passes are poor often. He commits too many fouls. Off the pitch, he likes to keep to himself, but a team player. Oghenekaro Etebo He can play in multiple positions, from centre forward to wide roles to a deeper position in midfield. He’s had a knack of scoring goals but he has been utilised more often as a defensive midfielder thanks to his high work rate, ability to intercept, and make clean tackles. His discipline also makes him an asset. He can pass very well; create chances, tackles very well. Defensively, he can clear the ball and intercept. He is very calm and composed and can deliver under pressure. This is why he has not made any defensive errors or errors leading to goals. But his aerial duels are poor, finishing very weak, poor crossing. Not excellent tackling. He is a very pleasant player off the field. Will be useful to the team in Russia is selected. Forwards: Ahmed Musa Musa greatest asset is his speed. Good finishing can dribble; can also hold on to the ball. He scores good goals. He likes to cut inside with the ball. He can play as a winger and also as a top striker. He can also pass effectively, and can defend. He can make use of space and a good passer of the ball. But of late he is beginning to be less effective because of age. Diminishing returns have started. But he will be a great asset to the team if introduced late into any of the games. An unassuming person, he takes things easy. Believes anything that happens is an act of God. Victor Moses He is the team’s top scorer in the World Cup qualifiers with three goals and second most influential player in the team. He can play from both sides of the attack. He can also play both as left wing back or right wing back. His concentration is very strong, coupled with excellent ball handling. Aside that he weak aerially, he is also weak in crossing. He tackles well but holds on too long to the ball and in the process loses the ball. Questions about his decision making and creativity are there. He’s playing a top level football. His contribution will be needed in Russia. He is very playful and jokes a lot. Odion Ighalo He is a very strong player, combative and aggressive. He likes to dribble and can take on defenders head on. He can shoot the ball very well and a good box to box player. But he is weak in ball holding and easily caught offside. In his last game, he scored four goals. He will make a great impact for the country at the World Cup. He is a devout Christian, who often dedicates part of his wages for Nigerian charitable organisations to help impoverished children, schools and widows below the poverty line. Alex Iwobi Iwobi has a well-developed tactical sense and a high work rate. He can play on the left of the attack, in the centre of the midfield and in the traditional number ten position. Imbued with superior technical ability in tight areas of the field. Good at attacking space. He can pass excellently well, can dribble effectively. Good at through balls and can hold on to the ball. He can cut into space and has high vision that enables him to bypass the opposition defensive structure. He is weak in finishing and needs to improve his defensive contribution that is weak. He will be invaluable to the team in Russia. Off the pitch very jovial, likes to make fun with teammates. Kelechi Iheanacho A versatile player, has have played in variety of positions. He can play on either side of the flank, behind the striker, or leading the line himself. He has great dribbling ability, which assists his ability to create attacking chances for his team. Has excellent ball control. He can also dribble very well. He likes short passes, very quick. Good finishing, can give key passes. Poor in assist can’t control long balls, weak aerially. He mixes freely and very friendly. Has a great future with the team. He plays for Manchester City of England. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 