Lagos – The 2018 edition of the prestigious Access Bank-UNICEF Charity Shield Polo tournament will hold at Fifth Chukker Polo & Country Resort, Kaduna, from Monday, June 18 – Sunday, June 24, 8 with 15 teams vying for honours in three cup categories, organizers of the event said in a press conference in Lagos on Tuesday. Campaigns for the glittering Access Bank Cup and the low-goal UNICEF Cup promise to be an exciting experience with regulars and debutants bracing for fierce games in a potentially explosive confrontations that may remain tight up till the very final day of the grand fiesta. Defending champions, Leighton Kings who are seeking their second Charity Shield title, will have their hands full as they battle two former finalists, Abuja Rubicon and KeffiPonys for the continental polo crown. The Access Bank Charity Shield Polo tournament was inaugurated by Fifth Chukker Polo and Country Club in 2003 as a fund raising platform to support local charity organizations.  Since 2006, however, this effort has been exclusively geared towards UNICEF’s intervention projects for orphans and vulnerable children. So far, more than N100 million has been raised during the charity event, for underprivileged children in northern Nigeria and this has been hailed as a huge achievement for a sporting partnership. Executive Director, Personal Banking, Access BankPlc, Victor Etuokwu, who confirmed the tournament date, said that the Bank would continue to maintain its yearly commitment in supporting UNICEF towards its projects for orphans and vulnerable children. He noted that Access Bank and Fifth Chukker had over the years been supporting UNICEF and empowering people in Maraban Jos community and its environs in Kaduna in a pivotal commitment that has continually been lauded by the public. Etuokwu expressed delight that the Access Bank UNICEF Charity Shield “is archiving its main objective of reaching out to the less privilege children in the society.” Marketing Manager of Fifth Chukker, Hafsat Ambursa said special food and entertainment fares have been added to the event this year, to make it more exciting. UNICEF Partnerships Officer, Angela Ochuko Ege, said, “There are millions of Nigerian children out of school and many of them are from the north. I do believe the power of education will transform the society. So, UNICEF looks forward to expanding this partnership (with Access Bank) to advocate the realization of children’s rights as well.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 