In today’s church, it appears that worldly songs have unconsciously taken pre-eminence and have whittled down the essence of spirituality. Worship and praise sessions in some churches are more of entertainment than bringing down God’s glory.
In this piece, YEMI ADEBISI AND CHINYERE ABIAZIEM, examine the battle between churches and worldliness. It was the sound from the strings of David’s instrument that chased away the evil spirit of madness from King Saul in the ancient days. According to the book of Job 38: 4, 7, when God was talking to Job, he asked a question that gives insight into history before earth’s creation. “Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?” This reveals that God created angels before He created earth, all for the purpose of rendering songs to honour him. The book of Revelation records the lyrics of the angels’ shouting and singing around God’s heavenly throne, not to mention that they were playing instruments in this spiritual dimension. Therefore, music is the most essential tool to gain divine attention. Unfortunately today, music, expected to link man with God in some churches has been ‘modernised’ and ‘manipulated’ to the extent that it has lost its spiritual value to entertainment and invocation of evil spirit. Music does wonders to the soul and countenance especially spirit filled songs with meaningful lyrics which can take the shape of supplication, rededication, thanksgiving and cry for help. Some still do not know that there are spirits in charge of music, little wonder some Churches are much concerned about the kind of songs the choir sings while some care less. Ace saxophonist and Music Director of The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Kunle Ajayi once told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that the General Overseer of the Church, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, gave an explicit instruction on the kind of songs allowed in the Church, as he charged them to only sing meaningful songs. There are some Churches one will attend and you double check to know whether you are actually in the Church or somewhere else because of the songs and tunes you hear- a case of singing strange songs in the Lord’s land. A pastor once narrated that the drummer he got for the parish he oversees plays the drum in a questionable way, which made him to press him for answer on if he sometimes plays in a club. His suspicion was not far from the truth as the drummer opened up that he plays in the club on Fridays but comes to the parish to offer drumming service on Sundays. The pastor was astonished and requested that he quits playing for the Church pending when he is genuinely saved. There are cases where the worship or praise leader and the instrumentalists are all craving for attention. Some even go to increase the volume of the instruments after the sound engineers or technicians have put it under control. Some Churches in the bid to keep the youth or reason best explained by them allow for the importation of secular tunes, especially those trending outside the Church. Some who are infuriated by these observations choose to stay back and come after the praise and worship session which to them is a waste of time. These are worrisome to those who see the Church as a place they ought to hear therapeutic music that will roll away the heaviness of their hearts and soothe their spirit, reason why some will never miss the worship and praise session. It is said that the misdemeanor is common in some Pentecostals and Orthodox Churches where the cord of discipline is loosened and freedom to a much extent is allowed for noise in the name of praises. Professor of Musicology, Anthony Mereni. Mereni, a quintessential music therapist with passion for the physical challenged who unarguably ranks among the most highly trained musician and musicologists, Nigeria can boast of with the conceptualisation of theories within the scope of music therapy, gave kudos recently  to Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, for showing seriousness in the adaptation of classical music. He, however, went further to note the importance of classical music: “Classical music which is also called school music has a higher value and anyone who is sincere will agree with me. Classical music is the way to go in building the morality of Nigerians and addressing the moral problem of the youth.  It builds up discipline in people, I do not want anyone to misunderstand me but that is the truth. “Those studying music should sit and do that with all seriousness. Our culture cannot be pop because any country that has pop culture cannot be serious. The problem of corruption in the country is because people cannot think interiorly, that is why you also hear things like gopspeltainment, edutainment.  I am disgusted with all these craziness.” Dr. Albert Oikelome, an Associate Professor of Music in the University of Lagos (UNILAG) giving an assessment of gospel music in Nigeria, told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that gospel artistes and Churches should stick the message of salvation while being creative and exploring both the classical and pop music. Oikelome’s comment: “Present day gospel music, is not bad but we could do better. What I mean is that there is a paradigm shift of the gospel music of the 90s’ and the 2000s’. Right now the young ones are actually experimenting on serious music and pop music which in a way is not a bad thing. We have so many of them who are not ‘wannabes’. “Gospel artistes should stick to the gospel, there is a consistent shift to the other side in a bid to want to be popular and sometimes we find it really difficult to decipher between gospel music and other music. I advise gospel artistes to be creative; that they should stick to the gospel does not mean they should not be creative. “But they should not get to the point where if we listen to gospel music and we ask ourselves if it is gospel music, if what is gospel music is not spreading the good news then there is a problem because gospel is good news.” On the future of classical music in Nigeria, the founder of Bestspring Chorale who expressed delight that efforts being made in the revival of classical music is yielding fruit as more youth are embracing it unlike what used to be obtainable years ago. Apostle Orokoya Telemi, President of Association of Nigerian Gospel Artistes, stressed that Churches should acknowledge the place of premium gospel music, while urging choristers, music leaders to cultivate a stable relationship with God, so that they can always be led by God and not go worldly. “I believe we are growing the only thing is that we should be more original and get more inspiration from God by knowing the God we are serving. This is the most important thing as most people copy what they hear from others. When you say you are singing gospel music, the message must be gospel because you are ministering to souls,” Telemi pointed out. Pastor Leke Adeboye, last child of Pastor Adeboye at a training for Sound Engineers and the inauguration of ‘One Halleluyah Records’, made known that the value of  holy ghost filled music cannot be overemphasised. “In the world of joyful noise that goes for music and the absence of  people with meaningful songs have caused the world to accept the only alternative that is available,  but the Almighty God like songs, hymns that can calm nerves, send out demons and can draw the soul of men and women closer to God, but unfortunately people with such talents do not  have a platform to excel and that is the purpose of RCCG setting up ‘One Hallelujah Records’ so that those that can actually sing meaningful songs and bring down the presence of God will have a  platform…”. He added that the Church through ‘One Hallelujah Records’ seeks to nurture the body of Christ and project the abundant talented gospel music ministers. Pastor Chigozie Anyanwu, Choir director of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Lagos Chapter, once cautioned Christians against embracing worldly dance steps and styles. “You see all this ‘Soki’, ‘Shakiti Bobo’, ‘Alanta’ etc and many other demonic names they bear are from the pits of hell. Those who dance them are the children of the devil. Period James 4:4. Moses did not dance any ‘Dab’ dance. It is a lie from the pit of hell and should not be embraced by the church of God. Exodus 34:8. “Moses bowed his head to the earth and worshiped”. Let’s return back to the cross and live our lives totally for Christ and he will defend his name in us. Let him that has ears hear,” the choir director added. Gospel music veteran, Pastor Joseph Adelakun, popularly known as Baba Ayewa, who is the president of Ayewa International Gospel Singers that recorded the evergreen ‘Amona te te mabo song’ , lamented that Christians are relenting in correcting the societal ills going on. “As Christians we still have a lot to do and one of our core responsibilities is to take the gospel to the ends of the earth. We should not relent in talking against it and also living an exemplary life. Christianity is a race and we should not get tired. “The challenge facing Nigeria like many other nations is that many Christians have gone to sleep. We are meant to be the salt of the earth and the light of the world. There is darkness in the world and the mind of people in every sphere of life is filled with darkness. Don’t forget that as a nation is so is the church,” the veteran stated. A gospel artiste, Psalm Ebube, in an interview shared that praise and worship is a supernatural experience not entertainment or even art. “My advice to Church leaders on worship in Churches firstly I’ll like to share  about the value as a worship leader of maintaining a steadfast walk with God personally, of understanding the role of praise and worship, and of valuing his or her unique assignment as a worship leader or music minister. “Praise and worship is a supernatural experience; it’s not entertainment or even art. And to assist others in that experience  to create an atmosphere where the Spirit of God can move among the people and do a work in their hearts, it also requires diligence and commitment, not just ‘showing up’ each week to minister. In other words, leading worship is something you do on purpose and with purpose.” Continuing he said the Bible is the foundation of the Christian  faith and should therefore not be neglected during worship. “One great way to use the Scripture is at the beginning of the praise and worship segment to bring a word of encouragement to people. In doing this, you’re directing people’s attention to God and his word. “Their minds may be burdened and full of anxiety and care, but as they begin to look at Jesus, their focus is changed, and it’s easier to lead them into the presence of God in worship. “Lead the people in worship. When people come to church, they have a lot of things on their minds, paying bills, obtaining their basic needs, mending relationships, especially in this state of our nation etc,” he stated. He however added: “For many, worshiping God is the furthest thing from their mind. The job of a worship leader is to exhort and encourage people to turn their attention toward God where it needs to be to bring honour to him to whom honour is due and to prepare the way for him to move in. “Choose songs that are easy to sing, loud music, guitar riffs, and creative arrangements can be great, but if the music is too loud or there’s been too much arrangement that you can no longer focus on the words, the song becomes distracting.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 