Lagos – Femi Gbajabiamila, Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, has been in the eye of the news during the week, since he surprised his wife with a Mercedes G-wagon, selling between N75m and N100m, as her 50th birthday gift. Since then, there have been questions on what spurred the man to splash so much money on a gift when the economy has just been barely pulled out of recession and when his religion, Islam, expects him to be ascetic. While it has been criticism from one quarter, others insist that the wonder on wheels is a befitting gift for a woman who has remained loyal through thick and thin. The lawmaker’s wife, known as Yemisi or Salamatu, but fondly called Sal, turned 50 on Thursday, May 25, but celebrated her 50th birthday with a Mad Hatter-themed party on Saturday, May 27, at their Banana Island, Lagos home amongst friends, family and well-wishers. One of the highpoints of the party was the presentation of the automobile to the woman. Explaining how he was able to raise money for the car he bought for his wife via a statement, Gbajabiamila said that he worked for 12 years to buy the car. According to the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, the birthday celebration was not an impromptu event but one that had been anticipated and planned for a couple of years to convey his gratitude to a wife who has weathered all kinds of storms with him. “I could never have been half the man I am today without her support and unbelievable understanding. Truly, the monetary value of any gift, real or imagined, pales in significance when I consider how much of a ‘rock and pillar’ she has been to me…(it was) an expression of deep appreciation and love for my wife of almost thirty years, rather than one of flamboyance.” Gbajabiamila said. He went on to explain that he was not unmindful of the pervasive poverty around, and especially the need to be conservative and ascetic in the month of Ramadan. He took these into consideration and decided to make the matter a private family affair witnessed by family members and friends in moderate numbers. The man is however not new to giving out cars, as it is on record that he gifted a disabled lawyer identified as Kamarudeen Idowu a Toyota Corolla sometimes back. Gbajabiamila didn’t just gift the car, but also to give the lawyer a driver and paid for the driver’s service for a year. First elected in 2003, Gbajabiamila, a lawyer, was re-elected in 2007, 2011 and 2015. A product of Igbobi College in Yaba, Lagos; King William’s College on the Isle of Man, United Kingdom; John Marshall Law School in Chicago, Illinois, United States, and the University of Lagos in Lagos, he represents Surulere Federal Constituency 1 in the House of Representatives. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 