Abuja – As anticipation heightens ahead of the June 23 national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a frontrunner for the chairmanship seat, Chief Clement Ebri, has advised Comrade Adams Oshiomhole not to take shelter behind the purported endorsement by President Muhammadu Buhari. Chief Ebri spoke shortly after he was successfully screened by the party’s convention screening subcommittee headed by Alhaji Aminu Masari, governor of Katsina State. The former Cross River State governor told journalists that President Buhari, whom he described as a democrat, could not have endorsed Oshiomhole, insisting that at the end of the day stakeholders of the ruling party would be allowed to make their choice at the convention. “I don’t think any politician can threaten or intimidate me,” he fired back when told he was running against some heavyweights. “It is all about hard work and focus, and I am working hard and seriously focussed on it. This is not the biggest battle I have fought. “The endorsement is highly speculative, until I hear from the president. “But even at that, the president is a democrat to the core; he had said it before that he is not going to interfere in party matters. “So, if he has said that, one cannot therefore take shelter behind such endorsement. He also dismissed the suggestion that Oshiomhole had an edge against any of the contestants. “Well, if it has given him an edge that will be determined by the votes on the day of the convention. “But don’t forget that in politics one minute is very important. Things can change at short notice, even now things are changing that can make that thing (endorsement) impossible any longer.” While affirming that he was reaching out as well as any of the aspirants, Ebri said he would rather keep his strategy to his chest. On what he was bringing to the table in the party, Chief Ebri said his desire was to reunite the APC and ensure equity and justice which, he said, had taken a flight following the rancorous ward, LGA, and state congresses. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 