Oghenekaro Etebo, Super Eagles midfielder, has called on his teammates to stay focused for the game against Iceland on Friday as that remains the only way to win and target the second round in the ongoing World Cup in Russia. He also asked the Super Eagles fans to maintain their faith in the team as any team could stutter at the beginning and recover strongly to finish up well. He harped on the spirit of quick recovery while noting that the game of football is full of surprises. Super Eagles lost their first match on Saturday against a star-studded Croatian side in Kaliningrad, Russia 2-0. “I’m short of words but it is a game of football. So the best thing to do is to hold our heads up and work towards the next game. This is the way it usually goes with football. We have lost this one (against Croatia) and the best way out is to forget about the painful experience and move on strongly,” Etebo said Etebo, who assured that the team was determined to put aside the set back and qualify for the next stage said that they would do a thorough review of their errors and work hard to collectively overcome. He harped on the team’s reaction to set pieces. “Apart from this game and some of the friendlies many of the goals we conceded were from set pieces and now I believe we really need to take it so importantly (ability to defend set pieces very well). This is very important for us; this is important for the team and that is what we need now starting with the next game,” he added. He then pleaded with Nigerians to also put aside the result of the first game, and like the team, focus on their next match which would largely underline how far they could go in the 2018 World Cup. He said, “We lost but it’s still bright out there. It’s just for us to keep our heads up and stay much focused for the next game and work on what we have to do to qualify. That’s the way to go.” Apart from Etebo, many of his teammates have thanked the fans for their love and support while calling the team for continued support. Team captain Mikel Obi; Chelsea wing back Victor Moses and Leon Balogun are some of those who have underlined the team’s determination to qualify for the next stage. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 