Police in Lagos have arrested a 32-year-old mother of four, Joy Imeribe, for allegedly pouring hot water on her husband causing severe burnt to the victim and almost took his life. The incident happened in Ijesha area of the state. It was gathered that the woman had intended to kill her husband over minor domestic quarrel which they had. The husband, Ibe Akachi, according to the police is currently battling to save his life in an undisclosed hospital. Joy, who was paraded on Wednesday by the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, told journalists that she did it in self-defense. She said: “Akachi is really not my husband because he has not paid my bride price. Although I have four children for him, but in my tradition he is not yet my husband, probably that was why he was beating me at any slightest provocation. He is not a caring husband as he was not providing food for the family, so I over-stretched myself trying to provide for our children. “On the fateful day I left home very early to Yaba market, where I sell used cloths. I couldn’t get enough market so, I delayed to get reasonable quantity of materials for sale. I returned home late but not too late. I came around 9 p.m. and he dragged me inside the house and started punching me with blows and slaps. I was crying for help but he locked the door behind us so no one came to assist me. He beat me till dawn and I was sick. “The following day, he woke me up and said I should prepare food for the children but I told him I was tired and feeling excruciating pains. He left me and started boiling water with a boiling ring, probably to bath the children. I don’t know what came over him again and he started saying that he would kill me. He asked me to go and give bath to the children, I replied by saying with all the pains on my neck and head which he subjected me to the previous night. So, he started punching me again and again. He started dragging my head so when I was becoming too weak, I became afraid  that if I did not resist him, he may kill me, so I poured the hot water on him in self-defense and that was when he left me. “After the incident, I started regretting my action because he is the father of my children. I went to the hospital to visit him but his family chased me away. My family sent emissary to him but his family rejected our apology. I regret what I did but he was the cause of the problems. My family had advised me to quit the marriage as he was always beating me but I wouldn’t listen. If I had left the marriage, I wouldn’t have been in this mess. Up till today he has not married me legally and I wondered why I was still with him, even when he does not provide for the up keep of the family. Her husband, Akachi had told the police that his wife had been coming back late and when he reprimanded her she started abusing him and poured hot water on him adding that it almost killed him. Edgal, said the suspect allegedly emptied half bucket of hot water on her husband, Akachi, thereby scalding his body so badly. He said: “The husband and wife had disagreement over the woman’s coming late at night. The quarrel persisted till the following morning where the incident occurred. The woman did not deny committing the act. She will be charged to court after investigation is concluded”, the CP said. Commenting further on the incident, the police boss appealed to couples having matrimonial issues to look for a better and non-violent means of settling such scores. “I want couples who are having matrimonial issues, women who have been abused by their husbands, men who have been abused by their wives, not to keep quiet. They should discuss either with professionals, family members, the church and share their problems with others for advice and a better form of finding lasting solution for such issues rather than violent method. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 