Lagos – Though a reception held on June 15, 2018 at Abak, Akwa Ibom State, in honour of Nsima Ekere, the Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, was packaged by a political group called Abak-5 Redemption Movement, it would be an understatement to describe the carnival-like event as that of Abak-5, which comprises of five local government areas that made up defunct Abak Division. Also, notwithstanding that the event was chaired by Chief Don Etiebet, who, by origin, is also of the Abak-5 stock, his intimidating pedigree in the politics of Akwa Ibom and the national clout he commands heightened the ceremony beyond precinct of amalgam of five local government areas. In fact,  the presence of other top notch of All Progressive Congress, APC, in Akwa Ibom State added up to colouring the occasion beyond the colour of Abak-5. Umana Okon Umana, the 2015 candidate of the APC and Managing Director of Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority, OGFZA, and Rita Akpan, former Minister of Women Affairs under Olusegun Obasanjo presidency, who are from Uyo axis of the State, were not only present but delivered messages that reverberated beyond the boundaries of the former Abak Division. From the Akwa Ibom North East (Uyo) Senatorial District, Chief Sunny Jackson, a veteran politician and chieftain of APC, Ignatius Edet, former Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly among others also attended. The presence of Otu Ita Toyo, a former chairman of Akwa Ibom State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, also made a loud statement that the event was not limited to a section of Akwa Ibom just as his message suggested Oron ethnic group’s proud identification with Ekere and tended to confirm notion in certain quarters that who was who in Akwa Ibom PDP are now the who’s who in the state’s APC. In fact, there were some former commissioners in the immediate past administration of Godswill Akpabio – Prof Etok Ekanem, Dr Emem Wills, John Harry, and others. A former PDP State Women Leader, Victoria Mel-Udoh, and former Deputy Majority Whip of the State House of Assembly, Mabel Udongwo also attended and delivered goodwill messages. If the personalities at the event indicated that the ceremony transcended geographical map of the five local government areas, the totality of the attendance spoke volume of a state event for an individual. A microcosmic of Abak-5, therefore, appears a euphemism. An excited Etiebet, who is a Board of Trustees, BOT, member of the APC, described it as “sea of heads” but the former Women Affairs minister, shifted away from the cliché and called it “ocean of heads”. Though tumultuous crowd for event of such nature in Akwa Ibom may not, after all, be surprising, the marked difference was that there were no known sign of crowd renting as it is often the case in some other events of that kind. Besides, the patience of pleasantly waiting for Ekere, who arrived about five hours after scheduled, also made voluminous voice of voluntariness on the part of people that attended the event. Messages delivered further showed that the thank-you event for the Managing Director of NDDC was one too many. Using direct comparison between Governor Udom Emmanuel and Godswill Akpabio on one hand, Etiebet had hailed Ekere as the one that has been rising up to the challenges of the people of Abak Division, particularly on emergency situation that arose in certain parts of the area following gully erosion. Etiebet, who is also chairman of Akwa Ibom State APC Caucus, said that though others have approached him for support to become governor in the state come 2019, he has made up his mind to throw his weight behind Ekere. The business mogul even announced that the people of Abak-5 have resolved to purchase APC governorship nomination form for Ekere because, according to him, “He is not yet governor but he has already intervened in the problems of Abak-5”. Earlier in his welcome address, Mr Chris Okorie, who chaired the organizing committee of the reception, had said that the movement was to champion the redemption of Abak-5 from a vicious cycle of oppression and absence of development by successive governments. Okorie, who was formerly Special Assistant to Emmanuel on Electoral Matters, explained that the reception was organised to appreciate Ekere for “standing by us to rebuild the bridge that has brought change to Abak-5 and indeed the entire state.” He said that the “Movement” was conceived by the people to honour Ekere for “the visible infrastructural developments he has brought to the area through NDDC.” Reiterating that the people of Abak-5 are affirming faith in the NDDC boss because, in his words, “he is poised to change the landscape of the area, empower the people and bring Real time development to Abak.” Umana, announced that long before the Abak-5 people, the people of Akwa Ibom North-East Senatorial District had resolved to purchase the APC governorship nomination form for Ekere because of his outstanding performance at the NDDC. Using a pronoun that showed that he is speaking the minds of the people of his senatorial district, Umana said, “We have come here to support and show solidarity with the people of Abak-5, who have taken the right decision to honour Obong Nsima Ekere for his outstanding performance as the Managing Director of NDDC.” He added: “We have come here to say that this honour is well-deserved. You cannot hide performance. So this is somebody who performs. That is why we have come here.” The APC governorship candidate for 2015 in Akwa Ibom also used the forum to debunk reports in a section of the media that a rift is running through his relationship with the NDDC boss. While presenting a gift of a symbolic sword of authority and a native cow by the people of Abak to the NDDC Managing Director, a former Deputy Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Mr.Uwem Udoma, described Ekere as the real deal for Abak-5, assuring him of the support of the people of the area. The call on Ekere to run for Akwa Ibom State governorship in 2019 was apparently given vent to by a resolution. Moderated by Etiebet, a motion was moved by Emmanuel Ukoete, the Member representing Ukanafun/OrukAnam Constituency in the House of Representatives, and seconded by Ekperikpe Ekpo a former Member of the House of Representatives, following which, the people, through a voice vote, unanimously called on Ekere to throw his hat into the ring for the governorship contest. Meanwhile, Ekere had expressed appreciation to the Abak-5 people for what he called their show of love and confidence and promised to react to their call at the appropriate time. His words: “This call by Abak 5, I have taken note of and I will consider it very seriously at the appropriate time,” “Today, I am still the Managing Director of NDDC. I have work to do for the Niger Delta and Akwa Ibom State. The President graciously gave us this job. We are committed to delivering on it. When the time for election and politics comes, I will come back and remind you of this resolution you passed today and I will ask you whether this resolution still stands.” Taking his turn, Ekere seized the opportunity to move a motion for the endorsement of Buhari for a second term, stressing that the President had demonstrated uncommon love for Akwa Ibom State, particularly in terms of appointments. He lauded the President for support given  to the NDDC, especially his approval for the harmonization of outstanding remittances from the Federal Ministry of Finance and release of outstanding funds due the commission for the development of the Niger Delta region. He decried the disruption of NDDC projects allegedly by agents of the Akwa Ibom State government, reasoning that it was counter-productive because “the money NDDC is using to develop Akwa Ibom State is our own share of money for the development of the Niger Delta.” The NDDC boss promised that the commission will continue to seek ways of constructive engagement with all governments in the region “so that we can bring development to all nooks and crannies of the Niger Delta. He urged the people of Akwa Ibom State to vote for the APC. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 