Numbers of migrants trying to reach Western Europe via Albania have leapt this year, with people smugglers opening a new Balkan route for those fleeing conflict or poverty in the Middle East, North Africa and Asia. Migrants gathered outside the Asylum Seekers Centre in Tirana told newsmen how they wanted to find work in a variety of European Union countries, dodging police on the way there. “The flow of migrants heading for EU member Croatia across Albania and its northern neighbour Montenegro remains modest compared with the hundreds of thousands who took a route further to the east when the European migration crisis peaked in 2015. “But the rate of increase this year is rapid,’’ they added. Officials say Albanian authorities caught 2,311 migrants in the first five months, up from just 162 in January to May 2017 and over double the figure of about 1,000 for the whole of 2017. During the 2015 crisis, migrants tried to travel from Greece through Macedonia and Serbia to EU member Hungary, until this route was sealed by border guards and fences. With warmer weather encouraging travel from the overcrowded Greek camps, the government feels it has controlled the flow so far. However, impoverished Albania appealed in May to Austria, where the right-wing government is cracking down on migration, for help. Security and police officials from the region met in Bosnia this week to discuss their response to growing traffic along the new route. More than 5,500 refugees and migrants have entered Bosnia this year.
Albanian police said they have arrested a handful of people smugglers this year ferrying migrants in taxis or vans. This included two Algerians near the Montenegrin border this week. The government wants aid to increase patrols on the Greek border and has welcomed a decision by the European border agency Frontex to send officers to fight crime and curb migration. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 