Ahmed Musa superb technique in Super Eagles’ second Group D match on Friday in Volgograd, Russia, saw Nigeria sweeep aside World Cup debutants, Iceland with two goals from the former Leicester City striker. The Super Eagles would have gone out with a defeat after the lack luster put up against Croatia in their Group’s opening match last Saturday, but came good in Volgograd to put smiles on the faces of Nigerians. Musa brilliance saw him fired Nigeria ahead on the half volley in the 49th minute off Victor Moses cross for the first goal. Nigeria remained in control and always looked more likely to score. So it proved as Musa added a second in the 75th minute. He collected a long ball out of the back, outpaced Iceland defender, Kari Arnason, and then rounded keeper Hannes Thor Halldorsson before putting the ball in the back of the net. Iceland misery was made complete in the 82nd minute. A VAR-assisted penalty was awarded when Tyronne Ebuehi bowled Finnbogason over in the box, but Gylfi Sigurdsson could only hit the resulting spot kick over the bar. Despite throwing everything into attack, Iceland couldn’t break through the Super Eagles’ defence. Nigeria now find themselves in the unenviable position of controlling their own destiny heading into the last round of the group. A win over Argentina will be enough for the Super Eagles to secure passage into the second round. They will need to be wary of the La Albiceleste, however, who still remain alive despite two games of struggle. Reacting after the match, Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr praised his players for their superb performance, which he said, was very clear in the second half. “The second was very good for Nigeria than the first half. The players have learnt from the mistakes in the match against Croatia and we’ve also worked on the set pieces, which paid off for us. “Obviously, we will improve with the performance in our last Group match against Argentina on Tuesday,” Rohr said. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari (PMB) has sent heartily congratulations to the team on the victory on Friday. The President said he was particularly delighted at the confidence, discipline, team-work and indomitable spirit displayed by the young Nigerian players. PMB felicitated with the Nigerian team through a statement by his media aide, Femi Adesina, urging the players not to limit themselves but rather sustain the current winning momentum by going all out against their last group opponent, Argentina, next week. According to the PMB,“I am confident that if our players believe in themselves, they can qualify out of their difficult group and even go very far in the tournament,” adding that “with determination, nothing is impossible.” He however urged all Nigerians to continue to rally round the Nigerian ambassadors with their prayers and other forms of support. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 