Abuja – Leaders and governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have queued behind favourite, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, for the chairmanship position ahead of the party’s forthcoming national convention. They described the forthcoming June 23 election for the position as a “no-contest”. Led by Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the party stalwarts said their visit to Oshiomhole’s campaign office was not just for the purpose of expressing solidarity but expressing a clear support for him. Kebbi State governor, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, who captured the mood of the governors said they were mobilising delegates from their various states in support of the former Edo State governor. Governor Bagudu premised his support for Oshiomhole on his experience in virtually all aspects of national life, saying Oshiomhole would bring this to bear in building the APC. “Our party is looking forward to Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. “He’s experienced in various aspects of national life and we are confident the party is structured in a manner that is necessary for the continued evolution and maintenance of democracy. “His collective experience, in recent past as executive governor of Edo State, trade union leader – one of the most successful trade union leaders the country has produced – and democratic activism all his life. “All these qualities would be brought to bear in achieving the ideals of the All Progressives Congress. “So, we believe he will be the leader that will be the embodiment of the spirit of the APC and we believe his experience will help him place the party central to governance. “I’m not the chairman of the APC Governors’ Forum, but I can tell you that Adams Oshiomhole is my candidate for chairman,” the Kebbi State governor said. Other governors that declared their unalloyed support for Oshiomhole included Gov Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State; Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu; governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun; Tanko Al-Almakura (Nasarawa); Gov Yahaya Bello (Kogi), and Solomon Lalong (Plateau). Speaking to journalists, Governor Ganduje whose state, Kano, was coming with the largest number of delegates to the convention, said the state’s delegates would lead the Oshiomhole-must-win campaign at the convention. The governors who took turns to inspect Oshiomhole’s campaign office were unanimous that the combination of Oshiomhole and President Muhammadu Buhari would galvanize and unite APC in the interest of the country. They were joined by Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who led other leaders of the party, including Bisi Akande, Chris Ngige, amongst numerous others to declare their support. According to Tinubu, Oshiomhole’s endorsement was in line with the party’s desire to produce a progressive leader that would propel APC for governance. Amid the endorsements on Tuesday, Chief Ibrahim Emokpaire, one of the aspirants for chairman, announced his withdrawing from the race. He said his move was to lend full support to Oshiomhole who, he said, was the most qualified of the aspirants for chairman. With the spate of endorsements, it is yet to be seen whether Clement Ebri, former Cross River State governor, and Prof Oserheimen Osunbor will throw in the towel before the convention slated for June 23. Adams Oshiomhole had received presidential endorsement, a move that gave the former labour leader an unassailable head start against other contestants. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 