A new electronic payment solution whereby cash can be exchanged between users and merchants in their neighbourhood is soon to be introduced in the Nigerian market by Total Infotech & Telecoms Limited, a Lagos based firm. According to the firm, CashUrban is a secure online cash exchange platform where users can transfer and receive cash within their neighborhoods with ease through the assistance of cash merchants registered on its platform. The Chief Executive Officer, Total Infotech & Telecoms Limited, Mr. Olaniyi Adeosun, says the service offered by the company is unique as it gives both merchants and users of the service convenience in cash transactions. “What we are bringing to the marketplace is a simple, easy to use, but unique solution that can simplify the way we access our cash in the banks. With registered merchants such as shops, supermarkets, filling stations, shopping malls etc all around us, people will find it convenient to access their money,” he noted. Adeosun says the platform is currently offering a free registration of merchants across the country that will partake in the service delivery to intending users. A merchant, he explains, is any business that handles petty cash such as shops, supermarkets, petrol stations, lotto shops, sports betting companies, electricity token vending companies etc. On the criteria for a firm to qualify as a merchant, he says all that is required is a simple online registration process, which would require the submission of some form of identification and details.  After this, he adds, some verification would be done, to ensure that information submitted meet required criteria to serve the public. According to Adeosun, who is also the founder of CashUrban, for the purpose of safety, a cash merchant must have an open environment where they can hand over cash with guaranteed safety. On the benefits of the service, Adeosun says: “Our solution has been designed to address obvious gaps and challenges inherent in the Nigerian payment market today. Although a lot of efforts have been made by banks to provide ATMs, the ones available are not enough and sometimes do not have cash to dispense to customers, thereby making users to travel long distances to access their money. This is the gap we want to close.” He however said, registration on the platform is free and cash merchants will earn some token fees for providing the services to their customers. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 