In our offering today, we will try to look at the different sides of a phenomenon that has become an enigma in one of the states in Nigeria. It is an enigma of sorts because even the victims of its caprices have failed to fully grasp the persona of the mouse biting them and at the same time fanning them to sleep with its pungent breath. The phenomenon has the voice of a philanthropist, but has the hand of a Gameboy. According to Wikipedia, philanthropy means the love of humanity. A conventional modern definition is “private initiatives, for the public good, focusing on quality of life,” which combines an original humanistic tradition with a social scientific aspect developed in the 20th century. The definition also serves to contrast philanthropy with business endeavours, which are private initiatives for private good, and with government endeavours, which are public initiatives for public good. A person who practises philanthropy is called a philanthropist. I internalised the word, Gameboy, after seeing a Nigeria/Ghana home movie with the same title. Starring Jackie Appiah, Majid Michel, Nadia Buari among others; the alternative name for the movie could be Playboy. Thinking himself the modern day Smart Alec, the Gameboy (Majid Michel) outsmarted his own city’s big girls (Jackie Appiah inclusive) and moved on to another city to continue his exploits. There, Nadia Buari came handy as the irresistible bait. And the story continued when her father planted a secret agent as a helpless imbecile in her daughter’s home. Our subject cut a nice picture of a philanthropist to people like us before he became governor of Imo State. We fell head over heels in love with his persona. His oratory was the icing on the cake. Don’t get it twisted; some of my colleagues and bosses are still impressed by the philanthropy. One told me that he would not stop loving the Imo governor; not with the impression the governor created in him when he said his schools were for the children of the poor (those whose parents cannot provide for); not even for children of the civil servant who receives N18,000 (about $50) monthly as minimum wage. For those who care to listen, I have tried to explain how the draught game is played. When planning to destroy the opponent, a very good player strategises to bribe the person at the other side of the board. The bait may be up to five, if the consequence will end the game in the plotter’s favour. Many alleged that it was through fraud that the man got the resources for his philanthropy. But we thought: who cares, since he is using it to benefit the society. We, however, forgot the draught game strategy. Not many reasoned that the philanthropist had an ulterior motive; that his philanthropy was far from altruism. Politics is the goal. And when the man made his triumphant entry into the murky waters of Nigerian politics, it was like when a baby elephant was born. The earth felt it. He inched very close to clinching the flag of a popular party. The sage advised that if you want to get to the top of the Iroko tree, aim for the sky. Our subject matter knows that. Having succeeded in raising the bar of his personality, he went to his home state to tell them that, as a presidential material, he had come to do them a favour of taking up the governorship. That seemed a good deal. Once he grabbed the governance joystick, he bared his imperial fangs. Barely concluding his first term, he let himself off the grasp of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) godfathers by joining the newly-formed All Progressives Congress (APC) then. Enter the Gameboy. Seventeen months ago, Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo had promised to deliver five aircraft for domestic flight operations in its agreement with Dana Air. However, investigations revealed that the state government is yet to deliver even one as at Tuesday, June 19, 2018. The investigation revealed that the McDonnell Douglas MD-83 aircraft with the registration number 5N-SRI, that Okorocha claimed was recently acquired by the state government to provide air services to the indigenes of the state actually belongs to Dana Air. Dana Air had in January 2017 named one of the aircraft in its fleet ‘Imo Air’, in an agreement reached with the Imo governor. Can you beat that? Recently, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was supposed to commission some buildings and other facilities built by Okorocha. But you can’t deceive the gods, as one of them, Amadioha, came calling to expose the fraud. Wind blew and exposed the bunghole of the chicken. A little rain and everything collapsed like pack of cards. He is yet to respond to allegations that he and his family fraudulently acquired a large portion of the state. We are still waiting. If robbing Peter to pay Paul is philanthropy, I think the Nigerian government should apologise to the Anini family of Edo State for executing their son, Lawrence, who robbed the rich and shared to the poor. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 