Lagos – Group of the ongoing World Cup in Russia has assumed the ominous ‘Group of Death’ status. And this presupposes that all the four teams-Argentina, Nigeria, Croatia and Iceland- have equal chance of reaching the knockout stage. But only two teams will qualify from the group. The question is which two teams will fall by the way side? This is the hurdle Super Eagles players will attempt to cross as they begin their quest for glory with their opening game against Croatia this evening in Kaliningrad. This is a group, losing a match will mean fighting for your life in subsequent group matches. “This group is probably the toughest in the tournament; everyone is calling it the ‘group of death’, said Mikel Obi, Super Eagles captain in an interview during the week. “That is the motivation. We have given ourselves the target of coming out of this group just like we did in the African qualifying group that everyone gave the same tag.” If wishes were horses, beggars will ride. This is no African qualifying series. This is the World Cup where the best teams in the world exhibit the stuff they are made of. Super Eagles performance in their last three friendly matches before the tournament kicked off on Thursday do not offer any hope. Losing all is not the problem but the way manner they lost confirms what the pessimists have always said, Super Eagles not good for the World Cup. From the goalkeeping department to the defence and the midfield, the team does not offer any hope. Even Coach Gernot Rohr confirms nine days to the kickoff that “we are not ready for the World Cup.” The team is poor in set pieces, the defence looks uncoordinated, and there is more individual play. Coach Johannes Bonfrere, former Super Eagles coach raised his fears in an interview saying, “they are not playing well as a unit. They prefer playing for individual glory. I’ve not seen any improvement in the way the team played their last two friendly games. You expected that the mistakes that they made against England would be corrected against Czech Republic but it was even worse. So we have to look forward to the next game maybe they will show a marked improvement although, unfortunately, that will be the World Cup game against Croatia. “What I noticed is that the players are playing too much individual football and when you have too many players doing that, it will hurt the team. If you lose the ball, you must run back to help get it away from the opponent. That’s why it is a team. In the friendly games I noticed that when they lose the ball, about two three players keep standing without trying to help the team. They stand some 25 yards away at the middle line without showing interest in what their teammates are doing to get the ball back. If you do this, then you have two or three players less than the other team in your own half.” Bonfrere also commented on the team’s formation hinting not having a definite pattern could be counter-productive in Russia. “If you can stick to a system and let the players get the hang of it, then you have potentially one of the best team at the moment. You cannot play 4-4-2 today and 4-3-3 tomorrow and then next week 5-4-1. It’s not possible. A team going to the World Cup cannot do this,” he said. After a closed door nine days of intense training, Rohr said on Thursday that Super Eagles are mentally and physically ready for the tournament. “We are looking forward to the match with a lot of optimism. It will be a tough one, but we are physically and mentally ready. We had quality preparatory matches and trained twice at our final camp in Austria, and since arriving in Essentuki, we have done some useful tactical preparation. “It is important to start well in a good tournament like this, and that is what we hope to do on Saturday,” Rohr said Thursday. What formation is still hazy, but against a Croatian side that is filled with quality players, it is a game Eagles must not lose. Croatia arrive in Russia with the sort of quality and experience that should make them a threat to any team, marking them out as tournament dark horses. While their qualifying campaign was spotty, the buildup to the World Cup has been promising with wins over Senegal and Mexico and a 2-0 loss to Brazil. For Croatia everything revolves around Real Madrid playmaker Luka Modric, for many the best midfielder in the game today, while Andrej Kramaric, Ivan Perisic and Mario Mandzukic will provide the goals. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 