Since the NBA Finals began in 1947, there have been 71 champions and, of those, only eight champs could definitively say they were the best team for four straight games. On Friday night, the Golden State Warriors topped the Cleveland Cavaliers to become the ninth team in NBA history to stake such a claim. Dominant is a word often used to describe how the Golden State Warriors handle their opponents. Some may say they’re exciting, others might mention that they’re relentless; heck, some might even proclaim they’re just unfair. But, after Friday’s big 108-85 win against LeBron James and the Cavs, “champion” is once again the most accurate term to bestow upon this team. Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant (your 2018 Finals MVP by the way), Klay Thompson and Draymond Green managed to lead this team through another year of injuries, series deficits and improved rosters league-wide and come out on the other side victorious. Though most of Dub Nation probably never doubted the outcome following an exhausting Game 1, the fashion in which the Dubs dispatched King James and his “not-so-merry men” still comes as a bit of a surprise. No need to recap what the Dubs did in Games 2 and 3 (you can see for yourself) but their Game 4 performance was another animal entirely. Aside from the 23-point win, the Warriors drained 14 3-pointers, made all 16 of their free throw attempts and tallied 13 (!) blocks. In short, it made my dad text me “GSW made that look so easy” immediately after the game so that’s all you really need to know honestly. Not since the 2007 San Antonio Spurs (more on them in a moment) has a team stepped up and swept through the NBA Finals. This feat comes with an extra cherry on top due to the fact that the win brought not only the franchise’s sixth title but also this core group’s second straight ring. The 2017-18 Warriors and their legendary showing in these finals will now join a list already filled with men who’s names already or will soon adorn the shiny walls in Springfield, Ma. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 