Officials of the Nigeria Football Federatuion (NFF) have agreed to pay Super Eagles players’ losing bonus as means of motivating them to qualify for the second round of the ongoing World Cup in Russia. Super Eagles lost their opening game 2-0 to Croatia on Saturday and need to win their remaining two group matches against Iceland on Friday and Argentina on June 26 to qualify for the second round. According to sportsville.com, the NFFhas resolved to pay the players and their coaches what could pass as a “losing bonus” for the game against Croatia, should they at the end of day, qualify for the second round of the tournament. This was disclosed on Tuesday by Seyi Akinwumi, the NFF first Vice President in Saint Petersburg. According to Akinwumi, the Amaju led board was ready to do anything that would motivate the boys to reach the second round of the tournamet. “We have reached a new agreement with the players. We are doing everything possible to motivate them. What we have resolved now is that if they qualify for the second round, they will get their full bonus. Our agreement with them was that they would get their entire money for the group phase once they qualify; it is not a match-by-match basis. “So, they are aware that if they win the remaining matches or just achieve the minimum to qualify from the group, they will still earn the money for all three matches,” said Akinwunmi, who praised Sports and Youth Development Minister, Solomon Dalung for rallying Nigerians behind the team and staying behind in Russia to support the team in the remaining matches. “We cannot fully express our appreciation to the Sports Minister, who has called on Nigerians to keep supporting the team and personally expressed belief in the team’s ability to reach the knockout rounds. “We still have him with us here in Russia and he will lead the delegation to the match against Iceland in Volgograd. “The Sports Minister led a Federal Government to Russia and led the delegation to Kaliningrad for the first match. Alongside, the Nigeria Ambassador, Professor Steve Davies Ugbah, he called President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR) to talk to the team before the match. Eagles will depart their Essentuki team base camp in the Stavropol region of Russia to Volgograd on Thursday, ahead of Friday evening’s clash. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 