Recent report which indicated that Nigeria; a leading crude oil exporter spent N963.126 billion on the importation of 6.149 billion litres of refined petroleum products in the first three months of the current year is alarming. The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mr. Maikanti Baru also recently admitted that $5.8 billion was spent on importing petroleum products in just two months. According to Mr. Baru, the figure would likely rise since local consumption demand would rise from 55 million litres per day to 100 million litres per day. The prevailing regime of fuel importation is not only outrageous and scandalous but also a sad commentary; depicting pervasive lack of political will to genuinely stimulate growth and development. The unending regime of fuel importation shows that the country is still very much on the path of frittering away hard earned foreign exchange. More disturbing however is that the amount reported to have been spent on importation of petroleum products for three months is more than enough to build 28 units of 20,000-Barrel Capacity Modular Refineries at a projected rate of N34.465 billion ($133 million). Investigation also revealed that Nigeria imported 22.5387 billion litres of petroleum products worth over N3.24 trillion in 2017. Therefore, the cost of fuel importation in the first three months of the current year shows that the country would be spending far less than the previous year while the trend may worsen in 2019. The four ailing refineries located in Port Harcourt, Warri and Kaduna with combined capacity of refining 445,000 barrels of crude per day are reported to have gulped over $2 billion in Turn Around Maintenance (TAM) within the last decade. Notwithstanding the huge cost on TAM however, the capacities of the four refineries peaked at 42.4% in 2017 with two of the refineries at zero capacities for months.  It is unfortunate that the misadventure of fuel importation has continued over the years in spite of the huge sums of money spent on TAM. It is therefore long overdue for government to explore option of concession or partnership arrangement with competent entrepreneurs rather than turning the four refineries into drained pipes on account of perennial TAM. Expectedly, the staggering cost of refined petroleum products importation fuels speculations about the reign of new cabals at the NNPC. Under previous regime, it is alleged that the NNPC issued importation licences to some corporate individuals with large sums of money paid without record of petroleum products importation. However, the country appears to be experiencing a worse scenario under the present administration with opaque regime of fuel importation whereby identities of importers and records of their transactions are unknown. A Legal Practitioner and Human Rights Advocate, Mr. Femi Falana recently demanded public disclosure of fuel importation transactions from the NNPC in consonance with the anti-corruption policy of the present administration. It is however disappointing that government appears unperturbed by the huge sums of money being expended on importation of refined petroleum products. It reeks of betrayal of trust that the executive as well as the National Assembly would continue to adopt mute indifference to reports that the country incurs N744 million daily amounting to N24 billion monthly on petroleum products importation whereas government had announced it no longer subsidised fuel local consumption following increments in pump prices of petroleum products in January, 2016. It is  doubtful if the current regime of fuel importation could be sustainable considering the recent disclosure by NNPC that demand for refined petroleum products,which currently stands at 60 million litres per day will soon reach 100 million litres per day. It is becoming increasingly evident that the country could no longer cope with the waste and crippling dependence on petroleum products importation which could be refined locally. Therefore, the federal Government must prioritise improved capacities for local refining of crude to at least meet demands for local consumption. Government must be willing to provide the enabling environment and incentives to stimulate investments and operation of modular refineries within a given time frame. In the meantime, smuggling of refined petroleum products out of the country to neighbouring countries must be tackled even as local refining of crude to meet local consumption remains the only permanent solution. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 