United States (U.S.) President, Donald Trump, has fired off a string of angry tweets criticising America’s closest allies hours after leaving a divisive G7 summit in Canada. Trump said the U.S. paid “close to the entire cost of North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO)” to help protect countries that “rip us off on trade”. “Fair trade is now to be called fool trade,” he added in response to the threat of new tariffs against the U.S. His tirade came after G7 allies criticised his decision to reject a joint communique. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said late on Sunday that his change of heart was “sobering and a little depressing”. The French presidency had earlier condemned “fits of anger”. After Trump had left the summit in Quebec he rounded on Justin Trudeau personally, suggesting the Canadian prime minister was “very dishonest and weak” and “acts hurt when called out”. In a news conference, Trudeau had reasserted his opposition to U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminium, and vowed to press ahead with retaliatory moves on July 1. The U.S. president, who is in Singapore for a landmark summit with North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, tweeted on Monday that America was paying disproportionately more towards the costs of the NATO than fellow members. “They pay only a fraction of the cost – and laugh,” he wrote, adding that the European Union (EU) needed to pay “much more” to help fund the international military alliance, which comprises 28 members including the United Kingdom, U.S., Germany, Canada and Turkey. Trump went on to say that the U.S. gets “unfairly clobbered” on trade despite “protecting Europe at great financial loss”. “Change is coming!” he warned. Trump said his decision to reject the joint communique was based on Trudeau’s “false statements… and the fact that Canada is charging massive tariffs to our US farmers, workers and companies”. In a news conference after the summit, Trudeau had said that while he did not want to “punish American workers”, his job was to protect Canadians and as such he would press ahead with tariffs on some U.S. imports. “Canadians are polite and reasonable but we will also not be pushed around,” he said. Late on Sunday, Angela Merkel went on German TV to denounce Trump’s stance. “We won’t let ourselves be ripped off again and again. We will then act too,” she said in reference to US import tariffs. She did, however, accept that Germany had to pay more for its own security even if it was an unpopular step. Other G7 partners also seemed stunned by Trump’s reaction, and pledged to support the communique. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 