Abakaliki – There was pandemonium in Abakaliki the Ebonyi State capital on Wednesday following a mysterious fire outbreak at the Mechanic village in the state capital which razed more than 15 shops, 10 vehicles and other properties worth millions of naira. The fire incident which was said to have started around 5 a.m came barely five days after traders at the mechanic village protested alleged leadership imposition by some persons in the state government. Meanwhile, some of the victims have lamented the loss of their sources of livelihood and called on the state government to come to their aid. Narrating his ordeal, one of the victims, Christian Enwerem, said apart from his shop that was gutted by fire, the fire also destroyed equipment, calibrating machine worth N3 million, motor parts, customers’ properties among others. “I was in my house around 7am this morning when somebody called me to come to the shop immediately that everywhere was on fire and that our workshop had been burnt to ashes. When I came in, I discovered that my workshop had been burnt down by fire. “We don’t use electricity here, I have generating set here and I always off it whenever I am through with what I on if for. My injector calibrator machine, motor components spare parts inside the shop were gutted by fire.” However, Chidiebere Uzor, Acting Chairman of NATA, expressed shock over the disaster and alleged that it was masterminded by enemies of the mechanic village. “I was in my house this morning when I received a call from one of the security men that there was fire in the mechanic village. I engaged many security men to be guarding the mechanic village but the crisis we had here last Friday stopped them from coming here again. Some of them called at 5:30 am that this place was on fire. “I had to drive to the mechanic village. I rushed to fire service office and alerted them and we came together and came to the mechanic village. Before we could get to the scene, vehicles had been burnt to ashes, shops had also been burnt. The fire wanted to enter other shops but the fire service quenched it. “But I must tell you that the fire is suspicious. There are four burnt tires in four different locations where the fire emanated; it is not an ordinary fire. It is a planned deal and I wonder what the person who did it will benefit from it,” Uzor said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 