OLUSEGUN KOIKI takes a look at recent efforts by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to upgrade facilities at all the nation’s airports despite paucity of funds. The Nigerian aviation industry has consistently played its role as a catalyst to the nation’s economic development with provision of 650,800 direct jobs to qualified personnel. Statistics revealed that Nigeria’s air transport sector has contributed $8.2bn to the economy of the country, and has also continued to undergo a series of reforms in order to sustain the international best practices and ensure safety and security at all strata of the industry. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) in a recent data observed that over the next 10 years, passenger volumes are forecast to grow more than seven per cent annually, exceeding the global average by a healthy margin. For Nigeria, this means an additional 7.9 million passengers will take to the sky every year, creating significant opportunity to accelerate economic growth, boost prosperity and support development. With this forecast, it indicates that government has to work towards improving its current infrastructure in the sector in order to meet the projected demands. However, to achieve this, within this administration, the major airports have witnessed reconstruction of runways, installation of navigational equipment and new international terminals, which are due for commissioning in Abuja, Lagos, Kano and Enugu before the end of the year. Also, the flagship Nigerian airports; the Murtala Muhammed Airport and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja in 2016 scaled the hurdle of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) security audit with 96 per cent. This is part of efforts to further boost travellers’ confidence in the system. Almost within the same period, operation in the control tower at Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA), Kano was automated, while bomb containment vessels were provided at the Kano and Port-Harcourt Airports to further improve security in the industry. One major agency in the sector that has constantly plays vital roles in all these growths is the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), the airport landlord, which manages about 30 airports; States and Federal. The Nigerian Airports Authority (NAA), which later became FAAN, was set up by the Nigerian government by Decree 45 of 1976, to oversee the operations and maintenance of all Federal airports. The agency was renamed, FAAN in August, 1995, following a major restructuring and reforms of the Nigerian aviation sector by the Federal Government. Undoubtedly, FAAN has recorded huge achievements in the improvement of infrastructure in airports nationwide under President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. Engr. Saleh Dunoma, the Managing Director, FAAN, in a recent interview with our correspondent declared that FAAN had enjoyed unflinching support from the Federal Government in the last three years, resulting in the complete rehabilitation of the runway of Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. Dunoma also said that the completion of the Kaduna International Airport terminal and others like Kano, Abuja, and Lagos that were near completion were other achievements of FAAN. He added that the certification of Lagos and Abuja airports were another manifestation of the government’s commitment to repositioning the nation’s aviation sector. “You would recall that recently, this government supported FAAN through the Ministry of Aviation and rehabilitated the runway of the NAIA, during which we transferred our operations to Kaduna Airport. “One of the greatest achievements of FAAN ever is the certification of our two airports because, according to Abuja Declaration, International airports in this continent are supposed to be certified. “Certification means compliance with ICAO safety standards. The certification was supposed to be done 11 years ago, but unfortunately, we could not. But in two years of this administration we have been able to certify two. “We will continue to certify the airports in accordance with ICAO recommended practices and the Nigerian Civil Aviation specification,” he said. Apart from these two, plans are also underway to ensure Port Harcourt International Airport (PHIA), Port Harcourt, Aminu Kano International Airport (AKIA) and Margret Ekpo International Airport (MEIA), Enugu; the other three international airports in the country also get the NCAA certification. FAAN under the current management has developed numerous business cases to enhance its revenue generation to be able to embark on capital projects in the airports without recourse to funding from government. To curb corruption in the system, most of its revenue generating points are now automated while the agency was one of the first parastatals to key into the Treasury Single Account (TSA) policy of the Federal Government. “FAAN is trying to make sure that it enhances its revenue in order to provide the service that is required. We are also planning that in future as the revenue improves, we will also go into some semi capital projects,” Dunoma said. In virtually all the Federal Government’s airports, there are adequate fire cover in case of emergency as FAAN ensures that fire tenders, that are serviceable regularly are on standby to combat the unanticipated. Over the years, air travellers have complained about discomfort whenever they are in most of our airports, but such sordid experience has given way with the installation of improved air conditioners at most airports across the country while new compressors and chillers to ensure effective deliveries were equally recently installed across the nation’s airports. The toilet facilities too have been upgraded to state-of-the-art as air travellers and other users of the country’s airports today, commend the management of FAAN for providing the needed tools to improve their comfort within the airport environments. Besides, most of the country’s airports have experienced expansion in recent time with Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Kaduna benefitting immensely from these developments. FAAN has never had it so good in recent time, but the appointment of Dunoma, an astute professional who grew through the ranks to be appointed as the Managing Director of the agency has changed the face of the airport landlord in the country. Unlike in the past when the morale of the staff were low due to lack of rewards for their efforts, the consensus of staff irrespective of their cadres unanimously acknowledged the professional acumen of Dunoma. Many agreed that there are still some teething challenges to be looked into in the system, but noted the consistency of FAAN in infrastructural development with the firm support of Sen. Hadi Sirika could not be over-emphasised. Dunoma as a professional, who joined the industry early in life, knows the importance of putting a round peg in a round hole. He believes that if right people are put in positions no matter their sex, growth would be faster achieved. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 