The attack, again by herdsmen, on several communities in Plateau State last weekend, and the resultant killing of about 120 innocent souls, should be a matter of grave concern to all Nigerians. It is appalling, coming days after government outlined its ranching plan to fully curb the crisis occasioned by incessant attacks in several states across the country. The Plateau incident is an indictment on the federal government’s seeming incapacity, or unwillingness, to protect the lives and property of her citizens. Expectedly, political leaders including the state governor, the Senate President and the Deputy Senate President have all vehemently denounced the killings and called for stern actions against the killers to prevent a recurrence. Unfortunately, similar killings in the recent past, including the January incident in Benue State which claimed the lives of almost 80 Nigerians, were greeted with such wide condemnations but no decisive, follow-up action. What is required is sincere action by the federal government to walk its talk of bringing the culprits to justice. So far, government appears to be in no hurry to back its criticism of the killings with adequate measures to deter the herdsmen. This much has become apparent from the statements of top security personnel. Besides the controversial suggestion of the Minister of Defence, Brig-Gen Mansur Dan-Ali (rtd) that states with anti-open grazing laws should suspend them to enable peace to reign, the National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Babagana Monguno (rtd) was quoted as saying that herders and farmers would continue to clash unless Nigerians respect cultural diversities of their fellow citizens, given the multiplicity of cultures in the country. While the imperative of mutual respect for the culture of fellow citizens cannot be overstretched, statements by security chiefs tending to underplay acts of gross criminality by some persons, and instead emphasising the desire to cohabit may not augur well for societal peace. Such statements connote impression that the victims were the cause of their undoing; or that they are being punished for the alleged “sins” of their governors. How can the killings stop when security agents do nothing to apprehend killers and prosecute them for violating laws of the land? Curiously too, President Muhammadu Buhari appears to have identified a link between the killings and the conduct of politicians. His Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Shehu Garba was quoted as saying that: “We know that a number of geographical and economic factors are contributing to the long-standing herdsmen-farmers’ clashes. But we also know that politicians are taking advantage of the situation. This is incredibly unfortunate.” Undoubtedly, it is unwarranted, for anyone to play politics with the lives of hapless Nigerians. But rather than focus on those who are feasting on incidents of murder and arson, the federal government ought to pay more attention to identifying the murderers and bringing them to book. That will likely deter prospective killers, and snuff the rants off political mischief-makers. In his lamentations on the incident, Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu called for decentralisation of the police, and the creation of state police, as a permanent solution to herdsmen killings. He reasoned that the government of Plateau state would be in the best position to protect its citizens if it had its own police outfit. Indeed, the whereabouts of the police and other security agencies are questionable during the Plateau massacre, which according to reports, went on for about seven hours (between 1pm and 8pm). That the police could only mobilise after the dastardly acts had been fully perpetrated says a lot about its inefficiency and lack of internationally acceptable standard. The police subsequent deployment of a special intervention force; and the Air Force deployment of combat helicopters to Plateau State 48 hours after the incident, is clearly akin to campaign after election. Also, it is curious that no official investigation has been directed at the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) which had publicly owned up to the attack, justifying it as a retaliation for the loss of about 300 cows to suspected rustlers. In a more credible and security-sensitive clime, the leadership of that organisation should be helping the police to unravel the killings of citizens in Plateau and other states. It would appear that contrary to the injunction in section 14(2) b of the 1999 Constitution, government is abdicating its primary responsibility to secure the lives of Nigerians. The only way it can debunk that notion is to act now, urgently and decisively, to end the killer herders’ onslaught on defenceless Nigerians. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 