ADO-EKITI – Ayodele Fayose, the Ekiti State governor, has asked former President Olusegun Obasanjo to be prepared to clear his name of any allegation levied against him by the Federal Government. He also admonished the ex-president to stop raising false alarm on plots to arrest and try him. He noted that many Nigerians were being humiliated and tried on daily basis by the President Muhammadu Buhari government, which he, Obasanjo helped to enthrone. The governor who spoke through a statement by Lere Olayinka, his Special Assistant on Public Communications and New Media said, “When other Nigerians were at the receiving end of President Buhari’s dictatorship, Obasanjo was going in and out of the Presidential Villa.” He maintained that Obasanjo deserved whatever humiliation he was getting from President Buhari. According to him, “The President can go ahead and arrest Obasanjo if he desires, but, he should remember that what goes around comes around. “He won’t be President forever too. After all, they have been intimidating and humiliating former President Goodluck Jonathan and his wife.” Fayose referred to Page 96 of Obasanjo’s book, ‘My Watch’, in which he wrote that, “I prefer him (Buhari) to jail me than Jonathan to return to destroy this nation” adding, “Since Obasanjo himself said he preferred to be jailed by Buhari and worked for his enthronement, the President can hasten his arrest and imprisonment. “Where was he when Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd) was arrested and detained since 2015 despite court orders for his release? When over 1,000 members of the Nigeria’s Islamic Movement were killed in Zaria and their leader, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky arrested and dumped in detention since 2016 despite of court orders, what did Obasanjo do? “Where was Obasanjo when armed men of the DSS invaded the Ekiti State House Assembly and abducted one of its members? Did Obasanjo travel out of Nigeria when judges were being arrested in the night in a Gestapo manner? “Obasanjo lacks moral rights to complain about Buhari’s government because himself and the President have been partners for over 40 years. “It was when President Buhari served as Minister of Petroleum and NNPC Chairman in 1977 under Obasanjo that N2.8 billion oil money went missing from the accounts of the NNPC in Midlands Bank, United Kingdom. “Both Buhari and Obasanjo are already spent forces and have gone senile. Nigerians no longer need the two old men and the more they fight themselves, the better for the country.” Meanwhile, African Democratic Congress has warned the Federal Government that it will shut down the Presidential Villa if Ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo is harmed. An online medium, Newsguru quoted the Chairman of the ADC, Chief Okey Nwosu, to have warned the APC controlled Federal Government againstresorting to hounding opposition members into submission. According to the ADC chairman, “What we are witnessing is the desperation of a failed government. When you have mediocre persons that are not focused on handling state power, they often go to dictatorial levels to try to achieve their aim but this time, the people of Nigeria and God are on our side and we will do what our country needs. “President Obasanjo cannot be touched. When in 2014 and 2015, he was in the vanguard of trying to effect change because of the situation then, they were applauding him as the champion of a new Nigeria. “Now that things have gone wrong in the area of security and economy and he is speaking out, they are now chasing the champion of new Nigeria. We will mobilise the whole of Nigeria to take over Aso Rock Villa if the government steps out of line.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 