The introduction of Video Assistant Referees (VAR) was one of the major issues heading into this World Cup and, as expected, it has been a near constant talking point during the first round of games. The Federation of International Football Association (FIFA) finally lived up to its promise to have the Video Assistant Referees (VAR) put in use at the ongoing 2018 World Cup in Russia. The World football’s governing body, FIFA, announced earlier this year that video technology would, for the first time, be used at the World Cup with president Gianni Infantino declaring himself “extremely happy” about the decision. After seeing VAR used in the FA Cup and League Cup in England last season – attracting both praise and criticism in the process – World Cup referees have the benefit of being able to call upon the technology in Russia. VAR is a video review system, which is used to correct “clear errors” and any “missed serious incidents” by the match referee. A VAR official, sitting in a control room away from the stadium, can suggest reviews to the referee at the game, who can also ask for help. The system is limited to four match-defining situations: All 64 matches at this summer’s tournament will have the benefit of VAR officials, who will sit in a centralised video operation room in Moscow. The team will comprise one VAR and three assistant video referees – all of whom are “top FIFA match officials”. In fact, FIFA have only chosen 13 referees who will take on the role of VAR during the tournament, with previous experience of being a VAR playing a key role in their appointments. However, some of the referees and assistant referees at this summer’s World Cup could be brought in to act as VARs should FIFA require their help. According to the arrangements, the centralised VAR teams will have access to all broadcast cameras at a game and two dedicated offside cameras, which are only used by the officials. The VAR will watch the main camera while his assistants will check the TV feed and the offside cameras. In total, the team will have access to 33 broadcast cameras, eight of which are “super slow-motion” while four are “ultra slow-motion” cameras. FIFA will introduce two further “ultra slow-motion” cameras, one behind each goal, for the knockout phase of the competition. The referee always takes the final decision regarding any single incident. But has VAR really added values to the ongoing World Cup in Russia? Is VAR really relevant at the ongoing World Cup? Four penalties have been given using VAR, while England and Brazil both had cause to be unhappy with the system. In Brazil second group match against Costa Rica, Neymar went down under a challenge from Giancarlo Gonzalez, falling backwards when the defender’s arm was on his chest, and referee Bjorn Kuipers immediately pointed to the spot. The VAR advised the referee to take another look at the incident and he overturned his decision, though didn’t book Neymar for a dive. It was the first time VAR overturned a penalty at the World Cup. In rating the situation, perfection again here in overturning the penalty. The contact on Neymar from Gonzalez’s arm was minimal and should not have made the Brazilian go down as he did. But neither was it a dive, so the referee was correct not to book him. Like it or not, it is certainly having an impact – 10 penalties have been awarded in 17 matches. The World Cup record is 18 for an entire tournament. Former English Premier League (EPL) referee, Mark Halsey said the failure of VAR to give spot-kicks to England for fouls on Harry Kane against Tunisia showed the system is “inconsistent” and “should not be in this tournament”. But FIFA said it is “extremely satisfied with the level of refereeing to date and the successful implementation of the VAR system”. And David Elleray, technical director of the International Football Association Board (IFAB) – the body that oversees the laws of the game, said its overall impact has been “very positive”. “There have only been five reviews in the first 17 matches, which conforms to the global average of one in every three games,” said Elleray, who helps to train referees in the use of VAR. “This is ‘minimal interference’ and with the outcome of three matches being directly affected by the VAR intervention this is ‘maximum benefit’ and a fairer World Cup. “The behaviour of players has been excellent, with only one red card and a low average of yellow cards and little mobbing of referees.” The Socceroos of Australia were unlucky as VAR and goal line technology were both used in their 1-2 loss to France. France thus benefited from a controversial first use of the VAR technology as they laboured to a 2-1 win. Antoine Griezmann put Les Bleus ahead with a contentious second-half penalty in Kazan after referee Andres Cunha adjudged the forward had been fouled by Joshua Risdon having watched a replay of the incident at the side of the pitch. Australia, who felt aggrieved as defender Risdon appeared to have touched the ball before tripping Griezmann with his follow-through, quickly levelled through Mile Jedinak’s spot-kick, before a late goal from Paul Pogba clinched victory for France. The Socceroos, managed by Dutch coach Bert van Marwijk for the first time in a competitive match, looked like they may be in for a long afternoon but they almost opened the scoring when Hugo Lloris reacted to prevent Corentin Tolisso scoring an own goal following Aaron Mooy’s free-kick. France’s early promise quickly faded before they were presented with a perfect chance to break the deadlock in questionable circumstances 13 minutes into the second half. Uruguayan official Cunha initially played on following Risdon’s challenge on Griezmann before pointing to the penalty spot after consulting VAR and viewing a screen next to the dugouts. Defender Risdon perhaps had reason to dispute the decision, before Griezmann seized the opportunity, whipping the ball to Ryan’s left to claim his 21st international goal. The lead did not last long, though, as Australia levelled with a spot-kick of their own four minutes later, and this time there was no doubt about the award. In another encounter, Andreas Granqvist took advantage of a VAR-awarded penalty to hand Sweden a 1-0 win over South Korea in their World Cup opener. The Sweden captain tucked home in the 65th minute of the Group F clash in Nizhny Novgorod after technology was used to rule that Viktor Claesson had been fouled in the area. It was a deserved victory for Sweden, who created the better chances throughout and Marcus Berg spurned a couple of good openings. But furious Brazil saw victory snatched away after a Philippe Coutinho World Cup -wonder goal wowed their fans in Rostov. And they were left blaming Mexican referee Cesar Ramos and the VAR team for two moments of controversy that allowed Switzerland to claim a deserved draw through goal hero Steven Zuber. First, the Brazilian’s claimed Zuber had pushed defender, Miranda for Switzerland’s 50 minute headed equaliser. Then, with Brazil desperately pushing for the winner Manchester City striker Gabriel Jesus appealed for a penalty after he appeared to be bundled over in the box after turning Swiss defender Manuel Akanji. Both times appeals to Referee Ramos for a VAR review were ruled out with the panel concluding neither were clear and obvious incidents – leaving the Brazilians raging. Switzerland, Xherdan Shaqiri insisted that Zuber’s goal should not have been referred to VAR, despite an apparent push on Miranda. The Stoke City attacker, who curled in the corner for a surprisingly easy goal, said it was a “normal challenge”. Miranda did seem to go over on little contact, with that fragility reflective of an underwhelming Brazilian display, as Zuber himself made amends for the header that led to Philippe Coutinho’s opener in Rostov. But kudos must be given to VAR for the decision, which gave Egypt their goal in their 1-3 defeat in the hands of hosts Russia. Mohammed Salah was brought down in the box and the referee seems to ignore the foul and Salah protested.  His protest made VAR to intervene with Salah scoring his first ever World Cup goal. “With two or three decisions already taken by VAR, there is room to wonder whether the technology is really relevant. “Agreed that the referees are also humans but there are some calls that were ignored which were not good for the smooth running of the game. “Two players committed the same offence. One got punished, the other got away with it! “Call me a fault finder, it doesn’t really bother me. I believe all must be treated fairly and equally. “If VAR is used to decide one, it must be same for the other. Or are we in George Orwell’s script,” asked ex-international, Taiwo Oloyede. Former Team Manager of the defunct Julius Berger Football Club of Lagos, Engr. Mactony Taiwo in his reaction, said: “VAR is a mess, again. France’s penalty against Australia should not been given. “The Aussie might or might not have touched the ball before crashing into the Frenchman. It was impossible to be sure. “So, no penalty. The Argentinan player clipped the Icelandic player and fell over. The referee awarded a penalty. “VAR said nothing. In the same match an Argentinian was definitely fouled in the box. The referee missed that. Again, VAR did nothing. “What is the use of VAR, when you can’t see that push against Brazil? I doubt if the technology will stand the test of time,” said Taiwo. Gary Neville made a good point on ITV after these incidents. He said: “The VAR officials watch screens, which simultaneously give nine different perspectives. “They have a few seconds to decide if there has been a glaring mistake and must zoom into the camera giving the best view. It’s a tough job. “But cricket and rugby manage it, and they must also give judgement calls, unlike tennis, where Hawkeye simply does the job of Goal Line Technology. But still early days”, said Neville. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 