The President, Business Renaissance Group, Mr. Omife Omife implored the Federal Government to reverse its decision as the policy was capable of affecting investments in the manufacturing sector. According to him, with the new tariff regime, firms in the sector would face high risk of possible shutdown, especially in the low price segment, which accounts for 78.65 per cent volume of the spirits and wines segment. He noted that the new excise duty would also penalise average Nigerians as they would no longer be able to afford the new prices that include the exorbitant excise duty. Omife added: “The wines and spirits industry is one of the few surviving sectors of the Nigerian economy and all patriots and men of good conscience should strive to ensure that the sector flourishes. “Nothing should be done to endanger the sector. It is apparent that the announced astronomical increase in excise duty by the Minister of Finance is bound to endanger the sector if not reviewed and rescinded.” He said given the challenges of border control and illicit market, the attractiveness of the price increase driven by higher duty would result in smugglers bringing in unregistered and untaxed products. This, according to him, will result to loss of revenue to the government. “The astronomical increase in the tariff is counter-productive and will lead to massive job loss, turn the country into a dump yard for foreign products, further pauperise Nigerians and stifle growth in an otherwise resilient sector of the economy,” he added. Joseph Ishaku, Precious Akanonu and Chukwuka Onyekwena (all of Centre for the Study of the Economies of Africa, CSEA),in their writings on the implication of the hike in excise duty on the affected products,said industry revenue is expected to decrease by about 3.3% to N98.7 billion after the three-year period in which the new policy is to be implemented. “Nigerian cigarette manufacturers currently sell cigarette worth N119 billion annually. The tax increase will lead to an increase in sales worth N17 billion to about N136 billion. Most of the increase will be accrued to the government as tax revenue over the policy implementation period,” they added. They said the increase in tobacco tax would lead to a reduction in cigarette consumption and, inadvertently, a reduction in industry revenue. It is expected that money not spent on tobacco products will be spent on other goods and services, hence increasing revenues in other sectors of the economy. “However, on the basis of a cost-benefit analysis, the increase in excise tax revenues more than compensates for the decrease in revenue of tobacco industry. … on employment Job losses for people in direct employment are very unlikely because the implication of the excise tax is paltry (N2.90 per pack spread over years) to cause significant changes. In terms of indirect employment, tobacco farmers and distribution value chain, the new policy is also very unlikely to severely impact livelihoods because most tobacco farmers practice mixed farming, making it easier to switch to alternative crops if there is a reduced demand for tobacco. Furthermore, players in the distribution value chain (e.g. retailers) do not solely market tobacco products” They said if  the new policy effectively reduces the demand for tobacco products, smokers will re-allocate the finances previously spent on tobacco to spending on other consumer goods, which will benefit the value chain of alternative sectors. “At the aggregate (macroeconomic) level, we expect to see no significant net job losses. In fact, the reallocation of spending away from tobacco products will lead to productivity gains and job creation by the government in alternative sectors. Competitiveness, too the tobacco industry in Nigeria is essentially a near-monopoly with British America Tobacco (Nigeria) Ltd, BATN, accounting for 79% of total retail volume. “The rest of the market is dominated by other local players, International Tobacco Co Inc., Leaf Tobacco Company and Philip Morris International Nigeria Limited. Tobacco firms in Nigeria make super-normal profits when juxtaposed with their cheap production costs and market power. According to the Nigeria Customs Service, the Unit Cost Analysis, UCA, for a pack of cigarettes is N60 (the ad valorem duty rate) relative to an average retail price of N194.9 for the most sold brands, signaling huge mark-up by the industry. This implies that higher tax level is unlikely to significantly affect productivity and employment in these firms, as they can pass on the burden of tax to consumers and still maintain their market share and profitability” Besides, they said the new tax increase is relatively small; an additional N2.90 per stick spread across three years – allowing the firms to adjust. Their market power, supernormal profits, economies of scale and the gradual policy implementation, they said will ensure little or no negative impact on productivity, hence tobacco firms are unlikely to shut down. ‘’In conclusion, the new tobacco policy is not significant enough to bring about serious negative economic consequences or threaten the existence of tobacco firms in the short, medium or long term. “The direct financial benefit, in terms of fiscal revenues (N29.5 billion), far outweighs any potential losses. Additionally, the public health benefits of reduced tobacco-related deaths as well as the indirect economic benefits, in terms of medical care costs savings, productivity gains due to a healthier population, re-allocation of resources (labour and money) from tobacco to other sectors are invaluable,” they added Commending government for its will to implement tobacco control measures, they suggested that complementary tobacco control measures will need to be taken to realise maximum benefits from the tax policy. They also advocated the need for the Federal Government to earmark the realised revenues from tobacco taxes to fund priority tobacco control activities in the country and assist tobacco farmers to cultivate alternative crops. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 