One of the mainstay airports in Nigeria is the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, which has continued to attract investors and air travellers. Lagos State is the financial and commercial epicenter of Nigeria, contributing a huge per cent to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The state also houses the country’s best local and international airport – the busiest airport in West Africa. The Lagos Airport; local and international, had the highest passenger and aircraft movements in the previous year, having 6,553,151 out of 14,440,169 movements in the year. The figure represents 45.38 per cent of the total air travellers’ traffic across the country in the past year, while the other 30 airports and airfields, including Abuja, Kano, Port Harcourt and Enugu airports were responsible for 54.62 percentage movements within the same period. Apart from this, Lagos Airport also led the packs in aircraft movement in the preceding year with 90,570, representing 36.08 per cent in 2017. The total aircraft movements for 2017 in the 31 airports and airfields were 250,976. The leading position it has been taking over since inception. Despite the huge traffic gridlocks in the state, the management of FAAN priotises passengers’ experience by providing state-of-the-art facilities to the travelling public. FAAN, has always focused on its vision: “To be amongst the best airport groups in the world one of the word” while its mission “To develop and profitably manage customer-centric airport facilities for safe, secure and efficient carriage of passengers and goods at world-class standards of quality,” has also guided its services to the users and travelling public. Unlike in the past when touts and touting activities gained prominence at the nation’s airports, the reverse is the case today at almost all the airports nationwide. The effective security personnel in mufti or uniforms discourage wanderers from getting access to anywhere within the terminal while some workers of other companies who work within the country’s aerodromes and hitherto engaged in such dastardly activities have been weeded out of the system by FAAN’s Aviation Security (AVSEC). Lagos Airport location makes it an ideal airport to connect passengers from across Nigeria to the world and it stands as the most efficient airport in the sub-region and one of the leading airports on the continent. In a bid to make the airport more friendly-efficient, FAAN through the Federal Government is building a new terminal close to the international wing of the airport, which would further drive passenger, cargo, mail and others to it. The terminal under construction has been designed to optimise passenger flow and ensure intuitive navigation, remarkably reducing transfer times especially for international travellers. The plan of FAAN is to reduce the international-to-international transfer time by about 30 per cent. This, the agency said would be an inspiring experience that will provide passengers with more time to relax and enjoy all that the airport has to offer. FAAN at both the local and international wings of the airport provides a world-class shopping experience and a diverse range of international and Nigerian brands. Passengers can choose from more than 50 food beverage outlets, from which food can be ordered even at the boarding gate with special facilities for leisure and business travellers which turns the airport into a dream experience. Within two minutes’ drive from either local or international airports, are hotels that welcome departing and arriving passengers. The Lagos Airport is no doubt a pride, not just for the country, but for the entire West African countries. Just recently, a survey carried out by Routesonline named Lagos-Abuja as the fourth busiest routes on the continent of Africa. The most viable route connects the Federal capital in Abuja and the economic capital in Lagos, attracting 1.7 million and 1.3 million passengers, respectively. The Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos became the first airport to be certified by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) in 2017, followed by the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja. The Lagos airport’s terminal building was remodelled to accommodate more travellers and created more space for organisations to thrive. At inception, the capacity of terminal building at the international airport in Lagos was merely 6,000, but today, the building can accommodate over 20,000 users at ago. The terminal building was also extended in all sides, which led to improvement in screening areas and Immigration counters. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 