President Muhammadu Buhari last week assented to the bill amending provisions on  conduct of bye-elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The amendment to Bye-Election Bill is one of four new bills assented to by the President following the conclusions of the  required legislative processes by Nigeria’s 8th National Assembly. Specifically, the new amendment extends the limit for the conduct of bye-elections to 21 days from the 7 days hitherto provided for in the amended electoral act.  According to the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters, Senator Ita Enang, the new amendment gives the electoral body sufficient time to conduct bye-elections. The amendment which was obviously necessitated by the need to allow INEC deploy appropriate administrative and operational capacities in conducting bye-elections to fill vacant elective positions that may be necessitated by court decision, resignation or circumstances of death is a welcome development. Apart from organising regular periodic elections, the conduct of bye-elections is an integral aspect of the critical duties of INEC within the electoral cycle. Therefore, amending the relevant provision to provide ample time for INEC to conduct by-elections is expected to further improve on the conduct of elections in accordance with other relevant provisions of the Electoral Act. Prior to the new amendment, it has been a matter of serious concern that INEC has been finding it challenging and if not herculean to conduct bye-elections considering the limited time-frame. It is recalled that the conduct of bye-elections has been subject of controversies that have cast aspersion on the integrity of  INEC. Only recently, the failure of INEC to conduct bye-election to fill the vacant senatorial seat occasioned by the death, on March 17, 2018, of Senator Ali Wakili representing Bauchi South Senatorial District drew the ire of a legal practitioner Mukhtar Usman, a stakeholder in the Senatorial District. Mukhtar had written to INEC demanding the conduct of bye- election to fill the vacant seat within seven days; claiming the electoral body violated the time-frame provided in Section 76 subsection 2 of the 1999 Constitution. It is on account of similar scenarios which are often beyond INEC’s capacity that compelled advocacies by relevant stakeholders on the need for realistic time-frame within which bye-elections would be conducted through enabling processes that are free and credible. It is therefore laudable that the new amendment which is an appropriate response to the clamour by relevant stakeholders is coming into force ahead of another general elections in 2019. No doubt, unrealistic time-frame which puts INEC in difficult situation regarding the conduct of bye-elections and inevitably impinges on the integrity of the electoral system portends no good for the health of the country’s democracy. There is no doubt therefore that the new amendment in addition to other relevant enabling provisions in the constitution as well as the electoral act will imbue the electoral system with efficiency and credibility. The 8th National Assembly and the Executive therefore deserve commendation for working in concert to enhance improvements in the electoral system. It is expected that the new amendment which unburdens administrative and logistic encumbrances arising from time-frame constraints would be the appropriate antidote to recurrent misgivings over the failure of INEC to conduct bye-elections in the country. It is  noteworthy that the new amendment is coming into effect alongside amendment No. 21 to the constitution, which reduces the timing for the determination of pre-election matters. Forestalling protracted intra-party litigations which in most cases interfere with actual conduct of elections as well as inhibit determination of substantive disputes before election tribunals as well as the appellate courts would complement the amendment, which enhances the conduct of bye-election towards advancing the cause of electoral democracy. Amendments that reinforce the need for realistic timing of electioneering activities  would significantly translate into investing processes and outcomes of future polls with credibility. It is therefore pertinent for INEC and the political parties to take maximum advantage of the new regulation which promises to add value to the electoral process. More importantly, it is imperative for political parties to strengthen internal democracy and shun anti-democratic tendencies   with propensity to hinder the growth of electoral democracy. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 