Nigerian workers are now feeling the brunt of government’s double speaks on the new wage, as the current N18, 000 minimum wage continues to impoverish employees. The situation is compounded with soaring prices of goods above their heads, amid naira scarcity. Nigerian workers who were looking forward to September for a new wage may have been disappointed with the double speak by the labour and employment minister, Dr. Chris Ngigie. Ngige’s announcement appears to have dampened the morale of workers, who have been expecting a new wage in September. Nigeria currently operates a wage structure for civil servants, described as one of the lowest in the world, despite its position as Africa’s top oil-bearing nation. Specifically, Ngige, had last week said the new national minimum wage may not materialise in September as earlier envisaged. Ngige, who disclosed this to journalists on Tuesday at his residence in Abuja, said the September date is when negotiation on the issue of minimum wage will be concluded. He said: “The committee on the new National Minimum wage is expected to conclude its work by the end of September and present its report to the government for deliberation and approval before an executive bill is sent to the national assembly on the issue.” In a swift reaction, the United Labour Congress (ULC) on Friday requested Ngige, to explain his `double-speak’ on the planned new minimum wage, to avoid confusion on the issue. Joe Ajaero, president of the ULC, said the clarification is necessary to avoid creating tension among workers. He said the minister’s statement that the wage would no longer be paid in September amounted to ‘double-speak’ on the matter. Ajaero described the minister’s statement as unfortunate, saying that he should have consulted with members of the tripartite committee on the minimum wage before making the announcement. “We are not sure the stakeholders, who are members of the committee were consulted and this is undemocratic and lacks due process. “Our fear and worry is that the statement is laden with intentions.’’ Mr Ajaero said there was need to be sensitive to the plight of Nigerian workers, who had been facing immense hardships over the years. Some analysts say the fragile nature of economic recovery coupled with government’s delay in implementing the new minimum wage would spell doom for consumers, as well as further impoverishing them. Yvonne Mhango, an economist at Renaissance Capital, in the report from 9th Annual Pan-Africa Conference: Nigeria macro feedback”​ said that the consumer’s persistent woes are reflected in the regression of the Consumer Confidence Index in 1Q18. Consequently, according to her, Consumer companies have not yet seen consumers shift back to bigger packages of a product from the smaller packs they downsized to during the crisis, thereby limiting the ability to push through price increases. “Consumer companies believe that for demand to strengthen, the Nigerian consumer needs an income boost. This may come in the form of the proposed minimum wage hike, as soon as September, when a more than threefold increase to NGN66,500 is expected. Consumer companies expect liquidity to improve as the elections approach, which they expect will boost consumption.” Bolade Agbola, agribusiness consultant believes that the “upward review of minimum wage is expected to lower the gap between the rich and the poor if the increment declines as the income level rises . The process typically triggers up inflation, which usually waters down nominal effect of the increase as demand for goods and services soars. The delay in effecting the income change may affect speedy recovery of the consumer demand index, which had been hampered by the recession the economy went through recently. The improvement in petrodollar inflow is more crucial for recovery of consumer confidence index as the crude oil earnings determines virtually all our economic indices  . This economy is too dependent on oil which account for over  90%  of our foreign exchange earnings and over 70% of our budgetary expenditure.” Mhango, further stated in the report that “ The short-term macro outlook is positive, in large part due to the buoyant oil price. The February 2019 elections are expected to subdue the pace of the recovery, which is already considered fragile. This fragility was affirmed by 1Q18 GDP growth (released after the conference) of 2.0% vs the consensus view of 2.6%. Agriculture is seen as the anchor keeping the economy afloat. Manufacturing’s moderate recovery is attributed to improved FX liquidity. Telecommunications and trade’s negative growth are indicative of a struggling consumer. Banks are seeing a pick-up in loans for working capital, but not capital expenditure, implying private investment remains subdued. They are guiding for YoY credit growth of 7.5-10% in 2018 (vs 0% in April).” Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank (CBN) acknowledged that the economy may have witnessed some improvement in the past few months, but that credit to the real sector was still lacking. At the recent meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee, Emefiele, who is the chairman said, “The Monetary Policy Committee also noted the sustained positive outlook based on the Manufacturing, and Non-manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Indices (PMI), which rose for thirteenth and twelfth consecutive months to 56.9 and 57.5 index points, respectively, in April 2018. The Committee welcomed this development but believes that growth remains largely fragile and could benefit from further reforms and stimulus. In this regard, the MPC urged the various levels of government to accelerate the settlement of contractor debt and salary arrears as well as facilitate the quick implementation of the 2018 Federal Government budget. The macroeconomic environment that propelled the economy’s exit from recession has remained positive and is likely to continue in the near-term. The expectation was premised on speedy implementation of the 2018 budget, improved security, continued stability in the foreign exchange market as well as increase in crude oil production and prices. The Committee noted the downside risks to the outlook to include: the late approval and implementation of the 2018 budget; farmers-herdsmen conflict; weak demand and consumer spending associated with outstanding salaries and contractor debt; and the growing level of sovereign debt.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 