Poets and students of Stylistics, in their mediation of the nexus between language and literature, often foreground a concept known as neologism. It is a word coined to suit a particular linguistic exigency, part of what now passes for the much abused notion of poetic license. I have chosen to neologise PDPruption in order to be able to come to terms with what Lai Lai Mohammed claims to be war against corruption. A casual look at the list of those being persecuted, not prosecuted, in the guise of the war against corruption will reveal that it is actually a war against the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and not a war against corruption! However, let us just concede, a bit, to Mohammed by assuming that there is a war against corruption. A combination of the PDP and corruption simply yields the neologism PDPruption. The gale of corruption trial in the month of May was experienced only in the camp of the PDP. From Edo State to Plateau, Kaduna and Taraba, PDP chieftains became thieftains, (pardon another neologism and pun) hounded, arraigned and jailed. If the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) expected kudos from Nigerians, it got none because the people have seen the scheme as nothing more than a sham, made more reprehensible by a government that ranks high on shambolic gestures. The sub-text in the present war against corruption can simply be read as part of the strategy to liquidate the PDP, the nation’s main opposition political party before the 2019 general elections. President Muhammadu Buhari, not known for verbal niceties and political etiquette, unwittingly let the cat of the bag a few days ago when he lamented that members of the PDP had amassed so much money that they can afford to embark on mischief and undermine his government. Buhari’s fear is real and born out of experience. I am sure he must have counted his teeth with his tongue and did a reckoning of how much money, and the source, was spent in the titanic battle that resulted in his election victory. He must also be uncomfortably aware that the same gang up that torpedoed his predecessor is also building up against him. And money will play a very significant role in the coming election. Therefore, to rattle the PDP, its members must be hounded in the guise of a war against corruption. When Lai Mohammed released his laughable list of those who looted Nigeria, it was made up of only members of the PDP. Not one member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) made the list! Of course the PDP offered a counter-list loaded with APC names. The social media was also abuzz with names of members of the APC who should occupy prime positions of shame on the list of looters. To discerning minds, the APC is PDP! An embarrassing trend since the enthronement of the current regime is the deodorisation of politicians accused of corruption once they decamped from the PDP to the APC. Timipre Sylva, Orji Uzor Kalu, Musiliu Obanikoro and many more, had their sins forgiven as soon as they became card carrying members of the APC. What a shame! This has created a great moral deficit in the war against corruption. Besides this, is the shilly-shally attitude of this regime in matters of corruption involving its mandarins. The Maina of the pension scam fame, the Yussuf NHIS case, the former SGF’s 200 million naira fraud, the NNPC 25 billion dollar scam, the MTN fine-bribery allegation, Senator Misau’s accusation against the IGP, even the N13 million extortion in which Lai Mohammed was mentioned, among many more, were handled with kid gloves. Buhari, grand crusader against corruption, saw no evil and heard no evil. He has become the quintessential chichidodo in Ayi Kwei Armah’s The Beautyful Ones Are Not Yet Born. Right now the moral capital of the preset regime is abysmal. It is a regime that has not delivered on any of its election campaign promises. The continuing plummeting of Buhari in opinion polls adumbrates his loss of credibility among Nigerians and that if an election was to be held today, his chances will be very weak. What did he promise that he has redeemed? His campaign manifesto stood on the tripod of security, economy and corruption. It is sad that insecurity remains a scourge three years into the Buhari administration, just as the economy is still in the woods and corruption remains a booming enterprise. The present war against PDPruption is wrong footed and there is a compelling need to re-evaluate the whole engagement with corruption. Unfortunately, neither the president nor his handlers have the capacity to do such an evaluation. This is where the need for an organised movement primed to retrieve Nigeria from the gung ho gang that has seized it becomes imperative. Nigerians must mobilise themselves into cadres of national redemption and view corruption as a common enemy. The present notion of associating corruption with only politicians is wrong. There is no sphere of human endeavour that is immune to corruption in Nigeria. The brooding teacher, the doleful civil servant, the winking doctor, the brash policeman, the gritty soldier, the cunning bar tender, all approximate the politician in the brazen assault on our national heirloom. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 