Chief Ned Nwoko is a former member of the House of Representatives. In this interview with FELIX IGBEKOYI, the Delta North Senatorial aspirant for the 2019 election spoke on his past achievements, his current ambition, manifestos and Delta politics. Excerpts: Why are you aspiring to the Senate having been a lawmaker at the House of Representatives? For anybody to aspire to any office it is the norm to hold on to your promises, I am not alone in this thinking. What I have done in the last few months is to sit with my people and review things with them. And I have been able to understand those things that are of great concern to them. As a lawmaker, I understand what the roles are. Two things have prepared me for this; one is my education and career as a lawyer. And the other is my upbringing and exposure. What are the manifesto es you want to give Nigerians especially Deltans to convince them you will truly represent their interest if they give you their mandate? My manifesto contains those things I am promising the people of Anioma and indeed the people of Nigeria because I am a national player. I remember when I was going to the House of Representatives, I said my priority project then was to dualise the road from Asaba to Benin because many lives had been lost on this road. Eventually, because of my closeness to the then President, Obasanjo, NSA, General Gusau, and minister of Works, Tony Anenih the road was done. I also made a promise as the sub-committee Chairman on Civil Aviation, which I will get a license and get an airport built in Asaba, which is exactly what I did. I got the license for the airport to be built in Asaba. My manifesto contains a few things that I will do in the Senate. For example the issue of Minimum Wage Bill which is an unfinished business. Many people live in abject poverty in Nigeria, so we must look at laws to help them come out of poverty. But, you once sponsored the bill on national minimum wage… (Cuts in) Yes, I am telling you now that it will be one of the priorities to review the minimum wage bill. I will be looking at the bill to help persons living with disabilities. It will not be easy but it will be done. Part of the challenge is to address the pollution in oil producing areas. It is a problem that people’s livelihood have been shattered due to environmental degradation. Health has been affected. Gas flaring is still ongoing. I will take on the oil companies, and make them to apply international best practices which they are aware of but when it comes to Nigeria, they turn a blind eye because our leaders don’t push them to do the right thing. I will do with it politically and legally. As a lawyer in the UK. I know exactly what to do. All I need is the support of the people. These are some of the things I will be focusing on. Some people are saying you have never being a party official and that may work against you during the primaries. Are they right and should that be a criteria? We are doing our best, the party is for all of us. I am a party person, I am play my role within the party. I make sure that the party, PDP is very well funded at the ward, LG, state even at the national level. Some people think that you have to serve the party to hold an office. No, it does not have to be. The party should look outward for the best so as to make the party bigger and stronger. And that is what I represent, I bring strength, I bring love and above all I bring a new face of humanity to PDP because PDP is no longer in control at the federal level. All they can rely on now is the people, the masses. For those who feel that they are the only owners of the party, we say to them that it cannot be so, what we need is those who can reach out to the masses. Time for imposition has gone; the governor has said severally that there will be a level playing field. I am a founding member of PDP, I have every right like any other person within PDP whether you have been a party Chairman or Secretary, those are just offices, we can’t all be party officials. Obasanjo, Yar’Adua were never a party officials to become Presidents. Was Uduaghan a party official before he became the Governor? We must understand that the party is there for all of us. You are a man of the people, close to the grassroots, a disciplinarian and uncompromising which some party men are not comfortable with. How do you resolve that? Those who are honest and those who mean well for Nigerians will identify with me easily. Those who have the kind of opinions that you just expressed are in minority, they are usually the bad ones. I have been meeting with party officials from the national level down to the ward, there is this desire for change, the desire for a new PDP that has a human face. So I have no concerns at all as to how they will accept me or how I will behave as a Senator. As a Senator, I will bring a new style, and that is what the people want. They want somebody they can reach, they can talk with, they can depend on, they can trust, that is what I am all about. Recently, a party leader from Delta Central confirmed that he made Nwaoboshi from Anioma (north) senator. How do you react to that? He has his own opinion. You also know my own opinion about him. I will not stop him from campaigning for Nwaoboshi. The fact is that the people of Anioma know what they want. Do they want a character that has been spoken in such negative manners by Federal Government, then subsequently what happened in the last few weeks? I honestly belief that his opinion appeals to a certain group of people who are in the minority. I appeal to majority of the people. Let me tell you, without sounding boastful I am looking forward to the general election, I am looking beyond primary. The people of Anioma that day will choose who they want. I want the people of Anioma to elect me, I don’t want to be imposed on them, I want to be the people’s senator, I want to be accountable to them, I want to be responsible to the people not to a few individuals who have made themselves a kind of demigods. So people are wiser now. Time will tell what happens but I so much believe in the power of the people. It is called People Democratic Party, the people there are very important, and the democracy is equally important because the people must be allowed to choose who they want. In case you do not win the ticket, what will be your option B? Everybody in life has 20 options or more. If you have a girl that you want to marry and she disappoints you what do you do? Let us leave it at that. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 