MTN has launched a mobile money-based Initial Public Offering in Ghana. It is the first time shares of a major corporation can be purchased using mobile money accounts. Ghanaians will be able to buy shares using Momo Wallet, MTN’s local mobile money platform with 6.2 million users. With this, MTN Ghana hopes to raise about $743 million at 0.75 cedis per share, in what is expected to be the West African country’s largest IPO. The IPO is the largest ever undertaken in Ghana and it is also the first time shares of a major corporation can be purchased using mobile money accounts as Ghanaians will be able to buy shares using Momo Wallet, MTN’s local mobile money platform with 6.2 million users. The IPO launch is part of an agreement with Ghanaian authorities as a condition for MTN’s 4G network license as the telecoms operator doubles down in a market it currently dominates. Like in Ghana, MTN Nigeria’s decision to launch an IPO is believed to be a concession to authorities as part of the $1.7 billion settlement of a protracted SIM card dispute in June 2016. So far however, there is no date for the launch of the MTN Nigeria’s IPO even though plans have been underway since late 2016, Quartz Africa further notes. There have been cases of Nigeria’s the regulatory authority NCC imposing fines on telecom operators for poor quality of service in the past, while the telcos have been decrying multiple taxations by the government at various levels. The group is required to float shares on the local stock exchange under an agreement with Ghanaian authorities for access to 4G spectrum licence in the 800MHz band, which was granted to it in late 2015. In terms of that deal, MTN must sell up to 35% of its shares. MTN, which is headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa, has over 230 million customers across Africa with a market cap of $17.8 billion. Across the borders, MTN Nigeria is also looking forward to raising the sum of $500 million, disposing of about 30% stake in the business by getting listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 