DAMATURU – Electricity consumers in Yobe are in for harder times as the solution to the prevailing epileptic power supply being witnessed in the state recently is not yet in sight. The light went off since May 28, 2018.
DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the problem was due to faulty equipment along Gombe-Potiskum road, which the Yola Electricity Distribution Company (YEDC) has been batting to rectify the situation.
The situation has forced the YEDC to resort to load shedding which has thrown several parts of the state into darkness for several hours in some areas; weeks and months in several others.
During visit to YEDC transmission office in Potiskum which is responsible for the distribution of power to Fika, Jakusko, Nangere Potiskum, Damagum, and Damaturu where the Manager was said to be on annual leave while the acting Manager who does not want his name in print confirmed that “132 Tower transmitter fell down along Gombe -Potiskum line on May 28, 2018 following a downpour in Gombe. “ He said, “I can’t specifically tell when the light would come over based on the information we are receiving from the workers but I’m aware that they are working round the clock to ensure that they rectify the situation so that the light comes back.” Worst hit is Damaturu, the state capital, and Potiskum town, one of the commercial hub of the state, where the community had been in total darkness since before the democracy day celebration. In Potiskum town, residents were subjected to untold hardships according to a resident, Abubakar Isa, who said that “a wheelbarrow of water containing 12 jerry cans costs N400. “We are suffering from water problem coupled with fasting period and harsh hot weather,” he said. Electricity consumers in the affected areas are groaning under the erratic power supply. Most times, “YEDC restores light at odd hours- between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. when people are away at work or at night when they are fast asleep. Households are then forced to sleep outside and on the streets. Many companies, businesses and commercial ventures are forced to rely on generators to power their equipment. This has increased production costs with hefty amounts being reserved for and spent on diesel and gasoline. Small-scale businesses like hairdressing and barbing salons and business centres are especially affected. A civil servant in Damaturu, Abba Musa, lamented at the failure of the YEDC to be efficient. “YEDC only makes electricity available when they are ready to distribute bills or disconnect electricity supply to debtors no matter how small the amount,” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 