A midst the pomp and pageantry that are likely to attend today’s celebration of the Eid-el-Fitri to mark the end of the Islamic month-long Ramadan fasting, Nigerians, and governments at all levels should take a breather to imbibe the grave lessons thrown up by the ritual. The lessons, if properly digested, will spur a renewal of conduct of national affairs to emphasise greater improvement of Nigerians. Ultimately, the Ramadan is meant to create a better, more peaceful and more progressive society. The lessons of Ramadan are to prevent rancour, violence, crime and corruption in the society. The lessons are also directed at the leadership of government to ensure even development and a balanced sharing of the resources and goodies of government. At the moment, the system entrenches a wide gap between the rich and the poor, thus brewing discontent and social instability all of which have continued to deter real development of the country. A major challenge of Muslims and other Nigerians in leadership position is how to reconcile their lifestyle and governing style to the tenets of the Ramadan. The fact that there is a lack of congruence in the two is indicative of their having fallen short of ideals and expectations of the public. Failure of leadership, despite the teachings of Ramadan, is largely responsible for the low premium attached to life and living in the country. Therefore, as Muslims worldwide, including those in Nigeria celebrate the Eid-el-Fitri, it is important for all Nigerians to keep touch with the significances of the period, as a way of helping the country grow. All Muslims who are able to participate fully in the intensive activities of the month deserve to be heartily congratulated for many reasons. Firstly, the Ramadan, otherwise the ninth month in the Islamic Calendar, is undoubtedly the most revered, the most holy and the most sought-after month by Muslims. According to the Holy Quran and teachings of Prophet Mohammed (May Allah’s peace and blessing be upon him), it is the month when God releases his angels of mercy and blessings to mankind (and close all the gates of hell), in addition to forgiving the sins of all those who genuinely repent. It is believed that Muslims whose sins are not forgiven during the Ramadan will find it difficult to be admitted into Aljnnah in the day of judgement. Unlike any fasting recommended in other months, the Ramadan fasting is compulsory for all Muslims who are in good health condition. And for those who have a genuine reason to miss the fasting for any number of days, they are required to make up for the days missed, before the next Ramadan. For Muslims in particular, and Nigerians in general, Ramadan and the Eid-el-Fitri are significant for the promise they hold for the future, and their lessons for the nation’s progress. Having abstained from food and drinks for an average of 14 hours daily for 30 or 29 days, in addition to observing the strict tenets of the period, Muslims are expected to be better equipped in their religion, and to impact Nigeria’s development positively. In other words, the last month should ordinarily offer more prospect for the well-being of the country. The lessons of Ramadan are legion, taking direct roots from the fasting injunctions. They include piety, service to humanity, self-denial, better appreciation of the plight of the poor, assisting the indigent to live an improved life through the instrumentality of Zakat and Zakatul Fitri; moderation in one’s activities and endeavour, as well as keeping a safe distance from anything that constitutes sin. The past month is also instructive because it exposes the Muslim to more knowledge, enlightenment and refreshes all coming through regular  public lectures and reading of the Holy Quran (tafsirs). All these are also widely propagated through the mass media including newspapers, television and radio; in addition, of course to the pervasive social media. Muslims are particularly reminded that Allah does not exempt them from keeping the tenets of the Ramadan in the other 11 months. The essence of Ramadan is simply to remind them of how they should conduct themselves as Muslims at all times. If Muslims can observe the rules always, it most certainly will rub off well on other citizens and the entire country We congratulate all Muslims on this occasion of the Eid-el-Fitri and wish Nigeria the benefit of its immense potential. Ramadan Kareem! comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 