Lagos – The Federal Government yesterday said its efforts to stamp out gas flaring in the country is gathering momentum as the practice has now reduced drastically from 12% to 9%. Mr.Modecai Ladan, the Director, Department of Petroleum Resources(DPR),disclosed this yesterday  at the Nigerian Pavilion on the sidelines of the ongoing 27th World Gas Conference (WGC) taking place in Washington, United States He said: “We are trying to make sure that companies come up with projects that will utilise the gas, and in turn, reduce gas flaring in the process’’. He added that the agency would soon announce new ways of doing business in its areas of purview, stressing that gas domestication was keen to the Department’s agenda. In their earlier remarks, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu, the Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Dr. Maikanti Baru, as well as other industry stakeholders, said the oil and gas Industry is creating an enabling environment that would enable investors to contribute their quota towards making Nigeria’s abundant natural gas resources serve as launching pad for the nation’s industrialisation take off. Dr. Kachikwu, who was represented by Dr. Folashade Yemi-Esan, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, said it was imperative for Nigeria to market its enormous gas resources at the global level because “we have to get our industries to work.” He noted that ideas, experience, and lessons learnt from other countries at the conference would spur Nigeria to dismantle all obstacles which, over the years, have been slowing down the nation’s gas-to-power aspirations and industrialisation. Dr. Baru said NNPC was driving a number of initiatives which included collaborating with the National Assembly to address the fiscals; putting the required infrastructure in place as well as ensuring that new power plants are built. The GMD stated that as part of the new gas development initiatives, investors were expected to come in and establish fertilizer and petrochemical plants. Also speaking, Senator Bassey Albert Akpan, the Chairman Senate Committee on Gas, lauded the GMD for his support towards ensuring Nigeria’s successful outing at the conference, adding that engagements such as this would create the enabling environment for potential investors. Hon. Fredrick Agbedi, Chairman House Committee on Gas, stated that the Senate and the House of Representatives were working together to ensure that in the next few weeks, the PIB becomes a law so that Nigerians will derive the maximum benefits, in especially, the Gas Sector. The role of the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) is very critical in achieving the enormous potentials within the Gas Sector, as explained by the Managing Director of the company, Mr. Tony Attah. Attah said as the biggest off-taker of gas nationwide, the company remained committed to safely producing its 22 metric tonnes per annum (MTPA); bringing value to shareholders; growing capacity of staff in respect of Train 7 as well as keeping pace with the rest of the world. Mr. Dada Thomas, the President of the Nigerian Gas Association (NGA), said renewables and natural gas complement each other, thus what the nation needed was a high energy mix. “For Nigeria, gas is clearly the direction. We must all do our bit to attract foreign direct investment around our 192tcf proven gas reserves which we hope shall be translated into energy security, power generation and above all value addition for our teeming populace,” added comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 