It is puzzling that while about 63 per cent of adult Nigerians, and even 44 percent of the formally financially excluded, had a mobile phone as at 2014, based on EFInA data, only 13 per cent of adult Nigerians were aware of mobile money, and less than 1 per cent used mobile money. According to respondents, the most critical deterrent to mobile banking is the inadequate comprehension of the execution of mobile money. This shows the need to further educate adult Nigerians about mobile money and digital financial services in general. The initiative of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) to extend deposit insurance to mobile money subscribers in order to boost consumer confidence in the service is very commendable in this regard. The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, said beyond the need for increased investment in digital financial infrastructure and financial literacy efforts, Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies and businesses are encouraged to further digitize current cash payments. Digital financial services refer to financial services, such as payments, savings, loan or insurance products, which are provided through electronic platforms, such as mobile phones, the Internet, or electronic cards. Digital financial services can promote financial inclusion, because they are capable of dismantling the existing barriers to financial inclusion. One key barrier to financial inclusion, as defined in Nigeria’s National Financial Inclusion Strategy, is the remoteness of access to financial services. Several people do not use financial products because they live too far away from a physical financial access point such as bank branch, an insurance agent or ATM. Digital financial services transcend such physical barriers as they can be availed through virtual channels such as mobile phones, which today are ubiquitous. Emefiele said there have been commendable innovations in the industry today and thereby financial institutions have begun to leverage the mobile platform to open accounts and conduct transactions, enabling existing clients and previously excluded population to access financial services in a more convenient manner. His words: “Digital financial services can also reduce other barriers to financial inclusion, such as high cost of transaction or transportation costs while also saving valuable travel time. “For instance, a recent study in Niger Republic reported that households receiving transfer into a mobile money account rather than physical cash had higher dietary diversity in terms of quality and quantity. One underlying factor in this case was a significant reduction in time. “Mobile money was also shown to improve the ability of Kenyan households to share risks because of lower transaction costs. Households using mobile money were able to maintain the same per capita consumption during negative income shocks, while consumption decreased by 7 per cent on average for households who did not use mobile money. “Also, a recent study by the McKinsey Global Institute estimates that digital financial services can lead to the financial inclusion of up to 46 million individuals in Nigeria, and up to 1.6 billion people globally by 2025”. He added that: “digital financial services can also bring about substantial benefits for financial services providers, and the economy as a whole, beyond financial inclusion. It can boost a country’s GDP significantly and more sustainably. For instance, the same McKinsey study postulates that digital financial services can increase Nigeria’s GDP by 12 percent or US$88 billion by the year 2025. “Financial services providers should identify favorable partnerships as digital financial services require several competencies which one organization may not possess. For instance, financial institutions may partner with technology firms and mobile money operators in order to maximize benefits of digital financial services. Likewise, insurance providers may seek similar partnerships in order to sell insurance policies at a lower transaction cost and in a more convenient manner. “We are all aware that Nigeria is going through a time of economic challenges at the moment. Digital financial services have substantial potential to promote financial inclusion, increase productivity and support economic growth in our country. Therefore, I urge all stakeholders to step up initiatives to successfully advance this movement in order to achieve the financial inclusion target by 2020 and boost economic growth in Nigeria”. Also in line with the digital financial services initiative and in a move to ensure that the unbanked in the country are integrated into banking mainframe, the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System Plc (NIBSS), the Central Bank of Nigeria, (CBN), banks and telecommunication firms in the country entered into a partnership on the Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) payment solution to further deepen financial inclusion. The initiative tagged ‘microCash (mCash), according to the promoters, would facilitate 80 per cent financial inclusion in the country by 2020. ‘Mcash’ is a solution designed to facilitate low-value retail payments and growing e-payments by providing accessible electronic channel which is USSD. This would enable merchants and customers conduct transactions instantly as fast as a cash transaction. This product is presently being operated by Wema, Zenith, Fidelity, Diamond, Unity banks, with other banks expected to sign up before the end of the year. Also signed up are Airtel, Mtn, Etisalat and Glo. Under this platform, transactions below N10,000 would be conducted at no cost. Mr. Ade Shonubi, Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer NIBSS, said: “With Mcash, the whole intention is to broaden the opportunity for people who today use cash to find a convenient means of making payments. The central bank has been pushing the cashless initiative for a long time and we have seen significant gains but a lot of the people who have benefited so far have the 27 million banking customers.” “As we begin to deepen and reach out to a lot more people, we biennial to make real the dream for financial inclusion as we begin to realised that a lot of government social programmes would touch a different set of people so we have to start creating opportunities for them to have commerce that is not just lied around cash.” He further added: “To achieve that, the banking industry and telecoms have come together to partner and find a way to deliver a service at a reasonable value point which is in terms of efficiency and price and addressing concerns of being able to attain that their transactions are made.” “The people we are trying to bring into this space use cash and the advantage of cash is that you can exchange it immediately. The ability to get your money almost immediately is the key”. On his part, the Director, Banking and Payment, CBN Mr. Dipo Fatokun, described the solution as another effort by the apex bank in increasing financial inclusion to meet its Payment Systems Vision 2020. “We endorse this because it would take our payment system to the next level. Nigeria is at the top pendulum of payment system in the whole world. And because of this, various countries come to understudy our payment system and this is one product I hope they would understudy in the near future. “Another reason for this endorsement is that it is going to drive our financial inclusion. We have challenges of acceptance of POS transactions because they don’t get instant value for their services some cases the next. With this product, merchants get instant value which is a big plus.” He further added:” I am sure this product would drive financial inclusion to level it is desired. We have projected that by 2020, Nigeria should be able to get inclusion level of 80 percent and I’m sure this is one of the initiatives that would drive that.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 