Aminu Dahiru is an Assistant Comptroller- General (ACG) of Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), and the Zonal Coordinator in- charge of Zone ‘A’, Lagos of the Service. In this interview with ANDREW UTULU, the Customs boss reiterates the Service resolve to surpass its previous feats in anti- smuggling, trade facilitation and revenue collection using latest home grown technology, the NICIS2. Excerpts: Tell us how the Controller- General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd), three- Point Agenda is affecting Zone A? My views concerning the three- Point Agenda of the Controller General is that we have already started seeing result in many areas, and in many facets of his administration, like revenue collection, enforcement drives, incentives and welfare. To restructure means to work for complete improvement and to reform is to bring about changes so that you will have improvement in what you are doing. So, in essence, we have started realising that the Three- Point Agenda of the Controller General have brought so many positive developments to the Nigeria Customs Service. The agenda brought about some changes which made our remarkable collection of N1trillion possible, which had never been achieved before in previous administrations. We are now practicing what is known as an organised manning level , which  wasn’t there before. I believe the leap was brought from Police and Army, where in the police force, you know certain class of officers  are normally being posted from headquarters to specific seats. Before, in Customs, once you are in an area, the Area Controller does everything. For example, Deputy Controllers of Administration of the Command are now posted as well as Deputy Controller Revenue and Deputy Controller in-charge of Enforcement. These are the three principal officers that normally assist in every Command and that; I think has given a kind of sense of responsibilities to each and every one of these officers. It is like application of checks and balances.  Their loyalty is to the Area Controller, but I think it is more with the headquarters knowing well that you are assigned to cover a beat and you cannot afford not to do what is expected of you. Then going to incentives and welfare, we have seen that a lot have been done in that regard. For example, our promotion so far has never been like this. There is  reward for remarkable achievements where officers were promoted for outstanding performances and merits. A lot is being done again in the areas of accommodation. Apart from that, we enjoyed something that has never happened in Customs for a very long time. For instance, when mass transfer was made, everybody was paid for first 28 days which I believe like I said sometimes back, that if you found someone who spent some 20 years in the Service, it’s not surprising that he tells you that he had never collected that 28 days allowance. While in some organisation, it used to be, if you request for transfer to a particular place for a good reason, the only condition that they will give you is that okay you must forfeit your 28 days allowance. In fact, in Customs we don’t even know this, but now it has been brought back and the amount is quite awesome and people are very happy about that. What about the enforcement? On the enforcement, remarkable seizures were made at different points in the sea ports, at the Airport and border posts. In addition to all these, we have this great elevation where smugglers are not having it as business as usual. This is because, even if you take delivery of your consignment, it does not mean that you are free. You must have heard that warehouses, showrooms were invaded, where we seized vehicles, exotics ones for that matter, where millions of Naira was supposed to be paid as duty but were smuggled. Now, I believe with that trend, a lot of smugglers are now having second thought. So, what I’m trying to say is that we are seriously using intelligence and it may interest you to know that, we go as far as having our information from foreign nations. We have a strike force in place now. The strike force is equally an outfit that is not limited to only striking, they source information particularly these border areas.” You will agree with me that each and every point, we have a kind of case or seizures to show for all to testify that yes, we are not relenting in our efforts. Waterways are one area that has been giving us problem because of poor logistics supply, but we are not resting on our oars. I know definitely, that Nigerians will be more disturbed when military hardware are being seen smuggled into the country, but I tell you, we are not leaving any stone unturned, even if it is sand that you are smuggling into this country, we will fight to finish.” So, generally we can say that the Three- Point Agenda is seriously working because there is no aspect of Customs job that has not been affected positively. The other issue is the alarming importation of some military hardware. The last one was at the airport where the Controller impounded some of this huge hardware which was displayed, and with what is happening right now, how prepared is Zone ‘A’ towards ensuring these things don’t come into the country? We are well prepared, we are on ground. The truth of the matter is that we have four points where smuggled items used to come in. We have the Seaports, Airports, Border posts as well as Waterways. At the seaports, so far, I can assure you that we have gone extra miles to get information right from the countries of origin. As I am talking to you now, we have not less than seven containers, though not of military hardware, but of some restricted items. They were intercepted on arrival, and they are already seized. So, what I’m trying to say is that we are seriously using intelligence and it may interest you to know that,  we go as far as having our information from foreign nations. We have a strike force in place now. The strike force is equally an outfit that is not limited to only striking, they source information particularly these border areas. You are a witness where some kinds of seizures were made at Seme. Nobody could believe someone will take his time to arrange smuggled items in almost every nook and cranny of a vehicle to bring it into this country. That could only be achieved with sound information. So, in essence, as far as military hardware is concerned, we are seriously on top of the situation, and don’t forget that the Controller General, last year, when a sizeable number of containers were seized with pump action rifles,  he had to travel as far as Turkey. I believed that visit must have yielded some results and apart, from that in our own way, we are equally into profiling transactions. It is obvious that when we go back to record and look at what you been importing, from where have you been importing this items, are you a compliant trader and things like that. Recently, a container was removed from Tincan Island port, it was taken to a Terminal, but because our information was genuine, we were able to get it. As I am talking to you now, it has been seized, so these applications are not limited to only military hardware. I know definitely, that Nigerians will be more disturbed when military hardware are being seen smuggled into the country, but I tell you, we are not leaving any stone unturned, even if it is sand that you are smuggling into this country, we will fight to finish. Zone ‘A’ has the busiest Ports, busiest Airport and the most economically viable Land borders, and it also gives rise to high incidence of smuggling. How prepared are you to check smuggling activities across the zone? Sincerely speaking, you know smuggling, many times when it is mentioned; we limit it to arresting an item at the point of entry. No, it has gone beyond that I’m telling you that even at this Zonal level, we are doing wonderful things and then you can look at what we have on ground. Apart from the resident officers of each and every Command, we have the Federal Operations Unit, we have  the Customs Intelligence Unit (CIU) in addition to this, we now have the Customs Police and all these offices are coming together to fight this menace. You will agree with me that each and every point, we have a kind of case or seizures to show for all to testify that yes, we are not relenting in our efforts. Waterways is one area that has been giving us problem because of poor logistics supply, but we are not resting on our oars. In recent times, I visited the flag officer of Western Naval Command in the view of inviting them to cooperate with us so that we can achieve our objectives in that area and a lot of seizures were made, particularly of petroleum products, because it seems as if two major items that are being smuggled in our waterways are petroleum products and second hand clothing. We are doing well, increasing in collaborations to achieve our goal. Not only the Naval people are behind us, the Army as well and other sister agencies. We are working hand in hand, the last time the highest seizure ever in the history of Federal Operations in illicit drugs was made, we invited NDLEA and handed over that stuff to them. So, we are leaving no stone unturned to see to it that we fight these people to finish.  Then like I said, the Zonal office is not sitting here idle. We are coordinating the activities of the Commands. Declaration documents by importers are properly checked here. This paper is of great importance to us. We have a case of a declaration of imported items and those concerned applied to Customs headquarters for conversion for home use, then in the course of checking the records, we discovered that the conversion was approved, but no payment was made. You could not believe that when we pursued the matter, we invited the declarants, the agent, he came here and we requested from him payment for those items that were converted for home use, the figure I have here as our collection in that transaction is N1,121,426,946. You see, this is one aspect of Customs job that requires regular checks, but if they are not checked properly someone will not even care, we will not know that this money was siphoned or kept by someone, while in the real sense it is the revenue of the federal government. We are fighting smuggling in all ramification and I believed what we are trying to achieve will be achieved in Zone ‘A’ by the grace of God. What is the level of revenue collection in the first quarter of 2018? I think I have the figure, the collection so far has been quite encouraging. In fact, I’m pleased with our performance because so far in the first quarter input in percentage, we collected almost 90% of what was expected of us in our quarterly target because we collected N220,884billion. Like I said, the collection is quite encouraging and we are hoping for more because NICIS2 is being applied in Tincan and they are right now working at Apapa so we have other secret that I will not reveal here. Is there any officer who will not hope to collect more than what he collected last year? The issue is our hope is very high, high in the sense that with the application of NICIS2, we have done so much particularly at PTML. The records has shown that the highest collection ever in PTML was N10.6billion, while their monthly target is N10.2billion, but the good news is that in April we collected N10.8billion. We made sure that NICIS2 is working. There must be an increase in the level of compliance, there is transparency in transactions.  Definitely by the time Apapa is hooked and MMA, I believe from all indication we will surpass what we have done last year, because we almost collected what was expected of us last year in the first quarter, because where you collect 90%, I think that by the time we balance even that 10% will be met. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 