Gombe – Assorted hospital equipment worth about N4.4 billion has been lying waste in Gombe State Medical Store for the past four years, even as some hospitals are said to be lacking some of the equipment. DAILY INDEPENDENT checks revealed that hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, drip stands among many others were left to rot away in the sun while some are wasting away in buildings within the premises of the medical store. Confirming the existence of these equipment, some staff who would not want their names in print confided in our reporter that some of the equipment had been stored in the premises for as long as three to four years. Several visits by our correspondents to Habu Santana, the officer in charge of the Medical Store, to react on the allegations could not yield results. As at 12.30 pm Wednesday (13/06/2018) afternoon, our reporter was told that the pharmacist was yet to report for work and no one was ready to divulge his mobile phone number. Findings by our correspondent, who went round the medical store, also revealed high level conspiracy around the delivery of the equipment in the store almost four years ago by the contracting firm. A source told our reporter that there was no proper contract concerning the delivery of the equipment, that is, due process was not followed, thus, making it difficult for hospitals to make requests for their needs. He added that the equipment, worth about N4.4 billion, were said to be delivered to the store based on gentleman’s agreement. Apart from the many hospitals in the state, both primary and secondary health facilities, needing these equipment in the rural and urban centres, there is modern women and children hospital in Gombe and the snake bite hospital in Kaltungo which had been completed by the present government over two years ago, people of the state have been expecting the take-off of these very important facilities. Efforts to get the reaction of the state government on these developments proved abortive. Kennedy Ishaya, the Commissioner of Health, was also not on hand to field questions from our correspondent, as he was said to have travelled out of the state. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 