Lafia – The Zamfara State Police Command has confirmed the death of 10 people following the attack in Dutsen-Wake and Oho village in Birnin-Magaji local government area of Zamfara State. In Nasarawa, suspected Fulani herdsmen killed four Tiv farmers on their way to the farm at Antsa village of Kwarra District, Keana Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Muhammad Shehu, who made the confirmation to newsmen in Gusau on Wednesday said the bandits in Zamfara attacked the two villages on Tuesday about 10pm. “We received distress call yesterday that the bandits attacked the area around 10pm. We quickly responded by mobilising policemen to the area, led by Area Commander Kaura-Namoda Police Area Command and Divisional Police Officer of Birnin-Magaji Division. “When they arrived the area the bandits had already fled to Rugu forest bordering Zamfara with Katsina State. “They discovered 10 dead bodies killed by the bandits, seven in Dutsen-Wake and three in Oho village”, he said. He said the Zamfara State police command had already mobilised security personnel to maintain peace in the area. According to him, the state Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, was collaborating with the Katsina State Police Command to track the perpetrators of the attack. He urged communities in the state to always cooperate and give information on security to police and other security agencies. Meanwhile, no fewer than four Tiv farmers were reported killed on Wednesday by suspected Fulani herdsmen while on their way to the farm at Antsa village of Kwarra District, Keana Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. The Antsa killing occurred hot on the heels of last Tuesday’s attack allegedly carried out by the same suspected herdsmen on Tiv farmers at Gada-Biu village in Obi Local Government Area of the state when they (farmers) were on the farm. The herdsmen killed Aondovihi Tuur, while another, Virlumun Atsaga, was reportedly missing. Over twenty others were inflicted with various degrees of injuries. The attacks came after a cease-fire agreement was reached between the Tiv farmers and the Fulani herdsmen in Nasarawa State recently. Speaking to DAILY INDEPENDENT on the Antsa killings, an eyewitness, Dennis Utsa, said the killings occurred on Tuesday about 10:00am. The family of four were butchered to death by the herdsmen. Utsa said, “As I speak to you, security operatives have been mobilised and are on their way to recover the butchered corpses from the farm, where the killings took place, to Kadarko town.” Utsa gave the names of the slain Tiv family to include the father, Utindi Kyor; his son, Shie-Aondo; his son’s wife, Dedzugwen, and his grandson, Boyi. Briefing journalists on the resumed killing of Tiv farmers in Nasarawa State by the suspected Fulani herdsmen, chairman of Mzough U Tiv in the state, Thomas Gar, said the family of four were killed on their way to the farm. He said, “The young man was going to his farm alongside his wife and child when they were intercepted by the suspected Fulani herdsmen who collected the young man’s phone and forced him to call his father to come so that they will release them. “Unknown to the young man, he called his father to the spot, but the young man, the wife, the child, and the father were all instantly killed.” The Nasarawa Mzough U Tiv chairman, however, lamented that since Vice President Yemi Osinbajo visited the state there had been no peace for the Tiv people of Nasarawa State. “The vice president came barely about a month ago and all our expectations were that there will be peace, but unfortunately, there is no peace in our communities. “Up till now, nobody has gone back to the places of their abode, and farming season is fast running out and they are still hanging around in the neighbouring communities. “But as I speak, we have minimum security personnel on the ground and the Tiv people are still stranded in various IDP camps because they have not gone back to their places of abode,” he maintained. He also recalled that when Osinbajo visited Nasarawa State, he left a promise that a lot of security personnel would be deployed to the affected communities. Gar appealed to the government to do more to alleviate the sufferings of the Tiv farmers in the state. According to him, “The Tiv people in the Southern senatorial district of the state are still suffering and are still trapped in the IDP camps.” When contacted, the Nasarawa State Police Command Public Relations Officer, ASP Samaila Usman, responded that he was yet to be briefed on the development. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 