LAGOS – Chief Ayo Adebanjo,  Afenifere chieftain,  lawyer and great Awoist, has remained a nationalist, patriot, democrat and an ideologue. Since the campaign for restructuring, Adebanjo has utilised every opportunity to canvass for a return to true federalism. Adebanjo, a member of 2014 National Conference, has been agitating for the implementation of its recommendations for the country’s good. As President Muhammadu Buhari on June 6, 2018 declared June 12 the nation’s Democracy Day, Adebanjo, while applauding the action and the honour done to the late Chief Moshood Abiola, stated that the government only acceded to only one of the demands of Afenifere and Pro-democracy groups. Adebanjo, like many observers, warned President Buhari not to think that by giving June 12 and honouring Abiola, he (Buhari) could hoodwink South West, or Yoruba, to support his 2019 second term dream. Adebanjo stressed: “The next election will be based on performance and the trust we have in him. We can only thank him for all the things he has done that are good, and we are grateful to him. If he tries to expand the scope of June 12, he will be whipping up a lot of emotions.” Analysts agree with Adebanjo that as laudable as Buhari’s action on June 12 and the honour done to Abiola are, he should go further by restructuring the country, remove every obstacle to democracy, have respect for rule of law, make the Police and other security agencies to respect people’s rights. Observers also maintain that restructuring will ensure that every part of the country is treated equally, while people’s lives will be more protected from harassments and destruction. Analysts also want Buhari to ensure that every arm of the government is giving due respect, while the remaining part of his first term should be used to make life more meaningful for Nigerians. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 