SAPELE – As the season of endorsements for Okowa/Otuaro second term in office continues, the Fiyewei of Gbaramatu Kingdom, Chief Godspower Gbenekama, and the leaders of Azama Ward 17 in Gbaramatu Kingdom, Warri South West Local Government Area of Delta State, have joined the train. The Fiyewei and the entire leaders of Azama Ward 17 stated this on Sunday, during a general meeting held at Azama community town hall, which was at the instance of Chief Bosin Ebikeme, the Special Adviser to the Delta State Governor on Petroleum Matters. Chief Godspower Gbenekama said with the commitment which Governor Okowa and his deputy have shown in bringing the existing peace and stability in the region, the people of the kingdom were left with no other option than to have them endorsed for the second term. In his words, “There is no way you will have the duo of Okowa/Otuaro in office without being rest assured that everything will work out fine. “Roads construction is ongoing in our communities. This government in my views has done well. And we, the people of Azama Ward, the Ward of the deputy governor, hereby endorse Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa and his deputy, Barr. Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, as our sole candidates come 2019, on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party. “When the issues of the Maritime University came up, Okowa’s government was there to prevail on all the issues as urgent, because we have a deputy governor who is our son.” In the same vein, Hon. Christopher Omula, the councilor representing Azama Ward, who was at the meeting to give an account of his stewardship as well as intimate the people of his empowerment programme used the opportunity to also endorse Okowa/Otuaro. The councilor stated that his programme would be in three phases. “The first phase is Health Empowerment Programme of the three communities; the second phase of it is on Environmental Sanitation, and third, hospital visitation of Azama ward as health is wealth,” he stated. On his part, however, Mr. Emomotimi Guwor, used the medium to ask for peoples support as he prepares to contest the Warri South West Constituency seat of the State House of Assembly in 2019. He thereafter appreciated the team spirit of Azama Ward leadership while urging them to support his mandate. Earlier, Chief Bosin Ebikeme, the Political Leader in the area, while delivering his opening remark, described Governor Okowa as an astute manager of men and resources, noting that the harsh economic situation in the state has been minimised, courtesy of the governor’s dexterity in managing the lean resources available to the state for the development of the riverine areas. He, therefore, reaffirmed the commitment of Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa and his deputy as a government of the grassroots that has done more for riverine communities, adding that the people have seen the Finger of God in his government. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 