ABEOKUTA – The Ogun State command of the Nigerian Police Force has announced the arrest of four persons, suspected to be political thugs and members of a secret cult group over alleged involvement in the shooting and murder of one person in Sagamu area of the state. The suspects, Olushola Adedeji, Olusegun Olalekan a.k.a Musket, Azeez, alias Anene and Abolore a.ka A.B were arrested by men of the Zonal Intervention Squad (ZIS), Obada, Abeokuta, last week Thursday at their hideout in Sagamu, for killing a Sagamu resident popularly known as Arsenal-Nice. Their arrest followed a complaint lodged at the ZIS that the suspects invaded the residence of the victim and shot him dead. The complainant, who added that the suspects were on the payroll of a member of the Ogun State House of Assembly, equally informed the police that the suspects have been terrorizing Sagamu and its environs. The investigation revealed that the suspects, who were arrested with some arms and ammunition and presently in the custody of ZIS, had allegedly fingered the member representing Sagamu State Constituency 1 and the Majority Leader in the House of Assembly, Hon. Yinka Mafe, as their sponsor. When contacted, the Zonal Police Public Relations Officer, Zone 2, Onikan, Lagos State, Dolapo Badmus, confirmed the arrest of the suspects but informed that the case was still under investigation. He added that the suspects confessed to being worker to one politician in the state. “The case is under investigation. They (the suspects) said they are working for one politician but we are investigating it. We won’t expose it until we get to the last stage. But the cogent information is that they said they were working for a politician, an information we are still trying to verify,” Badmus stated. Reacting to the development through text messages, Hon. Yinka Mafe, described the allegation as a “beer parlour gist”. He said the suspects should be charged to the court of competent jurisdiction, noting that as a lawyer, he will be glad to have an opportunity to defend himself. “Well, I don’t react to beer parlour gist. More so, I rather suggest that they are charged to the court of competent jurisdiction so I have my day in court as a lawyer to defend myself. Thanks”. Mafe replied in the SMS. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 