Last week, President Muhammadu Buhari had on behalf of the Federal Government, tendered an unreserved apology to the family of late business mogul, newspaper baron, politician and philanthropist, Bashorun Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, as well as other Nigerians whose relations died during the crisis following the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election adjudged as the fairest, the freest and the most credible in the history of Nigeria. Tendering the apology at the special national honours investiture and award presentation to heroes of June 12, 1993 at the Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, where the undisputable winner of the election, Abiola, was posthumously bestowed with the highest honour in the land – Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR), while his then runningmate, Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, as well as late legal luminary and fighter for human rights, Chief Gani Fawehinmi, were conferred with Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger (GCON), President Buhari reportedly said the regime of military President Ibrahim Babangida, stole Abiola’s mandate when it annulled the election. We commend the Muhammadu Buhari administration for the apology even though stealing of Abiola’s hard-won popular mandate was willfully perpetrated by the unrepentant regime of Babangida 25 years ago. Although the president said recognition of  June 12 as new Democracy Day, as well as the honours were not intended to unearth old wounds but to bury negative effects that trailed it, it is, however, imperative that all those responsible for annulment of the election be made to apologise publicly to Nigerians. Infact, due to the incalculable damages cancellation of the election caused these past 25 years countrywide, the characters involved should be made to face full wrath of the law to serve as a deterrent. It is unfortunate that some ambitious military officers, in a bid to achieve their selfish interests, had to abort an election believed by many Nigerians was transparent. We recall that following cancellation of the election, Abiola who Chairman of the defunct National Electoral Commission (NEC), Professor Humphrey Nwosu, had courageously disclosed won the election, drove to Epetedo in Lagos Island where he made the historic “Epetedo Declaration” on June 11, 1994 to announce he was the President-elect. Consequently, he was arrested and clamped into detention for treason by late General Sani Abacha. It is noteworthy, that throughout his agonising four-year stay in detention, Abiola rejected offers to renounce the mandate Nigerians gave him in exchange for freedom. However, he chose to pay the supreme sacrifice. Consequently, many were not surprised when General Abdulsalami Abubakar-led administration announced his demise under controversial circumstances, on July 7, 1998 at the age of 60 – a few days to when government had hinted he would be released from detention. Ironically, his infamous tormentor, Abacha, had died on June 8, 1998, under mysterious circumstances. Unfortunately, since the painful exit of the widely acclaimed “Martyr of Nigeria’s Democracy”, his family has incurred immeasurable losses. His vast flourishing business conglomerate that provided thousands of Nigerians gainful employment is comatose. While still in detention, one of his wives and dogged fighter for democracy, Kudirat Abiola, who was with him throughout the June 12 struggles, was assassinated in Lagos on June 4, 1996. No reward or honour is too much for losses of Abiola’s family, as well as others whose relations died following annulment of the election. Since President Buhari honoured him, as well as declared June 12 new Democracy Day, he has met the yearnings of many Nigerians who had for 25 years, hoped that somebody would right past wrongs to end bottled grievances of Nigerians that trusted Abiola and voted for him. We commend President Buhari for honourng the trio. By this singular act, he has endeared himself to many Nigerians. Moving forward, the Presidency should in collaboration with the National Assembly, ensure amendment of the Public Holiday Act so that the new Democracy Day could become effective with effect from June 12, 2019 seamlessly. Finally, significance of the June 12, 1993 election is that no matter how long it takes, the truth will be revealed. In this case, it took Abiola 25 years to receive justice. The election has also proved that if government provides the enabling environment, especially as 2019 elections are around the corner, the most tested and trusted candidate would emerge winner in a free, fair and credible election. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 