Abuja – The military has expressed frustration over strategic issues affecting its effectiveness in checking insurgency and other crimes in the country, saying there is a limit to what it can do. It pointed out that there was lack of diligence in monitoring foreigners in the country, and partly blamed this for the worsening security situation. Brig. General John Agim, Director of Defence Information, gave the hint at the weekend against the backdrop of the increasing wave of killings and abduction of defenceless Nigerians by armed Fulani herdsmen and other killer gangs. Speaking during an interactive session with journalists in Abuja, the defence spokesman said Nigeria’s long stretch of porous borders, the absence of unconventional security checks, and sustained negative reports had combined to undermine military efforts. “We have those who come into the country; the immigration complain of porous borders, that people come in and go out. “And our country is something different, we have people here, nobody cares to check anybody! “I just came back from the Conference of Association of Defence PROs in Botswana. For one month we could not get a visa. “A lot of people were not given visa; Prof Ralph Akinfeleye was to present a paper, he was not given a visa. “He didn’t come. But here you have people come and do anything they like in our country and nobody checks them, nobody sees, nobody asks questions. “Chad that we talk about, Niger, go there. There’s always somebody who is monitoring you. Come here, nobody talks to you. “You’re free to do anything you want to do. As a military, there’s a limit to what we can do”, he said. Continuing, Agim said, “We can only take care of the security threats we are talking about, we cannot go and ask: where are you from? “The question people have been asking is who are those killing? “Well, you see me, as a soldier, and I know for many of my colleagues, if I see a non-Nigerian, I will not know, and so for most of us, unless you have been trained to identify a non-Nigerian. “We have a lot of people in this country that we make use of. People that we are making use of that have become part of us, when they talk, they talk like us.” He said the military was finding it difficult confirming the true identity of killer groups that have sprouted especially in the North Central states. According to him, the military was hamstrung, especially in respect of the killers who take advantage of the proliferation of small arms in the region. He also noted that the sustained negative report by Amnesty International (AI) was impeding efforts to acquire necessary resources to drive the war against insurgency as well as contain herdsmen and militant attacks. The military said the reports were hindering the war against insurgency and insecurity in the country. Responding to question on the continued deployment of soldiers in the Niger Delta despite the relative peace in the region, he said the military could not be withdrawn without the approval of relevant political authorities. According to him, military deployment comes at the request of the governor and approval of Mr. President, whose responsibility it was to ensure security in the affected region. Military withdrawal could only be effected at the request of such authorities, he explained. Besides, he argued that the situation in the Niger Delta was still fragile and could unravel at short notice. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 