Gernot Rohr, Super Eagles coach, is still hopeful of reaching the second round of the ongoing World Cup despite losing 2-0 to Croatia in their group opening game on Saturday. He premised his belief on the fact that the players will recover from the loss and at least get four points from the next two games and scale the group stage hurdle. “We have noted our short comings and we will improve”, he said after the loss. “Naturally, we are disappointed like anyone will feel when you get defeated,” admitting that the major short coming of his team was in getting on well with set pieces. The two goals conceded came off from corner kicks. The first was in the 32nd minute when Oghenekaro Etebo deflected home the ball to score what is the 42nd own goal in World Cup history. Sadly, the one preceding it was also by a Nigerian, Joseph Yobo in the Brazil 2014 encounter with France. The second goal was also from a corner kick and William Ekong-Troost pinned down Mario Mandzukic in the 70th minute resulting into an award of penalty kick converted by the Man of the Match, Luka Modric. Coach Gernot Rohr said that the team was now condemned to win the next game against gusty Iceland that held the group favourites, Argentina to 1-1 draw earlier on Saturday. Despite the loss, Rohr defended the team performance. “I think the organisation was okay. We didn’t concede from normal play, we conceded from set-pieces,” Rohr told reporters. “Our system was okay. We cannot play with three when there is only one centre-forward, so we played with four because Croatia had three strikers. “What we were missing was to be more professional on set-pieces. Each game is different, we will see for the next game. We know we can play with three centre-backs but today (Saturday) was not that day.” Nigeria will play Iceland on June 22, before Argentina on June 26. Nigeria are bottom of the group. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 