Warri – Dr. Janet Oyubu, the all Progressives Congress (APC) women leader in Delta State, has lauded President Muhammadu Buhari’s for making June 12 Democracy Day and signing into law the Not Too Young to Rule Law, stressing that Mr. President has showed that he is passionate about the sustaining democracy in Nigeria. She said that such action also symbolised the strength of Nigeria’s democracy, which she said is based on truth and justice. Oyubu in a press statement made available yesterday to newsmen in Warri, said the APC faithful and including the women have been working very hard for the progress of the party. She said: “I know that with time and as we go through the narrow path, Nigerians will get to know that Mr. President is God-send and that he meant very well for the country.” She lauded the post humours award of Grand Commander of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (GCFR) conferred on the late Chief M.K.O Abiola as well as the award of Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger (GCON) conferred on both Babagana Kingibe and Gani Fawehinmi. She also commended Buhari for honouring Comrade Frank Ovie Kokori and others who gallantly fought for good of Nigeria. Her words: “I am also congratulating Mr. President because he meant well for the sustenance of our democracy and the cohesion of brotherhood and sisterhood of this nation. He is out for the sustenance of peace and tranquillity but it is a pity that some Nigerians don’t understand him. On the effort made so far by Mr. President to fight corruption and insecurity, the Delta State APC women leader said that Buhari has done a lot in the area, adding, “You cannot leave the man who broke the bone and be confronting the bone fixer because of the pains the broken bones has inflicted, the fixer should have no blames. She, therefore, urged the APC family in the state to continue to support the party in its effort to occupy the Government House and also return President Buhari to power for a the second tenure. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 