Sports philanthropist and Rivers State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Felix Obuah has praised the resilience of the Super Eagles and charged them to sustain the tempo as they look forward to their next opponents. Obuah in a statement said the victory over Iceland should spur the brave Eagles to greater performance as they tackle Argentina in their final group match on Tuesday. “The opening loss to Croatia brought us anxieties and Nigerians went into prayers to seek God’s intervention, which is why the victory over Iceland was a great relief. “Therefore, my advice to then is to use the victory as a tonic and beat Argentina who are already demoralized due to the trouncing suffered in the hands of Croatia”, Obuah said, adding that a victory over Argentina, regardless of the margin, would put the Super Eagles in good stead. He described Argentina as ‘familiar customers’ who are yet to recover from the trouncing suffered in the hands of the Super Eagles in an international friendly last November, urged the Eagles to demonstrate to the world that the superlative performance was never a fluke. Obuah who is also the President/Sole Sponsor of Go-Round FC of Omoku, a side plying its trade in the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL), urged the players to realize that they are not only flying the flag of Nigeria but that of Africa, adding that progressing into the next round would keep hopes alive for the nation and continent. “With Morocco, Tunisia and Egypt already out of the tournament, all eyes are now on the Super Eagles and Senegal.  We are trusting that you will do us proud once more”, he said. It will be recalled that Nigeria, Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia and Senegal are representating Africa at the competition. A victory for the Super Eagles over Argentina and a defeat for Iceland in the hands of Croatia will definitely see Nigeria through to the Second Round of the competition. Coach Gernot Rohr has already assured Nigerians that the team will not disappoint and will try to live up to expectations when they play the Argentines on Tuesday in the Group’s last match. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 