Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI in Abuja, spoke on issues affecting the ruling party, the forthcoming national convention and other issues. Excerpts: From May 14, your party again shifted its national convention from June 2 to June 23. Many people say it is because you are afraid that there may be an implosion at the convention owing to the multiple crises that trailed the congresses, and that you have mandated the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu reconciliation team to pacify the aggrieved members before the date.. How true is that? That is not exactly correct. As a matter of fact, there was no time we said we are going to do our convention on June 2nd.  It was just a proposed date and you cannot point at a single statement that the party issued through me that says that our convention will hold on June 2. The moment we constituted the Convention Committee, it was important for us to reconcile with them the date that will be suitable for this exercise.  Some people proposed June 2nd, but there were also so many other people who felt it will not be politically sensitive for us to hold a convention during Ramadan. But there were contending argument that there was nothing in Islam that says we could not do convention during Ramadan. So, we were going back and forth with this argument  until the Convention committee came back to say even in terms of logistics, we may not be ready by that June 2nd and that many of our members are traveling for Umrah (lesser Hajj). So, we feel it is best we fix a date after Ramadan and that was when the party now decided that  June 23rd will be an appropriate date. So, it had nothing to do with any issue being put forward about whether crisis  will occur at the convention or not. It is just a matter of looking for a convenient date for everyone. Based on the outcome of the congresses, are you confident that there won’t be an implosion in your party as a result of this convention? We are confident that there won’t be any implosion not just because of the work we are going to do between now and then to resolve the contentions around the congresses. There are some that are straightforward while some are a bit complicated.  But the golden rule for us is this: wherever there had been congresses, did they comply with the guidelines that were handed to the committee sent to the states to conduct the congresses?   As a matter of fact, were these congresses conducted by the committee sent to the state to do so?  These were the questions we have been asking.  Also, wherever there are aggrieved members who felt that they were shortchanged or certain things were not done properly, we have appeal committees sent to the respective states who have also submitted their reports.  As from Wednesday 30th of May, the National Working Committee which is like the Supreme Court in this instance will be sitting to  consider  those cases coming from the states. Paramount in our consideration is to ensure that justice is done to everyone based on available evidence to us.  I believe that even those who will not be satisfied in the end should be able to see that justice is done. If everybody is able to see that justice is done, even if they are not happy they will be able to live with it. It is therefore incumbent on us in the NWC to ensure that justice is done to everyone based on the evidence available before us. That is not just the report of the congress committee, not just the report of the appeal committee  but also other report s that will be made available through other channels to the NWC. But I can assure you that this NWC will ensure that justice is done to every member because we want peace in our party and we know that fundamental precondition for peace everywhere is justice.  That is one side of it but there are also other conversations going on at other levels. There are other issues that are coming up by other members of the party who are saying they are not happy with the way things are going and there are other levels of engagement that are going on. So, we believe that some of these issues will be better handled in order to ensure that we don’t have what we call an explosion by June 23 when we meet for the convention. Many were surprised that even in states that were thought to be peaceful, there were parallel congresses, especially in Kwara, home state of the Senate President and Lagos state, which is the home base of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the man appointed to head the reconciliation team of the party by Mr. President.  Were you surprised by these developments especially in your state, Kwara? If I say I am surprised is to admit that there was a parallel congress. There was no parallel congress in Kwara state.  What do you define as a congress? A congress is a political gathering meant to elect new officers that have been authorised by the parties authority constituted to do so. In other words, you can only call it a congress if at least one or two members of the committee sent by the NWC to carry out such congresses were present in such gathering. Otherwise, it is just a political gathering.  Now, what you just mentioned that happened in Kwara, were there any member of the committee sent to conduct the congress in Kwara present at the event?  The answer is no! They were all present at the congress that was held at the Banquet hall.  Two, did the Appeal committee sent to Kwara receive any petition from any member of the party in Kwara state?  The answer is no.  So as far as we are concerned, only one congress happened in Kwara  on that Saturday. If there were political gatherings  elsewhere, we cannot dispute it but to call it parallel congress,  I think we will be conferring on it the authority that it does not have. The same applies to any other states where people gather together to hold any meetings. As long as the committee that is sent by the NWC to carry out such assignment was not present at the event, you cannot call it a congress.  So, many of these things that people call parallel congresses are really not congresses. If they are not congresses, it means these aggrieved members who gathered at another venues on the day of the congresses are trying to send a message to the party. What are you trying to do to pacify these ones? I agree with you that it is possible that when you have such gatherings, it is like a protest gathering.  So, it is better to call it protest gathering rather than parallel congress.  Yes, there are some states where people are genuinely aggrieved and  they probably even have legitimate grounds to be so aggrieved but there are some that are just a gathering where they only want people to notice them that they also exists. So, we have situations in some states where people said ‘ let us also show to them that we are her, so that people will also remember that we exist and probably call us for negotiation’.  That is the situation that played out in Kwara state. So, some  of these things are just crass opportunism. Like in the case of Kwara, it was crass opportunism. It is just a gathering of people who want people in Abuja to feel  that there are some people in Kwara who will better serve their interests than some other people, which to me is just unintelligent opportunism. Having said that, there are some states where there are genuine grievances.  Even if we cannot call what took place a parallel congress, political party is about number. The more people you have in the party, the better for you. So, you don’t want any people to leave your party in annoyance because whatever you lose, it could be your opponent’s gain.  We don’t want anybody to leave our party. While we will not allow that to pervert the course of justice,  we will not because we want to pacify anybody now pervert the course of justice.  Justice has to be done. If you pervert the course of justice because you want to pacify someone, you will end up digging a ditch because you want to fill a pothole. So, it is better you find other means of assuaging these individuals and letting them know that they can find accommodation within the party even though they may have lost that particular battle. So, whatever rapprochement that needs to happen can take place in such a way that people can say that even if I don’t manage to get my own people in at this congress,  I can still find accommodation within the party  and I can still trust that justice will be done to me within this party and that is the challenge that we have as officers of the party.  In the case of Lagos state, the clear contention in Lagos is that there are some that believed that the congresses that took place was based on 57 local governments and development areas and there are some that said it has to be in only 20 local governments. So, the question is that what was the guideline that was given to the committee that went to Lagos? Was it 57 local government and development areas or just 20 local governments?  So, these are the issues that the NWC will have to look at. If the guideline say it is 57 local governments and development areas, that is what we will go with.  If it says it is 20 local government areas, that is what we will go with.  I know what the guideline says but I am not going to say it so it doesn’t appear as if I am preempting whatever is going to happen. But it is a very simple matter. Can we say this is what is happening with the PDP faction in APC today? The issue of new PDP is quite different from what we witnessed during the congresses.  I can say this without fear of contradiction; of course you know my relationship with the new PDP. I am from the PDP extraction and so, I am involved in a way . I think the issue is that most of us who came from the PDP there is a sense that we feel that we have not been adequately compensated within the entire political arrangement.  I think that is the general feeling within the nPDP . The truth is that majority of nPDP people within the APC want a better relationship. If we are coming to say let’s look at this issue, we are saying that we want this union to be stronger. Some people are saying that nPDP want to go away. No, I don’t have that feeling . I think for nPDP members to have called for dialogue with the party leadership, they are actually interested in the relationship. If they are not interested, they won’t bring anything forward, they will just spring a surprise at everybody. With the endorsement of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole by President Buhari  and the withdrawal of incumbent chairman, Chief  John Oyegun from the chairmanship race, is it to safe to assume that Oshiomhole id the next national chairman of your party? I will not be in a position to say that Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is the next national chairman of the party. All I know is that he has declared his interest to contest for the chairmanship position of the party. I don’t even know if he has obtained the relevant forms.  I don’t even know if others have declared interest to contest. What I know is that the position is zoned to the South- South and he is not the only one from that region. So, if the incumbent national chairman decides not to contest doesn’t mean other eligible members of the party from the South- South cannot come out to contest. So, we are not in a position to say Comrade Adams Oshiomhole will become the next chairman. I know he has declared interest.  I know he is a very strong contender but we cannot say that he is the next chairman of the party. Ekiti state governor, Ayo Fayose has accused your party of colluding with INEC to rig the July 14 governorship election. How will you react to that? Someone who specialises in cutting off people’s heads, if he sees even a broom hovering on his head, he will run for cover because he knows what he does, which is killing people. When that person sees someone holding a broom, he will raise an alarm that his life is in danger. That is what is happening in Ekiti. We all heard the audio recording by a soldier, Sagir Koli who talked about how the PDP used federal might, using soldiers to rig election in the last governorship election in Ekiti. The PDP  knew what they did in Ekiti by rigging the 2014 governorship election using the military. Now, that we are in power, they thought we are going to do the same to them. But we will not do that. We are progressives, we don’t play that kind of game. We are going to win the governorship election fair and square without rigging because the people of Ekiti are tired of the tragi-comedy that they have seen in the last four years of PDP rule in Ekiti state. They want something different . They want a government that is forward-looking and that is what they are going to get if they vote for APC. We have conducted several elections in this country without rigging or federal might. There was governorship election in Anambra. Didn’t we lose? Why didn’t we rig or use federal might? There was a senatorial rerun election in Osun and we lost. We have a good credential for allowing free and fair contest. They should hold up their own credentials what they did in the 16 years that they were in power and in particular the case of Ekiti how they rig the governorship election. I can assure you that we are not going to do that on our part. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 