Abuja – The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the promotion of 3,665 senior police officers. The promotion was one of the high points of the commission’s 28th plenary meeting which ended in Abuja on Friday. The plenary meeting was the last official function of the outgoing Chairman of the Commission, Mike Okiro, whose tenure came to an end on Monday, June 11, 2018. Okiro was appointed by the immediate past President Goodluck Jonathan on June 12, 2013. Two Commissioners of Police (CP), Igbodo O. David, CP, Legal, Force Headquarters, and Olalekan Abdulfatai, CP, Works, also of Force Headquarters, were promoted substantive Assistant Inspectors-General (AIG) of Police. According to a statement by Ikechukwu Ani, Spokesman of the Commission, on Wednesday, 16 Deputy Commissioners of Police were also promoted to Commissioners of Police. They include DCP Wakili Maye and DCP Kurawa Abdullahi Sarki. The commission also approved the promotion of thirteen Assistant Commissioners of Police to Deputy Commissioners, 60 Chief Superintendents of Police (CSPs) to Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACP) and 631 Superintendents of Police (SPs) to Chief Superintendents (CSPs). Among the 60 CSPs promoted to ACP were Msheliza Simi Masomene, Samuel Osman Onoja of Police College, Oji River, Enugu State; Lateef Adio Ahmed and Umar Kabir, among others. Promoted CSPs included Adekunle Char Ige, Bassey Essang, Liman Salisu Sulaiman, and Emmanuel Adam. The commission approved the promotion of eight hundred and twenty Deputy Superintendents of Police to substantive Superintendents. They include Ola Rosanla, Yusuf Abdulmumini, John Alesagba and others. Others, whose promotions were approved by the commission, were 1,922 Assistant Superintendents of Police (ASPs) promoted to Deputy Superintendents. They Include ASP Chijioke Ogbodo, Divisional Police Officer, Umumba in Enugu State; Arukwe Edward and Ozochi Amaechi Marcel, Area Crime Officer, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. Also, 201 Inspectors were promoted to Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASPs). The commission also approved confirmation of appointments of 42 officers of different ranks, approved acting appointment for another 73 and converted 1,060 specialists to general duty. The promotions have been forwarded to the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, for implementation in a letter signed by Musa Istifanus, Permanent Secretary/Secretary to the commission. Officers Sacked For Not ‘Renewing Appointments’, Army Tells Court Meanwhile, the Nigerian army on Wednesday gave a surprising reason for its compulsory retirement of some officers in 2016. About 37 officers, including generals, were summarily dismissed via a letter on June 9 that year. According to the statement announcing their retirement, the officers were sacked by the Army Council for alleged electoral and contract-related fraud. The development was controversial, as most of the officers did not face any panel or probe before their retirement. This triggered widespread condemnation and was followed by suits filed by the retired officers at the National Industrial Court, Abuja. Speaking during Wednesday’s hearing of a suit filed by a Colonel, D. R Hassan, one of the affected officers, a lawyer working with the Nigerian army’s legal department said the soldiers were dismissed “for failing to renew their appointments after 18 years.” The lawyer who introduced herself as Captain N Okorie, said according to the oath of allegiance sworn by the military officers during their first appointment, their contract was due for renewal after 18 years. She said that failure of the officers to write their superiors for the renewal of their appointment amounted to a “serious offence.” “He took an oath of allegiance to be employed for 18 years, after which he would renew his employment. He failed to comply with the provisions. That is a serious offence,” Okorie said while answering questions from Hassan’s lawyer, Samuel Zibiri. Okorie added that from her knowledge, the necessary disciplinary measure for such an action was for the army to “issue the sacked officers with the summary dismissal letter.” “The disciplinary measure is to write the letter which is what the army has done,” Okorie said. After making her submissions, the defence lawyer asked Okorie to read through section 123 of the Army Act, Cap 20, Laws of Nigeria. The section explains that before a disciplinary measure will be taken against an army officer, the allegation shall first be reported in a charge sheet to the commanding officer of the accused who will act based on the charge. After reading through the Army Act, Okorie objected to its requirement in the issue. She said although the Act stipulates the given procedure for the punishment of erring officers, the matter in question did not require referral to the Act. Shortly after Hassan’s case was adjourned, the court began a similar matter involving another retired Colonel, Mohammed Suleiman. Suleiman was called into the dock as a witness and also asked why he did not write a letter renewing his appointment after 18 years in the army. Suleiman, however, explained that as a regular staff, he knew there was no need for him to have written any such letter. “A regular officer is supposed to serve for 35 years,” Suleiman explained. The case was adjourned till October 8 for continuation of hearing. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 