Lagos – As the world marked International Archives Day last weekend, stakeholders have called on the Federal Government to fast track the passage of Data Protection Law to ensure appropriate use of information and records in the country. Speaking during the celebration of the event in Lagos, Dr. Oyedokun Oyewole, Chairman Governing Council, Institute of Information Management (IIM) and Records and Information Management Awareness (RIMA) Foundation President, said the institute was doing all that was necessary for government to give it the desired support, especially through the passage of an enabling laws that would make information management and archiving as part of corporate governance. According to him, June 9 was the date set aside by the United Nations for the celebration of International Archives Day, stressing that as part of the international community, the body was marking the same in Nigeria in order for the country to raise awareness of records and archives management in the country. He explained that RIMA and IIM had since 2004 been helping to develop the frontiers of records and information management in Nigeria and across Africa. He added: “As at today, we don’t have data protection law. There is need for the National Assembly to speedily pass the data protection law in Nigeria, as this will ensure that our information and data are being used appropriately. There is no government in the world that can make significant progress without recourse to quality information. “If the information is not available, it will be difficult to know the number of unemployed citizens, those who are aged, the number of graduates we are churning out, infant mortality rate, health care services and other issues that require planning.” In his presentation, Oyewole said that IIM had started organising trainings for certification on information management to ensure that information professionals were properly trained and were abreast of their roles and responsibilities when it comes to the dynamics of information. Also speaking at the event, Mr. Jummy Olagunju, Director Awards for IIM, Africa, said it was a day the body in the country regularly organise free quarterly training for both members and non-members to have impartation of knowledge. “So, today, we are celebrating two things in one. With what we are doing today, it will help in steering Nigeria in the right direction, because where we are presently, we are not yet there. That is why in most situations, we are only reactive- we react to issues, we react to national disasters and other important things, when we supposed to be proactive and prepared. “Adequate preparations hinges on information at your disposal which enable you to prepare for any eventuality. If really emergency agencies have information of what happened in the past and in other countries, the type of record and information we keep will help us to adequately tackle most issues because they get out of hand. Unfortunately, we are not there yet, but with what RIMA is doing, and helping us to build it, we will get there,” he said. In this year’s celebration, the institute said a beauty pageant was being organised for young ladies of between 18 and 30 years who must be undergraduates or graduates to be qualified to participate. The winners would be entitled to free training among other privileges. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 