Recently, President Muhammadu Buhari made a broadcast to mark 19 years of civil rule in Nigeria, as well as third anniversary of the administration of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In his address, the president recalled that the three cardinal points of his administration are Security, Corruption and Economy. He maintained that in spite of the challenges encountered these past three years, his administration has recorded appreciable achievements. However, we are not surprised that his claim that his administration has recorded appreciable achievements has since attracted mixed reactions from Nigerians. This is understandable, especially judging by the fact that despite government’s claim that Nigeria had exited economic recession, the level of poverty in the land has increased considerably these past three years. A lot of policies government claimed to have introduced are yet to have positive impact on lives of millions of Nigerians, most of whom are penury-stricken in spite of abundant oil and other natural resources. On Security, the president claimed that government had degraded capacity of insurgents and minimised impact of insurgency on Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). We agree that capacity of insurgents has relatively been decimated but a lot still has to be done to end insurgency in the North-East. The fact that Boko Haram insurgents still use suicide bombers to wreak havoc in the North-East while the remaining Chibok and Dapchi school girls are yet to be rescued is indication that the war against insurgency has not been won. The issue of insurgency has been compounded by the inability of government to decisively tackle the lingering killings of farmers and other innocent citizens by Fulani herdsmen. Government’s failure to ensure arrest, prosecution and punishment of the dare-devil Fulani herdsmen despite their wanton destruction of lives and properties, is making Nigeria unsafe for investments. On Corruption, we agree that it has assumed endemic proportion and there is need to reduce it to the barest minimum. Government’s efforts in this regard these past three years, especially with recoveries of billions of naira as well as forfeiture of various forms of assets from looters which have also earned government regional co-operation and international commendation, are noteworthy. But beyond this, the anti-corruption crusade must not be seen to be lopsided. The exercise, which must not be a one-man show, should be free, fair and transparent, for it to be credible. On the Economy, it is saddening that having exited recession, performance indices reeled out periodically by relevant government agencies are not in tandem with living conditions of Nigerians. Many Nigerians are wallowing in abject poverty while due to unemployment rate and serious deficit in infrastructure, crime rate has increased considerably. As a result of rising inflation and steady increase in prices of foodstuffs, in spite of government’s agricultural revolution, many Nigerians are hungry and angry while some have committed suicide. To arrest this ugly trend, government should rejig its economic and fiscal policies to ensure the economy bounds back to life. President Buhari’s assumption that there is relative peace in the oil-rich but poverty-ridden Niger Delta Region should not make government not fulfill its promises to execute approved projects for development of the area. We implore government not to take the prevailing relative peace for granted. Instead, everything should be done to avert militancy, youth restiveness and divisive tendencies retarding the region’s development. Criticisms have been trailing the president’s claim that Nigerians have experienced “better power supply and less use of generators”. Apart from the fact that this is far from the truth, it is indication that there is yawning disconnect between the president and ordinary Nigerians who rely on generators as sole source of power supply since government has failed to guarantee uninterrupted power supply. This is why Nigerians are not happy paying for darkness due to poor service delivery. Government should realise the incalculable damage the ailing power sector is inflicting on national economy. The economy will remain stunted for as long as power which drives the economy, is in disarray. Finally, we implore the president to overhaul the machinery of his administration as this is the only way the remaining one year can be fully utilised to bring smiles to faces of Nigerians. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 