Lagos – The Chief Commissioner of the Nigeria Girl Guides Association (NGGA), Mrs Maria-Goretti Sule has expressed concern of the association over poor attention in some states of the federation to the girl child education, saying this has raised the anxiety of the association. NGGA has also called on the Federal government to enact a law binding on all the state governments on the care of the girl-child to guarantee equal educational opportunities with her peers. Speaking at the close of a three-day programme on training the girl child with the theme: “Action on Body Confidence” in partnership between World Association of Girl Guides Girl Scout (WAGGGS) and Dove, a Cosmetic outfit, at the weekend in Lagos, Mrs Sule emphasised the need for policymakers across the states to intensify efforts in giving the girl-child the much-deserved opportunity in realising her potentials fully, especially through education. “We are not too happy with the way the policy makers are handling the education and protection of the girl-child in this country. “We have discovered that some governors are really not helping matters when it comes to the girl-child education, empowerment and protection by imposing stringent measures on such issues, thereby making it unattractive. “Most of these policymakers at the state level are educated and very well know the immense benefit that comes with educating a child, whether male or female as individuals, states or nation at large. The NGGA Chief Commissioner said, “Of course, do not forget that when you educate a girl-child, you educate the nation as they are the first teacher of the family”. Sule advocated that equal opportunity must be given to the girl-child as it is obtained in other climes, adding that lack of education of the girl-child or very little of it exposes them to violence and low self-esteem. Explaining the rationale for “Action on Body Confidence”, Sule stated that it was principally to create a re-orientation on the need for girls to re-discover themselves as well as express their views freely. In her view, the project manager, Mrs Lilian Damiet, said that the programme was meant for girls between ages 7 to 25, essentially to empower young through body confidence and education that would enable them to attain full potential. “The association is training 60 young and adult leaders across the federation to understand issues of low esteem and body confidence, especially among young girls and even boys.” “These persons who are also peering educators and leaders will, in turn, return to their respective states to impact on both the young boys and the girls in their communities, using the modules designed by `Action of  Body Confidence’ for persons between the ages seven to 25. “The programme will support these young people to plan their own advocacy projects, by identifying the biggest body confidence issues in their community and plan a project that will then task decision makers for a change. “We want our girls to be assertive, be confident and look beyond their appearance when taking certain life’s decisions or when faced with certain life’s challenges. They should be able to see themselves not as second-class citizens to anybody as well as not allow themselves to be used or abused and not hold back from taking up a leadership position,’’ she said. Damie said the girl-child if encouraged and empowered through the right kind of education and other life-changing programmes would completely tackle the issue of image myth and thereby be able to stand tall,  appreciate who they are and contribute their quota to national development. She then pleaded with the Federal Government to intensify efforts in ensuring the release of Leah Sharibu, still in captivity since February by suspected members a religious sect. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 