“The old order changeth yielding place to the new And God fulfils himself in many ways Lest one good custom should corrupt the world.” – Lord Alfred Tennyson, 1809-1892. I t happens all the time in Nigeria. The needless debate on whether or not there should be a minimum or maximum age to contest for the presidency returns like a fake currency to the national agenda. President Muhammadu Buhari recently signed a bill liberalising the age for contesting; but like all old people wedded to a failed past could not resist asking the youths wanting to vie for office to wait until after 2019. It was unnecessary advice which should be ignored. Giving advice has always been a dangerous thing; especially when it is tainted with naked self-interest which those being admonished can detect easily. “Advice is no commandment in my view.” Geoffrey Chaucer, 1342-1400 I am in total agreement with Chaucer who made that declaration as, in this case, it is tainted with obvious self-interest masquerading as national interest. Buhari is already a declared candidate for the office in the 2019 elections. That was a decision freely made. He has no business advising others getting set to contest against him, old or young, to wait until after 2019. More on that later. The young people who are the targets of the counsel should ignore it, because neither global nor our own national historical experience support the notion that old leaders are better than young ones. In every nation and at different times young and old people have led their people wisely or badly. Let charity begin at home on this. Since 1999, Nigeria has had four leaders – two old and two relatively young. Two had terrible education in the military and two went beyond B.Sc in their university education. None will ever be remembered by posterity as great leaders. At no point, including now, in the nineteen years since General Abubakar handed over to Obasanjo can Nigerians ever say “That was our finest hour” (Winston Churchill, 1874-1965). Instead, like a nation inhabited solely by drunkards and somnambulists, we have been staggering and lurching from one crisis to another – virtually all of which had been created by the leaders we have had. But, the same Nigerian history would record that Gowon was less than thirty years old when he started to rule. There was no Boko Haram; no professional kidnappers and ransom takers; certainly no killer herdsmen (let alone having their atrocities applauded by a Federal Minister). Crude oil never sold for more than five (5) dollars until Gowon left office. Yet the landmarks are still there for all to see in Lagos, Abuja and elsewhere. Murtala Mohammed was less than forty when he ruled for less than a year. But, in that short span of time he left such footprints on the sands of time as would require another article to list them seriatim. The price of crude oil never topped ten (10) dollars during his tenure of office. Our real palaver started when the “Methuselah” politicians and “militicians” took over – starting with Obasanjo in 1976. It was during that regime that the first huge national loan of $2.8 million was taken, which became the subject of controversy and lyrics by late Fela Anikulapo Kuti (aka Abami Eda). When the young were in charge, Nigeria lived within its resources and we took no loans whose disbursements were deliberately shrouded in mystery by Heads of State. Obasanjo was replaced by civilian President Shehu Shagari, 1979-1983, who, at that time, was the oldest Head of State in Nigeria. He was shoved off the seat by Buhari and co-conspirators; but not before adding significantly to our debt burden – with very little to show for it. Two facts should be of interest at this point. First, the price of crude rose to more than $30 during Shagari’s administration; yet the Federal and State governments took on more debt than anybody could have imagined when Gowon and Murtala were in charge.  When Buhari took over, he was about 42; Babangida who replaced him in 1985 was also under 45; Abacha who came in 1993 was the first one approaching 50. When we analyse the achievements and disasters they each visited on us such that Nigeria, which was ahead of Malaysia and South Korea in Gross Domestic Product, GDP, in 1975, is now so far behind both, one is bound to ask: what has age got to do with it? By contrast, Lee Kuan Yew, who took Singapore from Third World to First World status in one generation was not 45 when he led his country. As you are reading this article, a young man, not quite 50, would have sat with President Trump, almost 80, talking as an “equal” to a man regarded as the most powerful leader in the world. Kim of North Korea did not get there on age; he led his country to develop nuclear power which makes other nations tremble — including the U.S. Like him or not, he had a vision and it is paying off. People all over the world listen to him more than Buhari; that is certain. About the same time, the G-7 countries – that is the largest seven economies in the Western world — would have met for their annual get together to discuss world trade and economy. Two of the leaders – Trudeau of Canada and Macon of France are young enough to be Buhari’s first grandson. When world leaders assemble anywhere, more attention would be paid to what they say than what the Nigerian president utters. The reason is not hard to discover. They represent success; while Buhari is a symbol of the failure which Africa had become under Banda, Kaunda, Arap Moi, Mugabe, Obasanjo and Buhari. Even in the analogue age, these were anachronisms. In the digital age they should be in museums. It is possible none of them can operate his own computer without assistance from an aide. Who needs that? “They were intelligent but not wise.” David Halberstam That said, a word of caution is needed; lest the young think this is a blanket endorsement of their quest for power. Intelligence without wisdom creates as many disasters as old experience. US President John Kennedy, 1917-1963, the youngest American President, at 43, surrounded himself with bright young men, especially from Harvard University, USA and for a while, they dazzled the American public with their erudition and hubris. They eventually led the USA into the disastrous Viet Nam War – which the country lost. In the best seller, THE BRIGHTEST AND THE BEST, the author demonstrated how the intelligent young men disregarded the advice of experienced old men. As Tennyson had told us: “Knowledge comes; but wisdom lingers.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 