Abakaliki – The 2018 edition of the Children’s Day celebration in Ebonyi State has come and gone but the afterglow will linger for a very long time. This year’s edition was easily the most unique, spectacular and exciting in recent history. The event, which took the form of a carnival, would really take a very long time to be forgotten in the annals of the state. As for the children of Ebonyi, the event was one they would never forget in their entire lives. The Children’s Day is usually a day for the children by the children but the one that was celebrated at the Pa Ngele Oruta Township Stadium in Abakaliki on May 27 was this year a not only for the children as adults not only celebrated but also participated with the kids. It was something very novel which is recommendable for other states of the federation. For the first time in the state, adults stepped out and engaged in a match past like the children. The sight of adults marching side by side with the children in school uniforms was something that held immense fascination for the children and undoubtedly boosted their morale, joy and sense of worth. The adults many of whom were over 40 years of age were came from the Ebonyi State Road Maintenance Agency, (EBROMA) .The workers numbering over 50 appeared in school uniformsto celebrate the day with children. The workers were led by the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to Governor David Umahi on Infrastructure Maintenance, Chief Ali Odefa, who is in charge of the agency . Others spotted in their uniforms, including Directors of the agency, Head of Departments (HODs) and other top shots in the agency. They happily participated in the march-past, which was attended by over 100 schools, Umahi and members of the State Executive Council. After participating in the match past, the agency led Odefa proceeded to share exercise books to students at the event. They later moved into the streets of Abakaliki to reach out to other students and children, who did not make it to the stadium that day for the celebration. The agency’s march past added colour and glamour to the celebration as students and spectators, including Umahi watched with awe and excitement as the workers titillated the crowd. At the end, he addressed the workers, mandating them to appear in their school uniform at their different offices the following day. Speaking to newsmen, Odefa said he decided to bring his entire office to participate actively in the exercise in order to honour the children. He lamented the condition of the Nigerian child saying ,that the time has come to give the Nigeria children their due respect and rights. According to him, “It is only in this country that under -aged children are neglected and subjected to all manner of bad conditions” “My agency, EBROMA, decided to put ourselves in a shoes of the Nigerian child to feel what the Nigerian child feels. It has been long many of us left primary or secondary schools.” There are some people here who left the primary or secondary schools like 30 or 40 years. “Today, we just want to feel like the Nigerian child. We want to feel like the children and it is wonderful. The idea came to us and we decided to wear uniforms to join the children to make this year’s celebration very memorable. “We printed exercise books, the much we can because we have limited resources. We shared the books to the children and those on the streets who were not opportune to be at the stadium for the celebration. “I think that way, the system has been unfair to the Nigerian children right from the creation of the country. It is only in places like this that you find children who are under aged doing menial jobs to survive and selling alcohol in odd places. Sometimes when we are in construction site, they come there to look for jobs. “Many children are daily abused, some speak out, and some don’t speak out. In a developed world, you cannot leave a 15-year-old child at home alone. No child is left alone until that child is 18. Therefore, by doing what we have done today, we have stepped up the awareness on the child rights act which Nigeria and Ebonyi State are signatories” Odefa further called on the government at all levels to be stricter in enforcing the child rights Acts, stressing that If the child is not well protected, it will spell doom for any nation insisting that children remained the leaders of tomorrow. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 