10 years after Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL) and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) had its first spat over the true ownership of General Aviation Terminal (GAT) of Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, the dust is yet to settle on the crisis. OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), operators of the Murtala Muhammed Airport Two (MMA2), Lagos has for over a decade lay claim to the ownership of the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) at the same airport. BASL has consistently said that the terminal was part of the concession agreement it had with the Federal Government when it took over the challenge of rebuilding the burnt former local terminal in 2001. The terminal operator in 2008 for instance with the approval of Mr. Babatunde Omotoba, the then Minister of Aviation attempted to forcefully take over the GAT, but was resisted by the industrial unions, allegedly sponsored by the management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). Since then, the tussle for the real ownership of GAT has been intense as both parties (BASL and FAAN) were not ready to shift ground to pave way for the amicable resolution of the impasse. Last year,  the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Air Transport Senior Staff Services Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) and the National Union of Pensioners (NUP), claimed that BASL was indebted to FAAN to the tune of N2bn. The aviation unions said that since the commencement of the Build, Operate and Transfer (BOOT) scheme in 2007, the terminal operator was yet to pay any amount of money to FAAN. Mr. Olayinka Abioye, the General Secretary, NUATE, in his breakdown of the total debts said that the debts included services rendered to BASL by aviation security; N1.2bn, management fee; N331 million, fire and safety; N131.2 million, marshalling service, N2.1 million, electricity; N439 million, rent and conference, N87. 8 million and hotel N116.9 million. He added: “As these magnitudes of debts outstanding against Bi-Courtney are yet to be settled in favour of FAAN, how then can we guarantee that the Federal Government of Nigeria, through our Ministry will not unleash another monster on FAAN in the name of concession? He queried. But, 48 hours later, BASL’s management came out with the higher figure of debts allegedly owed it by FAAN since 2007. The company said  FAAN was indebted to it to the tune of N200bn, which is generated from its activities at GAT since 2007. Mr, Steve Omolale, spokesman of BASL insisted that FAAN had failed to obey the contractual agreement it signed with the company. Bi-Courtney also accused the unions of intentionally peddling falsehood despite being in the know of the entire controversies from the outset. Omolale insisted that the unions were aware of this position, but had chosen to fabricate irresponsible falsehoods in a bid to discredit BASL and mislead the public, but noted that the public was more discerning. “It is common knowledge that the aforementioned unions (NUATE, ATSSAN, and NUP) actually challenged the Concession Agreement in court and lost the case in Appeal No. CA/A/141/M/2009.It appears that the unions are seeking to undermine the decision of a Federal Court. There is no better time to remind the unions that Nigeria is a country of laws and all citizens are bound by the laws of the country. “We at MMA2 are very proud that we run the most efficient airport terminal in Nigeria. We have demonstrated clearly that, if given the opportunity, a Nigerian company is capable of delivering exceptional services, particularly in the provision of critical infrastructure. Given that we operate on 5 percent of the revenue of Murtala Mohammed International Airport, our achievements over the years are deserving of commendation from all quarters.” However, when stakeholders and players in the country’s aviation industry thought the imbroglio between the two parties was over, BASL last month came with another bombshell on GAT. The terminal operator in its letter dated May 26, 2018 directed all FAAN’s clients operating at the GAT to henceforth remit all appropriate revenues generated from the terminal since 2009, including rents to it, threatening that refusal to comply with this may lead to sanction against the clients at the terminal. Investigations by DAILY INDEPENDENT revealed that no fewer than 30 companies including banks, restaurants, and others operating at the GAT were instructed through the letter obtained by our correspondent. Two of the four-page letters in possession of our correspondent, addressed to the Managing Directors Double Delight Restaurant and  Bar and Kembod Investments Limited, signed for BASL by Ndudi and Chinwe Nnabude insisted that the terminal belonged to the organization and expected full compliance with the directive. The letter was with the title: ‘General Aviation Terminal: The Need to Comply with Laws of Nigeria.’ Bi-Courtney declared that the Coordinating Committee in 2008 had awarded the terminal to it as part of the extension of MMA2 and wondered why the government 10 years later refused to comply with the resolution of the court but vowed that it would ensure the verdict was obeyed. The company insisted that the committee in its verdict on the terminal had ordered that the company was entitled to all revenue and income accruing from the operation of scheduled domestic flights at other airports in Lagos State, including the GAT. It added that the Federal High Court had also sanctioned this position of the committee in its ruling on March 3, 2009, while several appeals of the government had been dismissed by the Appeal Court. Besides, the letter demanded a refund of all the rent and all monies paid to FAAN or any authority for the space the clients occupy at the GAT since March 2009 while all subsequent payments must henceforth be made to its company. The letter reads in part:”it is therefore beyond any controversy that the decision of the committee and the court confirming our entitlements to the operation of the GAT and the revenue derived therefrom remain valid and subsisting legal stipulations, which necessarily require the unqualified obedience of all law-abiding persons and authorities in Nigeria. “Thus, in a ruling delivered o July 3, 2012, the Federal High Court restrained the Federal Government from continuing to breach the concession agreement and strongly berated the government for its persistent disregard of the mandatory directions of the committee and the court.” But, ATSSSAN and NUATE in a counter-letter to the clients of FAAN operating at GAT, insisted that it would stop BASL from taking over at GAT. The letters were signed by Mr. Frances Olajole and Mr. Olayinka Abioye for ATSSSAN and NUATE, respectively. The unions confirmed the receipt of the letters written to FAAN’s clients but directed the agency’s workers especially those in commercial, credit Control, and account departments to continue with their normal routine, which included revenue generation, collection and recoveries and report immediately any resistance from any concessionaire to it. The letter declared that the unions were fully mobilized to take action against the terminal operator. The letter added: “All concessionaires under FAAN management are enjoined to comply with the terms and agreement signed between them and FAAN.” Capt. Dele Ore, former President of Aviation Round Table (ART) in a recent interview with our correspondent said that the ongoing controversies between the government and BASL signified bad omen for the sector. Ore insisted that the tussle would deter any other private investors from participating in Public Private Partnership (PPP) exercise with the government, stressing that the call for investors to invest I the sector would not yield any result. But, Comrade Abdulrazak Saidu, the General Secretary of Association of Nigerian Aviation Professionals (ANAP) in a forum recently, insisted that the agreement between BASL and FAAN was lopsided and it was in favour of the concessionaire. He canvasses for the cancellation of the agreement. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 