Tomi Juric and Australia are still confident of progressing to the knockout stages of the World Cup in Russia after the Socceroos almost shocked France on match-day one. Bert van Marwijk’s players were unfortunate to step off the field empty-handed in Kazan, where Australia were beaten 2-1 by an underwhelming France side in Group C last week. VAR came to the aid of Les Bleus in controversial circumstances as Antoine Griezmann converted a second-half penalty following a challenge from Josh Risdon, while goal-line technology sealed Australia’s fate after an impressive performance against the World Cup contenders. Australia showed it can match up with the best as it prepares to face Denmark in Samara today and striker Juric remains optimistic about the Socceroos’ chances of advancing. “I think [assistant coach and former AC Milan midfielder] Mark van Bommel got a text message from one of his former team-mates, Thiago Silva, complimenting us on how well we played against a top opposition,” said Juric, who started on the bench last time out having struggled with a knee problem heading into the World Cup. “Everything is still up in the air and up for grabs and I am very positive about our chances of progressing through this group.” Denmark, on their own, were far from convincing but managed to walk away with a 1-0 win over Peru, which ended a 36-year absence from the World Cup. A counterattack and Yussuf Poulsen’s swift finish gave Denmark all three points after Peru missed a first-half penalty, while the entertaining South Americans enjoyed countless opportunities against the Danes. While it was an underwhelming performance, Denmark star, Christian Eriksen, said: “It was nice to see that we can actually win even though it wasn’t great to look at.” Denmark will be without midfielder William Kvist for the remainder of the World Cup after he sustained fractured ribs in the victory against Peru. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 