Lagos – A senior staff of MTN Nigeria, Funsho Finnih and his sister, Oluwatosin Olowodola were yesterday arraigned before Justice Williams of an Ikeja Special Offences Court by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for allegedly defrauding one Semaan Abboud. Funsho, a senior staff of MTN and his sister, Oluwatosin, a designer are standing trial on two count charge bordering on fraud and conspiracy before Justice Williams. The EFCC alleged that the duo committed the crime February 18, 2009, in Lagos, with the intent to defraud, conspired to obtain money by false pretence from Semaan Abboud. According to EFCC, the siblings Funsho Finnih and Oluwatosin Olowodola on 2, May 2009 fraudulently defraud Semaan Abboud of the sum of N50m (Fifty Million Naira). “The duo under false representation sold a property located at No. 40, Oduduwa Crescent G.R.A, Ikeja Lagos. They have claimed to have the right to sell the said property, a claim which they knew to be false. They both denied the charge. In view of the defendant’s plea, the prosecution counsel, Mr.M.S Owede asked the court for a trial day while he also prayed that the defendants be remanded in prison custody. Counsel to the defendants, Mr. Vincent Orizu who prayed the court to allow him to make an oral bail application on behalf of his clients, stated that if the first defendant is refused bail, he might lose his job with the telecommunication company. “I pray that my Lord will consider the defendants for bail, they will not jump bail. They were only served yesterday and they are in court today. The first defendant works with a telecommunications company and may be sacked if he didn’t show up at work “This case has earlier been filed before Honorable Justice Olayinka and they were granted bail then. “The property in question belongs to their father and they were legally advised to sell the property illegally. When the mistake was realized, they proposed to refund but the claimant insisted on taking the matter to court. Justice O.A Williams granted the defendants bail in the sum of N500,000. She also ruled that one of the sureties must be a landowner in Lagos and a blood relation who is gainfully employed. She, thereafter, adjourned the matter till July 23, 2018, for trial. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 