Mr. Mahmoud Sani is the Regional Manager, North Central and Airport Manager Abuja Airport. In this interview with OLUSEGUN KOIKI, he spoke on the infrastructure developments in Abuja Airport over the years, closure and re-opening of Abuja Airport last March, certification of Abuja Airport, plans to boost aircraft and passenger movements to the airport and the ongoing construction of Chinese Airport. Excerpts: What can you say about infrastructural change in Abuja Airport in the past three years, and its impact on the flying public and airlines? We thank God and the Federal Government of Nigeria for the prompt and immediate intervention and renovation of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja runway. The bad runway was the first challenge the government had to tackle in addressing the infrastructure challenge at the airport. Hitherto, the runway was in a very bad and critical position that affected aircraft and passengers into Abuja Airport. We had a few cases in which airlines had their aircraft damaged due to the bad state of the runway and I know we had provided a lot of palliative programmes to maintain the runway until it was finally closed. Many at times, after our last flight around 1am, we go into the runway, make palliative repairs before the incoming British Airways aircraft by 4am. So, that had been the situation for a long time. It was so bad that we lost some of our aircraft because of the poor situation of the runway, but when the government closed the runway by March 2017, we were able to move to Kaduna Airport temporarily and we effectively conveyed passengers from Abuja to Kaduna and vice versa within the period. By the grace of God, 24hours before the official opening date, we were able to reopen the runway for flight operations to the delight of all Nigerians. Prior to the closure of the runway in Abuja, some of the stakeholders severely kicked against the closure, citing several countries with same challenge as Nigeria without the closure of their runways, was the decision to shut the runway the best at the time? The only thing I can say on this is that the Federal Government took all concerns into consideration. Series of stakeholders’ meetings were held in Lagos and Abuja to sensitise the stakeholders on the need to close the runway. I remember that the government was saying that if the runway was not shut then, it would shut itself permanently because it was obvious that the stage it was, we would have woken up one day and we will just issue Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) that there is no flight to Abuja. The government held meetings with Nigeria Society of Engineers, pilots, airlines and several other stakeholders in the system with an assurance that it can be done and it would be done and that the entire exercise was in the interest of safety. We were the ones that wore the shoes and we knew where it pinched us, so, when I hear people criticising the planned closure, I just imagine what the stakeholders would have said if an accident had happened. Government was saying it was ready to carry out repairs on the runway, yet some were kicking against it. The only solution we had then was total closure because partial repair was carried out on the runway for two weeks sometime, but that was palliative. When the runway was shut, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria’s (FAAN) management in his wisdom felt that our passengers may not have access to see what being done, but get in contact with the terminal is building, so, within that period, we tried to improve on the terminal building. There were lots o physical changes like repainting the terminal and replacement of the air conditioners. I remember we installed over 200 compressors within the period to boost the air conditioners. We also worked on the chillers, installed new lifts in Terminal B for ascending and also gave out the contract for the descending of passengers in the same terminal. Also, we were able to open the Terminal D where Air Peace, Arik and Dana Air are operating. Before now, you will just buy your ticket, check in there and move to Terminal B for boarding. So, we noticed a lot of congestion at the terminal, but we knew we needed to control it. We now installed facilities that would make passengers that purchased their ticket in a terminal to board in the same terminal instead of going to another terminal for boarding. Also, within the period of the closure, we were able to improve on our terminal buses, which are used to convey passengers from airside to terminal and vice versa. As I am talking to you now, all our buses are working optimally. Again, through all these improvements, we were able to certify Abuja Airport in November 2017, which indicated that we have met acceptable safety standards, which warranted the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to give us the certification. Was the resources expended on that exercise by the government justifiable? Yes, it was worth it because there is nothing more than safety and security. We shut the airport down for six weeks; obviously no activity was coming in even though the terminal building and the shops were opened. Our revenue generation was affected. As you know, we earn revenues through aeronautic and non-aeronautic areas, but the fact is that we didn’t lose it as we gained it back in safety. As the Regional Manager, North Central for FAAN, how have you been able to coordinate the airports under you? We have about six airports under my purview that I coordinate; Kaduna, Minna, Jos, Makurdi and Zaria because we have our personnel there, too. What we do in the region is that the airport managers under me submit their reports to me, which we will now process to the headquarters. Also, there is a quarterly visit to these airports to oversee the facilities first hand. Abuja Airport was certified under your management last year, how was this achieved after about 11 years of waiting? It took a lot of determination and concentration from both management and staff for that feat to be achieved because it was a golden opportunity. This was an airport commissioned in 1982 and could not be certified then even though the exercise started in 2006. So, all of us in the certification committee and the management wanted to make history and the management felt this was the right time for us to do that. You can imagine we attend meetings from morning till night with the NCAA observing and correcting the open items. Then, eventually, the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) said we have closed all our gaps in the system and recommended us for the certification. A lot of energy, manpower and resources went into the programme. We have a great manpower at Abuja Airport. I am very proud of the staff, the human resources and others because everyone was committed. Even now, we still audit whatever was done; every day we are on the field to ensure that we retain the certificate. The certificate is just for three years and we are doing everything possible to ensure that we retain our certificate for the airport. After the certification, we set up an audit team that goes through all the requirements again with the NCAA so that they can guide us on how to close any noticed gaps. We currently have a post-certification committee that ensures things are done appropriately and we maintain the standard. In the past five months, this airport has received two emergency landings at night. The first one was flying from Niger to Rwanda, it lost an engine and the aircraft was diverted to Abuja Airport and by 1am, we were all on ground to prevent what would have been a disaster in the industry. Our team was highly commended by the pilot. Same applied to the second aircraft that came on emergency landing. Our fire officers were on ground to attack any form of fire incident that may occur as a result of the incident. That is to tell you how prepared we are. We are prepared for any emergency at this airport all the time. In terms of passenger, cargo and mail movements, Abuja airport is next to Lagos, what is your management doing to attract more airlines and passengers to the airport? We have done aggressive marketing of the airport; after the certification in November, we have been able to attract World African Airlines (AWA) to Abuja from Ghana, we also about a month received Rwandair into the same airport to boost the Southern routes. Those are the things we will continue to do. On the domestic side, we were able to get Max Air to commence operations, Aero Contractors came back with bigger aircraft, same applies to Air Peace, which from this airport flies into Northern routes like Yola, Kano and others. They are our partners and we ensure that they work efficiently without challenges. What are you doing to improve on the security arrangements at the airport and what is your relationship with other security agencies at the airport? We have a very robust relationship with other security agencies at this airport. We do emergency security meetings with various security agencies and also bi-monthly security meetings. There is no security agent that is not contributing greatly to the success of this airport. As you can see, we have the Nigeria Air Force personnel, Civil Defence, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and even the police. They are all on ground to ensure that things are going on as expected. Also, all our equipment are serviceable; screening machines, Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras are installed at different locations. In a bid to boost security, the management of FAAN has awarded another contract for installation of CCTV cameras to cover those areas that were not hitherto covered. The new contractor has installed over 200 cameras to capture those areas not captured by the old contract. Also, the United Kingdom has screened us severally and issued us commendation letter, recently. As a result of the constant meetings with other security agencies, we have been able to checkmate rivalry in the system. When the Ease of Doing Business policy of the Federal Government came up, we had some resistances, but we were able to at the end of the day, had understanding. Now, everybody knows where it belongs and everyone is complying. We continue to tell our security people to be firm and polite in discharging their duties. The era of infighting among security agencies is gone. Also, we have a perfect working relationship between us and other agencies. The era of a landlord and tenant is gone. We are a chain because you can’t run an airport without the other agencies. What is your assessment of the Ease of Doing Business policy of the government a year later? Truly, it has streamlined our work, reduced duplication, congestion at the airport. Before now, when you come to Abuja Airport, you will meet a long table of agencies. Some were called Presidential Taskforce, but the workers at the airport used to call it Oputa Panel. A whole of them will line up to ransack whatever you were carrying manually, but now, that is no longer in place and this is to the delight of passengers. No more waste of time and everybody is conscious that he’s been watched by someone and they have to do the right thing. But, at the teething stage, the implementation of the policy was tough especially with the resistance, but with time, everyone stabilizes and things are now in place. How effective are the screening machines at Abuja Airport as there are complaints the machines don’t capture some carefully hidden drugs? The only thing I can say in that is that there is always a room for improvement, but the some drug peddlers have been detected and arrested at the entrance gates through the same screening machines. The Ease of Doing Business is a government policy and I know we can always improve on the current situation. Is a second runway necessary for Abuja Airport? The fact remains that in all the international gateways we have in Nigeria, it’s only Abuja that has a single runway, yet, it is the second busiest airport in the country. Kano, Lagos and Port Harcourt airports all have two runways and Abuja is the seat of government and the fastest growing city in the world. We all can see what we went through when we were working on the existing runway for the Abuja airport. Is that not an enough reason to say Abuja deserves a second runway? It is obvious that we deserve a second runway in Abuja for economic activities, safety of passengers and the status of the in airport around the world. I know there is an approval from the presidency for a second runway and I learnt it is also in the 2018 budget or so. But, I don’t know if it has gone through the stages of bidding, but I’m sure that it is in the pipeline. We are praying that the second runway comes soon. What is your say on the planned concession of airports and policy summersaults in the country’s aviation industry? I may not be able to speak authoritatively on the previous attempts made by the government to concession our airports, but one thing I know and I am sure of is that the government is serious about this and efforts are in top gear to make this a reality and perfect. Transaction Advisers have been appointed by the government, which I think is for efficiency and safety of the airport. We are hoping that if it is done, a lot of efficiency would come to the aviation sector. I believe the effort is for our own good. How far has the government gone with the construction of the Chinese Terminal under construction? You must have had from Sen. Sirika that the Federal Government has made approval for additional funds for other things that were required. Already, work has gone much in advance stage. We are hopeful that the terminal would come onboard towards the end of the year. The annual capacity of the terminal is 5 million people annually and I want to say that it is a good development for the airport. What is your comment on the present FAAN’s management led by Engr. Saleh Dunoma? FAAN has never had it so good until now, Engr. Dunoma rose through the cadre and expectedly, he should know the industry well having worked in various departments in the sector. He also worked as the terminal manager for this airport for several years. He’s like a guardian and a teacher and for the first time, two airports were certified in Africa almost the same time and the same year. It has never happened before in the history of the continent. All these happened under the watch of Dunoma. With the current rating, air travelers are sure of their safety within the Abuja Airport and we are at alert and vigilant. We want to assure them that as they come to this airport, they are treated as kings. Just on May 27, every child that passed through this airport was given a note and a pen to write with. Abuja is a friendly-user airport, but with a room for improvement. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 