Hon. Kola Ajayi is the Lagos State chairman of Alliance for Democracy (AD) and also the state chairman of the Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the three years of APC administration and plans to wrest power from the party in Lagos and elsewhere. The APC administration on May 29, 2018 was three years since in office. What is your impression on the government during this period? There is nothing to be impressed about the APC administration. Most of the actions of the administration do not have positive impact on the masses, the common people and the less privileged. In Lagos, the Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode administration is constructing roads and bridges, but at what cost? Look at the security situation. There are killings everywhere. There is no evidence that the Federal Government is trying to stop it. Rather, the government is encouraging the killers. If not, how many of them have been arrested, tried and jailed? None. During the Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, things were not so bad as they are today. These types of killings were not there. Are you saying that the administration has not achieved anything so far? I have not seen what I can call achievements. The fight against corruption is lopsided and is targeted against the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members. The Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari is taking Nigeria backwards. That is why Nigerians are telling him to step aside. Still under security, the Federal Government will say that they have overcome Boko Haram today, tomorrow, they are bombing people. Although there is a little improvement, I think that the Federal Government should have done better that what has been done so far. In the area of the economy, does it mean that the government did not achieve anything? Will you say they have really achieved anything within the three years? The economy is still very bad. The government is still borrowing money to pay workers’ salaries. The borrowing is too much. The Federal Government is dragging the nation into more debts. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is not growing. Things were not like this when President Jonathan was in charge. How would you say the administration performed as far as the rule of law is concerned? The government’s performance in this regard is also very bad. Look at the treatment being meted to Olisa Metuh, the former spokesperson of the People Democratic Party (PDP). Look at how they are treating Senator Dino Melaye and Senate President Bukola Saraki, just because they do not belong to their cliques, but are the critics of the administration. Nigerians want a change, a better change, both at the Federal Government and in Lagos State. How is your party, the Alliance for Democracy (AD), getting ready for the 2019 general elections? The Alliance for Democracy (AD) in Lagos is on a very strong mobilisation drive. As our practice in Lagos, we always participate in all elective positions to win. This time again, we are coming out strongly to contest and to win. What is AD doing to ensure that it wins some seats in Lagos House of Assembly and the National Assembly as well as the governorship position? Our local government chapters have been put on their toes. They must work to give the party, credible and popular aspirants for party to choose from during the primaries that will be democratically organised. We are also in an alliance, called Star Alliance that comprises of about 24 registered political parties, the grassroots PDP, and the aggrieved APC grassroots. The primary aim of the alliance is to rescue Lagos for the less privileged. Baring in mind that the APC has been in power for almost 20 years in Lagos and has formidable structure in the state, what is AD doing to have an edge over the ruling party this time around? Yes, they have been in power for close to 20 years under four different political parties, starting with AD, then later AC, ACN and lately APC as at today. Their structures are everywhere, though the managers were imposed in most cases. AD, being their origin, foundation which their leader built on, is also a household name and popular, and at the same time their albatross. That is why you always see most of their leaders pronouncing our party, AD, dead or they tell you it has fused into ACN. All these are white lies. Nigerians, particularly Lagosians, are beginning to know the truth. And many people are now rejoining their party, which is AD. I have to be sincere with you. In Lagos, most of our local government chapters are lazy, though I won’t blame them much because most of them are incapacitated financially. Now, I have made them to understand that they need to put all they have to move the party forward, which is what almost all of them are doing. Where we have little problem, we are trying to resolve it for us to move ahead. I want to assure you that we are working assiduously. Lagosians, particularly the less privileged, are fed up. To buttress my point, look at the two bye-elections we had in both Ifako/Ijaiye and Etiosa. The turn-out in these places were so poor. We are, by God grace, going to win Lagos in 2019. You said that you are in an alliance or a coalition in Lagos for the 2019 elections.  Could you expatiate on the strength of the alliance to defeat the APC in Lagos? Yes, it is true we have formed a strong coalition called Star Alliance and by extension Lagos Coalition Movement. The main purpose is to rescue the less privileged from this tyrannical rule in Lagos. The APC administration has always added to the problems of the common man and the less privileged. Imagine, the increment in Land Use Act by 400%, tax on boreholes dues by house owners, consumption tax and many others. In other to rubbish Fashola’s achievement…the incumbent is wasting our resources and taxpayers’ money. Good examples are KAI, Papa Awo and Gani Fawehinmi status…People may be saying it is not my business. But, looking critically at all of these, it is our commonwealth they are wasting. These and many others, like exploitation of the people in the grassroots of the state by both the leaders of the ruling and the major opposition party, prompted the formation of the alliance. We have grown from 16 to 24 political parties. We are determined to win Lagos. As the leader of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) in Lagos, to what extent has it been contributing to democratic process in Lagos? In IPAC, we have been working harmoniously with both the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC). Though, there are areas we disagree sometimes, but we resolve them amicably. We always preach internal democracy within parties. We at IPAC preach non-violence during elections. We ought to have domesticated the council, but for financial reasons. Already, a date has been fixed for the election. As for the ruling government, they see IPAC as a rival party. A cross section of the citizens believes that Nigerian politics revolves around the APC and PDP. Do you see this playing out in Lagos in 2019? This was in the past. Voting APC in 2015 was a disaster. PDP and corruption are Siamese twins. The difference between APC and PDP is the difference between six and half a dozen. The coalition we are entering into is the alternative. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 