The Super Eagles of Nigeria are through with the Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup extravaganza. The fashion parade, ecstasy and excesses that occasioned their arrival in Russia, was the extent of jamboree that greeted their arrival having been adjudged the best dressed team in the tournament. And the self-acclaimed best administrators of football at the Abuja Glasshouse got all the accolades and salutations with their heads high, as if their patriotism was worth more than the rest population of Nigeria, who were not in Russia for the soccer fiesta! It would be recalled that the Eagles played five friendly matches prior to the World Cup and their performance was very abysmal, an outcome that made them ordinary like a team not prepared for the Mundial in all ramification. Their FIFA rating was appalling; though, their qualification series looked much better than their proper performance in all the games played in the group stage, hence FIFA ranking cannot be overemphasized in grading football teams. Their first match with Croatia was actually nothing to watch on the pitch, it was better imagined on the tube. They played like pregnant mothers with heavy legs that refused movements of athletic standard. I was not stunned when two goals went into the Nigeria’s back of net. This was the confirmation of the fact that Nigeria attended this year’s World Cup with a neophyte Goalkeeper. Indeed, it was evident in all the matches played before and during the World Cup that the Eagles keeper would actually disappoint on the goal line. And that point was justified as Nigeria did not sparkle against Croatia! The Iceland match brought out some fire from the suspecting Eagles, whom many believed is the team that could deliver the gold trophy to the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, General Muhammadu Buhari (Rtd), after peeping the Iceland team with two goals to nothing (2-0) Those “Patriotic” Nigerians began to see the need why they made their either emergency or the normal travel to Russia to cheer the Eagles to the much needed victory in beating Argentina to submission. Oh! What a misplaced “patriotism” and reality! I screamed as I have been tagged the most “unpatriotic” journalist and columnist, because in all their “smokescreen” patriotism there is no element of reality in it especially as Argentina had to carry the day by dismissing Nigeria from Russia! So the last straw that broke the Camel’s back was the big one – the match with Argentina! This was the match that brought back to mind the fact, the reality that Nigeria has never beaten Argentina in a World Cup tournament. After the 90 minutes of play, it was dawn on Nigeria and Nigerians that pyrrhic patriotism, sentiment, beautiful jerseys, boasts, circular politics, self-aggrandizement, pride, nepotism, and mediocrity don’t win matches and tournaments. Aside the Nigerian fans in Russia who captured the fake moments as real woke up from their slumber to see that their dream of advancing from the group stage turned illusive. They came to the reality of planning to fail if you don’t plan to succeed. And it was over for their business venture and excessive extravaganza in Russia. And for the fans back home, the streets of Nigeria were never deserted for any cause for the Eagles matches. Activities went on as if nothing serious like the World Cup was holding in Russia, unlike the very good days of yore when football was a big project of unity amongst Nigerians cutting across all tribes, religion or political affiliations. Except for the viewing centres in Nigeria, it was crystal clear that this was not a World Cup year for Nigeria. The Federal Government did not help in making the FIFA show a unifying factor, as there was too much political tension in the land that had betrayed our patriotism and reality, to the detriment of our national team- the Super Eagles! Perhaps, the incoming administrator’s after the forthcoming NFF election would learn from the Russia’s outcome. Good morning. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 