Lagos – A  Lagos Federal High Court, Lagos, yesterday ordered Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), to with immediate effect unseal a private school, Queensland Academy Limited, Okota, Lagos, sealed for been indebted to it. Justice Ibrahim Buba gave the order following a complaint made by the lawyer to the school, Mr. Debo Adeleke, who complained to the court that AMCON acted in flagrant violation to the court order. Justice Buba had on May 23, granted an exparte application brought before it by AMCON against Mr. Maxwell Okudor, Mrs. Lillian Okudor, Kemmep Nigeria Limited, and Queensland Academy, for their failure to pay the sum of N60 million owned BankPHB which has been taken over by AMCON. Sequel to the granting of the exparte order application, AMCON officials had on Thursday, May 30 allegedly invaded the school with policemen armed to the teeth and sealed it up. Dissatisfied with the AMCON’s action, counsel to the school, Mr. Debo Adeleke, told the court on Monday that the corporation had acted contrary to the court’s order. He  told the court that the school was not pledged as security for  the facility taken by the first to third respondents from BankPHB, and that as at time the order was being sought and granted,  the school was already and presently conducting NECO, IJMB, and other examinations for its students, and that there was misrepresentation of facts by AMCON. He also averred in its motion on Notice to vary the order of the court, that there is a pledged, donated charge/security on the loan facility located at Plot 626 Eket Close, Area 8, Garki, Abuja, which worthy over N500 million, which the court had granted AMCON the possession. Moved by the submissions of counsel to the school, Justice Buba directed the immediate unsealing of the school, by AMCON. In unsealing the school, Justice Buba ordered for the Court’s Deputy Chief Registrar (DCR), Mr. Bello Okandeji, to inform him of the development, who in turn, summoned the two bailiffs who aided AMCON in carrying order the act. Parts of the letter directing AMCON to unseal the school written and signed by the court DCR, Bello Okandeji read: “With respect to the possession of Queensland Academy Schools, I hereby notify you that there is no instruction for the padlocking the premises. There is a different between Possession and Execution. The court did not order for locking down the premises, but to take possession of the premises which does not Include locking down the premises. As a result, the court had directed that the gates should be opened with immediate effect, which our bailiff is there to effect”. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 