LAGOS – President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday June 6, 2018 surorised not a few Nigerians when he recognised June 12 as Democracy Day, thereby shifting the celebration from its current date of May 29. The announcement, which came via his official Twitter handle, @MBuhari, was said to have been decided on after due consultations. The late Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, the winner of the annuled June 12 election, was awarded the National Honour of Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR), while Abiola’s running mate, Ambassador Baba Gana Kingibe, and the late human rights lawyer, Gani Fawehinmi, would be awarded Grand Commander of the Order of Niger (GCON). It would be recalled that since 1999, when the nation returned to democracy, Nigeria had been celebrating May 29 as its Democracy Day. But, the states in South West, which was the centre of Pro-National Conference Orgnisation (PRONACO), had in addition been observing June 12 as a Democracy Day in honour of the late Chief Abiola and the election held that day, which was cancelled by the General Ibrahim Babangida junta. But, there had been clamours from the South West to officially recognise June 12 as Democracy Day. Buhari wrote: “Dear Nigerians, I am delighted to announce that, after due consultations, the Federal Government has decided that henceforth, June 12 will be celebrated as Democracy Day. “We have also decided to award posthumously the highest honour in the land, GCFR, to the late Chief MKO Abiola. “Chief Abiola’s running mate, Ambassador Baba Gana Kingibe, is also to be awarded GCON. “Furthermore, the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi, SAN, tireless fighter for human rights & democracy, & for the actualisation of the June 12, 1993 elections, will be posthumously awarded a GCON.” However, since the announcement on Wednesday, a cross section of Nigerians had been speaking on the President’s declaration. While almost everybody applaud the action, many said it was politically motivated at it was done when the 2019 election was already knocking at the door, of which President Buhari had indicated interest to contest. One of such Nigerians is Chief Ebenezer Babatope, a Peoples Democratic Party Chieftain and former Minister of Transport in his reaction, said: “It is a good development because it keeps June 12 in the minds of Nigerians. It is an historical date that we can never forget. “The timing may be faulty because they are doing this very close to election, but this decision should be applauded by every Nigerian.” Afenifere, on its part, said although the decision came towards an election year, it commended President Buhari given the fact that the group had always insisted that June 12 and not May 29 is Democracy Day. Afenifere maintained that aside the GCFR title, the highest in the country, Abiola should also be recognised as a former President of Nigeria having won the freest and fairest election in the history of the country. It said: “We have noted what has happened. Though we know that this is another election season, but we accept this decision and commend the President because our position over the years is that June 12 is our Democracy Day and not May 29 and that MKO Abiola should be recognised as a former president of Nigeria. “Well, the GCFR is the highest title in the land, but we still want Abiola to be recognised posthumously as a former president.” Chief Gani Adams, the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, while commeding Buhari’s action, said he should take a step further by restructuring the country before the 2019 general elections. Adams, who described the recognition of June 12 as Democracy Day as great Ramadan gift, said the President would win the hearts of progressive-minded Nigerians if he could restructure the country before the election. Chief Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), a human rights lawyer, amso commended Buhari’s action, although he noted its closeness to the 2019 elections. Agbakoba stated: “Great for MKO Abiola and Gani Fawehinmi. But, it looks like 2019 is implicated nonetheless. It is also good for President Buhari because after all, past leaders could, but did not do so.” In the same vein, Chief Martin Onovo, the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), said the recongnition of June 12 as the Democracy Day by the President in honour of the late Abiola was a welcome development, although belated. Onovo maintained that President Buhari should have taken the action when he mounted the saddle in 2015 or a year after in 2016, adding that doing it now when the election was close showed that “the motive was sinister and deceitful, even as the timing was also wrong.” Onovo contended that President Buhari had become desperate to cling to power, wondering why he decided to honour Fawehinmi and Abiola, who had been recongnised as symbols of the nation’s democracy when, according to him, he (Buhari) could not be said to be a democrat and had no regard for the rule of law. He said: “Buhari is not a democrat. He does not love democracy and he has no respect for the rule of law, which Abiola symbolises and which Gani Fawehinmi fought for. Nigerians are intelligent and can read between the lines. That is why many people have been criticising his action since it was announced.” He maintained that discussions were held with Federal Government on immortalising Abiola and Fawehinmi in 2016 and that the President did not do anything till now when, according to him, he (Buhari) had lost face among Nigerians because of his non-performance as the 2019 elections beckon. On his part, Senator Gbenga Ashafa, lawmaker representing Lagos East senatorial district said  President Buhari  deserves commendation for doing justice to the memories of Abiola and those who lost their lives in the June 12 struggle. He said “I would like to commend His Excellency, President Muhamadu Buhari GCFR for finally doing substantial justice to both the June 12, 1993 mandate and the memory of Bashorun M.K.O Abiola GCFR after the long course of denial by successive administrations. It is at least quite comforting that this honour has come in the lifetime of Ambassador Baba Gana Kingibe GCON who shared the ticket and fate of Chief Abiola”. “In the same vein, the well deserved high-honour done to the memory of Chief Gani Fawehinmi SAN GCON, reflects His Excellency, President Buhari’s sympathy towards the human rights struggle then and now”. “After the quarter of a century, we finally have a president courageous enough to place our democratic history in proper perspective by awarding the highest National Honour – the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic to the only elected president Nigeria never had and the forerunner/ sacrificial lamb for the democracy which we enjoy today. Now we can clearly say that we are on the March again”. “I would also like to commend our leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who as the Governor of Lagos State was the first to immortalise the memory of Bashorun M.K.O Abiola GCFR through the commemoration of June, 12 as a Public Holiday. This is a validation of Asiwaju’s vision and struggle to see the actualization of the June 12 struggle and mandate”. Debo Adeniran, Executive Chairman the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), also hailed Buhari’s action, which he said was in response to long clamour by Nigerians that June 12 symbolises the struggle for enthronement of democratic rule in the country. He said: “The conferment of GCFR on Abiola, even if belated or invalid, as it has been claimed by some legal practitioners, has thrown up the need to adequately immortalise Abiola, who indisputably remains the nation’s icon for democracy because of his determination to stand by the resolve of the over 14 million Nigerians that voted for him on that fateful day. “We however believe that rather than certify the date simply as a Democracy Day, it would be appropriate and apt to term it as ‘MKO Abiola Day’, just as we have the Martin Luther King Jnr Day in United States of America (USA).” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 