Chief Martin Onovo, an oil technocrat, was the presidential candidate the National Conscience Party (NCP) in the 2015 election. In this interview EJIKEME OMENAZU, Onovo, who still has his eyes on the position, gave his assessment of the Federal Government under the All Progressives Congress (APC) watch. In what areas would you say that President Muhammadu Buhari has performed well in the three years of his administration? We can only objectively assess the current government by looking at its own published priorities namely, Anti-corruption, Security and the Economy. Consistently, over the last three years all key performance indices (KPIs) in all the priority areas of the current government have deteriorated. Specifically, the anti-corruption war institutionalised by former President Olusegun Obasanjo has been perverted. It is now a discredited political war against suspected political opponents. While corrupt supporters of the ruling party that were properly indicted and charged have their cases deliberately mismanaged, innocent persons suspected to be political opponents are being harassed. This is a grave unpatriotic perversion and abuse of office. In an authentic war against corruption, the KPIs may be amount recovered and number of suspects convicted. Using the estimates of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crimes (UNODC), over $400 billion has been stolen from Nigeria by corrupt officials. After three years of corrupt noise and media trials, less than one percent of the estimated amount stolen from Nigeria has been recovered. Most suspects convicted so far have been low profile persons for minor cases. Prior to the inauguration of this failed regime, the government of Chief Obasanjo convicted and recovered billions from a former Inspector General of Police (IGP). Clearly, the Nigerian public knows that the purported anti-corruption war of the current government is a charade. Today, corruption is worse in Nigeria. Transparency International ratings show it. Between 2016 and 2017, Nigeria dropped from 136th in the ‘Corruption Perception Index’ in 2016 to 148th in 2017. Clearly corruption is worse in Nigeria. We must not forget the FOREX round-tripping fraud, the telecoms fines fraud, the colossal corruption in the funding of the welfare of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), the N50 billion diverted away from the TSA, etc. The $26 billion NNPC contracts scam is the biggest contracts scam ever in Nigeria. This is clearly the most corrupt government since independence in 1960. On national security, all Nigerians have observed a rise in terrorism, kidnapping, armed robbery and other violent crimes. According to the US Congress, “Nigeria has been cited as the most dangerous place for Christians in the world and impunity for those responsible for the killing of Christians seems to be widespread”. According to the Global Terrorism Index (GTI), two of the top four terrorist organisations in the world are Nigerian Boko Haram and terrorist herdsmen. National news reports show that 14,000 Nigerians have been killed so far in violent crimes this 2018 alone. Nigerian has never been this unsafe since the Amalgamation in 1914. Even the government itself has been responsible for the violent death of very many citizens, including unarmed Shiites, peaceful IPOB protesters and innocent IDPs at the IDP camp in Rann. In the area of the economy, how would you score the administration? On the economy, all key national economic indices have deteriorated. The economy that was growing at almost seven percent before the inauguration of this government was run into a recession in less than 12 months and was subsequently run into an economic stagflation. Presently, the government is driving the economy from the debt trap to a debt crisis. Total public debt has risen from N12.1 trillion early in 2015 to N22 trillion currently. Correspondingly, budget provisions for debt obligations have risen from N0.943 trillion in 2015 to N2.4 trillion in 2018. The country is clearly being run into a debt crisis by this reckless and unpatriotic current government. About nine million hardworking citizens have lost their jobs in the last three years. The rate of unemployment has continued to get worse. Consumer price index has also continued to rise very dangerously. Our national currency has been severely devalued further from N197 per dollar to N360 per dollar. Presently, all indices of human development in Nigeria calamitous, including; Almost 10 million young Nigerians have lost their jobs since this government was inaugurated; 11 million Nigerians children are out of school; 17 million Nigerian children are stunted from malnutrition; 110 million Nigerians living below the poverty line, and N22 trillion total public debt. As can be clearly seen from official government sources in Nigeria, this government has failed catastrophically on all its own priorities. Dr. Femi Aribisala, Ph.D (Oxford) insisted since 2016 that this is the worst government in the history of Nigeria. He is very clearly right. To what extent would you say that the administration fulfilled its campaign promises? Immediately after the elections and inauguration, the deceitful administration denied its campaign promises most senselessly. Documentary and electronic evidence abound showing the specific campaign promises of the administration which they now wish to deny most deceitfully. We can now list the major campaign promises of the current government and scientifically determine how catastrophically the administration has failed. The ruling party promised immediate increase in the salaries of security officials. It has not even attempted to do this (0%). It promised to recruit 100,000 new policemen. It has attempted to recruit 10,000 (10%). It promised three million new jobs every year. After three years, over nine million jobs have been lost. That means averagely, we have been losing over three million jobs every year since this government was inaugurated. Negative performance (-100%). It promised to supply 20,000 MW from the 4,500 MW it met. Currently, it is struggling to supply 3,800 MW. Another negative performance (-5%). Would you say the Nigerian masses have fared better since President Muhammadu Buhari’s ascension to power? We have not fared better. No one has fared better except those that are benefitting from the colossal corruption of this government. We are unsafe in our homes. We are poor. We have no jobs. Our hospitals are not good enough for President Buhari and his family members. Our schools are awful. We live in darkness due to very poor power supply. We see unpatriotic and unproductive members of the ruling party living in opulence from corruption. In terms of security, would you say that the administration has done well? It is not about what we say. It is about reality. Let us ask the people of Benue, the people of Southern Kaduna, the people of Abia, the people of Enugu, the people of Zamfara and the people of Taraba. We can also ask our IDPs in our IDP camps. According to the World Internal Security and Police Index (WISPI), Nigeria has the worst Police Force in the whole world. That correlates with the high insecurity in Nigeria and the failure of the ruling cabal to provide security. Apparently because of the unprecedented level of insecurity in Nigeria presently, the Nigerian military has complained that it does not have enough personnel to man all trouble spots. This has never happened in the history of Nigeria: insecurity beyond the capacity of our national security forces. Anti-corruption is the focal point of the President Buhari administration. Would you say that the government has been able to check the malady? This government deliberately promotes corruption for the benefit of its officials, party members and supporters. Verifiable indices show that this administration has been deliberately promoting corruption. It does not investigate cases reported against many of its officials and supporters. It has also mismanaged the cases of its supporters that were caught in the anti-corruption web. In this way, it purposefully provides a class ‘E’ corruption license to its officials and supporters. We will not forget the diversion of N50 billion away from the TSA, the grass cutting scam, the corrupt review of the N5 billion telecoms fine, the corrupt round-tripping of FOREX, the outrageous funds budgeted by the federal government for several purposes that were not implemented, the $26 billion NNPC contracts scam, etc. The Administration entered into discussion with the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) on the resolution of the crisis in the region. To what extent has the government assuaged the feelings of the people? Candid dialogue is great and must be encouraged. But, deceit is not dialogue. This government is very deceitful. It was founded on false promises. Actions speak louder than words. The government that has deliberately and deceitfully denied the people of the Niger Delta their constitutional rights against discrimination cannot be trusted to engage in candid dialogue. The government could have easily gained the confidence of the people. But, the unpatriotic and unlawful sectional agenda of the government blinded it to the opportunity. The government is now politically pretending in preparation for 2019. The ruling party is using government resources to campaign deceitfully while it pretends to engage in a dialogue. Would you say that the Buhari’s administration has been able to meet the wishes and aspirations of the Nigerian people in the last three years? We have heard from the Nigerian people, including the leading chieftains of the ruling party. The overwhelming majority has concluded that the government is a catastrophic failure. We agree that the government is a catastrophic failure and has not been able to make any improvements in education, health, power, etc. It has not even made any improvements in its own published priority areas of anti-corruption, security and economy. President Buhari has indicated interest to run for 2019 Presidency. How do you see his eclaration for second term? We would never say such an unpatriotic and terrible thing. Saying such will be praying for self-destruction. President Buhari is too old, too sick, lacks vision, lacks patriotism, lacks capacity, lacks competence and lacks compassion. His performance in office has been catastrophic. He must show verifiably that he has the minimum educational qualification required for presidential candidates in the Nigerian Constitution. Otherwise, we insist that he is not even qualified to aspire. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 