The Veterinary Council of Nigeria (VCN) has admitted 43 Graduates of College of the Veterinary Medicine (COLVET), Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB) into the Veterinary Profession. Speaking at the occasion, the Acting Registrar of the Veterinary Council of Nigeria (VCN), Dr. Josiah Kantiyok commended the exceptional quality of FUNAAB’s Veterinary Medicine Programme, saying that her College of Veterinary Medicine (COLVET) has what it takes to train graduates that will favourably compete with their counterparts internationally. Earlier in his address, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Kolawole Salako ranked the veterinary graduates of the institution among the best in the continent, pointing out that the University does not only train the Veterinarian but go the extra mile to build them. He stated that the university had always worked hard to improve on learning and training facilities in her College of Veterinary Medicine, in order to maintain high standard and excellence, saying it had given the Veterinarians trained by the institution to compete favourably with their colleagues within and outside the country. He disclosed that the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) programme in FUNAAB has enjoyed full accreditation of National Universities Commission (NUC) since 2009. Hon. (Dr.) Godwin Ejikeme Abonyi, the President of Nigeria Veterinary Medical Association (NVMA), represented by NVMA National Vice-President, Dr. Teddy Essien, reminded the Inductees to uphold the ethics of the Association and urged them to be hardworking and result, oriented professionals. Dr. Segun Akinlolu, a Veterinary Doctor, popularly known as ‘Beautiful Nubia’ urged the inductees to learn to be comfortable wherever they find themselves, saying “what you do after school is what makes you a Veterinary Doctor and not just graduating from the College”. Renowned Musician, however, disclosed to the surprise of the inductees and invited guests that he is a Veterinary Doctor. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 