When it took President Muhammadu Buhari unusually long period of six months to constitute the cabinet that would assist him in implementing government’s policies and programmes in-line with his campaign promises in 2014, many Nigerians, including myself, had wondered whether he was going to recruit the ministers from the planet occupied solely by “virgins,” as well as incorruptible “angels” that would use their uncommon professional skills and hard-earned experiences to make remarkable difference in governance under a democratic dispensation. Now, three years afterwards and less than one year to the end of the president’s first four-year term, Nigerians are now surely in vantage position to reasonably determine whether or not the ministers we were compelled to wait for, for so long, have indeed, performed to meet their great expectations. Have the performances of the ministers we were expecting from another planet justified the long wait and agonizing suspense the citizens seemed to have been subjected to by the president in 2015? Speaking on May 22, 2018 in Abuja on “Productivity for Economic Recovery and Sustainable Growth” at the 17th National Productivity Order of Merit (NPOM) Awards, President Buhari had reiterated his determination not to accommodate mediocrity from anywhere and that he would go to any extent to reward excellence. He assured that his administration would not compromise on policies that would sustain productive capacity of the country since no country could be prosperous without vibrant and productive citizens. Well said, Mr. President! However, it is not certain that when it comes to the issue of government’s policies, the president, the ministers, as well as the government they represent, are all on the same page. If all of them seriously plan together in order to achieve common goals that would eventually benefit the nation and the citizenry, there would not have been unending instances of inconsistencies, duplications, disconnect, repetition, frequent changes and somersaults in formulation and implementation of government’s policies. Unfortunately, all these forms of maladministration are as a result of the quality of leaders in various arms of government – Executive, Legislature and Judiciary at Federal, State and Local Governments across the country. If government officials are deficient or if square pegs are placed in round holes, as usually witnessed in appointments in Nigeria, appointees would reel out policies that are detrimental to national development, which is why many are not surprised that, in spite of yearly budgetary allocations by successive administrations to critical sectors such as education, health, aviation, transportation, solid minerals and steel development, power, industrialisation and agriculture, there are no appreciable growth and development throughout the country. This is largely due to wrong foundation due to bad and non-implementable policies and programmes produced by mentally lazy and corrupt public officials of proven ineptitude. There is no doubt that when policies are not well articulated, especially if makers of policies did not take into consideration peculiar nature of operating environment, as well as educational and cultural affinities of the citizenry, colossal failure is inevitable. This is why many policies of government unlike what obtains in the well organised private sector, continue to collapse like pack of useless cards. Minister of State for Education, Professor Anthony Anwukah must have shocked many Nigerians with discerning minds recently when he reportedly revealed that Federal Government is considering major policy shift that would enable university graduates go for extra year of studies in order to be well grounded for the labour market. He added: “Law students attend Law School for one year before going for NYSC and medical students go for one year housemanship before they are allowed to practice fully; so it will be necessary for other courses to also go through this process”. I learnt apart from being a professor, Anwukah was once a university Vice-Chancellor. I do not expect somebody like him to be among architects of such a warped policy. No wonder Nigeria’s tertiary education system is virtually in disarray. At a recent retreat in Abuja for Governing Councils of Federal Universities, he was reported to have regretted that the Students’ Industrial Work Experience Scheme (SIWES) has failed. If the scheme has failed in federal universities but is working seamlessly in private universities, is this enough justification for Anwukah to conclude that the scheme has failed in Nigerian universities? By the way, what has extension of duration of studies got to do with suitability of graduates for employment in the labour market? This is part of the insensitivity of Nigerian leaders occupying public offices, to pitiable plight of hapless Nigerian students. Public officials deliberately introduce policies that could frustrate Nigerian students who, due to unstable university calendar in public universities, are forced to spend seven or eight years on courses that, ordinarily, should not last more than four years. Sadly, by the time they complete their courses, employers will say they are too old for the labour market. It is not the fault of Nigerian leaders since their children that school abroad and do not experience lecturers’ strikes, never bother to return home for compulsory national service. What is the essence of the extra year that will not affect their children schooling abroad? Anwukah’s pronouncement which has since been attracting bitter criticisms is not only unacceptable but should also be shelved by government. Is it reasonable to compare law and medical students with others whose courses do not require professional practice? For instance, why should Geography, Mathematics or Religious Studies students be required to spend extra year in school just to prepare them for labour market? Unfortunately, Anwukah is one of the ministers it took the president six months to assemble. This retrogressive and insensitive policy should not be allowed to fly, so as to save the tertiary education sector, gasping for breath, from total collapse. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 