A non-governmental organization, Ekiti Development Front (EDF), has said it decided to embark on aggressive empowerment of Ekiti indigenes to break the hard-biting poverty and culture of beggary brought by Governor Ayodele Fayose to the State. The Coordinator of the humanist organization, Barrister Adeoye Aribasoye, said no fewer than 150 Ekiti residents had been empowered in various fields of human endeavour in the first phase of the empowerment programme held in Ado Ekiti. He said the beneficiaries received cash gift, Sewing Machines, Dryers, Compressors with complete engine for vulcanizers, and washing machines, grinding machines, Generators, Clippers, Cake mixers, Food stuffs – and social interventions like, Day old chicks and feeds, among others. Speaking at the second phase of the empowerment held on Saturday in Ikole Ekiti on Saturday, Aribasoye bemoaned how Fayose had successfully turned Ekiti into a beggarly state, describing this as a failure of governance. Beneficiaries at the event got washing machines, sewing machines, stoning machines for fashion designers, and grinding machines, hairdressers, compressors/engines for vulcanizers, filling machines for shoe makers, generators, Day old chicks with feeds. Aribasoye added that 24 families in the State have been placed on safety net of Social Security Scheme, where foodstuffs will be made available at food banks established by the body to reduce famine. Aribasoye stated the agenda of the organisation is to empower citizens, assist them in fighting for their rights, and in mass political enlightenment for the populace. On how to improve scholarship in the state, Aribasoye said the body is resolute about establishing a robust scholarship scheme to help in defraying school fees of those that have challenges, urging Ekiti residents to obtain application forms for the programme to begin. Aribasoye said that the movement is not political but personal effort targeted at backing political aspiration of anybody that the organisation is convinced of having good mission, vision and developmental agenda that will better the lives of the people. He disclosed further that the organisation is rooting for Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the APC candidate in July 14 governorship election in the state, hoping that when he wins, he will ensure better life for the people of Ekiti. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 