Small, Medium Enterprises (SMEs) play critical role in the economic development of any country, whether they are developed or developing. Their role in terms of production, employment generation, contribution to exports and facilitating equitable distribution of income is critical and cannot be over emphasised.
In this piece, Bamidele Ogunwusi, Ikechi Nzeako and Andrew Utulu, examine how funding has limited small businesses from realising their full potential, and what the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and other financial institutions are doing to mitigate the challenge. Excerpts: As the country inches toward the end of 2018 which was set to meet a 30 percent broadband penetration target, not much can be said to have been achieved in this regard, as only about 20 percent of the target was met. This is so, despite Federal Government’s determination to boost broadband penetration and expand telecoms infrastructure in line with proposed national broadband target which is expected to gulp a minimum of N17.4 billion from the federation coffers. About 120,000 kilometres of metropolitan fibre networks are needed to be interconnected across the country for adequate broadband penetration. Currently, the country has been able to cover 38,000 kilometres of fibre, which is nowhere near enough to boost broadband penetration. According to Prof. Umar Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), “The Federal Government needs to ensure that all 36 states of the federation need to adhere to the resolution of National Economic Council on the Right of Way (RoW) charges, which stipulates N145 per meter for laying fibre network in every part of the country.” It is quite obvious that the country will not be able to meet the proposed target and surpass its current 21 percent broadband penetration rate has been a source of concern. Speaking on the need for a robust broadband in the country at ITU World 2017, Busan, South Korea, Prof. Umar Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, emphasised the need for cooperation among countries to achieve significant broadband penetration. Danbatta said: “We have come to enlist the support of other players, governments, regulators and the global community from whom there is always a basket of ideas to take back home to Nigeria.  The implementation of these ideas will ensure a better regulatory environment, even though ours has been seen as a very robust and consultative regulatory agency right from 2001 when the Digital Mobile Licences (DML) were issued. “The spirit of cooperation and consultation is very high at ITU Telecom World events. While it is true that different people come with different notions to ITU Telecom World, the end result is to better serve our people, deploy resources to address access gaps in underserved and unsaved communities in our various jurisdictions.Our engagement with the global community during this event will include creating awareness of the investment opportunities in Africa’s biggest Telecom market, as well as guarantee of adequate Returns on Investments (RoIs).” The ITU/UNESCO Broadband Commission for sustainable development recently said Nigeria now has about 21% broadband penetration and conscious of the reality that broadband fuels faster data transmission speed and capacity, our focus now is on how we can attract the right investments to grow this critical area of the sector through broadband coverage expansion. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) as a foremost regulator, has put in place measures and guidelines to licence wholesale broadband service providers consistent with the Open Access Model for broadband deployment. “When we rolled out the 8-point agenda in 2016, it was predicated on the change mantra of the new democratic government in Nigeria led by President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR. It is premised on facilitating broadband penetration, improving quality of service, optimizing usage and benefits of spectrum, promoting ICT investment and innovation, facilitating strategic partnership, promoting fair and inclusive growth and ensuring regulatory excellence and operational efficiency.  Because we recognize the importance of ICT to national development that is why growing this sector has been top on our agenda.  Hence, ladies and gentlemen, permit me to say that despite our modest achievements, Nigeria ICT sector is work in progress,” Danbatta added. In 16 years since the Digital Mobile Licences (DML) were issued, investment in the sector has hit about $70Billion from a mere $50million in 2001. Most of these investments are Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs). In Nigeria today, the issue of reaching the last mile is very crucial. Operators like MainOne, Glo’s Glo-1 and others have been pushing to ensure that significant ground is covered by their services. But not much desires results have been seen or experienced. Recently, Globacom commenced work on its second submarine cable, Glo 2, which is expected to be completed by October 2019. The plan for Glo 2, was unveiled at a contract-signing ceremony between Globacom, and global telecom solutions vendors, Huawei. Globacom’s Regional Director, Technical, Sanjib Roy, said the submarine cable would be built along the Nigerian coast from Alpha Beach in Lagos, where Glo 1 landing station is located, to the Southern part of Nigeria. When it becomes operational, the facility will enable ultra high capacity connection to South-South Region and provide capacity to offshore oil platforms and the communities. This effort by Globacom is expected to boost the broadband penetration agenda. Broadband Penetration Needs strategic planning Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT on the development, Engr Lanre Ajayi, former president, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) said the plan to achieve 30 percent broadband penetration was well articulated, but failed at implementation stage. He noted some factors responsible for the under-achievement of the set target such as the Right of Way (RoW), licensing of spectrum among others. According to him, “We need to plan properly. But it is not enough to just plan, we must have a robust plan to can lead to desired results. The 2013 broadband plan was well set out by the government. The plan aims to achieve 30 percent broad band penetration in the country by the end of 2018. From the look of things, we have not and cannot meet that target by the end of 2018. As at today, we have been able to able about 20 percent broadband penetration.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 