Governing Councils of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-ife and the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka, have been tackling issue of sex-for-marks scandals reportedly rocking the two notable premier tertiary education institutions with a view to punishing those found culpable to serve as a deterrent to other randy lecturers within the Nigerian university system. In my piece entitled, “Richard Akindele vs Monica Osagie”, published in this column on May 9, 2018, I had implored authorities of OAU led by the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede, not to leave any stone unturned while investigating the outrageous sex-for-marks scandal involving the then suspended Professor Richard Akindele of the Faculty of Administration, Department of Accounting and one of his female postgraduate students, Miss. Monica Osagie, and make the report public. In view of public criticisms that trailed the shameful act, the university authorities quickly moved into action by inaugurating a committee to investigate the matter while giving Akindele and Osagie fair hearing to ensure transparent and credible exercise. I recall vividly that the interim report submitted by the committee revealed that the audio conversation was that of the embattled Akindele and that voice of the female student was also that of Osagie. It is also significant to note that while providing the general public stage-by-stage report on the actions being taken by the university authorities, Ogunbodede had disclosed that Akindele was suspended initially following findings of the committee that  “established prima facie case of serious misconduct by him in the university, thereby liable, in-line with code of conduct of school rules and regulations”.  Those within and outside Nigeria that have been following the OAU sex-for-marks scandal with great interest must have finally heaved a sigh of relief, when on June 20, 2018 the Governing Council of OAU informed the entire world that Akindele, had been dismissed from the university. Apparently, this was obviously the final determination of the disciplinary case against the professor, who, some had claimed, is fond of harassing female students in exchange for marks. Addressing journalists, Professor Ogunbodede had stressed that Akindele was dismissed by the Governing Council “for gross misconduct and sexual harassment” and that his dismissal was an action taken to serve as a deterrent to others. From all indications, outright dismissal of Akindele was inevitable, especially in view of the seriousness of his offence, as well as its incalculable effects on morality and development of tertiary education in the country. How will standard of education in universities not decline when the Akindeles in public universities are busy harassing female students, including married women, in exchange for marks? The danger in this ugly trend currently bedevilling the Nigerian university system is that if the menace is not quickly stopped, female students willing to succumb to sexual advances from lecturers in exchange for marks will end up graduating with unmerited degrees, but would not be employable while brilliant female students who resolutely refuse sexual advances without minding the consequences, will be awarded low marks to make them unfit to move to the next class. Here lies the injustice some victims of randy lecturers are experiencing in Nigerian, where, as it obtains in the Nigerian public service system, anything absurd could happen, unlike in private universities, where there are stringent rules and regulations guiding conduct of lecturers. However, beyond dismissing Akindele, it is hoped that for him to be remorseful and desist from the devilish act, he should be prosecuted. If Osagie strongly feels that the ridiculous score of 33 Akindele gave her was unfair, she should seek legal redress. There is no doubt that outcome of this option would definitely encourage more female students suffering in silence due to sexual harassment, to speak out. By displaying uncommon courage to speak out and also appear before the committee that investigated the landmark sex-for-marks scandal, the Ogunbodede-led institution owes Nigerians the duty to ensure Osagie is not overtly or covertly victimised by any member of the university community. There are insinuations in certain quarters that promiscuous female lecturers indiscriminately sexually harass handsome male students in exchange for marks. However, this senseless misconduct is more prevalent among male lecturers with insatiable appetite for sexual misconduct. I commend the Governing Council of OAU for taking decisive action on the matter and for making their report public to ensure fairness and transparency. This is why many expect the Governing Council of UNILAG to learn from the action of OAU by refraining from dragging their feet over recent allegation of sexual harassment in exchange for marks reportedly levelled against Professor Olusegun Awonusi, by doing the needful urgently in order to quell raging speculations that the institution could sweep the matter under the carpet. I agree with the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, who stressed the need for the accuser to show up “so that the panel established by the university could do justice to their mandate”. He said: “If the lady does not come out, then how will the panel conclude the investigation. We must not hear from one side but from both sides and ensure that we have balanced information at our disposal. I am sure the committee would do the work diligently. Let us await the outcome of the panel’s assignment and not pre-empty it”. In view of the seriousness of the allegation, if the accuser-lady has verifiable evidence to support her claim, she should, like Osagie of OAU, muster the courage and appear before the committee to explain her own side of the matter, without which the committee handling the investigation will come up with a fair and credible report. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 