In 2015, when Chukwuemeka Ihedioha, the former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, was eyeing Douglas House, Imo State seat of power, I saw it as a political faux pas, a case of trying to do the right thing at the wrong time. He had opportunity of still contesting the Green Chamber seat and retaining it. But he opted for a plunge, a political adventure. My fear for him then was because of the emperor and philanthropist in Douglas House whose gameboy character was hidden from many an Imolite. How would you convince a people that a governor who promised to use N4 billion from the security vote, which was never disclosed to anyone before then, to fund free education was not the messiah they were expecting? Again, the job of trying to dissuade Ihedioha not to vie for the state’s number one seat, to me, was taxing then. He was ambitious. And when a politician is ambitious, they are like a desperate woman, a moving train that crushes whatever is on its way, until a higher influence intervenes. I kept my cool and allowed things play out. And played out, they did. Now, history beckons on the 53-year-old green cap legislator from Mbutu, Aboh Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo. The incumbent governor may be two years older, but what has the age of Methuselah to do with the Wisdom of Solomon? When you talk about professionalism, Ihedioha is a chartered politician, who understands that governance is about the people, not the governor and his family. He got his first degree from University of Lagos, Akoka, in 1988, before undertaking an executive certificate course in financial management from the Stanford University, and a leadership certificate course from Harvard University, both world-renown, prestigious Ivy League institutions in the United States of America (U.S.A.). Being versatile, intelligent and knowledge-driven, Ihedioha’s search for knowledge took him to different parts of the globe, certifying and specialising in several fields of endeavour that made him a rounded professional, administrator and consummate politician. If Ihedioha goes to Douglas House to dip his hands in the public till, I suggest that he be taken to the asylum for examination. Thinking of kleptomania. Only those that were born into penury, those whose family line reek of squalor, would want to accumulate wealth for their families and generations unborn. In Mbaise parlance, people of Ihedioha’s ilk had been “eating before party food”. He had been in the corridors of power since 1992, when he was appointed press officer to Iyorchia Ayu, then Senate president. Barely a year later, he was appointed Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the deputy Senate president of that era. He was the director of publicity of the newly formed Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM), the famous purveyor of the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in 1998. He was named Special Assistant to the Presidential Adviser on Utilities (July 1999), Special Assistant Media and Publicity to the President of Senate (November 1999), and Special Assistant on Political Matters to the Vice President (September 2001). He capped all with a seat in the House of Representatives to represent Aboh-Mbaise/Ngor Okpala federal constituency in 2003, on the platform of PDP. Ihedioha’s loss in the 2015 governorship contest, to me, is a lesson learnt. No doubt, while those who believe they won the election were busy sharing the spoils, allocating Imo estates to themselves and their families, the chartered politician was busy re-strategising. Remember, he is from Mbaise, the clan the late Biafran warlord found most worthy to declare the defunct republic in 1967. For the uninitiated, one character that stands Mbaise people out is doggedness. They find it difficult to let go in a cause they so much believe in. You still wonder why their neighbours, in the early 1980s, smeared them with the stigma that almost stuck. For him to execute this project perfectly, I suggest that politicians like Senator Chris Anyanwu be carried along. In fact, let Mrs. Anyanwu be his running mate. With that combination, several interests, especially the womenfolk whose head the gameboy has been ‘washing’, would be taken care of. Besides, considering what the All Progressives Congress (APC) represents in the South East and the centre, the killings in the North Central without the authorities taking action and other ills associated with the government controlled by APC, the odds are in favour of Ihedioha. The ball is now in his court. By the way: Myetti Allah says killings by herders are retaliation over the slaughter of 300 cows. My take is that those who claim that killer herders are from Libya should now know better. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 