LAGOS – The Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), Lagos chapter has said the recent move by the Federal government to change the Democracy Day to June 12, was in order, thanking President Muhammadu Buhari for bringing forward and correcting the issues described as great impediments to national unity and peace. The writers also advised the government to unravel the misery behind the death of national patriots like the former Attorney General of the Federation, Chief Bola Ige, slain journalist, Dele Giwa and former Lagos State governorship aspirant under Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Funsho Williams. “The honour and recognition of the heroes of June 12 struggle to restore the mandate given to Chief M. K. O. Abiola in the election which was presumed to be the freest and fairest in the political history of electioneering in Nigeria are, to say the least, in the right direction. That, election which was won by the presidential candidate of the then Social Democratic Party (SDP), Bashorun Moshood Kashimawo Abiola (MKO) but, which was annulled by the power-drunk military junta of Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) and the dirts of condemnations which the heinous acts of IBB and late General Sanni Abacha, along with their cronies, have generated cannot be forgiven, even by the unborn generations of Nigerians. “What further affirms our faith in the government of Buhari is its attempt to revisit the case of Chie Bola Ige, the federal minister of Justice, among others, during Chief Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration as President. However, the case of late Dele Giwa, a renowned journalist and Funsho Williams who were murdered in cold blood are also cases that were shrouded in mysteries and are needed to be unravelled. The ability of government to resolve all these past cases that have caused Nigeria to be considered as unserious nations in the comity of nations would not only resuscitate the love for the motherland by the citizenry but, would further achieve respect for Nigeria.” In a communiqué signed by Feyi-Abiodun Oyeniyi, chairman, ANA Lagos publicity sub-committee, the group noted that the resuscitation of the issues of June 12 and efforts to right the wrongs of the era has further rejuvenated the essence of patriotism among Nigerians and strengthen their faith in the present government. The writers insisted that the announcement of June 12 as the new democracy day as against May 29 “is courageous and symbolic of empathy with an average Nigerian who have lost faith in the nation’s leadership particularly, at the centre, as well as in our electoral system since the annulment of the June 12 election in 1993 by IBB and the eventual murder of the symbol of the epoch-making electoral exercise.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 