Lagos – Super Eagles will play their last summer World Cup friendly match against Czech Republic today in Austria. This is another opportunity for Coach Gernot Rohr to try the 23 players listed for the World Cup will responds to the formations that the team will adopt in Russia. Since qualifying for the World Cup, Nigeria have played five friendly games winning two, losing same number and drawing the fifth. Nigeria defeated Argentina 4-2 and also Poland 1-0 while they drew 1-1 with DR Congo. But they lost 2-0 to Serbai and 2-1 to England. The team has scored seven goals and conceded same in the five friendly games. Last Saturday against the Three Lions of England at the Webley, Super Eagles were horrible in the first half but were better in the second half. Despite the 2-1 loss to England, Rohr believes that the team achieved their objectives. “There were many positives from that game (England game). When you play a friendly match, it is not always about winning. You have opportunity to try so many players and formations, and we achieved our aim at Wembley,” said. This is Super Eagles sixth friendly and the fourth against European opposition as they step up their preparation for the World Cup. Nigeria will play two European nations, Croatia on June 14 and Iceland on June 22 before playing Latin American side, Argentina in their last group game on June 26. Wilfred Ndidi, who missed the team’s friendlies due to injury, will play today as he has been confirmed fit. His inclusion is expected to stabilize the defensive position that looked awry on Saturday. His coming is expected to free Mikel obi for more attacking play. Coach Gernot Rohr thinks a win will do the team a lot of good, saying the team will target a win today. “We will go for victory that would boost spirit and earn team confidence ahead of our first match in Russia. It would not be an easy pick but we will work hard for it.” Today’s encounter is the third official meeting between both countries. Nigeria and then Czechoslovakia drew 1-1 in a group phase match at the 1980 Olympics in Moscow. The Czechs won their second meeting in Rabat on 11th December 1996 2-1 – as part of the King Hassan Cup Tournament. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 