Uyo – Tension is mounting at the University of Uyo (Uniuyo) as the authority of the University announced the cancellation of the 2018 Students Union Government (SUG) election over what it termed as irregularities. According to the management of the institution, the election that took place at the University’s Uyo Town campus on Tuesday was said to have been marred by wrongdoings. Infuriated by the cancellation, ballot boxes and other election materials were said to have been destroyed at the Faculty of Arts Polling Unit, Faculty of Education, Faculties of Agriculture and Business Administration, leading to a widespread riot in the campus. One of the students who spoke anonymously to Daily Independent on Wednesday explained that trouble started when the Dean of Student Affairs of the university, Dr Aniekan Brown, announced the cancellation, blaming the decision on irregularities. According to the source, the cancellation order might not be unconnected with the attitude of the students who had during the exercise, moved from one polling unit to another, barring other students from voting. In an attempt to repel the attack on the electoral materials, which resulted from the announced cancellation, some aggrieved students were said to have pelted stones to disperse their colleagues who were bent on vandalizing the ballot boxes. Another eyewitness told our correspondent that a student was stabbed at the campus annexe and his digital camera destroyed during the fracas. Independent gathered that seven students were qualified to contest for the office of the Student Union President. The Director of Information, Mr Godfrey Essien, when contacted said he was yet to be briefed by the Electoral Officer assigned to conduct the elections and promises to give an update on the issue. “I am yet to be briefed by the Electoral Officer, you know it is students election. So, we must be careful in handling the matter,” Essien said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 