Lagos / Abuja – The withdrawal of Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, incumbent National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), from the June 23 chairmanship race of the party has not made the contest any easier for his major challenger, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, former governor of Edo State. According to a credible source in the party, many people who had the erroneous impression that it would be a smooth sail to victory for Oshiomhole, given his endorsement by President Muhammadu Buhari, the APC caucus in the National Assembly, and other party stakeholders may be in for a shocker as forces loyal to Odigie-Oyegun and those opposed to Oshiomhole’s candidature were already queuing behind a dark horse against the former labour leader. The source disclosed that it was likely that Dr. Clement Ebri, a former governor of Cross Rivers State, would give Oshiomhole a good run for his money come June 23. “I think it is erroneous for people to assume that Oshiomhole is the next chairman of the party. “Of course, it is easy to come to that conclusion, given the fact that he has the backing of President Buhari, who by virtue of his position is our national leader. “He also has the support of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as well as key stakeholders from the South-South region, but I can tell you that it is not going to be as easy as a lot of people think. “The incumbent chairman, John Odigie-Oyegun, may have given up, but his loyalists have not. “There are some who also felt Oshiomhole, given his antecedents, cannot be allowed to assume the mantle of leadership. “These ones are teaming up to ensure that a dark horse emerges as the next chairman, come June 23. “There is also another group loyal to President Buhari. To these ones, they have vowed to do all they can to ensure Oshiomhole emerges because, according to them, it won’t speak well of the president if the candidate he supports (Oshiomhole) fails at the convention.” Also speaking with our correspondent, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, National Publicity Secretary of the party, said he was not in a position to say that Oshiomhole was in prime position to emerge as the next chairman of the party. Abdullahi, who said he would be seeking to retain his position as the party’s spokesman at the convention, said the withdrawal of Odigie-Oyegun does not imply other qualified stakeholders from the South-South, where the chairmanship position was zoned to, would not show interest in the race. “I will not be in a position to say that Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is the next national chairman of the party. “All I know is that he has declared his interest to contest for the chairmanship position of the party. I don’t even know if he has obtained the relevant forms. “I don’t even know if others have declared interest to contest. What I know is that the position is zoned to the South-South and he is not the only one from that region. “So, if the incumbent national chairman decides not to contest doesn’t mean other eligible members of the party from the South-South cannot come out to contest. “So, we are not in a position to say Comrade Adams Oshiomhole will become the next chairman. “I know he has declared interest. I know he is a very strong contender but we cannot say that he is the next chairman of the party.” On whether he would seek to retain his position as the party’s spokesperson, Abdullahi replied in the affirmative. “Yes, I will be contesting to retain this position. The position is zoned to the North-Central. So, I am eligible to run.” he said. While Ebri declared his intention for the position last week, another chieftain of the party, Chief Ibrahim Emokpaire, has also picked nomination form for the post. Ebri, who made his intention known during a town hall meeting in Calabar on Wednesday, said his declaration came at a time when the party faced enormous leadership challenges. He also warned that Muhammadu Buhari’s administration’s accomplishments could be reversed if concerted efforts were not made to stabilise the party and ensure victory at the polls. The former governor said a party without strong norms of internal democracy could not bequeath any standard democratic or ethical ideals to a nation. According to him, the fate of the country is inextricably tied to the fate of the party. He said: “The decision to run for this exalted office was not taken lightly but in deeply rooted and protracted consultation with family, friends, political associates and major stakeholders in the party.” Chairman of the occasion, Adamu Son, urged stakeholders to support Ebri, who he described as a man of integrity. According to him, Ebri would help President Buhari succeed and make the country better for all. Meanwhile, Aminu Bello Masari, governor of Katsina State, has said that about 179 members of APC (APC) have obtained nomination forms to contest various party positions in the forthcoming national convention of the party. Masari, who is the chairman of the screening subcommittee of the convention, also assured that his panel will ensure justice to every aspirant as the committee commenced screening of candidates at the weekend. “The total number of aspirants nationwide is about 179, though specifically I cannot immediately tell you there is geographic spread.” On whether the committee will wield the big stick against any infraction of the rules, Alhaji Masari said it is still early to say. “It is premature for me to say. I think the report will be presented by Tuesday”, he noted. He maintained that aspirants can only contest those positions zoned to their zone. “You can only contest for any position zoned to your zone. So far those who applied for positions from the North-West are from the North-West, nobody from the North-East or elsewhere applied for the positions zoned to the North-West”, he said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 