OSOGBO – Hon. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, a member of Osun State House of Assembly, has identified low participation of Nigerian youths in politics as one of the major leadership crisis in the country. Oyintiloye representing Obokun State Constituency made the remarks in Ibokun town in Osun while addressing a cross-section of students during Obokun Student Union Fiesta. The lawmaker said that the nation’s political system would be better off with the active involvement of youths in politics at all levels of government. Oyintiloye who described Nigerian youths as resourceful and dynamic said they (youths) were the set of leaders the nation was waiting for to take the nation to a greater height. “Nigerian youths must realise who they are, what they can see and must be learn to be civil and cultured. “Nigerian youths must be ready to emulate late Chief Awolowo, Nnamdi Azikiwe, Alvan Nkoku and others, who in their prime age fought for the nation’s Independence. “There are also other good examples of people all over the world, who at their youthful age involved themselves in the politics of their countries. “The current Prime Minister of Canada, Justin Pierre James Trudeau, is just 46 years of age. “Similarly, Emmanuel Jean-Michel Frédéric Macron, France President is just 40 years. “Our youths should, therefore, wake up from their slumber and take up the mantle of leadership in the country,” Oyintiloye said. The lawmaker said with the Not-Too-Young-To-Run law in place, the youths had been empowered to take their leadership position in the country. Oyintiloye said he would not relent in impacting positively in the lives of the youths in his constituency, adding that the welfare of the people was his priority. In his remarks, president of the union, Comrade Sunday Olalere, thanked the lawmaker for his huge donation to the union and his continuous support for youth development in the community. Olalere, who described Oyintiloye as a worthy ambassador whose good gesture was worthy emulating, urged him to keep the flag flying. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 