North Korean state media have raised the possibility that the isolated country could “establish a new relationship” with the United States (U.S.) It came a day before North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, meets U.S. President, Donald Trump, for historic talks. The comments mark a shift in tone from North Korea after decades of animosity towards the U.S. Meanwhile Trump has said he has a “good feeling” about Tuesday’s much-anticipated summit. Both leaders arrived for the talks – the first ever between a sitting U.S. president and a North Korean leader – in Singapore on Sunday. Trump tweeted on Monday morning that there was “excitement in the air” ahead of the summit. He hopes the meeting will kick-start a process that eventually sees Kim give up nuclear weapons. But North Korea’s perspective has always been more opaque. Later on Monday, Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, said the US was willing to offer “unique” security guarantees to North Korea so the isolated state would know that denuclearisation was “not something that ends badly for them”. He stressed that the U.S. objective of the complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula had not changed. Singapore’s Foreign Minister, Vivian Balakrishnan, who met Trump and Kim separately on Sunday evening, told the BBC that both leaders were feeling “supremely confident” ahead of their meeting. North Korea’s state media do not usually report on the leader’s activities in real time, and the summit has only had a passing mention so far. The editorial in Rodong Sinmun confirmed that Kim had travelled to Singapore to meet Trump and that “we will establish a new relationship to meet the changing demands of the new era”. Trump tweeted on Monday morning that there was “excitement in the air” ahead of the summit. He hopes the meeting will kick-start a process that eventually sees Kim give up nuclear weapons. But North Korea’s perspective has always been more opaque. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 