Makurdi – No fewer than seven persons have been confirmed dead from suspected Fulani herdsmen attack on Tse-Adough village, a community in Mbachom, Yaav council ward, Kwande Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that most of the dead were children who couldn’t run for their lives. It was further learnt that the herdsmen also injured six other persons during the attack and abducted a pregnant woman. The assailants set ablaze many houses in the area before they left with their captives. But, as at press time, details were not available and the extent of damage was yet to be confirmed. Although the state police command had not confirmed the killings, the Kwande LGA Chairman, Terdoo Kenti, confirmed the incident. Similarly, it was gathered that the three soldiers that were missing during herdsmen attack in Logo LGA a fortnight ago were yet to be recovered. The three soldiers have been presumed dead since their corpses are yet to be recovered. In another herdsmen attack in the area about a month ago, several security personnel who had been declared missing were later found slaughtered and their bodies dismembered after several days. Efforts to get the Spokesman of Operation Whirl Storm, the military operation in the state, Capt. Samson Zhakom, did not yield any result. He did not pick calls, neither did he respond to text messages sent to him. Fatai Awoseni, the Commissioner of Police, Benue State Command, did not pick calls put through to him to confirm the killings in Kwande LGA. But the Council Chairman, Terdoo Kenti, explained that the herdsmen militia laid siege to the community at about midnight of Saturday night up to Sunday morning and opened fire on the people who were asleep. Kenti, who was worried that there were no recent misunderstanding with herdsmen, wondered what could have caused the unprovoked attacks. According to him, “Seven people were killed in the end, six others were injured, while the herdsmen also went away with a woman after burning several houses in the area. “We gathered that the attack, which occurred in the early hours of Sunday, has left several villagers moving out of the area and surrounding villages in droves for fear of another invasion by the attackers. “There were no prior problems between the villagers and the Fulani herdsmen, so I wonder why the attackers will just come in and swoop on these people without any provocation,” he lamented. Narrating their ordeal, one of the effected peasants said: “They (herdsmen) invaded our village when almost everybody had gone to bed without premonition of the attack. “They invaded with guns and other dangerous weapons, shooting sporadically to kill and slaughter our people. “Some of us narrowly escaped before the killers reached our homes, but this morning (Sunday) we discovered that some of our brothers and neighbours were killed.” Another local who survived the attack said: “We have so far recovered seven corpses and many others are with grievous injuries. “At the moment, the surviving members of the council ward are fleeing the troubled spot to Jato-Aka.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 