Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has given indications that, barring any unforeseen circumstances, he would assent to the 2018 budget by next week. The president also gave his nod for the payment of N500 million to the team of external lawyers who compelled telecommunications giant, MTN, to agree to pay the N330 billion fine slammed on it in 2015 for SIM registration breaches. These were fallouts of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting chaired by President Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Wednesday. Recall that the legal battle instituted by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) against MTN has seen the corporation paying at least N165 billion out of a total of N330 billion fine. But Abubakar Malami, Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, justified the payments by saying it represented a fair deal and amounted to less than one percent of the entire fine slammed on the company which it agreed to pay. Malami, however, gave indications that the Federal Government was in the process of forwarding a Bill on copyright violations to the National Assembly to, among other things, spell out sanctions and other punitive measures applicable to defaulters. He said the action became necessary to protect intellectual property of Nigerians. Meanwhile, besides an initial treaty signed between Switzerland and Nigerian government which saw the repatriation of $322 million, there are prospects for the repatriation of another $500 million from safe havens back to Nigeria. This, according to the AGF, was looted funds stashed away abroad by the family of the late General Sani Abacha and other corrupt Nigerians. He noted that his ministry was in the process of perfecting the repatriation modalities, a development that would go a long way in helping to facilitate infrastructural projects. Isaac Adewole, Minister of Health, who also briefed State House reporters on other memos that sailed through the FEC meeting, announced that government had settled for a National Food Security Council to be chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Adewole noted that the functions of the council would be encapsulated in the Food Safety and Quality Bill which got the nod of Buhari to be forwarded to the National Assembly soon. Besides this, council approved the draft National Tobacco Control Regulation all aimed at regulating the use and consumption of tobacco products which has negative effects on the population. According to the minister, irrespective of the attractive tax returns from the tobacco companies, government was also mindful of the negative effects tobacco could bring to the citizens. “Council approved Draft Food Safety and Quality Bill as well as the Food Safety Institutional Reform working document. “It is expected that with the formal approval of these two documents, we will have reduction in the incidents of food borne illnesses through so many preventive controls that are already contained in the bill and will also help us to support achievements of sustainable effective food trade that will boost and enhance the economy.” On the draft National Tobacco Control Regulation, the minister also noted: “Under this administration, we have recorded several successes with respect to tobacco anti-control. “Precisely early next month Mr. President approved increase in tobacco taxes as well as alcohol. “And then on the 23rd of May, government approved the framework to control illegal trade in tobacco products in Nigeria. “And today, the regulation that will really enable us implement the National Tobacco Control Act was approved.” Similarly, about 14 federal projects, cutting across road rehabilitation, repair of dilapidated bridges, are to be executed by the government at a total sum of N185 billion. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, reeled out these projects on behalf of the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola. Fashola said: “The Federal Executive Council approved the rehabilitation/construction of fourteen roads in different parts of the country at a total cost of N185.276 billion. “They include Gwoza-Damboa – Goniri – Ngamdu Road in Yobe/Borno states by Hajaig Construction Nigeria Ltd. at the cost of N34.608 billion; Mayo Belwa – Jada – Ganye – Torngo Road in Adamawa by Messrs Triacta Nigeria Ltd. at the rate of N22.699 billion. “Others are Ado – Ifaki – Otun – Kwara State border in Ekiti State at the rate of N6.002 billion; repair of Makurdi bridge in Benue State by Messrs AG Vision Construction Ltd. at the rate of N4.617 billion; Ihugi – Korinya -Wuse -Ankor in Benue State by Datum Construction Ltd at the sum of N15.641 billion. “It also includes Gbagi – Apa – Owode in Badagry Lagos State by Messrs Smithcrown Nigeria Ltd. at NN4.366 billion; construction of Ijebu Igbo – Ita Egba Owonowen in Ogun and Oyo states to Messrs. DC Engineering at the rate of N9.833 billion; dualisation of Jattu – Fugar – Agenebode in Edo, Phase II, by Mothercat at N7.506 billion.” Buhari also bought into a memo presented by the Minister of Trade and Investment, Ikechukwu Enelamah, approving a whopping sum of N6.540 billion for the construction of an industrial hub to be managed by the Industrial Training Fund (ITF). The industrial hub, when completed, would house various workshops for skills acquisition cutting across automobile, welding and fabrication, ICT, among other skills. Enelamah explained that besides strengthening the ease of doing business policy, it would churn out quality manpower that would go into the world of work fully prepared to take up challenges. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 