Majority of the Pentecostal Churches in Nigeria have what they describe as their camp grounds, usually their international headquarters. It is an achievement for a budding Church to acquire a parcel of land in a neighbouring state or the outskirts of where the Church is domiciled. These Churches organise programmes frequently or periodically at the camp grounds which accommodate thousands and millions of persons. In fact in some settings, a church without a campground does not seems to have arrived in the league of Churches. Some Churches are rated by the size of their camp grounds and the size of the crowd it pulls during events. These campgrounds have without doubt, brought light and development to the areas where they are located particularly the Lagos Ibadan express way where many camp grounds are situated. As some would ordinarily not have heard of that axis or have anything to do there except while travelling to or outside Lagos by land. The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), is a Church whose camp ground can be said to be in a  class of its own. The work on this Camp in Mowe, Ogun State, according to the Church’s site began in 1983; the auditorium, dormitories and other structures were built for the annual convention of that year. Since then there has been expansion to the latest which is the new 9km square auditorium in Simawa. The Redemption Camp plays host to millions at major programmes such as the monthly Holy Ghost service which holds every first Friday of the month while every August and December is like a home call for many during the Convention and Holy Ghost Congress respectively. Prayer City owned by Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM) cannot be hidden, as it occupies a strategic position on the left side of the Lagos Ibadan way, Magboro , Ogun State. This place is usually busy during the interdenominational service on every first Saturday of the month, tagged ‘Power Must Change Hands’ and the Crossover service on every 31st of December. MFM, in addition to the online broadcast of major services especially at the Prayer City  has an online Church where those who are “disillusioned with Church” are encouraged to hook up and be part of the family of Christ rather than give up their faith because of their experiences as members of physical Churches. Part of the excerpts on the online Church website states: “… You may be feeling hurt and discouraged, but know that the time to let it all go has come. Don’t allow a season of mourning turn into a lifetime of sorrow. Let God through MFM Online Church turn your disappointment, sorrow and disillusion into joy and restoration! Welcome to MFM Online Church and God bless!” Deeper Life Bible Church is another mega Church with her Conference Centre along the same Lagos-Ibadan Express. Deeper Life Conference Centre (DLCC) is a minimum of 362.71 hectares (895.89 acres), the Church  made known adding that the topography is partly undulating and partly leveled, thus allowing for natural creation of basements and sub-basement for accommodation requirements of pilgrims. “Pastor W. F. Kumuyi’s vision of physical development as a factor of church growth gave birth to this project. The centre has been described as the city of God’s people where men, women, youths and children will look up to heaven and receive spiritual help from God. Among other things, it is where souls can be converted and receive the heavenly vision for an enduring, rewarding service for God. The adult auditoria are built to take 160,000 participants in a single programme,” the Church website further said. Though these Churches have their services running currently online but many worshippers will prefer to journey down whether it is convenient or not instead of monitoring online or viewing alongside others at a center closer to them.  It is not new that during specific programmes accessing the Lagos-Ibadan expressway is a herculean task, as some even get to lose their lives in the process maybe on their way to or back from camp service. Though the Churches have said to be putting efforts at reducing the traffic and stress people go through. SUNDAY INDEPENDNET out of curiosity got views on why some people prefer to make their way down to the campsites over watching in their homes or viewing centres due to the benefit of technology. Deaconess Folasade, a member of RCCG shared that: “There is nothing that can make me miss any programme in camp except a dire situation, even if someone tries to tie me I will break free. I do not joke with camp meetings at all. There is always an auction I receive because of the mighty presence of God’s power. My dear I really do not know how to compare the feeling and atmosphere there, usually I feel refreshed anytime I attend programmes there.” Another Christian, Paul Omose from a Pentecostal denomination believes it has to do with one’s faith. As he said that: “It is matter of hypocrisy for me because in this country we tend to form that we are holier than God. I have seen some people who testified of being healed while watching the ministrations on television even in their house. “It is also a matter of faith to me that is why the Bible says if you have faith like mustard seed you can move mountain. To me these worshippers cause unnecessary traffic. I know there is a scripture that says where two or three gathers God is there, so you and your family members of friends can be the two or three. “Though there is another portion of the Bible that says do not forsake the gathering of the children of God. But you need to see the stress people go through to attend these camp programmes. It is not something I as a person will want to pass through, so if it is a sin I ask God to forgive me because I can never see myself doing that for any reason.” For Timothy Adedeji, it is really not easy hitting the road to go to camp coupled with the traffic sometimes encountered and the distance but it is always a time of refreshing when he makes out time to be in camp for any special programme. In his view he said that: “I try to follow the programmes online but I usually don’t have the same feeling and experience when I go to the camp ground. Though we are suppose to embrace the gathering of the brethren like the Bible tells us but that does not mean we can utilise the good technology has to offer.” Joshua Ogideolu, a member of Assemblies of God Church which also has her camp along the Lagos- Ibadan express way said though technology should be embraced but there is still a difference between being physically present and online monitoring of Church programmes. “Technology is to be a plus and not a minus to us, today we can read our Bible on our android phones and other devices though some still prefer the traditional book version. In the same vein some people prefer to stay back in their houses to follow services via television or the internet, while some prefer to go to the camp ground. I believe there could be distractions from one’s children or other members of one’s household when someone is at home, in order to avoid distraction it is better to separate oneself unto God. “Again when you go to camp you can have time to share your burden with God especially when you stay back when others are leaving or have left.  Some also go there to find someone to counsel them because of their lack of confidence in their home pastors who may not be discreet in handling the matters of the heart they open to them. There are Pastors who use the secrets their members share with them to preach, this is another reason why people go out of their comfort zones to attend the programmes organised in camps,”Ogideolu said. Going on he asserted: “Another thing is that one can sleep off easily while at home but can be made to be awake by the ushers when in camp. The serious manner in which people handle the prayer points is what also attracts people to camps. I tell you if you see Mr. A praying passionately you will no doubt be encouraged to add fire to your own prayer. “As we know due to the situation of our country, a journey of 20 minutes can end up a journey of an hour, so driving down to the camp is not usually easy especially when there is traffic jam, some even end up on the road and don’t make it to the service, so indirectly they hold their own service on the road.  So it is a good thing that these churches encourage members to view the programmes in their local assemblies. “I remember the late Prophet Obadare’s radio evangelism and how several people testified of receiving their miracles by listening to him and not even meeting him one day. Most times I see members and even nonmembers of Winners’ Chapel converging at their satellite centers to watch programmes such as Shiloh. You know due to the nature of some people’s job they can’t go and stay in the campground, so they go straight to the viewing centres after the close of work.” Onyekormaka Osagie, a member of RCCG feels also that viewing online may not be same as being present in the camp. “I believe it is about the level of one’s faith. For instance there was a time Apostle Suleiman came to the National Stadium in Lagos, I was part of the people waiting for him. Upon his arrival I felt a change in the atmosphere and I noticed the sick people laid on the road received their healing. “This may not be experienced when watching him on television or the internet for some people due to their level of faith. The same goes for Pastor Enoch Adeboye who many will love to see one on one or even touch, that is if the security men around him will allow,” he expressed. A Catholic faithful who prefers to be anonymous also opines that God is everywhere and can hear us when we pray to Him. “I am not of the school of thought that believes in stressing myself to go to the camp to attend programmes,” he viewed. Ikeachi Nzeako, a Pentecostal faithful thinks it will do a lot of good if people go to Church to seek God instead of chasing after men of God. “People go to Church for different reason; some go to see the men of God while some go for their material or health needs to be met. I believe it will do a lot of good if we go to church with the mindset of seeing God and not men of God as the case may be. “People for me stress themselves to go to camp just to see the man of God and to fulfill righteousness not really because they love God or wants to serve God. There was a time when the Pope came to Nigeria and people trooped to see him.  I tell you if there is an announcement that Pastor Adeboye or  Bishop Oyedepo  is coming to a place, you will see people falling over themselves to see them but if it were to be their Assistants or an unknown Pastor, you won’t see people falling over themselves,” he voiced. In her opinion, Funke Oladotun, who is an Anglican faithful stated that: “I believe you can follow the religious events from anywhere but when seeking God’s intervention for a particular need then you can make it a point of duty to journey down to the campground. I have heard some sick people request that they be taken to the camp ground for them to be healed and I have seen people who go to camp just to get the sand there which they pray with.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 