LAGOS – Experts at the Business Journal’s 10th anniversary lecture have attributed the lull in the economy to infrastructure deficits in the country, asserting that the economic ecosystem of Nigeria calls for a deliberate effort in improving upon infrastructure to boost the economy. Mr. Tope Smart, the Group Managing Director, NEM Insurance Plc, who spoke on the theme: “Infrastructure and Economic Growth – The Insurance Perspective, stated that research has equally shown that there is a linkage between insurance, infrastructure and economic growth, adding that investment in infrastructure leads to good quality of life, which automatically leads to improvement in mortality rate and consequently reduce death claims under life insurance. “Infrastructural development is pivotal to insurance growth, even as insurance remains the backbone of any economy due to the basic role it plays which is to restore people, firm, government to the position they were before the occurrence of an insured peril”, Mr Smart said. He contended that good roads will reduce the number of accidents, thereby, leading to reduction in claims on motor insurance, Goods In Transit Insurance and Group Personal Accident Insurance, among others, adding that, this will ultimately lead to a better, stronger and a healthier insurance industry. “In addition, availability of data helps in the generation and preparation of good statistics that are useful in preparing rate guide for insurance. Good infrastructure will ensure this,” he stressed. Saying it is very obvious that investment in infrastructure will result in the growth of the economy of any nation, he added that, the attendant insurance needs resulting from such economic growth will be to the benefit of the insurance industry. To him, ‘for a consideration (premium) insurance ensures the continuity of an enterprise notwithstanding the occurrence of an unforeseen event.’ On his part, Engr. Chidi Izuwah, the Director General, Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC), said fixing the infrastructural deficit of the country requires a huge fund which the country does not have at the moment, but if there is a right environment that allows for Public Private Partnership (PPP), where the private sector generates the fund, this challenge could be jointly addressed. Currently, he said, insurance and pension funds are invested in FGN Securities, but that it will make more economic impact, if such funds can be channeled to fixing the country’s infrastructure, although, that will require having the right recovery mechanism that will allow the funding partners recoup their investments. Earlier, the Publisher, Business Journal Magazine thanked God for clocking 10 years since its inception, stating that, though the road was not all smooth, but that the medium whither the storm to be a force to reckon with in business and financial journalism. Going forward, he said, the magazine has developed a Strategic Plan of Action, to add more values to its readers and advertisers through strategic digital channel expansion, corporate partnerships and tailor-made editorial content. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 