LAGOS – Police in Lagos have arrested three men who allegedly raped a 15-year-old girl in turns. The command also arrested and paraded 23 suspected cultists in the state. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Edgal Imohimi said the suspected rapists were arrested on June 1 following a report at Ilemba-Hausa Division, Ajangbadi, of the command. “The suspects allegedly blindfolded her with a red scarf and took turns to rape her in their room located at 52 Jagua Street, Itakete Imude in Ajangbadi area of Lagos State. “During interrogation, the suspects denied being cultists but confessed raping the teenager. Meanwhile during execution of a search warrant in their abode, the following items were recovered. “One cutlass and one red scarf with which they blindfolded the girl in their room,” the CP revealed. He added that the suspects would be charged to court at the conclusion of investigation. Imohimi further attributed arrests of armed robbers in different parts of the state to information given by members of the public. “Arrests of armed robbers in different parts of the state were made by eagle eyed operatives of the Command imbued with information freely given by good Nigerians who have come to identify with our community policing agenda. “At Ejigbo, two suspects were arrested with cash sum of N48,000 and one Nokia phone. “At Awori Bus Stop, Abule-Egba, three traffic robbers who usually operates along Ikeja-Ogba-Abule Egba routes with a Volkswagen Vanagon Bus, painted in Lagos State commercial transport colour, were arrested and the commercial bus with Reg. No. LND-463-XU recovered. “Exhibits recovered are; Volkswagen Vanagon bus with Reg. No. LND-463-XU, two registration number plates, three mobile phones, one hand chain and four wristwatches. he said. The police boss further disclosed that suspected cultists were arrested in various location of the state, bringing the number of arrests 23. According to him, 6 suspects were arrested at Itire,2 in Ikorodu, 6 in Meiran, 3 in Aboki Estate, Elegushi Beach, 3 in Ajamgbadi, 2 in Badagry Road, and 1 in Oworonshiki. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 