Prof Bolaji Akinyemi, former Minister of External Affairs, has described the conferment of the nation’s highest award, Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR) on Chief Moshood Abiola the presumed winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election as a soothing balm to heal the wounds inflicted on the country. Akinyemi in a statement said, “ As a member of NADECO in its heyday when it was most dangerous to be a member, June 6 marked the fulfillment of dreams, and the achievement of visions.  On that day, President Muhammed Buhari recognised the validity of the June 12, 1993 Presidential elections, declared Chief MKO Abiola as the winner of that election, conferred national honours on MKO Abiola, his running mate, Babagana Kingibe, the human rights activist, Gani Fawehinmi and declared June 12 Democracy Day. “I recognised how momentous that decision was and I not only welcome the decision, I thank President Buhari for the decision. President Buhari has addressed some of the wounds inflicted on this nation and applied healing balm on these wounds. “Only those who lost family members, those imprisoned and detained or who had family members imprisoned and detained, those tortured and those driven into exile had felt the need for some measure of closure. That closure was achieved on January 6 by the executive order issued by President Buhari.” The Ex-Minister appealed to the President to remember other Nigerians who also played active roles in the struggle, particularly Dan Suleiman, Ndubisi Kanu, Frank Kokori, John Oyegun, Dr. Akingba, Bagauda Kaltho and for national honours in future exercises. “The declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day is a victory for all Nigerians and not just for those who voted for MKO Abiola. The voting pattern on June 12 1993 sealed the cleavages that have bedeviled Nigeria since the unification by Lugard. “The annulment of the election results reopened and deepened those cleavages. I recognise and accept that the June 6 Presidential Executive Order has applied some balm on these cleavages and therefore should be welcomed as a national rather than a sectional victory. The courage of the President in tackling this issue should be acknowledged. “As the Deputy Chairman of the 2014 National Conference, I recall that when the issue of  June 12 was raised, it almost tore the Conference apart. I also recall that the issue ofJune 12 had been raised in different sessions of the National Assembly without resolution. That it took President Buhari to resolve this issue is a manifestation of what social scientists call the Nixon-China syndrome. “It took a rabid anti-communist like Richard Nixon to extend diplomatic relations to China without the fear of being labelled a communist. It has taken a Buhari, who nobody can accuse of pandering to the South and who is trusted by the North to do justice to June 12,” he added. On the legality of the executive order, which has been raised is not tenable and is a red herring, Akinyemi said, “First is the issue of precedence. President Shagari awarded a national honour posthumously to Chief Israel Adebajo and his son collected it on his behalf. Secondly, the award cannot be subject to strict legal interpretation. I would rather suggest a Dennington approach where determination is based on the need to achieve justice. “MKO Abiola was elected in 1993 when he was still alive and remained alive for six more years. That is when he earned the GCFR. Acts of illegality prevented him from being decorated with it. Those acts of illegality have just been annulled.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 