Abuja – For allegedly coming into the country without proper documentation, the Senate has ordered the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) to immediately deport Mr. Young Ho Jo, the Managing Director of Samsung, to South Korea. The Senate’s directive was announced on Thursday by Senator Solomon Adeola (APC Lagos West), chairman of the ad-hoc committee probing the $16.35 billion Egina Oil Field Project, during an interactive session with major and subcontractors of the project. According to Senator Adeola, the resolution for the deportation of the Samsung MD was adopted by the Senate on Thursday in line with the recommendation to that effect by the ad-hoc committee in its interim report. Adeola had announced to the hearing of the embattled South Korean and other operators of the Egina Oil Field Project that the illegality of Mr. Young Ho Jo’s residency in Nigeria came to the fore during scrutiny of his papers. “Mr. Young Ho Jo who has been working for the past two months in Nigeria as the Managing Director of Samsung without fulfilling legal requirements for such told us that he couldn’t complete his documentation as a result of alleged breakdown of machines of the Nigeria Content Development Monitoring Board (NCMDB). “But the NCMBD wrote to us that their machine had never broken down in the period claimed, showing that the man has contravened the Local Content law. “Going by recommendations made by this committee to the Senate and resolution adopted, MD Samsung is no longer recognised on account of improper documentation as shown by papers he presented. “To the Senate and this committee, Samsung MD is an illegal immigrant who must be deported by the Nigerian Immigration Service to which a letter to that effect has been forwarded to the Ministry of Interior. “He can, however, come back to the country through proper documentation thereafter,” the lawmaker added. He argued further that Young Ho Jo, during his illegal residency in Nigeria as Samsung MD, also violated the Local Content Act by spending $1.6 billion out of the $3.5 billion contract Samsung got from the $16.35 billion Egina Oil Field Project in Goje, South Korea. However, Mr. Nicolas Terraz, the Managing Director of Total Upstream Nigeria Limited, stated that as the major operator of the project, it would continue to assist the committee in its investigations. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 