MET Gala, also the Costume Institute Gala and the Met Ball, is known primarily as an annual fundraising gala for the benefit of the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute in New York City. The Gala is widely regarded as one of the most exclusive social events in New York and one of the biggest fundraising nights in the city with as much as $12 million raised at a single event. What has this got to do with Nigeria, you may ask. Surprise, Nigeria had its own brand of the Met Gala without the fundraising and all of the costume. Nigerians have always excelled at anything they choose; ‘choose’ being the most important part of that statement. In the last century, Nigeria as a country has adopted many cultures, traditions, styles and phenomenon that were previously considered alien to our nature. This was evident at the Met Gala themed Lagos premiere of the 2018 movie, Ocean’s 8. Nollywood’s leading ladies, fashionistas and entertainment influencers gathered at the Filmhouse IMAX Cinema in Lagos to celebrate one of the most anticipated movies in 2018 with Met Gala themed event which is quit apt considering the film’s heist plot where an all-female crew attempt to steal precious jewels at New York City’s yearly Met Gala. Like everything Nigerian, elegance, colour and panache were the themes for the night and Nigerian stars dazzled, shimmered and sparkled glamorously. Stars like Kate Henshaw, Omoni Obioli, Osas Ighodaro Ajibade, Toke Makinwa, Jemima Osunde, Idia Aisien, Ini Dima-Okojie, Taje Prest, Mimi Onalaja, Juliet Ibrahim, Ihuoma Linda Ejiofor, Adunni Ade, Meg Otanwa, Layole Oyatogun, Linda Osifo, Lilian Afegbai, Nowe Isibor, Ufuoma McDermott, Gbemi Olateru-Olagbegi among others were in attendance. Their attires, created entirely by African designers while sometimes outlandish, were quite stylish and sparked quite the debate. But what got people talking was this. Was it all simply to show off costumes and watch a movie, or was any fundraising done, just like at the real Met Gala? The premiere was a collaborative effort of Nigeria’s Film One and Warner Brothers, who said that hosting the Ocean’s 8 Premiere in Lagos was not just about coming to see a movie, but also “a celebration of women who excel in their fields.” While all that may be impressive for costumiers, it is quite alarming that such a show has never been put up for an indigenous Nigerian movie. Instead, the studio leaves the filmmaker alone to figure out the intricacies of putting together a star-studded premiere. Nigerian moviemakers produce great movies everyday, yet Film One is yet to roll out the carpets for any and some are saying that there are double standards in play. Are Nigerian movies not worth the effort or do the film studios simply choose to ignore them? If they aren’t worth the effort, why then celebrate the same women who make these great movies? These film enthusiasts have too many challenges to be ignored and such a celebration, once in a while, for a classic, quality film, would go a long way in alleviating the troubles of the dedicated filmmaker. So while it was an impressive show, for Silverscreen, it is still just a great costume party. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 