ABUJA – Senior pastors from the Redeem Christian Church of God, including leaders from the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) assembled in Abuja on Monday to offer praises and thanksgiving to God for sparing the life of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The Vice President narrowly escaped death on June 7, 2018, following a failed engine of the chopper that conveyed him to the Nigeria Customs Command and Staff College, Gwagwalada, a suburb of Abuja, where he had gone to attend the graduation ceremony of Senior Division Course 1/2018 participants. The helicopter was forced to make an emergency landing few seconds after it took off as it was reported to have started emitting thick smoke mid-air. The aircraft was said to have landed on the same spot when it could not ascend beyond the tree level. The development forced the Vice President to be conveyed back to the Presidential Villa in his official vehicle. Laolu Akande, the Vice President’s spokesman, confirmed the incident on Twitter saying, “VP Osinbajo attended the graduation ceremony of Nigeria Customs Senior Course in Gwagwalada today. On his way back it was decided, for technical reasons, not to fly the chopper that had brought him to the venue. He drove back to the Presidential Villa & continued his schedule.” Aso Villa Chaplain, Seyi Malomo, who put together the thanksgiving service said there was every reason to thank God for sparing Osinbajo’s life. According to the Aso Villa Chaplain, the incident was significant because it was not just Osinbajo’s life that was spared, the country, Nigeria and its leaders were also preserved from the calamity that would have befallen them. “Last week, we received the news with shock that the Vice President’s helicopter engine failed and we thank God that God preserved him. The preservation of the leaders is the preservation of the nation and as a result, we want to thank God, so this programme was organised to thank God for his watchful eyes over our leaders, over our nation and more particularly over the deliverance for the Vice President. “We will be spending 120 hours praising God, teaching about thanksgiving, praying to God to bless Nigeria more, establish peace in Nigeria more, preserve our nation more, give us the victory that is needed. “As we all know we are a nation that deeply loves God and a love for God that is also born out of deep appreciation because we know that God loves us too and his love for us manifests in his good works towards us,” Malomo told DAILY INDEPENDENT exclusively. He said invitations were extended to chairman of the Pentecostal Bishop Forum of Northern Nigeria, Archbishop John Praise who gave his words to be present at the event, including Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria, FCT Chapter, Rev Dr. Isreal Akanji, senior pastors from the Redeem Christian Church, among others. Malomo, however, criticised Christians who daily bemoan their situation, saying they should be a praying church rather than complaining. He used the sojourn of the Israelites from Egypt to the promised land to illustrate his point, saying rather than murmur and complain, Christians should look up to God for their supplications. “My advice to them is for them to join us; we are to be a praying church, not a complaining church; many of us as Christians know that one of the things that angered God most in the journey of the children of Israel from Egypt was their murmuring and complaints. “We know that Nigeria has left Egypt we are on our way to the promised land, even though there might be manna and wilderness experience and the Red Sea, we shouldn’t complain but look up to God and call on him; that is what we are doing,” he stated. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 