As Nigerians celebrated the 19th Democracy Day and the three years of President Muhammadu Buhari administration, former President Goodluck Jonathan, stirred the hornet nest when he said that the country had become a laughing stock in the comity of nations within the period of the current regime. It would be recalled that Dr. Jonathan handed over the, Presidency to Buhari after his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), lost the 2015 Presidential election to the All Progressives Congress (APC). This was after the former ruling party had been on saddle for 16 years. What Jonathan Said Former President Jonathan said he was ashamed that Nigeria was being used as a negative example in the international community. He cited recent instances when the Ghanaian President, Nana Akufo-Addo, mocked the poor state of security in Nigeria and the naira’s weakening status. Jonathan spoke at the inauguration of the first bridge built by Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State in Ado Ekiti, the state capital. Jonathan lamented that things were so bad in the country that Nigeria had lost its respect in Africa. He said: “He (Ghanaian President) said Ghana is not like Nigeria where cattle roam the streets. At another occasion in the United Kingdom, he made scathing remarks about Nigeria’s currency. “I feel ashamed as a former President that the president of a neighbouring country used Nigeria as negative examples. “If a neighbouring African president will use Nigeria to make negative examples, then we as leaders must know certain things are wrong in the country. That means we as leaders must change the way we do things.” Jonathan, therefore, urged Nigerian leaders to show serious concern, noting that many things had gone wrong in the country. Presidency Replies Jonathan The Presidency did not take Jonathan’s remark lightly. It responded by saying that it was the PDP-led government under the former President that brought shame to the country and made her a laughing stock in the comity of nations. The Presidency told Jonathan to give the Buhari-led administration a breathing space to clean the mess of his (Jonathan’s) administration. While reacting to Jonathan’s allegation against Buhari’s government, Mallam Garba Shehu the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, said that Nigeria was a pariah nation under the previous administration, but that the country had started gaining back respect in the government. He said: “Who put us there? He is the one in the mirror, who put us there? The picture is of himself. Let him look at the mirror. So, what else does he want to see? “President Buhari is trying to clean up the mess and he is doing a good job of it. Please, they should allow him time to do this thing. “We are gaining back our respectability globally. Even the citizens when they travel out of the country, they are better respected than they were before. It was a big shame, but we are happy that Mr. Jonathan himself is realising this and hope that his political party will own up what they did to the country. “He made Nigeria a laughing stock. If other countries are laughing at Nigeria, who put us there? Are they not the one?” However, observers wonder if Jonathan was right or wrong in his remarks, bearing in mind the state of the nation since President Buhari took over the reins of governance. Nigerian Situation Challenging, But Not Extraordinary – Don Dr. Patrick Awuwu Atafomen, a Benin-based political Science lecturer said: “I don’t know what former President Goodluck Jonathan means by laughing stock. I quit agree that it has not been easy for Nigeria as a country and Nigerians as a people in all spheres of life. “But, President Buhari in the past three years has been trying to make some impacts like other Presidents who had had the opportunity to rule the country since 1999. “I will agree that the country has been passing through some challenges, especially in terms of security occasioned by the herdsmen menace. But, that is not enough to make Nigeria a laughing stock. “Although the herdsmen issue has given the country a bad image for the past six months, but that does not mean that everything about Nigeria has been shut down. Nigeria is still moving on as a sovereign nation like every other country in the world. “As I also observed, Buhari as the President of the country for the past three years, has been overwhelmed by so many challenges, ranging from his health, economy and security and he has also been trying to surmount them as the man in charge. “I will not agree with former President Jonathan that Nigeria has become a laughing stock since the advent of Buhari’s administration. I must say that what Nigeria is passing through now is a phase that will also pass by and will be recorded in Nigeria history also and I don’t see it as anything extraordinary.” It’s A Pot Calling Kettle Black – SDP Chief Ndubuaku Ihejimba Akuwuihe, a member of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and ex-councillor, stated: “The statement by former President Jonathan, to me, amounted to a pot calling the kettle black. When he was in office, what did he do to move this country forward? “To me, he (Jonathan) was the one who laid the foundation of what we are suffering now. Did he tackle insecurity? Did we enjoy regular power supply? Did he enhance our economy or promote bilateral relations between us and the western world? What did he do to improve the value of naira? “Our education sector was in comatose and inflation was consuming virtually all Nigerians. I do not mean to hold brief for President Buhari afterall. I am not of the APC, but he who goes to equity must go with clean hands, and those who live in glass houses should not throw stones.” Things Have Really Gone From Bad To Worse Under Buhari – ADP Chieftain Chief Isaac Nnadiuto Egbufor, an elder statesman and member of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), stated: “I completely agree with the former President in his observation. “Since President Muhammadu Buhari took over power, have we heaved a sigh of relief in any way? Is food there for us to eat? What of security, youth employment, regular power supply, good and sustainable means of transportation? Do we have these? “I am aware that insurgency was with us during the days of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. But, since this present regime came on board, it has taken a much more dangerous dimension. “Can you compare the number of Nigerians who have been killed by the Boko Haram people when Jonathan was in office with the number that have lost their lives from May 29th 2015 till date? “Not long ago, two priests of the Roman Catholic Church and many worshippers were killed in a church, while Nigerians are now being killed in South Africa like flies. What has the President done to tackle these problems? Jonathan’s Claims Are True – Lecturer Emmanuel Mamman, a Minna-based university lecturer, said: “I totally agree with what former President Goodluck Jonathan on what he said about Nigeria becoming a laughing stock barely three years after he handed over the mantle of leadership of this country to President Muhammadu Buhari. “Former President Jonathan’s claims are true in the sense that you and I are witnesses to what is happening in Nigeria today which I am going to attempt analysing in order and how the situation is going to rob on Nigeria, Nigerians and President Buhari himself in particular. “The Buhari-led All Progressive Congress (APC) government at the centre has proved that the second name of the party is corruption. So, once you identify with the party, you are sparkling clean, free from any allegations of being corrupt. “For instance, the former Abia State governor, Orji Uzor Kalu, was indicted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). But, he soon became a saint after he defected to the ruling APC and nothing was heard about him again, except clandestinely mention of his status as once being invited by the commission. “The same is also said of the former governor of Rivers State, Peter Odili, maybe because his wife is also a serving Judge or something else. “But, the situation we find ourselves as a country which to me other countries are watching with apt attention is the level to which we have degenerated as a country. “We have heard about the former governor, now Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, his past and why he is now treated like a saint. “I mean, why won’t other countries make a laughing stock of us? A private investigator was invited to help in investigating high profile corruption cases. But, the guy ended up being sent away simply because he wanted a situation whereby ALL the indicted personalities should be investigated instead of going all out to investigate and prosecute ONLY members of the opposition parties, particularly members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). What an embarrassment! “There are numerous other examples of how the Muhammadu Buhari government shielded away indicted member of the ruling party while the government tactically looked the other way. This is not good for our image as a people and as a country. “Buhari, as a man of integrity, is beginning to weight out as a result of his uncharitable way of fighting corruption sooner after he came on board. “Nigerians desperately needed a change and there was this general belief among the segments of Nigerians that Buhari was the only answer which was why they gathered their ‘Kobo-Kobo’ and ‘Toro-Toro’ to make sure he did not only emerge, but stood against any form of distractions such as litigations and all what have you just to make sure he takes on corruption head long. “Unfortunately, as time goes on, his powers and strictness is fast fading, thereby creating fears as per whether or not he is the Buhari we used to know. “You dare not speak against the Federal Government or criticise any policy, right or wrong, else you would become a guest to the anti-graft agents. “Where is the democracy in what President Buhari is doing now? Anti-graft agencies and other security apparatus of this country have somehow become tools used by the APC administration to fight and intimidate opposition voices in this country. “President Buhari has succeeded in indirectly creating a very bad impression about retired soldiers who would want to serve after retirement because Nigerians would easily remember what Buhari did in his second coming as civilian President that he was more on a vendetta mission than providing positive change and democratic dividends as being expected by Nigerians. “Is corruption only about misappropriation of funds? No! Robbing Nigerians of the right to choice of what they want also amounts to corruption. Looking the other way while innocent, harmless Nigerians are being massacred by a group well known to the Federal Government, what do you call that? “How much has been spent and is still being spent on the President’s health? Is that one not corruption? “Muhammadu Buhari was voted into power to protect the lives and properties of ALL law abiding Nigerians, irrespective of religious, tribal or political affiliations. But, you know as much as I do what is happening today as if there are first class and second class Nigerians, as if some Nigerians by virtue of religion, tribe or language is more Nigerian than others. “I can go on and on to give more examples of the damage this government has done to us as a people and for which other countries will be making mockery of us as people lacking political direction or that we are chasing shadows after high expectations.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 