Lagos – Branch, a digital financial platform, has disclosed plans to disburse at least N4bn to its Nigerian customers before the end of 2018. This is as the company said that it has expended over N1bn to its Nigerian clients since the company was established in Nigeria in the past one year. Mr. Matt Flannery, the Co-founder of the company told journalists in Lagos over the weekend that customers are granted between N3,000 and N150,000 loans without collateral with a 15 per cent interest rate on loans granted while repayment is within 30 days. Flannery explained that as clients repay their loans, they unlock access to larger loan amounts and more flexible terms, adding that the company within the past one year of existence in Nigeria, disbursed loans to over 100 beneficiaries. He said that customers with android smartphone could download the Branch’s app and gain access to the loan immediately, stressing that the company had world-class data security to prevent hackers from hacking into the system while information about the clients are secured. He declared that despite the proliferation of Fintech industries in Nigeria, Branch had successfully distinguished itself as providers of world-class financial services, adding that through the company’s innovative approach to lending, Branch had provided world class financial services to the underserved and unlocked financial access to customers around the country. He said: “I couldn’t be more thrilled to be working in Nigeria with Branch. The start-up community is incredibly dynamic, and the country is poised for a FinTech explosion. The early response from our customers shows that there is a massive need for a product like Branch. We hope to play a significant role in increasing access to modern financial services in Nigeria over the next decade. “Nigeria is an amazing market, we intend to create and provide jobs for an average Nigerian. Smartphone users are growing in Nigeria. About 80 per cent of Nigerians have mobile phones with about 20 per cent of them using android Smartphone.” He emphasised that Branch’s growth had continue to accelerate; in the first quarter of 2018 with 50 per cent growth month on month in Nigeria. In the past four years, Flannery said the company had disbursed loans to six million people, expended $250m in four countries; Kenya, Nigeria, Tanzania and India. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 