Lagos – Bob Okoroji, former governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), says there is need for Nigerians to know the full result of the June 12, 1993 presidential election. The late Moshood Abiola of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP) was coasting home to victory, according the results released by the Prof. Humphrey Nwosu-led National Electoral Commission (NEC) in 1993 before the Ibrahim Babangida-led military junta annulled the election. Imo State-born Okoroji, who aspired to govern Lagos State in 2015, told DAILY INDEPENDENT on Thursday that with the recognition of June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day and the post-humous honour done to Abiola by President Muhammadu Buhari, “it is time for Nigerians to know the complete result of the annulled election”. The APGA chieftain expressed worry that everything about June 12 had been based on assumption, as the complete result of the election had not yet been announced. Said he: “When they said M.K.O. Abiola won an election, can anybody tell us the result? How did they draw the conclusion that he won? What is the evidence? No reason was given on why the election was annulled. Everything about June 12 is an assumption.” Okoroji also picked holes in the award given to Babagana Kingibe, Abiola’s running mate, wondering why he was still honoured by Buhari after he abandoned the struggle for government appointment. He also would have loved to know why Prof. Nwosu, chairman of then NEC, was not included among those that were honoured. “Why did Buhari count Kingibe worthy of honour over June 12 and forgot the man who was bold enough to be announcing the results before he was stopped; I mean Prof. Humphrey Nwosu? “If he did not defy the military and announced something, will anybody be talking of June 12 today? I have nothing against Abiola. But we cannot base such an important issue on assumption.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 