Come Saturday, June 23, all things being equal, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) would hold its national convention. Although, there had been speculation that the convention may be shifted due to problems relating to low level of preparation and paucity of funds, but Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba, Secretary of APC National Convention Committee dismissed the speculation saying that the party was not planning to postpone its convention. Ndoma-Egba, who is the Chairman of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), was appointed secretary of the convention committee few weeks ago after the sudden resignation of the former secretary, Senator Benjamin Uwajimogu who quit his job citing personal reasons for his action. The decision to hold its national working committee meeting and the eventual fixing of the national convention came after the initial plan to extend by 12 months the tenure of its elected and appointed executive at all levels was rejected by the President Muhammadu Buhari, after initially endorsing the decision. It was obvious that the party owing to bottled-up acrimony and frictions which it has failed to resolve amicably, is apparently afraid of a possible implosion, should things go wrong at the convention. There is no gainsaying that the biggest problem that confronts the APC is that of lack of discipline within the party. It is a party that lacks the mechanism to call to order erring members. After the rather turbulent tenure of John Odigie-Oyegun as chairman, the party is set for a make or break attempt to replace the former Edo State governor. Another former governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole, is believed to be the most favoured candidate to succeed Odigie-Oyegun. The other two notable contenders, the former governor of Cross River, Clement Ebri and another former governor of Edo, Prof. Oserheimen Osunbor, are also seen as top contenders. If the rumour mill is to be believed, the former president of Nigeria Labour Congress, Oshiomhole, has the backing of President Buhari and other bigwigs of the party. Speaking last week after he was screened by Governor Aminu Bello Masari-led APC screening committee, Oshiomhole boasted of his chances at the convention against Osunbor when he said, “At least, I know one and we have contested against each other before. He rigged me out, I pursued him and I won and retrieved the mandate from him. I went back to seek second term and I won. I defeated him even in his local government. I won 18 over 18, defeating him in his ward, his unit, his local government and senatorial district. “If I was able to defeat him as an ordinary union leader when they dismissed me that I was not a politician while he was already a senator and I was able to defeat him; now as a man who has had the privilege to preside over the affairs of Nigeria Labour Congress nationwide, a two time-governor, if I have to compete with somebody who was governor for 18 months, I don’t have any problem.” While dismissing others Oshiomhole also said, “As for the others, let me say that in a boxing ring, heavy weights don’t engage feather weight. But I am happy that we are in a democracy and people are free to contest.” Given the various crises that have befallen the party since it came to power, it would be in the best interest of the APC to pick a chairman that would unify all interests within the party. There are too many power brokers within the party that it may turn out to be a costly mistake to have another chairman that would further create another power bloc to fragmentise the party the more. It is an open secret that just as the president has his loyalists; other party stakeholders like Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the Senate President Bukola Saraki, and the outgoing chairman, Odigie-Oyegun, among others also have their interests to protect. Between them there are cynicisms that are barely concealed. Oshiomhole as governor of Edo State and NLC president had an outstanding tenure and has been sufficiently acknowledged for his performance. However, given his garrulous and often authoritarian disposition, will he deliver as party chairman? His comments on his opponents sound more like he is contesting against opponents from another party. This more than anything else will make his victory, if he wins a costly one to the party. Recall that the PDP also held its chairmanship election that produced Uche Secondus as chairman.  Some of the rancorous statements coming from the APC contenders were not as prevalent. Speaking on Friday in Benin on the allegation of being dictatorial, Oshiomhole had said inter alia, “I have never exercised dictatorial powers. I have always exercised persuasive powers and negotiating skills, and those are my skills… I am not capable of being a dictator by the very nature of my background.” As the delegates converge on Saturday, it is important for them to look beyond self and bloc interests and focus on the bigger picture. The party interest above anything else should be the consideration. The party needs a chairman that will not only instill discipline among members but also serve as a rallying point for all so that the party interest will come first over and above selfish interests. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 