Will the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) implode before the 2019 general election or will the emergence of a new chairman douse the tension threatening the survival of the party in government? These and many more seem to be on the lips of many political watchers who have been monitoring developments as the party tries to convince the public that it is together inspite of alleged internal ranglings and division seemingly affecting governance. While the party is yet to recover from the crisis from the congresses, it is equally being faced with the threats of marginalisation by the members of the new Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP). Infact, Sunday INDEPENDENT gathered at the weekend that ahead of its June 22 rescheduled national convention, there is anxiety in the party of a likely parallel convention following the crisis that trailed the outcome of its ward, local and state congresses as well as aggrieved members of the new PDP. It was also gathered that less than 24 hours after John Odiegun, national chairman stepped down from seeking to recontest for the chairmanship position, Senator Ben Uwajumogu,  Secretary of the APC National Convention committee has resigned his position as Secretary, citing pressing family matters. He said the convention date which has suffered two postponements now conflict with equally important family obligation earlier fixed for later this month. There have been unconfirmed pressures mounted by governor Owelle Rochas Okorocha on the party ahead of the forthcoming convention. In what observers regard as alluding to the imminent implosion of the party, Oyegun said, “However, I believe that the party faces difficult days ahead and all critical stakeholders in its leadership would be required to bind together for a common purpose. Therefore, the less contentious our national convention is, the better for the party.”. Some stakeholders, who spoke with Sunday INDEPENDENT, said based on recent developments in the party especially the ultimatum given to President Muhammadu Buhari and Chief Odigie-Oyegun by the aggrieved faction, there may be a repeat of what played out in the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) five years ago. In fact, a source close to the nPDP said at the weekend that the drama played out at the National Assembly last week  by senator Dino Melaye, who requested to be provided a seat at the opposition side may be a pointer to what would eventually happen, adding that the members may be biding time as well as cause harvoc before defecting from the ruling party. The group which was part of the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had defected to the then new APC, which was an amalgamation of the then existing three political parties – Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and Congress for Political Change (CPC). According to some analysts, after winning the 2015 election, the APC was yet to forge ahead as a one political party as the different parties which merged together have continued to struggle for survival, with the CPC which holds the position of president lording it over the merging parties. The inability of the party to form a cohesive front has contributed to its inability to host its mid-term convention. Apparently sensing trouble ahead of the 2019 elections, some leaders within the party had tried to prevent the holding of the congresses of the party in line with the APC’s constitution by insisting on tenure elongation for the party executives at all levels. Their fears were that the party may be enmeshed in crisis ahead of the general election should the party hold its congresses and convention before the election. True to their prediction, parallel congresses were held at different levels by contending forces within the party, leading to the recent letter by the nPDP threatening to pull out of the party if their grievances, randing from marginalisation, were not attended to. Some of the grievances, according to a member of the aggrieved party weren that the Npdp members were sidelined from the Federal Executive Council, (FEC), as virtually no position was conceded to it. According to him, the only member of FEC came from a state that contributed virtually no vote to the success of the party in the 2015 presidential elections. He also all;eged that there has been no significant patronage and appointment to executive positions in various government agencies such as Chief Executives and Executive Directors of government agencies and parastatals as they continue to watch helplessly as these positions were shared to erstwhile CPC, ACN, ANPP and even APGA blocks of the party and those who have no party at all. Before the initial seven-day ultimatum given to the APC to attend to their grievances,APC Deputy National Chairman, North, Senator Lawal Shuaibu, met with them during to signale the beginning of series of negotiations with the group. Also, last week the group led by Senator Bukola Saraki, Senate President and Mr Yakubu Dogara, Speaker, House of Representatives, met with Vice President Yemi Osibanjo. At the end of their discussion, Baraje told reporters  that “so far so good. We are looking forward to some of the promises. There will be other meetings because we have been put into subcommittees and then we will now identify specific and general problems and then we will proceed to see Mr. President. But it was a very good meeting.” Asked if they will no longer quit the party he replied, he said, “It is too early to say.” However, there are speculations that the group may eventually pull out of the APC as it was bidding for the right time to do so. Notable leaders of the party, including political observers in their chats with Sunday INDEPENDENT were divided as to whether the APC will implode with the planned defection of the nPDP along with other notable personalities in the party. Those who spoke included Barrister Kunle Ayantoye, legal practitioner, Hon Miriki Ebikibina, former national youth leader of the Action Congress of Nigeria ( ACN), Chris Finebone, Spokesman for APC, Rivers State, Professor Emeka Achor, a chieftain of the APC, Wale Adeoye, executive director, Journalists for democratic Rights (JODER),  Alhaji Yinka Olona, Chairman of the Conference of Nigerian Political Party (CNPP), Southwest zone. Ayantoye observed that the threat is political aimed more recognition, attention and attract more beneficial political patronage from the party leadership. Ayantoye said the threat is not actually aimed to quit the party because will be suicidal to dump APC now and move to another where they would be completely strange and start all over again. He explained that members of nPDP might not be serious about the threat issued because majority of them are already in various positions of authorities across the country. According to him, “What they have gotten is even enough that other and original members of the party have no taste of. “It is ploy to get more recognition, attention and political patronage and fixed themselves ahead of the 2019 general elections. Should they dump the party, APC now, it is dicey and may be wrong political calculation on their part. There are also the possibilities of some of them losing their current positions and election is fast approaching and may be wrong calculation,” he said. On the way forward, Ayantoye urged the ruling party to look into their grievances and issues raised to address them since it will not be wise for the APC to lose them to the opposition at this crucial period. The threat issued does not mean the party want to implode it will allow for adjustment and amendment, it will only result in implosion if the leadership of APC ignored them. Hon Ebikibina, said “It will be a major blow to the APC and a big gain for the PDP. This group made the APC to win the elections in 2015. And it will be a big mistake if the leadership of the APC should allow them to leave the merger. “This same threat was noted in ACN when the major financiers of the party left because of certain grievances that could not be addressed by the leadership. Their departure naturally collapsed the party which eventually led to the merger with the other political parties to form what you now have as APC today. “I think that most of the parallel congresses just conducted by the APC have in one way or the other affected the members of that group, I mean the nPDP. They therefore feel that going into the general elections without a concrete arrangement that will also favor them, will not augur too well with them, hence the threat to leave the party. “Having said that, I do not think that their leaving the APC will ever affect the nation’s democracy. The point remains that should they leave the APC, it will give the opposition an edge or a positive advantage ahead of the elections. “If the APC leaders know what is good for them, they should not treat the threat by members of the nPDP with kid’s glove. They threatened former President Goodluck Jonathan and they carried out the threat by staging a walkout on a sitting President at the Eagles Square. Since then, Jonathan started having it very rough politically.” But Professor Achor, a staunch believer in President Mohammadu Buhari is of the opinion that on no account can the defection of the nPDP group affect either the country’s democracy or the chances of President Buhari winning a second term in office. “There will be a big problem if the group leaves the party. Recall that they were five governors who left the PDP to join the APC. It baffles me that they are now coming to threaten that they are leaving the party now. It is most unfair. “They have very prominent members occupying prominent positions in this government. One is therefore tempted to ask, what do these people really want! Let me assure you one thing, these guys can go for all I care, it won’t stop Buhari from winning second term. I can assure you of that. “For the past three years, why didn’t these people come up with this agitation before now. Why are they just coming out now that is less than one year to an election season? There is more to this than we all know”, Professor Achor stated. On his part, the spokesman of APC, in Rivers state, Chris Finebone said that the nPDP group was “fronting for the Senate President, Bukola Saraki to renegotiate himself into the mainstream of the APC”. Finebone said that “nPDP was not a political party but a platform for the aggrieved members of the mother PDP to find a solace to their political problem. They had to join the APC because they were angry with the way things went in the PDP. “Somebody is trying to play a game here and that person is Bukola Saraki who is now trying to use the backdoor to renegotiate himself into the party. The leader of the nPDP, Kawo Baraje in the course of his negotiation with the leaders of our party APC said that some of their members were being persecuted. “Explaining further, he mentioned that Saraki was one of the members the Federal Government was persecuting. That tells you were they are coming from. “But the APC leadership will look at any demand that is germane and treat that properly.” Adeoye said, “The APC came as a product of many divergent interests with the sole purpose of removing Jonathan and PDP. President  Buhari’s credibility was the nectar that was used to attract everyone. They have regained power. The issue now is to discard Buhari who they felt has performed his role. “More people will dump the APC. The nPDP will be divided into two sections, one will remain in APC to wreck havoc and the other will leave the APC to establish a new front. APC will certainly be factionalised. “However, being factionalised is not enough to lose the election. PDP will also face the same internal explosion. So, what is happening to APC will also happen to PDP. “APC was a conglomerate of various interests: some who lost out in PDP, some for religious interests, some for ethnic. I think APC still has the potential to win the election. The party still controls some level of support in the core North because of President Buhari. Inspite of his shortcomings, it will be difficult to defeat him though not impossible. The PDP on the other hand has no charismatic and inspiring candidate that can galvanize the kind of fanatical support President Buhari enjoys in the North “The party needs a new national leadership that can build the party by employing new rules, modern techniques in conflict resolution, modern technology to drive membership, best global practices in strategic communication and mass mobilisation. As at now, APC is communicating less with the people.” Alhaji  Olona, said what is happening in the ruling APC was expected, poiting out that APC came into being as a result of the coming together of politicians, who only wanted to achieve their conflicting political goals on the platform of the party. The Southwest CNPP boss maintained that the failure of the ruling APC to resolve its internal crises since 2015 was an indication that the political party would soon disintegrate. He insisted that the ruling party would not have recorded much success during the 2015 general elections without the contributions of members of the nPDP. Olona, however, cautioned APC leaders not to allow the internal crises within their party to heat up the polity unnecessarily. He said members of the opposition parties are watching with  interest, series of drama unfolding within the ruling party, and will take the opportunity to unseat APC in 2019. But sources close to the party said they were well aware that the nPDP has been hobnobbing with other political parties and were only finding excuses to part ways with the ruling party. He said the group was well aware that the negotiation with the party may not end well if the cabal in the presidency is not checkmated adding that the ongoing negotiation is to buy time for the group to consummate their merger with other parties. However, he noted that while their exit may make things difficult for the party in 2019, it will not affect the fortunes of the party, stressing that other parties have their own internal problems but remain unknown to the public because they are not in power. The party leader said there are fears that the party may implode if the cabal aiding the activities of some people who are bent on foisting their agenda on the party is not put in check. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 