Abuja / Lagos – President Muhammadu Buhari has appealed to members of the Not-Too-Young-To-Run to jettison plans of running for the office of the president in 2019. He made the appeal shortly after he signed the Not-Too-Young-To-Run Bill into law at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Thursday. He said: “Please, can I ask you to postpone your campaigns till after the 2019 elections?” The president hinged his decision to assent to the bill on his conviction that Nigeria’s democracy had come of age and that the youths had shown a clear resolve that once they set their mind on any goal they could achieve it. He, however, raised an observation in the Bill, saying while the lawmakers passed the Bill, the age limit for senators and governors was not reduced as originally proposed by the sponsors of the bill. Buhari also noted that this might be an issue that would need to be addressed going forward. The president had given the assurance that he would sign the bill into law when he delivered his Democracy Day speech on May 29, 2018. The bill was first mooted by Samson Itodo, President of YIAGA AFRICA, a youth-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) that promotes democratic governance, human rights, and youth political participation. It was, however, sponsored by Tony Nwulu in the House of Representatives and AbdulAziz Nyako in the Senate. The bill also sought to alter Sections 65, 106, 131, 177 of the constitution to reduce the age qualification for the president from 40 to 30; governor from 35 to 30; senator from 35 to 30; member, House of Representatives from 30 to 25, and member, state House of Assembly from 30 to 25. The lawmakers also approved independent candidature in the new law. It was part of a wider constitutional amendment process which the National Assembly carried out last year. It may also be recalled that President Buhari seized the opportunity of the National Executive Council meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) which held on April 9, 2018 to declare his intention to re-contest for the office of president in 2019. “The coordinators of the Not-Too-Young-To-Run movement have now established a formidable legacy, which is that, in our maturing democracy, if you really want to change something in Nigeria, and if you can organise yourselves and work hard towards it, you can achieve it. The outcome of such efforts is this remarkable feat. “These efforts have resulted in the heroic task of enshrining in law, a reduction of the minimum ages for elective office in Nigeria. “Eligible age for aspirants for members of the state Houses of Assembly will be reduced from 30 to 25 years. “Eligible age for aspirants for members of the Federal House of Representatives will be reduced from 30 to 25 years; and eligible age for aspirants for Office of the President, will be lowered from 40 to 35 years. “Surprisingly, the age limits for senators and governors were not reduced, as originally proposed by the sponsors of this bill. This is an issue that may need to be addressed going forward. “Nevertheless, your focus and contributions have now successfully increased the quality and maturity of Nigerian democracy and expanded the playing field for youth participation in politics. “You, the young people of Nigeria, are now set to leave your mark on the political space, just as you have done over the decades in entrepreneurship, sports, art, media entertainment, technology, and several other fields. “You are, undoubtedly, Nigeria’s most important resource – not oil, not agriculture, not solid minerals – but you and all of us. “Your energy, intelligence, and talent are what will drive and develop Nigeria, long after we are all gone. “This is an opportunity for me to affirm that this administration will continue to do everything in its power to make Nigeria work for you. “You may all know that the bill I just assented to now becomes an Act of the National Assembly. “Thus, it may be tempting for you to think of this as the end of the journey. “However, it is only the beginning; there is still a lot of work ahead, towards ensuring that young people take full advantage of the opportunities provided not only by this constitutional amendment but also through Nigeria’s boundless prospects. “You should inculcate the spirit of self-help. Those who complete their training should not just sit down and wait for government or the private sector to employ them. “You should be innovative and turn your hands to any legitimate work that will enable you to sustain yourself. “You may have noticed already that every one of you represents one of our 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. This is because today is about preparing for the bright future of our country. “I am confident each one of you will transform Nigeria in your own way – whether through media, agricultural enterprise, economists, engineers, or as lawmakers in your states or at the federal level, or as state governors – and even someday, as president. Why not?” Earlier, Itodo urged the president to prevail on political leaders to promote internal democracy among their ranks and file so as to create the enabling environment for the youth population to take part in future electioneering. PDP To Buhari: Not Too Young To Run Is PDP Initiative Meanwhile, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has lampooned President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) for allegedly attempting to parade themselves as the architects of the ‘Not Too Young to Run Act.’ The party disclosed rather that it was sponsored and pursued by the PDP members in the National Assembly and state Houses of Assembly. It noted that Buhari had no input in the bill, adding that he hardly showed “any support or enthusiasm towards the initiative and had no option than to perform a mandatory constitutional duty of assenting to the bill, as a clear reflection of the mood of the nation, given that the bill had already found an easy passage to the crucibles of the required approval of two-third of states in the federation.” The party described the passage of the bill a democratic victory for the Nigerian youths over forces, particularly the APC that hitherto had disdained and disregarded them as lazy and inconsequential. “They however had to succumb to the dictates of the law and pressure by the youths and the PDP,” the party contended. The PDP commended the sponsor of the bill, Tony Nwulu (PDP, Lagos), and other legislators who supported the process and the resilience of Nigerian youths in getting the initiative through. It explained that the initiative was “in line with the vision of the PDP to allow younger Nigerians to actively participate in elective positions in governance at all levels.” It added that in preparation for the passage of the bill, the party had launched ‘Generation Next Movement,’ which has already put younger Nigerians at vantage positions to participate in elective positions ahead of the 2019 general elections. The party added that in line with the ‘Generation Next Movement,’ it has rebranded PDP, among other pro-youth incentives. It has also approved certain critical clauses and waivers so that the young people would actively vie for positions in the 2019 general elections. It, therefore, urged Nigerian youths to immediately take advantage of the “Generation Next” platform and incentives already established by the PDP and actively participate in the quest to rescue the “nation from the misrule of the APC.” Reacting to the development, Malachy Ugwummadu, lawyer and President, Committee for the Defence of Democracy (CDHR), said the action of the president in giving his assent to the bill is laudable. He however berates him for admonishing the youths to queue behind his candidacy for the presidency in 2019 despite signing such a bill into law, saying such admonition defeats its purpose. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, he said, “I see it as a good development. The president has done his part in signing the bill into law. And it has gone down in history that Buhari was the Nigerian leader that signed the bill into law. He’s free to bask in that glory. “What follows the presidential assent is that the law will be officially gazetted and forthwith it becomes a law in force in Nigeria. “I however take exception to the fact that despite giving his assent to the bill, the president was out there admonishing the youths to wait till 2023 before they can vie for the country highest office.” On his part, Leon Mbakwe, President, Lawyers Against Corruption, said there is nothing to cheer that the president did his constitutional duty of signing a bill earlier passed by two-thirds majority of both Houses of the National Assembly into law. He told DAILY INDEPENDENT that “there is nothing to be excited about the president signing the bill into law, because the president was just playing to the gallery. “He wants to be popular among the youths. The action is a ruse. Nigeria’s problem is not the dearth of laws. “What Nigerian youths need to be able to challenge the gerontocrats that have hijacked the electoral space with stolen money is capacity; not a new law”, he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 