The Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja has remained a strategic aerodrome for Nigeria; apart from being the seat of power, it is also the second busiest airport in the country and the fastest growing. 2017 statistics revealed that Abuja Airport had a total number of 3,560,622 passenger movements; 2,826,113 (local) and 734,509 (international) out of the 14,4 million passenger movements in over 30 airports and airstrips across the country in the preceding year. The recent implementation of Executive Order Policy of the Federal Government has brought changes and improvement to the nation’s aviation industry. Hitherto, long queue of tables of different security agencies were noticed at all the international gateways. Each agency’s staff would ransack travellers’ luggage; hand and check in with bare hands, a system, which unfortunately returned the country’s aviation industry to Stone Age. In Lagos, the counters were referred to as “Counter 9’ while it was known as ‘Oputa Panel’ in Abuja Airport among air travellers. But, since the new order, the Abuja gateway has enjoyed great transformation to the admiration of local and international travellers. Abuja airport is fast becoming the pride of most African travellers who are either going out or coming into the country. Since the security agencies at the checking points have been streamlined, both arriving and departing passengers now experience stress free movement while all the scanners, conveyor belts are functioning optimally. The security agencies at the remaining few screening points, are always at alerts to facilitate free and safe movements of passengers both day and night. Besides, in the past one year, Abuja airport has been wearing a new look with all the facilities functioning at optimal level. Entering the departure hall of the airport, one is greeted with a flight information display board, which is conspicuously positioned for all passengers to see from any angle. FAAN has also furnished and renovated the D-wing of the airport to international standard, while all the toilet facilities in other areas are now working efficiently 24 hour per day. However, despite complying with the executive order, FAAN did not compromise safety in all aspects of its operations, not only in Abuja airport, but in all the aerodromes under its control. With the implementation of the executive order, the nation’s airports can be said to be international standard compliant. Mr. Mahmoud Sani, the Regional Manager, North Central and Airport Manager Abuja Airport in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Abuja, commended the Federal Government for the infrastructure developments in the industry. He explained that in order to improve safety and security at the airport, additional 200 Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras would be installed at different strategic areas of the airport, including the car parks. Sani maintained that with this, passengers’ security and safety would be better enhanced while more travellers would be attracted to the airport. He, however, noted that there is room for improvement. “Truly, executive order has streamlined our work, reduced duplication and congestion at the airport. Before now, when you come to Abuja airport, you will meet a long table of agencies. Some even called it Presidential Taskforce, but the workers at the airport used to call it Oputa Panel. “A whole of them will line up to ransack whatever you were carrying manually, but now, that is no longer in place and this is to the delight of passengers. No more waste of time and everybody is conscious that he’s been watched by someone and they have to do the right thing. “As a result of the constant meetings with other security agencies, we have been able to checkmate rivalry in the system. When the Ease of Doing Business policy of the Federal Government came up, we had some resistances, but we were able to at the end of the day, had understanding. Now, everybody knows where it belongs and everyone is complying. We continue to tell our security people to be firm and polite in discharging their duties. The era of infighting among security agencies is gone”, he said. Besides, Abuja airport despite its busy schedule remains the only international airport with a single runway. Plans have reached an advanced stage by the management of FAAN to ensure the airport’s runways is increased to two in order to further improve efficiency while efforts are still geared towards quick completion of the Chinese airport before the end of the year. “The fact remains that in all the international gateways we have in Nigeria, it’s only Abuja Airport that has a single runway, yet, it is the second busiest airport in the country. Kano, Lagos and Port Harcourt airports all have two runways and Abuja is the seat of government and the fastest growing city in the world. “We all can see what we went through when we were working on the existing runway for the Abuja airport. Is that not an enough reason to say Abuja deserves a second runway? It is obvious that we deserve a second runway in Abuja for economic activities, safety of passengers and the status of the in Abuja and in the world. “I know there is an approval from the Presidency for a second runway and I learnt it is also in the 2018 budget or so. But, I don’t know if it has gone through the stages of bidding, but I’m sure that it is in the pipeline. We are praying that the second runway comes soon,” Sani said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 