In today’s world, it is very difficult for people, even Muslims, to cry when reflecting on their sins, but it is easy for them to cry when their favourite teams or clubs lose a match. Unfortunately, we cry for the wrong reasons – a reflection of our state of mind. If you can, make yourself cry before Allah. It is not hypocrisy. It is a way of softening the hardness of your heart, so said Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him). This cry may not necessarily be manifest. It comes from within, between you and your Lord, Allah. Dear brethren, how often do you cry? The opportunity has come, once again, to cry before Allah by seeking for His forgiveness, mercy and emancipation from Hell during I’tikaf (seclusion in the mosque), as the last ten days of Ramadan commenced on the night of Tuesday, June 5, 2018. I’tikaf I’tikaf in Arabic language means to compel oneself to do something or to stay in a place for something. According to Shari’ah, it means to stay in seclusion, in a mosque, in a certain specified manner with the intention to worship Allah. I’tikaf starts when Ramadan clocks 20 and ends immediately the new moon of Shawwal (the tenth month of the Islamic calendar) is sighted. I’tikaf is mentioned in the Glorious Qur’an and is recognised as an established practice of Allah’s Messenger (peace be upon him). Quranic Evidence “…And We commanded Ibrahim (Abraham) and Isma’eel (Ishmael) that they should purify My House (the Ka’bah at Makkah) for those who are circumambulating it, or staying (I’tikaaf), or bowing or prostrating themselves (there, in prayer)”  Q.2:125. In another verse, Allah says, “Do not touch them (i.e. your wives, sexually) while you are observing I’tikaf in the mosque.” Qur’an 2:187 “The mosque” mentioned above has been discussed by many scholars. Some agreed it could be any mosque. Another group said it refers to only three mosques; the Holy Mosque in Mecca – Ka’ bah; the Mosque in Madina – An-Nabawi; and the Mosque in Jerusalem, Al-Aqsa. Most scholars however agreed that the correct explanation of the verse is: any Mosque in which five prayers are held in congregation. Apart from having facilities like rest and bath rooms, it must be a mosque where Solatul Jum’ah (the Friday prayer) is established regularly, because the intention behind seclusion should be strictly for worship and getting closer to Allah. For those who have the means, the wisest idea is to perform Umrah (Lesser Hajj) to any of the three Holiest Mosques with the intention of performing I’tikaf. Prophetic Tradition There are many sayings of the Prophet (peace be upon him) on I’tikaf, such as the narration of Ai’sha (may Allah be pleased with her), who said that the Prophet (peace be upon him) used to observe I’tikaf during the last ten days of Ramadan until Allah took his soul, then his wives observed I’tikaf after he was gone. This goes to show that I’tikaf is enjoined upon both men and women. Allah’s Messenger and his wives all did I’tikaf. Another narration from Ai’sha said the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) did I’tikaf for twenty days in his last year, and three of his wives, Ai’sha, Hafsah and Zaynab, did same. Activities During I’tikaf A person, male and female alike, doing I’tikaf should busy himself/herself with a lot of acts of worship such as reading the Noble Qur’an, remembrance of Allah and voluntary prayers, among others. Acts like backbiting, gossiping and all vain and forbidden utterances should be avoided during I’tikaf. The Mother of the Faithful, Ai’sha (may Allah be pleased with her) said, “The established conduct for a person in I’tikaf is that he doesn’t visit the sick, or attend a funeral prayer, he doesn’t have intercourse with his wife or embrace her in desire, he doesn’t go out of the mosque except in case of an unavoidable necessity…” It is however painful to see some places of I’tikaf becoming halls of discussion, story-telling, arguments, quarrels, unwarranted movement in and out of the mosques, sitting in its surroundings without necessity, entering of places of I’tikaf reserved for women, unnecessary free mixing and exchange of messages with womenfolk. All these are actions that contradict the teachings of Allah’s Messenger. However, there is nothing wrong with receiving visitors in I’tikaf, especially visits by members of one’s family. Several sayings of the Prophet (peace be upon him) supported this. It must nevertheless be emphasised that the main objective of the Seclusion is to witness Lailatul-Qadr (Night of Majesty) in prayer and devotion. Lailatul Qadr Allah has blessed the Muslims with the Night of Majesty; the most virtuous night of the year, in Ramadan. It is a night that is better than a thousand months, and any action therein, for instance, reciting the Qur’an, is better than acting for one thousand months which do not contain the Night of Qadr. Scholars hold different opinions as to the particular night which is the Night of Qadr, but the popular opinion, relying on the Sayings of the Prophet, says that it falls within the odd nights: 21st, 23rd, 25th, 27th and 29th nights of Ramadan. The most popular opinion, which is based on the tradition of Prophet Muhammad, is the 27th night of Ramadan. Zakat-al-Fitr, In Brief Zakat-al-Fitr is charity given to the poor at the end of the fasting in the Islamic holy month of Ramadan. The word “Fitr” means the same as “Iftar”; “breaking the fast”, and it comes from the same root word as “Futoor”, which means “breakfast”. It is intended to purify Muslims from sins committed during the fasting period and hasten the acceptance of the fasts. Importance According to the Noble Qur’an, “He who purified himself shall prosper…remembering his Lord’s name and praying.” – Q.87:14-15. Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) also supported this by saying, on the authority of Umar, that he (Muhammad) made obligatory the payment of Zakat-al-Fitr, Sa’a of dates (4 Mud) of barley or grapes on the slave, freeborn, male, female, young and old among the Muslims. Zakat al-Fitr plays a very important role in the development of the bonds of community. The rich are obliged to come in direct contact with the poor, and the poor are put in contact with the extremely poor. This contact between the various levels of society helps to build real bonds of brotherhood and love within the Islamic community and trains those who have to be generous to those who do not have. Benefit Of Paying Zakat al-Fitr was legislated by the Prophet (Peace be upon him) in the month of Sha’ban of the second year of the Hijrah. It is meant to play two roles: 1. Purification of the fasting Muslim from whatever unbecoming character such as vain talk and unnecessary wrongdoings he/she might have committed during the fasting month. 2. Feeding of the poor and needy so that they may not beg (at least on Eid day). Zakat al-Fitr is a duty which is wajib (required) of every Muslim, whether male or female, minor or adult as long as he/she has the means to do so. ….To be continued next week, in Shaa Allah. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 