The United Kingdom’s (UK) proposed “backstop” plan for trade with the European Union (EU) after Brexit has been published after an “expected” end date – of 2021 – was included in it. It followed crunch meetings between Prime Minister, Theresa May and Brexit Secretary, David Davis, who insisted a cut-off date be included. The proposal would see the UK match EU trade tariffs temporarily in order to avoid a hard Irish border post-Brexit. Brexiteers want to ensure the backstop could not continue indefinitely. Responding on Twitter, EU chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, set out the criteria on which he would judge the UK’s proposal, including the need for a “workable solution” to avoid a hard border in Northern Ireland. The UK’s proposed “backstop” plan for trade with the EU after Brexit has been published after an “expected” end date – of 2021 – was included in it. It followed crunch meetings between Prime Minister, Theresa May and Brexit Secretary, David Davis, who insisted a cut-off date be included. The proposal would see the UK match EU trade tariffs temporarily in order to avoid a hard Irish border post-Brexit. Brexiteers want to ensure the backstop could not continue indefinitely. Responding on Twitter, EU chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, set out the criteria on which he would judge the UK’s proposal, including the need for a “workable solution” to avoid a hard border in Northern Ireland. The UK is due to leave the EU in March 2019, and the government is trying to make progress before a crucial meeting of EU leaders later this month. BBC said Davis had “pushed back very hard” against the proposals on Wednesday and had two meetings with the prime minister on Thursday before a deal was agreed. After the publication, Davis’ chief of staff said there had been a “helpful dialogue” and that the document had now been “clarified and amended”. According to the document – which has yet to be agreed with the EU – the “temporary customs arrangement”, if it is needed, would be “time-limited”. A long-term “future customs arrangement” will be in place “by the end of December 2021 at the latest”, it says. May also held meetings earlier with Johnson and International Trade Secretary, Liam Fox. Her official spokesman described the meetings as “constructive” and – with speculation Mr Davis might quit over the issue – was asked if anyone had threatened to resign. He replied: “No.” Ministers are signed up to a plan that says the whole UK would stay closely tied to the EU until the end of 2021, if none of the other customs options can be made to work. This means  Davis has stayed in his job, and the government is intact for now. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 