Former Bursar of Lagos State University, Mrs. Olapeju Aina Awoliyi (nee Martins), has just emerged as the second chairman, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Ojo, Badagry, Agbara and District Society. Born in Lagos Island in 1954, married to Chief Oladisun Awoliyi and blessed with three children, the grandmother, Olapeju has created a niche for herself, both in private and public institutions with passion for growth, expansion, probity and accountability. She can simply be described as a rare leader with great vision for excellence from birth. In this interview with YEMI ADEBISI, she speaks about some of her sterling achievements in the industry, her dream for ICAN, emergence of female vice president in Nigeria, advise to leaders among others. Can you share with us some of the places you have worked before joining LASU? I started my career as a trainee with KPMG. I worked with several banking institutions such as Continental Merchant Bank, Devcom Bank and Equatorial Trust Bank. I resigned as the deputy general manger from Cooperative Development Bank before I joined LASU as the bursar on January 3, 2006. Why did you leave banking industry for LASU? Was it for better greener pasture? Actually I had my MBA in LASU. I would rather say I was lured into working in the institution because of so many things I observed were not done properly. The tables, chairs and infrastructural facilities were tattered. The place looked horrible. So many buildings were abandoned. Lecturers and other senior staff had no cars. So when I was offered scholarship to study abroad for my accountancy and I was signing my form, I was told that I must serve Lagos State for eight years. When I came back from England, I went back to ministry of education. I was told to go back and bring the letter that reflected the government gave me scholarship. I was shocked that there was no record. But the way I was brought up, I saw it as a cheating if I didn’t go back to fulfill my promises to serve Lagos State. So I joined the service of LASU. But I asked myself ‘what can I turn around to make the difference?’ As at the time I joined LASU, we were having external campuses and they were paying in cash. The first thing I did was that all money must be paid into the bank. I introduced electronic system. I started with bursary number. And we created account for both external and internal students. The money that was going to individual accounts before started coming into the university purse and the university had a lot of money. I also initiated the idea of buying cars for the staff. I then had problem. People started saying, ‘why are they buying cars for people if they are not benefitting?’ KIA motors was giving us one car for every four that were purchased. People ganged up against me and raised petition to ICPC and EFCC to probe me. I was shuttling between the two anti-graft agents. ICPC really investigated the matter. The man leading the panel said I was the architect of my problem. I said why? He said since I was coming from private sector to work in public sector, I supposed to have understood what to do but I told him what about my conscience? But God saw me through. Then, as at then, the students’ hostel was being used as vice chancellor’s office and the dining room as the library. I wrote to the Lagos State government and they approved a lump sum to put things in place. Most of the buildings you see today were built during my tenure. For instance, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the then Lagos State governor has a listening ear. He gave us N4billion to build the edifice where the vice chancellor is using now. Then the faculty of law library was uncompleted but we completed it including the school library. For Over 10 years, the main auditorium building was abandoned. We were asking everybody why it was abandoned; nobody was ready to give us any useful information. We had to approach the state government and Governor Bola Tinubu gave us N365million for the completion of the auditorium. My greatest regret today is that we promised that on completion of that project, we will name it as Bola Tinubu auditorium but till date, it has not been effected. But I hope one day, it will be done. Faculty of management sciences was also part of the project among others. I was also the chairman of beautification committee of the university. We planted beautiful trees and flowers that are still there till date under the chairmanship of Chief Akin Kekere Ekun. How did you manage all these crises, coming from banking industry? You know I said I started as a trainee in KPMG before I went for my professional examination but when I came back, I joined as a qualified trainee and left there as deputy manager. I was in charge of the final account and also head personnel. That helped me to build fantastic portfolio. I was the Chief Inspector in Devcom Bank and I also the head of audit department while in Equatorial Trust Bank. If you don’t know anything, you cannot check what others are doing. I spent eight and half years in LASU and it was indeed a great memory. I can say that my training in KPMG gave me the foundation that was really useful in other endeavours. Saturday June 23 is your investiture as the second chairman of ICAN in Ojo, Badagry, Agbara and District Society. How did you get into all these? Apart from when I was a member of Society of Women Accountant of Nigeria (SWAN), I never had so much to do with ICAN other than paying my dues, attending lectures and all that. If you look at my district, it looks like we are in a disadvantaged area. It is a district that the children coming behind us need to be encouraged to grow. Some of us that came up together started with this vision. We have what it takes to feed the younger ones by giving them the type of education that will bring them up. What we are doing is to sell our profession to bring up the younger ones. We want to let people there know that there is a profession called accountancy. Being fairly new, we are creating awareness within and outside the district. We go to schools for ‘catch them young’ programme, hold lectures, give words of encouragement and career talk. Over 400 students attended such programme recently. We are also planning to have lectures every third Saturday of the month to ensure our members are vast in the profession and in the laws of Lagos State. What are your plans as the newly elected chairman? Firstly, it’s to create awareness within and outside the district for its existence. We are visiting the obas and chairman of the council to let them know about our programmes. We want them to know that a baby born in 2013 is growing. We want to be close to students from JSS 2 to SS2 so that they will not make wrong choices. We will mentor the students to achieve their goals. It was the inclination I had from primary school to become an accountant that helped me today. This is because from my youth, I love working with money. I love arithmetic. They used to call me accountant since when I was in primary school. Our population in the district is about 100. I want to see how I can grow the population. By the time I am living after my tenure, I want to sit down and say that I met it as 50 or 70 but I am leaving a population of 250. At the moment we are meeting at AOCOED because that is the place the outgoing chairman works. My question is ‘will the provost of AOCOED still allow us to hold the meeting when she is no more there as chairman?’ That is why we want to approach obas for landed property. All things being equal, I plan to build ICAN house before I take my leave as chairman. It is my dream. Even if I don’t finish it like what I did in LASU, there will be something to be looking after to complete. I want to be remembered for excellence. Do you have flair for partisan politics? With my background, I learnt that politicians are not straight forward. They can change like the British weather. If you are a straight forward person, you cannot be a politician. But come to think of it, if we all say that, how can we change things over? When I was in LASU, they said I should learn how to put money in my pocket but that was not my goal. I was put on indefinite leave at a time in LASU. That was not during the EFCC time I spoke about before. They looked through all records but couldn’t find any foul play at the end. Once you are straight forward, you will be vindicated. See how they probe today’s politicians. N20 billion here and there. Former Prime Minister of Britain said with the amount of money Nigerian politicians are stealing, if they do same in Britain, Britain will be no more. Nobody cares for the poor. But who made them to be poor? Is it not because of the greediness of these politicians? The last convocation of LASU was a memorial. The best graduating student said he does not have a father. See how Governor Ambode gave him scholarship up to Ph.D level and also gave him the sum of N5million. Forever, his generation can never be poor again. This is good governance. That is why I pity some politicians. They said they want to empower people and go ahead to buy them wheel barrow. To do what? Recently, some women visited President Mohammadu Buhari and demanded that the office of the vice president should be willed to the women folk in the next political dispensation. What is your view about this? Lagos State has always been the pioneer of good things. Apart from Pedro who was a male deputy Lagos governor at one time, others have been women. I don’t see anything bad in seeing women emerging as the vice president of Nigeria, but not at this time. They have asked for the right thing at the wrong time. If Buhari chooses another person as the vice president, it will cause disability in the country. Osinbajo is like God-sent to cushion the administration. Where Buhari seems to be sleeping, Osinbajo is there to wake him. I don’t see a woman that can come up and do that for now. Nigeria is not ripe yet for female vice president. Your advice for Nigeria leaders? Who are the leaders? They are in categories, local, state, traditional and federal. It appears the traditional leaders are now under the political leaders. Traditional leaders that are supposed to be up there are now leaking the booth of politicians. They should not lose their divine glory. What God has designed should not be swept under the carpet. Traditional rulers should wake up to the gift God has given them. Political leaders are nothing to be written about. They are selfish. Once they are elected, they don’t want anyone to come near them.  They are just there for their pocket and family alone. They don’t have the feelings of the mercies. They only want to use them and dump them. The state government, I am sorry to say, they are very biased. They will say, ‘these people did not vote for me, I will neglect them. These people are not from my place, I will not attend to them.’ It shouldn’t be like that. We are just one before God whether you are a Christian, Muslim or traditionalist. They should bring us together under one umbrella. This will bring an end to national chaos. How would you want to react to incessant killings by Fulani herdsmen? I see it as if there is an international war and our own government is looking on the other side. I begin to wonder why the government is watching. I hear someone saying these terrorists are from another country. Are we siding evil from another country? You can see what I am trying to say that we should close the door to the biasness of religion and the rest. If you love your neighbour as yourself, there will be peace. Our leaders should love us the same way. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 