The National Assembly (NASS), which of late has been mooting the idea of impeaching President Muhammadu Buhari, has tabled a list of demands before him, asking the Presidency to implement them, lest they invoke “the constitutional powers of the Parliament.” The demands were listed as part of the outcome of an emergency executive joint session of both chambers of the National Assembly last Tuesday. The meeting passed a vote of confidence on Senator Bukola Saraki, the Senate President, now subject of police investigation over the April 5, 2018 robbery in Offa, Kwara State. The National Assembly members also passed a vote of no confidence on Abubakar Idris, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), who they want the president to remove because of what they considered his “outright disregard for constitutional authority of both the executive and the legislature.” The lawmakers who met for over three hours in a closed-door session, did not spell out what is ‘constitutional powers of the Parliament’. However, legal pundits said the only power they have is to set in motion an impeachment proceedings against President Buhari. The Lawmakers’ Demands Among the list of demands, the legislators want the Buhari administration to address the current security situation in the country. They frowned at the constant harassment of legislators and other political actors, especially those who seem to hold a contrary view from the executive or those who are critical of the executive arm. The legislature called on the executive to show sincerity in the fight against corruption, adhere to the rule of law and refrain from the “intimidation of Nigerians”. They threatened that they might be forced to invoke their constitutional powers if the conditions were not met. Here is the detail of the lawmakers’ conditions. *The Security Agencies must be given marching orders to contain all the sustained killings of Nigerians and protect the lives and properties of Nigerians – as this is the primary duty for any responsible government. *The systemic harassment by the executive of perceived political opponents – people with contrary opinions in the legislature and the judiciary – by the police and other security agencies must stop. *There must be strict adherence to the rule of law and protection for all citizens by the President and all his appointees. *The President must be held accountable for the actions of his appointees and must be ready to sanction, those that carry out any act, that will ridicule or endanger the country and our democracy. *The government should show sincerity in the fight against corruption by not being selective and also prosecute current appointees that have cases pending against them. *The sanctity of the National Assembly should be protected and preserved by the Federal Government… and prosecute those who invaded the Senate to seize the mace. *Democratic elections must be competitive and inclusive by removing the current reign of fear and intimidation – particularly as we approach the forthcoming 2019 elections. *The National Assembly will liaise with the international community through the IPU, the APU, ECOWAS Parliament, Pan-African Parliament, EU, US Congress and the United Nations to secure our democracy. The National Assembly will also engage with civil society organisations, trade unions and NGOs to further deepen and protect our democracy. *The President must take immediate steps to curtail the growing level of poverty and unemployment in Nigeria,  especially now that we have an advantage of high oil prices. *Both chambers of the National Assembly hereby pass a vote of confidence on the Senate President, the Speaker and the entire leadership of the National Assembly. *We also hereby reaffirm our earlier resolution on the vote of no confidence on the Inspector General of Police, who does nothing but preside over innocent Nigerians with an outright disregard for constitutional authority of both the executive and the legislature. After the joint closed-door session, the National Assembly charged Buhari to take responsibility for actions of his appointees, desist from being selective in his anti-corruption war among other resolutions. Senator Bukola Saraki, Chairman of the National Assembly, who read the resolutions, added that the legislature would exercise its constitutional power if Mr. Buhari fails to act. Pro- Presidency Lawmakers React Immediately after the closed-door joint session of the Parliamentary Support Group, a group of senators and members of the House of Representatives loyal to President Buhari, distanced itself from resolution of the National Assembly. The resolutions, however, did not go down well with members of the support group. In a statement last Tuesday evening, the group said most people who spoke at the session were members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It claimed members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) tactically avoided airing their views. However, both chambers of the National Assembly are led by APC lawmakers (Mr. Saraki and Speaker Yakubu Dogara). Another APC lawmaker, Muhammed Kazaure, had also opposed the resolution threatening Mr. Buhari. The PSG statement was signed by Abdulmumin Jibrin, a known member of the group. Other members of the group include senators Abdullahi Adamu and Ovie Omo-Agege. It is not clear if Mr. Jibrin got the permission of all members of the group to release the statement. The group alleged that the questions, submissions and resolutions of the joint session were pre-determined by anti-Buhari lawmakers. Should President Buhari yield to the demands of the National Assembly to avoid being impeached? Buhari’s Should Comply With NASS Demands – NCP Chief Nzeh Ebetu Nnakwe Osuji, a veteran journalist and former House of Assembly aspirant and now member National Conscience party (NCP). Reacting to the lawmakers’ demands, he said: “In the first place, what are these demands of the National Assembly on the president? “We need to be informed properly what these demands are and whether they have any constitutional backing for us to ascertain their necessity or otherwise. “The legislative and the executive arms of government are expected to operate in accordance with what the 1999 constitution as amended says. This is not the time for us to begin to talk about impeachment. “Rather, we should be guided by the spirit of patriotism understanding and give and take. Impeaching the president will over heat the polity and might derail our democratic system. “To this end, I am of the opinion that the President should meet the demands of the National Assembly as long as such demands, if granted, will not bring the nation on its knees, but will rather strengthen us as nation. “From what I have read from the newspapers, the demand of the National Assembly is in the best interest of the nation. The president should not have any option, but to comply. “The National Assembly is an assemblage of distinguished Nigerians who know their onions. What is wrong for the President to meet what they are asking him to do for us to move forward?” Buhari Can’t Be Impeached For Not Meeting NASS Demands – LP Chieftain Adidanwa Jeremiah Ekeukwu is a community leader in Owerri North area of Imo State and a local government chairmanship aspirant under Labour Party (LP). He said: “Although the National Assembly has the constitution powers to remove the President from office through impeachment, the question is this: Can they muster the courage to do this? “The President was elected by eligible Nigerians and not by National Assembly. Whatever demands the National Assembly makes on the President, if the President sees these as baseless and frivolous, he should alert the nation and ignore the NASS and heavens will not fall. “NASS cannot impeach him for not meeting any demand that Nigerians consider selfish and self serving. “Experience has shown that any face off between the legislature and the executive has always been resolved through settlement.” All Is Not Well With Buhari’s Govt – Businessman Francis Ibrahim, a Minna-based entrepreneur, said: “I think the question should be: Are there indeed checks and balances in the entire system? “Is the executive doing his job the way it should be in a democratic setting? What is the legislature doing? Is the Judiciary standing on its own to ensure that no arm of government abuses its office using any instrument of government to its advantage? Are the media living up to expectations? A cross section of the media have abandoned their duties of informing, educating and serving as a bridge between government and the governed to ensure that the masses are adequately informed of government policies and programme. They resort to fight over the crumbs from government coffers, thereby abandoning their job of serving as watch dog of the society for personal gains. “In an ideal democratic setting, there should be checks and balances. But, virtually all the arms of government have abandoned their duties and everybody is directly or indirectly infringing on the rights or responsibilities of others. That is why you see a kind of commotion in the entire system. “The National Assembly is trying to draw Buhari’s attention to the pathetic security situation. What he should do is to yield to the demands of the National Assembly to avoid being impeached. He should end the killings of Nigerians by suspected Fulani herdsmen. “He should stop harassing or prosecuting perceived opponents, curtail growing unemployment and to strictly adhere to the rule of law by focusing on executive duties. Weather what PMB is doing is his own way of checkmating the National Assembly or not is entirely a different issue anyway. “But, one thing I know is that all is not well with the present government. Buhari’s attention seems more on fighting members of the National Assembly and perceived enemies using security structure instead of deploying same to securing the lives and properties of Nigerians. “Again, it is possible the Presidency wants to gag the National Assembly. Or, should I say it is all part of the intra-APC crisis that has kept us where we are now as a country. But, I believe members of the National Assembly knows more than I do to have taken the bold step of drawing the attention of the President, or if I should use the word, giving him warning signal through the joint sessions’ 13-points resolutions. “I would want the President to do self appraisal to know where he is not meeting up to expectations and retrace his steps for the remaining months of his administration. The constitution is there for every arm of government to know their schedules and limitations to avoid duplication of duties.” Ignoring Rule Of Law Is Rape On Our Democracy – Lawmaker Dr. Usoro Akpanusoh, lawmaker representing Esit Eket/Ibeno state constituency in Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, has challenged governors and state Houses of Assembly to rise against what he considers as rape to the nation’s democracy. He said the conditions extended to President Buhari as well as the impeachment threat is part of the oversight function of the legislature as custodian of law and order. He said the continued retention of an IGP who had continually ignored the rule of law and the invitation of the National Assembly, which cleared him into office, and even the refusal of the President’s order to relocate to Benue State, give clear indication that the IGP is leading the country into a state a anarchy and should therefore not be allowed to continue in office. He decried what he considers a consistent blackmail of the Senate President and members of the National Assembly each time the legislature takes step to perform its constitutional duties, describing such as worrisome. He however encouraged the legislature, as the first indices of any democratic dispensation, not to shy away from performing its functions. Buhari Should Convince Nigerians That He Wants To Continue – Activist Comrade Austin Osakue, a Benin-based human rights activist and Executive Director, Foundation for Good Governance and Social Change, said: “There are three traditional arms of government, the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary. “The legislature is to make laws and carry out oversight functions, the executive is to implement, while the judiciary will interpret and apportion blame. We expect every arm of government to carry out its responsibility to the letter in accordance with the provisions of the Nigerian Constitution and for the interest of the Nigerian people. “If President Buhari knows that he is carrying out his activities in accordance with the law, it does not matter whatever the National Assembly says, whatever blackmail, Buhari will remain unscathed. “However, if record show that Buhari has taken actions which have breached the law and the constitution, then the National Assembly must invoke the powers at its disposal, even up to the level of impeachment. “However, the National Assembly must come to equity with clean hands. Nigerians voted them to go and make laws for the order and good governance of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Nigerians in deciding whether to support the legislature or to support the executive will look at their score cards and find out which one has gone there to act in the interest of the people and which one has carried out impeachable offences, which one has gone out on a frolic of his own only to appropriate Nigerians resources to themselves and not in the interest of Nigeria. “So, in the build-up to resolving the conflicts between the Presidency and the National Assembly, I believe that the people must watch and see how far the National Assembly is able to carry out its functions in accordance with the law. “That is what will require Nigerians support or condemnation. If the Federal Government under Buhari knows that it has not lived up to expectations, it still has a long time before the 2019 elections to convince the people of Nigeria that he needs to stay in office for the remaining part of the tenure and seek the people’s mandate for another four years. “Buhari has carried on as if the Executive is the only arm of government. The attempt to harass political opponents, the attempt to undermine the National Assembly, the attempt to disobey court orders are all efforts that will not be rewarded by the Nigerian people and if the National Assembly says that it is truly on the side of the people, it must act in defence of the Nigerian Constitution and the interest of the Nigerian people.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 