Lagos – Few days ago, precisely Tuesday May 29, 2018 Nigerians celebrated a day set aside as “Democracy Day” in memory of the return to civilian in the last 19 years (1999) – when the military finally retreated to the barracks. In actuality, Nigerians expected that among things to mark the “Democracy Day” should be developments within the tenure of the incumbent administration particularly as promised during the campaigns. In this regard, the administration of President Mohammadu Buhari in 2015 before and on assumption of office, no doubt dwelled much on security, corruption and agriculture as the prime issues on which every other activities can thrive. Sport which has been the vehicle for the peace and unity of a people unfortunately has been a very silent institution in the administration so far even on the mantra of “change.” The conundrum of sport under this administration started with weather the appointment of Dalung was the best that can steer Nigeria’s sport to the promise land; he was said not to be a career sportsman as the ministry is perceived could perform better with a technocrat in charge. Thus, x-raying sports under Buhari in the last three years fairly it is more of ups and downs, just as it could be judged with mixed opinions that he performed well in some aspects and poorly in area as administration of sport. Taking the performance in a chronological order according to James Afolabi one can say the president assumed power at a time – “for is ready”  – the Golden Eagles were on the verge of going to the 2015 FIFA World Cup in Chile. The lads interestingly defended Cup won in 2013 with Emmanuel Amuneke in charge, winning it in 2015. It is of interest again to see that President Buhari on January 21, 2016 rewarded the players and officials alongside the maiden Eaglets squad that won the FIFA U-16 Kodak World Cup in China in 1985. It was a partial fulfillment of promise kept in the CHANGE mantra; the President indeed promised reward the players in 1985, but could not fulfill the promise before his government was toppled by General Ibrahim Banbadida. Each player got N2million and their coaches N1.5million each. Waoo!!, the president also rewarded the 2015 World Wrestling Championship medalists; members of D’Tigers who won the 2015 AfroBasket; IPC Asian Powerlifting medalist who won the World Scrabble Champion, Wellington Jighere; WBC cruiserweight silver medalist, OlanrewajuDurodola, with N1.5million. In a theatrical manner, the President Buha emphasised at the ceremony that this is “in line with our belief that the labour of our heroes past shall never be in vain”. He got the applause of the sporting world for rewarding the players and believed that it was going to be a harbinger of many good tidings, but what followed when he started implementing the budget in 2016 proved that this reward system was merely a smokescreen. At the 2016 Olympic Games in Brazil, Team Nigeria could only win a bronze medal in football and this was due to the non-release of funds early enough for the various sports federations to prepare athletes for competitions, even as the yearly budget for sports has remained low. This development is largely responsible for athletes’ inability to attend international championships. There are instances like the last Commonwealth Games in Australia in which the Ministry of Youth and Sports had to wait for the federal government to release N2.1 billion through the Presidential Intervention Fund, because there was no budgetary allocation for the games. Aside funds, longtime planning by those saddled with the responsibility of managing our sports is one of the major problems affecting the performance the athletes at international competitions. It is on record at the moment that of the forthcoming World Cup in Russia – with less than two weeks to the championship, the team is still waiting for funds from government to enable them attend the tournament. Only recently, the Sports Minister, Solomon Dalung, reminded the president that the fund for the Super Eagles to attend the 2018 FIFA world cup in Russia was not available. In a sheer feat of professionalism, the athletes in spite of these shoddy arrangements and treatment meted out to them as well as the various national teams still manage to put smiles on the faces of Nigerians anytime they are out to represent the country. Another achievement recorded at Rio 2016 was the exploits of a table tennis star, ArunaQuadri, who became the first African to play in the quarter-finals of the men’s singles at the Olympics. Nigeria has always excelled in the special sport and that feat was displayed as they finished as Africa’s best at the 2016 Rio Paralympics. Team Nigeria had the best record since their debut at Barcelona 1992, with eight gold, two silver and two bronze medals to finish 17th in the world among the over 120 countries that attended the games. The eight Nigerian gold medalists at Rio 2016 Paralympics also set world records—Ezuruike Roland, men’s powerlifting -54kg; Kehinde Paul, men’s powerlifting-65kg; Ejike Lucy, women’s powerlifting-61kg; OnyeLauritta, women’s shot put F40; Nwosu Ndidi, women’s powerlifting-73kg; Omolayo Bose, women’s powerlifting-79kg and Orji Josephine, women’s powerlifting +86 kg. In November, 2016, Odunayo Adekuoroye became the world champion at the 2016 United World Wrestling, UWW,Golden Grand Prix. The 55kg freestyle wrestler now with Punjab Royals of India, in January this year, also retained the Indian Pro Wrestling League Season Two after winning the maiden edition in 2015 with Mumbai Garuda. Also to cap 2016, in December, the Super Falcons lifted the African Women’s Cup of Nations, AWCON, after beating the hosts, Lionesses of Cameroon 1-0 in the final for the record eighth time. The Nigerian wrestling team in April this year also won the 2017 Senior African Wrestling Championship in Morocco with six gold medals through Adekuoroye, Mercy Genesis, AminatAdeniyi, Blessing Oborududu, KemeasuodeiDressman and Gofit Winnie and two silver medals won by Bose Samuel and BisolaMakanjuola. In 2018, the Super Eagles became the first team in Africa to qualify for the World Cup in Russia without dropping a match thus denying the African champion, Cameroon, the opportunity to appear at the championship for the first time in 28 years. Team Nigeria despite the shoddy preparation came back from the Commonwealth Games with 24 medals, nine gold,nine silver and six bronze medals with special athlete contributing three gold and two silver medals. In spite of the few successes recorded, the country suffered more due to the appointment of incompetent administrators that lack passion for sports. The abandonment of the reward system by President Buhari made some athletes to stage a demonstration to press for the demand of their entitlements. Nigerians will also not forget in a hurry how Nigeria failed to qualify for the last editions of Africa Cup of Nations, AFCON 2017, AFCON U-20 and AFCON U-17 and their female counterparts. The inability of the National Assembly to pass the National Sports Commission and the Nigeria Football Federation Bill are also issues that have made the development of sports difficult at the grassroots. Under the watchful eyes of the recent administration, the Nigeria Handball Federation was banned by the Confederation of African Handball, CAHB, in June, 2016 from participating in this year’s world tournament because of funds. Adegboyega Onigbinde, an accomplished sport personality and former Super Eagles boss affirmed that going forward Nigeria must look inward – grassroots development. He opined, “Sport is a big investment that can help in the development of the population in all ramifications; unfortunately, our leaders are not taking advantage of it going.” Christian Chukwu, also former Super Eagles against this backdrop admonished that it was high time a sport festival for the children be introduced in Nigeria as part of the “Children’s Day Celebration.” He noted, “As a sports man, I have always believed that sport is a vehicle to achieve a lot of things in the society – like unity, peaceful coexistence among a people. It is for this reason that I support the idea that there should be a sport festival for the children on a day as the “Children’s Day” celebration. “Government at this point will have to look beyond just football. There are other sports; the children have talents in a lot of sports. Such development will help to give the children some sence of belonging on a day that is especially meant for them,” he explained. On this note, it is believed that the Buhari administration still have some time to right the wrongs in the Nigeria’s sport industry as it will definitely enable the full potentials of the teeming youth from being lazy. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 