The 1993 Presidential  election came to the fore in the past week as President Muhammadu Buhari announced the recognition of June 12th as Nigeria’s democracy day and the honouring of the presumed winner, late MKO Abiola with the highest office in the land, the GCFR. So the announcement has been trending and the stories of what happened in 1993 are being recounted by people who should know, historians, lawyers, journalists, writers, diplomats etc. Stories of that election have refused to die with the death of MKO Abiola. It is now a cliché to refer to the 1993 election as a watershed in the Nation’s history. It was an election that defied stereotypes at all levels. It was organised by the military and annulled by the military. It had a Muslim South Western Nigerian and a North Eastern Nigerian Muslim on a ticket. The presumed winner, Abiola was not a very active politician prior to his winning the nomination of his political party, the SDP. He had been a renowned businessman and a huge philanthropist. He was almost synonymous with launchings and donations to social and religious causes. Abiola, the presumed winner of the election, was a household name in Nigeria at the time. His story of rags to riches was everywhere. His humble background and how he went from selling firewood to marrying his first wife, late Alhaja Simbiat, who was from a royal family and inside whose house he first tasted fried egg, was a story known by every adult at the time. He went on to study accounting at a university in Glasgow, Scotland. Then he started his business empire and made money. But his millions were not what made him popular. His good heart made him. An Abiola had a huge heart that accommodated royals and peasants, captains of industry, presidents and religious leaders. His intelligence was evident in his actions as both a businessman and a world citizen. He had many quotable quotes, an evidence of his grounding as a child who grew up in the village, under parents that dotted on him as a survivor after many kids of theirs did not survive childhood. In fact, his name, Kashimawo literarily means ‘let’s see if this one survives’. He lived to reassure his parents and family of his mission on earth. He lived and still lives. Even in death, he has defied mortality. But the political class in Nigeria has failed to learn a lesson or two from the late MKO Abiola, who defied all odds to win election across Nigeria without violence and other electoral malpractices that Senator Ibrahim Mantu confessed to in a TV interview. Abiola even defeated his opponent, Bashir Tofa in his Kano state. The election has been adjudged the freest and fairest election in Nigeria’s electoral history. The system that was adopted by the then National Electoral Commission (NEC) headed by the brilliant political science Professor, Humphrey Nwosu, was the Option A4 system, which he made popular by using the socially relevant mantra, “No magomago, no wuruwuru”. And the election lived up to this social mantra. An Abiola won votes in the South East even when an Igbo son, Sylvester Ugo was running as Vice Presidential candidate to the NRC candidate, Alhaji Bashir Tofa. Abiola was loved not as a politician, he was already loved as a human being because he had a huge humanity in him and prior to his participation in politics. He had wowed Nigerians with his generosity of spirit. He was very approachable, kind and compassionate. There were stories of his going to the ends of the country to visit, even drivers, artisans, churches, mosques and traditional rulers either for weddings, naming ceremonies or funerals. There was no tribe that did not confer him with a chieftaincy title. His image loomed so large people loved him without borders. So an Abiola was loved across the country for his person, a humanist, a detribalised Nigerian with a heart of gold. So his electoral appeal was effortless. So there was no need for any form of rigging. No one in the country talked about his tribe or religion, they wanted an Abiola believing that being a good man, he would be a good president as well; but unfortunately, he died in detention trying to claim his mandate. So many years after, Nigerian politicians are afraid to adopt the option A4 system that delivered the freest and fairest election because it is possible they all lack the aura and credibility that an MKO Abiola had wielded in 1993. It is very sad that we all talk lovingly about his person and about the system of the election that made the election freest and fairest, but shy away from adopting same. No one should come with the puerile excuse of digital hogwash because we all know that, technologically, we, as a country, are not ready yet. So why not use a system that worked transparently? An Abiola defied mortality not because he is presumed to have won an election. He continues to live on his merit as a very good and loved man across the country irrespective of religion, class or tribe. So with an Abiola legacy, it is pretty obvious that politicians since 1999 have shied away from the Option A4 system, because they lack all the values an Abiola brought to the election. Now we can understand why and how politicians use religion, region and tribe to divide the electorate. We can relate them to those who want to use the people as canon fodders for their insecurities. When next can we have an Abiola politician in Nigeria? He stands today as proof that ordinary Nigerians are interested in candidates and not any divisive features extraneous to individuals. To defy mortality takes more than a political office. Humanity, kindness and compassion in a candidate endears like nothing else. Abiola was no saint but he was a good man. May he find peace while his immortality remains a lesson in goodness. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 