ABUJA – As reactions continue to trail President Muhammadu Buhari’s disclosure that the legislature unilaterally increased the 2018 appropriation without recourse to the executive, thereby making the budget unimplementable, the National Assembly has hit back at the executive arm saying that the presidency misled Nigerians. Briefing journalists on Friday in an attempt to set the records straight, the National Assembly Joint Committee on Media and Public Affairs stated that not only did the legislature increased allocations to critical infrastructure as against the President’s claims, it also corrected grievous regional imbalance contained in the proposals submitted by the executive. This was even as they disclosed that jerking up the appropriation was done in full consultation with the executive, adding that all three arms of government benefited from the increase, and not just the National Assembly. Recall that the president before signing the budget on Tuesday alleged that “the National Assembly made cuts amounting to N347 billion in the allocations to 4,700 projects submitted to them for consideration and introduced 6,403 projects of their own amounting to N578 billion.” But responding to the allegations, the joint committee chairmen on Media and Public Affairs, Senator Abudullahi Aliyu Sabi and Hon. Abdulrazak Namdas, said nothing could be farther from the truth. “It is our firm belief that if the president had been properly briefed by his appointees, he would not have raised most of the concerns that he did in his remarks at the budget signing. It is therefore inevitable for the legislature to give members of the public an insight into what transpired during the appropriations process and how we arrived at the decisions that are contained in the 2018 budget. “It is necessary to remind Nigerians that although the budget was submitted in November, as at March 15th 2018 (five months and eight days after the budget submission), Mr. President was still directing the Secretary to the Government of the Federation to compel the Heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government to appear before the committees of the National Assembly to defend their respective budget. In addition, up till April (six months after the budget submission), the executive was still bringing new additions to the 2018 budget which the National Assembly in good faith and in the spirit of collaboration and harmonious working relationship accepted. “It was stated that the legislature made cuts amounting to N347 billion which were meant for 4,700 projects.  Again, these reductions of N347 billion were made from low priority areas to higher priority areas to support the generation of employment for our youth by MSMEs. We took the decision to reduce the funds in some areas in order to ensure balance and equity in the spread and utilisation of our national funds. Additionally, the figures given as amounts of the reductions made by the National Assembly were unduly exaggerated as we did not make any substantial reduction on any project to the extent of affecting its implementation. “To give the exact detail of the projects where we made deductions, it should be noted that the counterpart funding for the Mambilla Power Plant, Second Niger Bridge/Ancillary roads, the East-West Road, Bonny-Bodo Road, Lagos-Ibadan Express Road and Itakpe-Ajaokuta Rail Project, was reduced by only N3,956,400,290 – which represents only 1.78 % of the total N222,569,335,924 submitted by President Buhari. This left these projects with N218,612,935,634 which cannot negatively affect their implementation. This obviously contradicts the claim that these projects lost “an aggregate of N11.5 billion”, the lawmakers said. On the construction of Bodo-Bonny road with a bridge across the Opobo channel in Rivers State, the National Assembly said the allocation was reduced from N10 billion to N8.7 billion (a reduction of N1.3 billion). “The funding for the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway was reduced from N20 billion to N18 billion (a reduction of N2 billion), which would not significantly affect the construction of the road in one appropriation cycle; The Railway Projects (Counterpart Funds): 1. Lagos-Kano (ongoing) 2. Calabar-Lagos (Ongoing) 3. Ajaokuta-Itakpe-Aladja (Warri) (Ongoing) 4. Port Harcourt- Maiduguri (New) 5. Kano-Katsina-Jibiya-Maradi in Niger Republic (New) 6. Abuja-Itakpe and Aladja (Warri)-Warri Port and Refinery including Warri new Harbour (New) 7. Bonny Deep Sea Port & Port Harcourt of N162,284,335,924 was retained by the National Assembly as presented by Mr. President; and “The National Assembly increased the aggregate funding for the East-West Road from N11,285,000,000 to N12,085,000,000 because we realised the strategic importance of the road to the entire oil producing areas of our country and the fact that the road project has lingered for too long”, they said. Also addressing the issue of the Second Niger Bridge project, the legislature said “apart from early works, as of today, there is no existing contract for the Second Niger Bridge in spite of frequent requests from the National Assembly. The N900 million reduced from the N10billion proposed by the Executive was deployed to fund ancillary roads that connect to the Bridge. It should again be noted that the N12.5 billion and the N7.5 billion appropriated for the Second Niger Bridge in the 2016 and 2017 budget by the National Assembly were never utilised for the project. “We also need to call the attention of the public to the fact that the National Assembly allocated an additional N2 billion to the Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway project. This was more than the Executive proposed. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 