Chief Engr. David Umahi, the governor of Ebonyi State, in this interview with journalists at Government House, Abakaliki, spoke on how Senator Sam Egwu, the first civilian governor of the state, facilitated his entry into politics, among other interesting issues. CHIJIOKE AGWU brings an excerpts: Your administration is three years old. Could you tell us your achievements so far? We have covenants with God, one of which is to look after the widows. So, we took out our time to see to the welfare of the widows in the remote areas. We have placed about 250 widows on a monthly salary. We have also assembled up to 4,000 of them and gave them the N100,000 each to start businesses of their choice. Today, a great number of them are doing very well. We are now looking out for our brothers and sisters that are hawking in Lagos streets. We offered each of them about N250,000 to resuscitate their welfare and to eliminate the caricatures on our state reputations. Today, the success story in our land is that greater number of them are now employers of labor and have left the streets of Lagos. We also looked at the poverty level in our state and we said no, we must empower our people. So, what we did was, first, when other states were increasing school fees by 600%, we reduced ours by 20%. We also increased the salaries of civil servants by five percent. As if that was not enough, within our first year in office, we paid the civil servants 13th month salary and every civil servant in Ebonyi State got 100% of their salaries as bonus and so we look at it and observed that there is no amount of money you will pay civil servants that will be enough. So, we try to find a way to initiate an empowerment programme for the civil servants, which we are the first in the nation to embark on. We raised N2bn and we approached the Bank of Industry and asked them to give us another N2bn, that is N4bn, and we made it open for our civil servants to access this money as loan which will be gradually deducted from their accounts within the space of five years at a meagre interest rate of 5% at a time were bank rate is 35% with so much processes and procedures. By next week, we will start disbursing this money. We also decided to change the narratives of our people and so we did the same thing we did for the civil servants to generate the sum of N4bn which is accessible to all to get any amount of their choice within the limit of N20million and use it to establish industries, factories and businesses in Ebonyi State whether you are from Ebonyi State or not, as long as you will establish the business in Ebonyi State. We also looked at the environment of the state; we realised that when you are doing business in an undeveloped state, industries will not grow, civilisation will not come, urbanisation will not come and this have made investors to look down on us. This is why we decided to change the narrative of our capital city and today the state is ripe for investment, investors can now come in for their business because of the beauty of the state as what makes a state is human resources and infrastructural developments. We did not stop there, we began again to build roads, but we learnt from our past experience where you build road before the end of your first tenure, they are all gone so, we began to build concrete roads. As an engineer by practice and profession who has been in practice for more than 20 years in construction and today we have over 700KM of concrete roads successfully completed in Ebonyi State at a very meager amount. If you go to other states for verification, you will find out that 1KM of concrete road is constructed at about 300M but in Ebonyi State, a kilometer cost bout 150M. As at today, our brothers, sisters, fathers and mothers can easily evacuate their agricultural produce because we have very durable concrete roads. We also moved to revive the night activities of our people, we have lighted up the capital city with street lights for up to 30 % and there is no LGA in Ebonyi State that does not have up to 6km road wired with street lights and there are always there and some people now trade even by 1am. We also try to light up their lives by creating LED viewing centre located at strategic areas in the state where people go to view the activities and programmes of the state. We moved further in industrialising the state, we are building three industrial clusters in three industrial zones in the state targeting about 3000 industries/factories, the structures are already laid down, some industries are beginning to germinate there because we know that very soon the oil will not be able to generate enough for the whole federation. Even now, we are not earning enough from the Federal Government that can comfortably carry the state activities and programmes. So, we are preparing ahead of time in case of any eventualities or restructuring that may compare the state to be able to fend for herself. It is said that my people perish because of lack of knowledge and it is also true that when you are not informed you will become deformed. So, we are doing so much in the health sector, we have built new general hospitals in LGA’s that doesn’t previously have any and renovated the already existing general hospitals so as we speak now, we have 13 general hospitals and we intend making sure that all the LGA’s general hospitals are adequately equipped with modern facilities with standby ambulances even if it is inform of tricycles for emergency situations. We have also gone to the international market to make it a true international market, what they built they is match boxes and the marketers refused to relocate there, if you look at the passage, two wheelbarrow cannot pass there and so we are recreating the place to represent a true international market and by the time we finish it, you will have Lot 1, Lot 2 and Lot 3. You will also have school, police post, etc, with the nearly completed flyover which is estimated to be the longest and largest in Nigeria. We brought people to look at our mall, they said they will give us a mall that is smaller than the Enugu mall and we will do counterpart funding of N6bn and I looked at them and laughed because I know the mall will not take more than N2bn to get more than what we have in Enugu. So, I told them not to worry. So, I took engineers and architects, all indigenous, and we went after the almighty Dubai mall. I don’t know whether it is the biggest in the world and after that, we began to draw and finally, we were able to have what we can call the microcosm of the macrocosm of the Dubai mall. So, we started, but the young man from one of the LGAs in the state, I think it should be Ikwo, I can tell you that if Julius Berger Construction competes with that young man, he will beat them hands down. If you go there, you will see the wonders. That project without decoration is N3.6bn and it is sitting on two and half hectares of land. It’s not only that, it is a storey building that has a place you can lodge at the back of the main building. We also have a covenant with God to build a place of worship, the Ecumenical Centre and that’s what we are doing. I am a kingdom builder; I have built many churches with my personal money. How did you become the governor of the state? Well, my being governor was not by choice, but by divine calling. It came as a revelation from God to the Church of Christ, which I concurred positively. I started having the inspiration to lead when I was still very small. It was while I was still an engineer that I came in contact with the former governor, Dr. Sam Ominyi Egwu, who found me fulfilling to his tasks. He invited me to the then party chairman of PDP. I was tempted to reject the invitation, but later accepted it and through all our deliberations, I agreed to our terms and that was around 2007. From there, I do remember that the 2007 election was horrific because I kept my duties plain and open. This led to the supporters of Ogbonnaya Onu to burn down my filling station, my hotels and my residence. Upon all through these political hurdles, I was still supporting Chief Martin Elechi who was the then governor, which led to my becoming the PDP chairman. Consequently, I was still the Chairman of PDP when former Governor Elechi invited me to his office and said something striking to me. He said, ‘let’s not forget that you will be running the election with me as my deputy in 2011, and after that, I will hand over to you as the governor.’ But for me then, my eyes were set on fostering pragmatic leadership and not on the promises so I did not respond to that. Then, I come around, discharge my duties and go back to Port Harcourt where I reside. Within an interval of one month, he called and reminded me that I have not given him an answer to his proposal then, I had a rethink over it and I replied to him that it is an honor for him to have given me such opportunity and yet follow it up so, I accepted his offer. Since that 2011, we began to work together, and at this point, it was a very critical period of political tussles. I was the only one standing with him. So, one day we were set to move to Abuja to meet with the National PDP Chairman and it was concluded that I was to succeed him. Meanwhile, over there at Abuja, all the political stakeholders stood against him including the Clerks, I was the only one who stood by him in all these hurdles. Over there, I was accused of hiding the electoral papers, and it was a critical moment in my life as everyone spoke against me before the electoral chairman. Then I began to pray in tongues, then God intervened for me as the Chairman affirmed to my plea. Then, Elechi spoke out to them, ‘that none of them can handle this office like this fair man’. So, that was the beginning of my political hurdles. But, God was always there for me and I know the promises of God never fail. You were Deputy Governor of the state before becoming the governor, what did you discover in that past administration in the state? There are couples of things I learnt when I was the deputy governor to Governor Elechi. Firstly, I must say in all sincerity that in the first few years of his administration, he had the future of this state at heart and set developmental targets towards its welfare, he meant well for the state and I was very excited to work with him. Whatever that happened I don’t know but he started to be a judge at all times, nobody could advice him, nobody could tell him anything and he will listen to it but I was so humbled and obedient to his demands and instructions because, I was brought up from a family where respect, honesty and obedience must be ascribed to your elders and Chief Elechi is old enough to be my grandfather so, I made up my mind not to disobey him, not to quarrel him or betray him or discussed him in a bad light across anywhere. They was so much capital flight in Ebonyi State, I am not sure that Chief Elechi had seen white people in his entire life so, he is always carried away whenever they bring these people. There was massive looting, so very funny contract jobs, the quality of the jobs was heartbreaking, road jobs that were done in the first tenure and will get damaged in the second tenure and today all the roads projects has all gone with his administration. By God’s Grace, I was able to interfere in some of these mismanagements to see to their improvements. Like the Oferekpe Water Scheme Project, there were fictitious variations, I saw the cankerworm and I went into the supervision which led to the present quality we have today and if in his first administration he had continued with the foundations laid by Dr. Sam Egwu administration, we wouldn’t have been where we are today so, I was so much in a hurry about the development of our state. We were criminally marginalised from Anambra, Imo and Abia and so we became very very angry and hungry but Dr. Sam Egwu tried to rebuild confidence in us, he created some Empowerment schemes, he brought in free education to see to the development of the state but unfortunately, the government I served as the deputy governor did not build on these features so, when I came into office, I began to device newer strategies, how do we empower the people? How do we rebuild confidence? How do we rekindle what Dr. Sam Egwu had laid the foundation for us? How do we fix the loopholes on the ab initio government? You have been emphasising agriculture as the only solution to the dwindling oil revenue, what have you done to make it attractive? I must thank Mr. President for the agricultural revolution in the nation. When you look at the population of Nigeria, you will observe that it is growing very fast, it can be an advantage, it can also be a disadvantage and Ebonyi State is also growing. You know, it is not only that the population is growing but the needs are also growing. But I said to myself, if China is able to carter for more than two billion of their population, then we can also do same. But, the problem is the margin. So, we embarked on massive agricultural development. Sometimes when you want to bring development, some people will be resisting it and so when you finish and come back, they will say you didn’t do anything and I ask them, will development come in the air and so we have made policies that we are driving. Whether you are a businessman, you are in agriculture or solid mineral and you owe a land, that land must be activated. In China, even in their backyard; people use it for industry, people use it for ranching, people use it to plant tomato, to plant garden egg, I mean all kinds of industrial and agricultural activities. How will China be the one producing the equipments for our palm oil technology? Do they have palm oil? So as it stands now, everybody must activate their lands, if you are too lazy to activate your lands, allow government to acquire it and then you become a shareholder of that land and those who can be able to activate the land will do so. Let me tell you something, you can cook Abakaliki rice without adding anything. It is very salted and you can’t compare it with the almost plastic rice they import into the country. When we looked at it, we decided to make it work. We began to activate our rice mills, we began to import milling machines. We also took N2bn loan and gave to farmers. They began to cultivate more lands and more yielding is recorded. I personally made hundreds of millions of naira from my farm. I go to farm, I lead by example. I water my seedlings myself and today, I am talking about having a private ranch and I am going to import cattle from South Africa. I am working on establishing milk industry, establish organic fertiliser, etc. We moved into action to revive our fertiliser manufacturing plant and that brought down the price of fertiliser, very high quality fertiliser at that. Before now, a bag of fertiliser was sold at N10,000. But, now we are selling N5,500 per bag in Ebonyi. That’s not all. We activated fertiliser plant that was neglected in the past administration. We brought in another plants, we built additional two warehouses, we have also built power house there, installed organic fertiliser plant that is sitting on one hectare of land. Very soon, we will start buying household refuse. We will start buying their weeds. This is why we are telling our farmers to minimise the way they use herbicide to kill the weeds because very soon, we will start purchasing the weeds that are manually weeded out from the farms. These are the issues, it is not how much we have, but how prudent and the fear of God in delivering good jobs and of course you know that experience counts so our story is a success story and we credit the glory to God almighty and the President and to our people. Today, we have N8bn we are giving out for empowerment, we have profiled lots of people numbering around 5,000 people into rice production, we have also launched, one man one hectare of land and if you are a political appointee or elected person and you don’t have a farm, then you are not part of my government. Ezza/Ezza-Ezillo strife was so serious that it was very difficult for the past administration to resolve it. What magic did you used to resolve the crisis? When I discovered that there were so much blood in the land, what we did was to try to revive the land spiritually, socially, economically and otherwise and lift the curse that were laid on the land. We embarked on seven days fasting and prayers, seeking God’s mercies to revive and heal our land again. So, God began to help us, as great men of God began to intervene on the land, including Bishops, Reverend Fathers, Pastors, etc. After the series of prayers made, we forged ahead to resolve the crises between the Ezza and Ezza-Ezzilo, headed by Very Rev. Fr. Abraham Nwali and with wisdom from God we created two additional communities. I can tell you that these communities are truly in peace and are now brothers. In fact, one marriage is going to be consummated between a brother and sister across the former warring, but now peaceful communities. What is your view on the fight against corruption in the country? There are certain aspects of our fight against corruption that I frown at. Oppression and victimisation should not be allowed in our country. For example, if some people were called in a bank during the last general elections and they were told you have N100 million from the party chairman, come and collect it and the person went innocently and collected that N100million and used it the way the party leadership directed him to use it and was later told that that money was for arms money. Nobody has been able to come out and tell us what happened to the launching that PDP did. Where is the money? And so, somebody innocently collected money because the party chairman said go to this bank and collect and you now say this money is arms money, and they said okay. And you say, but, I didn’t know, let me return the money and you said no, we must prosecute the person. That is injustice. Nobody has ever been given money and he said, where is the money coming from? It is very important to fear God in all we do because all is transient. Whatever a man sows, he will reap. Some of the people that looted the funds of Nigeria are being haunted today. Yesterday, they were the ones hunting others. We must be able to separate fight against corruption from politics. Without tackling corruption, it is very difficult for our country to develop. Mr. President is a man of integrity, but we must also ensure that we have the fear of God in the fight against corruption. So, in our fight against corruption, let it not have any  political colouration, it will help us. I support that those who took our money should be able to bring back the money. But, somebody should not wear a cloth today in the name of a political, very corrupt party and now wear another cloth in another political party and became a saint. This is not a fight against corruption. Those that are working very hard should not be distracted. Ebonyi State should not be distracted. Six months in office, they wrote all kinds of petitions against us and I was very angry because our books are open. We even have a mini EFCC in the state. We adopted a proactive measure in the fight against corruption in our dear state and this is a method I will recommend for the fight against corruption in the country. We will resist every political intimidation using any agency of government at any level. Ebonyi people are at home with this government and for those that are pretending that they are supporting the President, they just want to come and loot this state again. The lootings for eight years are nothing for them. We can’t be distracted and our books are ready and open.  We are very committed. We are very focused. For those that believe that the only way they will know that I am in PDP is to castigate Mr. President, I will not because he is the only boss that I have. I will not do that. I left all those to the political parties, not because Mr. President is not doing 100% right. He is not God, but because it is not my duty to castigate my boss. I face my business and it is not my duty to petition against the fraud of the past administration. It is not my business. I am focused; I am a child of God. I have a calling and I am committed. I am not the party leadership, my job is to face governance. But, this House of Assembly people are the best in the country and they have been working with me. A lot of people want their jobs, but they don’t really understand what is in the job. For those who want to take their jobs, what I said is that they shouldn’t take my support for granted. They should be popular in their place because their tickets are tied together. So, apart from Speaker and the Deputy Speaker, of course, we must respect them. Others must be able to organise rallies. Let those that want their jobs also organise rallies and we will go back and know who is more popular. But, the primaries of PDP in Ebonyi State must be free and fairxx comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 