Ibadan – Butchers in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, on Thursday appealed to Governor Abiola Ajimobi to avert another violent clash between them and Hausa cattle traders by quashing a purported order directing all butchers in the town to relocate to a private abattoir located in Akinyele. Leaders of the butchers, including: Ganiyu Olobo, Mukaila Otedola, Kehinde Oladejo, Alidu Tajudeen, Oroyinyin Adeleke, Adebayo Wasiu, and Sheriff Iyanda, made this appeal at a press conference in Ibadan. At the briefing jointly addressed by the Ibadan chapter of the National Union of Butchers and Veteran Organisation for Human Rights Initiative (VOHRI), the butchers insisted that the relocation order was illegal and unconstitutional. They noted that asking all butchers in all the 11 council areas in Ibadan to relocate to a private abattoir at Amosun Village in Akinyele LG would amount to a deliberate attempt to ignite another clash. Reminding Governor Ajimobi that “killings and maiming arising from the clash between butchers and Hausa cattle traders in 2000 made former Governor Lam Adesina to relocate the Hausa cattle traders to Akinyele”, the Ibadan added that “the proposed abattoir at Amosun Village is close to Akinyele town where a large number of Hausa cattle-rearers have settled.” Abimbola Adekunle, general secretary of VOHRI, who addressed newsmen on behalf of the butchers, said the relocation order was an aberration of the Fourth Schedule 1(e) of functions of local government. “According to the Fourth Schedule 1(e) of functions of local government council, it is the prerogative priority of any local government to establish, maintain and regulate slaughter houses, slaughter slabs, markets, motor parks and public conveniences. “It will be therefore unspeakable, unconstitutional and illegal for a group of people to arrogate to themselves what does not belong to them by hijacking the functions of a local council and by extension functions of the state government to build a private abattoir in partnership with corrupt members of the National Union of Butchers,” he said. Abimbola declared VOHRI’s readiness to intervene in this case of serious threat to life, oppression, violation of human rights, intimidation and imposition against the butchers. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 