OSOGBO – An Osun State High Court sitting in Ile-Ife, has sentenced a 38- year-old man, Jeremiah Idowu, to death for armed robbery. The court presided over by Justice Abdul Rasaq Abdulkaeem convicted Idowu, a herbalist, on the one-count charge of armed robbery he committed on May 23, 2005, at Toro Farm Area, Modakeke. Idowu was said to have armed with cutlass robbed a motorcyclist, Rasheed Kehinde, of a sum of N7,800 and also attempted to rob him of his motorcycle. Idowu was said to have hired Kehinde to carry him to cut some medicinal plants in the jungle. The prosecution witness informed the court that when they got to the bush, the convict asked Kehinde to wait for him, while he went into the bush to fetch the said herbs till it was late. He told the court that Idowu asked him to help him pick the herbs which he has caught down in a polythene bag on the ground, adding that as he bent down, the convict hit him with the cutlass and asked him to bring out all the money with him which was N7,800. Kehinde said he took to his heel when the convict demanded for his motorcycle’s key, saying that he went to carry it when the convict had gone. The motorcyclist narrated the incident to his parent, hence they took him to Division “A” Police Station, Moore, Ile-Ife, where the case was reported. But Idowu denied the armed robbery charge in court, contrary to his confessional statement at the police station. State Prosecuting Counsel, Mr. Jacob Ayanyemi (Esq), who tendered the confessional statement of the convict and provided two witnesses, told the court that the case has been proved beyond reasonable doubt that Idowu robbed Kehinde on that fateful day. Delivering his judgment, Justice Abdulkareem held that the prosecution counsel has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt, saying that all evidences including the confessional statement from the Idowu pointed to the fact that he committed armed robbery. Justice Abdulkareem, therefore, found the accused person guilty of armed robbery charge preferred against him and convicted him accordingly. He thereafter sentenced him to death. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 