Ibadan – After the release of N9 billion to clear their salary backlog, members of the Nigerian Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Oyo State chapter, have commended Governor Abiola Ajimobi for the gesture. Bayo Titilayo-Sodo, president of Oyo NULGE, at the weekend declared that local government workers in the state were no longer hungry as before. Titilayo-Sodo revealed to newsmen in his office that workers in 20 council areas in the state had been paid their salaries till the last month end. He explained further that workers in the remaining council areas were being owed between one and two months’ salaries. The Oyo NULGE boss commended Governor Ajimobi for recently releasing N9 billion for the payment of salaries and pensions for the workers under the payroll of local government councils in the state. According to him, the disbursement of the money has brought great relief to primary school teachers and local government workers in the state. Titilayo-Sodo said: “Some people have been saying that the disbursement of the money was political. That does not concern us. All we know is that we are not hungry like before again, and we commend Governor Ajimobi for this.” He expressed optimism that with local government elections conducted and democratically elected officials already inaugurated, there would be improved welfare packages for council workers and increased grassroots development. The NULGE boss also used the opportunity to reveal that most of the issues on local government employees sacked by the state government had been resolved. According to him, “most of those who had genuine cases have been reinstated, and we hope that others will soon be resolved. As a union, we are helpless and could not wade into the issues of those who truly presented fake certificates.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 