Debo Adeniran is the Executive Chairman, Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on the three years of President Buhari administration and other crucial issues in the polity. Excerpts: How do you see the 19 years of Nigeria’s nascent democracy and the journey so far? This is 19 years of our democratic experimentation. I do not see it as nascent again. If not, it will remain nascent forever. But, is it gravitating towards the best practices? Are we making progress? Yes, but in slow pace. There is no perfect democracy anywhere. The speed the process takes differ from one environment to another. If you plant a mango tree, you expect it to bear fruit between five and 12 years. This is 19 years, it has started fruiting. But, you will begin to wonder if you will ever eat the fruit. Despondency may set in and you may think you may not eat it. You may wonder why it so slow and is not fruiting or fruitful. You may need a special fertiliser to treat the soil and take care of other factors. If you take care of all these, you will see the fruiting. But, it is not everyone that sees the planting that will see the fruiting. It is not everyone that sees the fruiting that will see the fruits and it is not everyone that sees the fruits that will see the harvesting. Our democracy was planted on a faulty land or soil. It is in the process of trial and error that we have been managing it. For every government that came into power, you see different interventions. These interventions are not in the same direction. Our democracy was planted in corruption, apathy, disturbances, ethnocentric leadership and institutions. All these pervert the fertile land for fruitful development of our democracy. Those managing the plant are not committed on how to nurture it. No one wants to take away corruption. They capitalise on ethnocentric religious sentiments and use it to keep dissenting voices silent. People became apathetic to governance. They look at government as number one enemy. That is why many are not participating. They feel alienated from the decision making processes. People were not part and parcel of the formulation of the constitution. As faulty as the constitution, there was appropriation process. It was supposed to be people-oriented. They are the ultimate victim when the process becomes faulty. The constitution is supposed to take care of welfare and security of the people. It lacks participation. During the Obasanjo regime, freedom of speech, freedom of association and freedom of expression were muscled. There were the attacks on Odi. Zaki Biam was destroyed. These actions were carryover from the military mentality. The EFCC and ICPC were established. By then, there was the Special Fraud Unit (SFU) of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). There was the Due Process Office. All these existed by name because the system did not make them work. They were poorly equipped. All these destroy the opportunity to fight corrupt leaders and reduce corruption. Nuhu Ribadu, Mustapha Akanbi, Farida Waziri and Ibrahim Lamorde could not do much. Ribadu, for instance, was kicked out. All these affected the war against corruption. The statement of continuity was not emphasised. Same in other agencies. They were not thoroughly supervised. That is why our democracy has not grown as one would have wanted it. The current administration is a departure from the previous ones. This is the first time we changed baton from one administration to the other successfully. The party was newly formed and were yet to understand itself because of the way it was formed. That made it difficult to President Buhari to form his cabinet on time. The delay made the government shaky till date. The people were fighting themselves. The National Assembly could not provide checks and balances to the Executive. The Judiciary became part of the corruption and sold judgments, trampled on justice and judges sold justice to the highest bidder. Nigerian democracy is growing slowly than anybody could imagine before we got it. Could you give an overview of the three years of President Buhari administration? The three years of the current administration seems to have been spent laying foundation. They look at the dilapidated structure and failed to understand the level of dilapidation, leading to trial and error. Many of the cabinet members did not prepare for it. Those who prepared for it did not get it. Insecurity moved from one level to the other. Before the administration, Boko Haram was taking territories. To a large extent, the territories were reversed. The vestiges still target soft targets, bombing markets and other places. We can give it to the administration that terrorism is not easy to conquer, even by the U.S. the militants in the Southern region were put to check because the militants were better organised and could be located where they could be conquered, unlike the Boko Haram. Sambisa forest has been largely conquered. But, the Boko Haram is still on rampage. The new source of security threat is the herdsmen who destroy lives and property. This is looked at from two perspectives. It could be a sabotage of the government’s agenda for agriculture, instead of the mono-economy that is based on oil. Such saboteurs want to drive away farmers so that there will be shortage of farmers and farm lands. It could also be seen as expansionist agenda or ethnic cleansing. But, this is difficult to believe because there are several ethnic nationalities in the Middle Belt. Which one are they targeting? Thus, it is more of sabotage by those who do not want the diversification of the economy from petro-dollar economy to agriculture. I don’t call them herdsmen, but nomadic killers who carry out pogrom at easy targets. The nomadic killers should be put in check. The economy is in shambles because the diversification of the economy has not been achieved, although there is reduction in the price of rice. The price of yam skyrocketed because of Boko Haram. Solid minerals have not fetched Nigeria up to one percent of revenue. The three years of President Buhari administration has not been a total failure, but at the level of preparing ground for a pedestal for the fortification of democracy. To what extent has President Buhari delivered the ‘Change’ he and the All Progressives Congress (APC) promised Nigerians in 2015? There are some changes we can see, especially in the fight against corruption. There are some legal institutions that ought to have been co-opted by the past administrations. But, they were not. The new administration introduced the Treasury Single Account (TSA), Bank Verification Number (BVN) and the Special Control Unit Against Money Laundering, Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit. Through TSA, revenue leakages have been checked. All revenues now go into a single account of the Federal Government. Through BVN, people’s data have been centralised. It becomes difficult for people to open accounts for illicit transactions for corruption purposes. This made it difficult for corrupt people to launder their illicit funds and take them offshore. It makes acquisition of property abroad difficult for the purpose of laundering proceeds of corruption due to mutual legal treaties entered into by the Federal Government and several countries. It is now almost impossible for people to acquire properties where they can launder funds. Retrieving stolen funds is now easier. This can boost the economy and check corruption. The Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU) is set up in all the MDAs. ICPC desks were set up in all MDAs. This will reduce corruption. The government’s whistle blowing policy has led to recovering of N500 billion. The courage to implement the policies is a clear departure from the past. There is continuity. Projects of the past administration were taken over by the Buhari administration, like the standard rail gauge, the Abuja-Kaduna route was taken over. This is unlike the past administrations where projects of past governments were abandoned. N-Power has empowered fresh graduates. U-Win started by Okonjo-Iweala was taken over. Although the economy is not flourishing, this is a global phenomenon. Transparency in government is at its height. President Buhari does not stop anyone from saying anything. He too does not mince words in saying anything. Local media complain that he talks more outside the country. But, if the local media put a little more effort, the President will speak to them. The NUJ, NGE and BON should make more effort to get President Buhari to do media chats. They should work with their colleagues like Lai Mohammed, Femi Adesina and Garba Shehu to talk to the President to do media chats. Different people adopt different strategies. Some people speak and do not act. Some act, but do not speak. It is a matter of strategies. If we continue to nurture our democracy, it will flourish. A cross section of Nigerians sees the administration’s war against corruption as not holistic, but targeted at the opposition and critics. What is your take on this? Every administration had been accused of the same offence, including Obasanjo who started all the anti-graft agencies, and Goodluck Jonathan. You cannot steal from a purse you do not have access to. It is those in former administration that are being targeted. If you give one a bulldozer to bring down houses, he cannot start from his father’s, because he will have nowhere to run to. This administration is not nepotic. Bukola Saraki, the Number Three man in government is still in court. Babachir Lawal has been kicked out. Military officers have been tried and kicked out. It is no longer comfortable for people to amass wealth. That is why they are attacking the administration. No one can take all the criminals at once. There must be the first. In the courts, it is still the same. But, have people done petitions, supported with evidence and the agencies did not respond? You can go to court and get order of mandamus to force the agencies to investigate a case. There is no way you can you can start a journey of 1,000 miles, without taking one step. Following the controversy over the $16 billion Power Project, do you think President Buhari can muster the political will to probe his predecessors? Well, there are two planks. One is the President and Vice President. They have the political will to take on Obasanjo and Jonathan. There was Lamorde’s kangaroo investigation which was not thorough. We wrote to that panel. It was only Obasanjo that was invited. They did not invite us to puncture Obasanjo’s argument. The Buhari administration has given signals that it has courage to descend on any target. But, you cannot say the same thing of the National Assembly and the Judiciary. Even within the Executive, you cannot say everyone has the courage. The ex-Presidents may have moles in the current cabinet. There is a lot of hypocrisy. The Judiciary may decide not to discountenance any evidence. Except these landmines, the administration has the courage to investigate the former Presidents. Ex-President Obasanjo did not supervise the power project. He only flew over it. It is part of the reasons the economy is prostrate. That is why everyone should mount pressure on the government to ensure that the case is investigated and the culprits punished. Don’t you think that APC should choose a younger, healthier and more educated candidate for the 2019 election instead of President Buhari? It is not about being young. It is being clear in your agenda. Being young can be an albatross because of lack of adequate experience, courage, inadequate focus, poor worldview about governance. If you have a young candidate, have you tested him? That is why you can subscribe to a younger candidate. How do you determine who is healthier? Nigerians did not know that President Buhari would fall ill. Even he himself did not know. Who knew that Umaru Yar’Adua would die in office? We cannot base our argument on conjectures. How are we going to test young leaders? We should concentrate on how to remove money politics so that people will aspire based on their ideas and capacity. The President has signed the ‘Not Too Young To Run Bill’. But, it is the children of the rich that will benefit from the law. Those who passed the bill want their children to contest. The argument in support for a young, healthier President does not hold water. Some world leaders are old and on wheelchair. Trump is older than President Buhari. Buhari is a tested man. He fought indiscipline and impunity and made life difficult for public officers and those who denied people of essential commodities. A 35-year-old who has not advanced his business cannot be called to lead. It is not everyone that is an Obama or a Macron. They did a lot before they got to the top. What is the average age of local government chairmen? They are below 40. Several councillors are below 30. Our governors are under 50. What are they doing differently? Those in the House of Representatives are below 50. Jonathan was under 50. What did he do differently? Did he use his education to improve governance? His youthful quality! Nigerian wealth was plundered under his nose. Electricity went into doldrums. Budgets were approved through bribery. It is not about age, education or state of health. It is about courage, determination and commitment to issue of governance. With the crises in the APC following the congresses and disagreement with the nPDP members as well as the crisis in PDP, shouldn’t Nigerians look for an alternative to the two parties in 2019? I don’t mind an alternative. But, such alternative will become monstrous if they govern for some years. We should…. No such party does not have its problems. PDP had it. APC is worse because of the way they were formed. Even the nPDP members in APC…People could be parochial and selfish. They are more or less migratory politicians who are in a bloc to sabotage any administration that refuses their bidding. The nPDP has got their fair share in the Buhari administration. They have the Senate President, House of Representatives Speaker, several ministers. What else do they want? What they want cannot be achieved. They want the administration to stop further trial of the Senate President. Internal strife is part and parcel of politics here. APC recognises only one of the several congresses. They do not recongise those other congresses not recongised by the national headquartres. We should not allow party politics to bug us down. If they are not careful, another party will take over from them. When we get to the bridge, we will cross it. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 