Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA) has petitioned the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to investigate capital projects allocated to Surulere 1 Federal Constituency of Lagos State. Femi Gbajabiamila is the representative of Surulere 1 Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives. In the letter to the anti-graft agency, Olanrewaju Suraju, the chairman, the human rights group, said, like other concerned members of the society, it was disturbed by recent reports of lavish spending by Gbajabiamila, who is the majority leader of the House. The letter reads: “According to Vanguard of May 28 and 29, 2018, Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila has been reported to have surprised his wife with a gift of Mercedes G-Wagon selling for between N75 million and 100 million in Nigeria. “The gift on May 27, 2018 was to commemorate the wife’s 50th birthday. He was also reported to have rocked a N1.2 million Gucci suit when giving this gift to his wife. The stylish Gucci Heritage web tape crepe wool jacket costs $3,450, approximately N1.2 million. “His intention could have been right, but in a country where the minimum wage is N18,000 with hunger and unemployed youths roaming the streets, his actions were seen as insensitive to Nigerians, especially from his Surulere Constituency.” The non-governmental organisation said Nigerians were wondering how it is possible, within the legitimate salaries of the parliamentarian, to lavishly expend such amount of money on luxury items by a public office holder. HEDA recalled that a total of N1.3 billion was allocated for constituency projects in Surulere 1 Federal Constituency in the 2017 federal budget. “HEDA Resource Centre believes that no room must be opened for any person to abuse public trust while in public office. “Corrupt practices and misapplication of public funds must be abolished in all fronts by relevant government agencies charged with the responsibilities of investigating allegation or suspicions of corrupt practices. “On this account, HEDA is calling on your good office to open a wide investigation into the utilisation of funds for capital projects allocated to Surulere 1 Federal Constituency under Honourable Gbajabiamila to ensure and convince discerning Nigerians that public funds were not used for private family services and benefits by people elected into offices for service,” the letter added. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 