Asaba – Last Saturday, June 9th 2018, former Governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori performed the tape cutting ceremony to commission the Isoko Unity House at Oleh, Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta State. The edifice was conceived in 1984 and constructed by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s administration. He was invited to commission the multi-million naira edifice because the former Governor laid the foundation for a united Delta State. Speaking shortly before cutting the symbolic tape that signified the official commissioning of the project, Chief Ibori thanked the Isoko people that they are very truthful, vibrant and very happy. Earlier, Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi  Okowa in his speech disclosed that God used Chief Ibori to lay solid foundation for a united Delta State, in unity, we are stronger” just as he commended Isoko people for their peaceful disposition and unity which has earned them a lot of developmental projects. A day before, during a reception in honour of the former Governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori organized by his socio-political family in Anioma, Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa described him as a bridge builder who laid a solid foundation of peace and development in the state. It was agreed that Chief Ibori imbibed in the members of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, the need to play a politics of putting state and party interests above personal interest and it has led the state in the right direction. Hosted by the former Deputy Governor of the state, Sir Benjamin Elue in Obior, Ika North East Local Government Area, Senator Okowa accompanied to the occasion by Senator Peter Nwaboshi, Speaker of the State Assembly, Hon Sheriff Oborevwori, State PDP Chairman Barr Kinsley Esiso, and top government and functionaries and  Anioma sons and daughters. We Will Continue To Appreciate Ibori – Okowa Governor Okowa said “Our Leader, Chief James Ibori is a bridge builder, you taught us to be selfless and accommodating. We will continue to appreciate you; we will continue to take Delta State to greater heights and in the right direction. We are proud that Delta North is hosting you because you are a worthy leader, you taught us that as we progress as a family we are expanding, our people have been very patient and co-operative, this family is a large one and it will continue to accommodate more people into the party.” He assured Deltans that his administration would deliver  free and fair election in 2019 and called on politicians to go back to their wards and constituents to play the politics because they need the votes of the people saying “we should know that we have a lot of work to do.” In his remark, Chief Ibori, explained that it has been resolved in the party that they would   be fairness and equity in the governance of the state and thanked the Anioma people for hosting him. “Governor Okowa has been chosen by God to govern the state, He will continue to give him the wisdom to take right decisions that will led to the progress of the state, this is what we are experiencing today in the state with his developmental strides. We are one happy family so we should not bring our personal interest first but the interest of the state, he said.” In a welcome address, the host, Elue, describe Chief James Ibori as a mentor that have build the party to enviable heights adding that all the founding fathers of the party have gathered to appreciate the former governor for his faithfulness and loyalty to the family. On Tuesday 5th June, In their speeches, Governors Seriake Dickson and Ifeanyi Okowa of Bayelsa and Delta State respectively during the commissioning of the restructured Sapele Market said  that it is no longer a contest that Ibori is not only the leader of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Delta State but the entire South South. The market,  built by Samuel Ogbemudia, former Administrator, Bendel State was  gutted by fire in 2005. Ibori started rebuilding it before he left office in 2007. They thanked Ibori for the support to them especially in Delta state towards the prosperity and development of the entire South South. This was not the only times Ibori would be eulogized. During the conferment of Chieftaincy titles on Chief Ibori by the Pere of Kabowei Kingdom in Patani LGA of Delta State, HRM Erebelu Shedrack, Aduwo III, Ibori maintained he was interested in what goes on and that they would continue to watch what goes on in the region and that any referendum will be based on the interest of the region Chief Ibori bagged Tiemwei (Pillar) at the occasion which was attended by personalities from different parts of the country while Governor Dickson was conferred with Izonopute (Rock) Chieftaincy title. Chief Ibori had thanked the Pere for the titles, assuring that they will not let Kabowei Kingdom down in their interest and progress of the region.“I am very interested in what goes on and we will continue to watch what goes on in the region, any referendum will be based on the interest of the region,” The Pere in his speech stated, “a man who has done very well will be celebrated by his friends and we are proud of Governor Dickson and former Governor James Ibori.” Governor of Delta State, Senator.Ifeanyi Okowa, said Chief James Ibori’s relentless developmental Stride while in office has lessen the means for people  to access riverine communities of the State Also speaking at Akugbene Town during the 20th coronation anniversary of HRM, Stanley.P Luke, Kalanama Viii, Pere of Akugbene -Mein Kingdom, Governor Okowa expressed joy that he and his entourage were able to access the Akugbene town by road network unlike the previous ceremony in 2012 were the town could be only the reach by the water way. He said “Ibori’s pragmatic steps build a bridge across the river Forcados ,which now through the Niger Delta Development  Commission. There is no doubt, when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice, that is why your subjects come in great number to celebrate with you”. Governor Okowa commended Ibori for laying the foundation for development in the state especially the construction the Bomadi bridge across the Forcados river., asserting “I must thank our leader, former Governor James Ibori, who because he is a courageous and bold man he took on a project at that time that was nearly impossible for state governments to undertake, the building of the bridge across the Forcados river. It is a thing of joy today that we were able to drive to your kingdom. It is a thing of joy that will ever remain in the hearts of all persons from Akugbene Mein Kingdom.” he said Kalanama Viii later presented a plague titled Izon-finiowei to Chief Ibori and other plagues to some deserving sons and friends of the kingdom. PDP, National Chairman, Chief Uche Secondus, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan, and other national and state party leaders recently eulogized his sterling leadership qualities, describing him as a unifying figure in Nigeria. They agreed Ibori remains a factor in the politics of Nigeria lt was rousing welcome for Ibori when he arrived the Olomu venue for the thanksgiving and reception in his honour especially the palace of the Royal Father of the Day, HRM, Ovie R.L, Ogbon Ogoni-Oghoro 1, the Owhorode of Olomu Kingdom where other traditional rulers and Urhobo political class were on hand to receive him. Ibori who was received by the Chief Host, Olorogun J  Oguma, the Udu of Olomu Kingdom and his team at the popular Olomu Bridge. Ibori, A Unifying Factor  In  Niger Delta – Secondus Secondus who noted that Ibori has come back for good,  praised him for the political stability of his succession plan in the state, commending Ibori for his choice of Okowa as his decision has proven to be a right one considering that Okowa is living up to expectations. ‘’Ibori is unifying factor in the development of the Niger Delta region and Delta State in particular. He is a man of the people not just in Delta State but across the nation. Today he is a factor in Nigeria. On behalf of the masses of our country, we salute your courage because you are a man who believes in the struggle of the party’’ Secondus said. ‘’Delta State has a son that has built a political structure that is envied across the nation. Delta State remains the only state in the nation that has stability in political succession. It remains the only state where all the Governors that have ruled the state are still members of the PDP’’. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa  at the event described Ibori as a man whose good leadership has engendered a perfect succession plan in the political configuration of the state, lauding him for his enviable leadership, which has placed it on record that it is in Delta State that the incumbent Governor has the support of two past Governors who are also in the same party. According to him, Ibori remained the national leader of the party, ‘’Ibori is a national leader; he laid the foundation of development in the state and established a political structure that we are enjoying today. There was good leadership that has continued to beget good followership. And we must thank our leader because he trained us well as politician and l know l have learned it well. What sweetened me most is the recognition that Ibori is a better man’’ Okowa revealed. Immediate past Governor of the state, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan, praised Ibori for having a forgiving heart towards those who offended him particularly in politics. He said Ibori has a large heart and forgiving spirit, assuring he has forgiven those who fought him which make him to remain a unifying factor in the political arena of the state and the nation at large. According to him, all those sycophants who he said are spreading rumours of disunity to create bad blood between Ibori and himself have been put to shame. ‘’He has a very big forgiving spirit. I am sure people know we grew up together, I knew that in him, he has forgiven them for causing his misfortune. They have all been put to shame now. I am here today as the immediate past Governor of Delta State. But what is more important is that l am a blood brother of Ibori. I want to thank everybody especially our spiritual fathers who visited him where he was. I thank you all.’’ ‘’There were so many rumours in this our state that l did not visit him. So if l visited him should come and tell you?  All those behind the rumours where are they today? They have been put to shame. Ibori on his return has put right all that went wrong when he was away. He is our national leader, worldwide leader and we must all give him the full support, Uduaghan stressed. Chairman, Board of Trustees of Olorogun J. U Oguma Foundation, described Ibori as a bridge builder and the one who laid the foundation for the development of Delta State, impacted positively on the state, stabilize the political terrain, as a national leader with large heart. He added that Governor Okowa has been endorsed for a second tenure in office. ‘’ “When Ibori was around, Urhobo had three representatives in the Federal Executive Council and he was away for eight years after which Urhobos never had a voice in the council.” Prof Andrew  Onokerhoraye, former Vice Chancellor, University of Benin particularly recalled Ibori’s efforts in ensuring the implementation of the 13 per cent Derivation Fund and Resource Control which he was latter persecuted for. ‘’Statewide he laid the foundation for development of roads, bridges, educational institutions, health facilities, and so many structures that he put in place’’ Ibori , popularly called the Odidigboigbo in his response described his jail term as a sabbatical leave saying, he returned all the glory to God for keeping him safe and bringing him back home safely. He thanked Oguma Foundation for the event, saying in the coming days his action will express his gratitude to the people of Urhobo nation and Delta State in general. He disclosed that he has forgiven those who played one role or the other over his travail while he also thanked those who have supported him. ‘’It has been a year that l returned to Nigeria from my sabbatical leave in the UK. I thank God Almighty for that”. He advised the political class especially those seeking political office not to heat up the polity emphasising that power belongs to God and only Him can give power. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 