Lagos – Following the Appeal Court’s ruling that Senator Buruji Kashamu, lawmaker representing Ogun East Senatorial District in the National Assembly can be arrested if necessary, Nigerians are taking active interest in the issue which has dragged on for some times. Over time, it has been established that one of the challenges facing the rule of law and administration of justice in Nigeria is the rise in the abuse of court process by lawyers and litigants making the course of litigation complex and tortuous through diverse applications and duplication of same processes before different courts which often is deemed frivolous and a waste of court time. This usually causes drama and confusing interpretation of the provisions of the law. And sometimes, judges sitting on such cases also add to the confusion by allowing frivolities to scale through and also by giving controversial rulings that lead to argument due to limitations of the rule of law and the obvious lacuna in the Nigerian legal system. Many cases that are simple applications and would have been dispensed  with quickly are consequently before the courts for years, creating unnecessary drama especially when personalities involved are high profile or recognised people in the society; adding to the rot in the judiciary and undermining the power of the judiciary to dispense justice effectively and eroding the people’s confidence in the system. Many cases had faced this difficulty and had suffered unnecessary drama as a result of perceived abuse of legal process. One of such is the extradition application against Senator Kashamu. The matter had dragged moving in and out of diverse courts and before different judges for years. The drama opened like a stage play in a theatre on May 27, 2015 when the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) applied to a Federal high court sitting in Abuja asked for the extradition of Senator Kashamu on allegations of certain criminal indictments of a criminal act he allegedly perpetrated in violation of the United States Drugs Law. The suit delineated FHC/ABJ/CS/479/2015 was filed on the eve of the departure of Mohammed Bello Adoke (SAN) from office as the AGF while a similar case was already before a Federal High Court sitting in Lagos. The court in its ruling on the application given by Justice G.O. Kolawole on July 1, 2015 however dismissed the suit on the ground that the AGF’s office being an office created by the constitution has a greater obligation to be seen as law abiding and should give maximum and unqualified respect to every judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction regardless of its opinion as to whether it was right or wrong until such decisions are set aside by the appellate court. The court further held that to do otherwise is to further deepen an incipient culture of disobedience to court orders and unmitigated acts of unbridled impunity to judicial process even by the citizenry and the proverbial common man whose last hopes lies in the judiciary noting in particular that he is aware that certain proceedings were already on in the Lagos division of the Federal High Court on the same matter, adding that he had exercised restraint based on the injunction of the Supreme court that where a court is clearly aware that another court of coordinate jurisdiction is seised of a case with the same parties  and subject matter before it, it is an abuse of process for that court to continue with the hearing of the case. This however did not put the matter to rest as it continued to break forth in diverse acts and scenes without a curtain call. And between 2015 and this year, Senator Kashamu tired of what he termed undue intimidation, harassment and planned abduction had written protest letters through his lawyers to express his dissatisfaction. Indeed, in his letter to the AGF, he raised a six-point poser asking whether the AGF’s Office is aware of the two British judgments in his favour which was proved by the British High Commission in a letter dated April 27, 2015 indicating that he was free from extradition proceedings in their country between 1998 and 2003 because the Magistrate was not satisfied that he had a case to answer. He also asked whether the AGF is aware that the purported extradition suit that was instituted against him after the 2015 abduction plot orchestrated by the immediate past administration failed was dismissed by Justice Kolawole who described the action of the NDLEA as “a show of shame”, adding that the judgment and another one in the suit delineated FHC/L/CS/49/2010 are still subsisting and valid, as they are yet to be appealed and/or upturned on appeal. “With all these facts of my exoneration by two British courts in a case instituted by the American government, the facts of which are available to the Honourable Minister of Justice, how can anyone rightly seek to subject me to another round of extradition proceedings when we had joined issues in a foreign land (the United Kingdom) – which is better known as US’ closest ally – and the courts found that I am not the person being sought for the drug crime? What is more, the two British court judgments in my favour were not and have not been appealed till date. “Now, if as stated in your 14th July, 2016 letter that no further steps could be taken until the appeals are determined one way or the other, can any steps be truly and validly taken in view of the subsistence of the two final judgments of the British courts which are yet to be appealed till date? This is in addition to the subsisting orders and judgments in FHC/L/CS/49/2010 and FHC/ABJ/CS/479/2015,” he stated. In a letter written by K.T Turaki to the AGF on January 25, 2016 on the matter, he stated that as a party to most of the suits instituted by Senator Kashamu where there is no any appellate court decision yet setting aside the extant judgments, the AGF as the Chief Law Officer of the Federation and member of the revered inner bar is not only under a normal duty but a constitutional duty and obligation to ensure that the process of our courts are not abused by agencies of government and that the sanctity of their extant orders, regardless of whatever issues may ex facie be apparent on them are preserved and perfected. “By virtue of the Extradition Act Cap E25, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004, you are statutorily empowered to handle and coordinate all requests for extradition of any suspect in Nigeria by any country with whom Nigeria has extradition treaty. We verily believe that the purported request for our client’s extradition was only a call for the collaboration of your good offices and other security forces with the American government to harass, intimidate and punish our client for no justifiable reasons,” he said. The chambers of Fagbemi, Olujinmi and Izinyon on January 16, 2017 also stated that in the light of the obviously questionable grandstanding of the NDLEA, which no doubt, is beyond the call of duty, “we feel  compelled to request of you to take charge of the matter (extradition process). The NDLEA needs to know it has no mandate in a matter of extradition beyond the provision of information your office may consider necessary for the processing of the extradition request. The NDLEA also needs to know or be told that state parties to treaties and bilateral agreements are under a duty to recognize and respect the decisions of courts set up under national constitutions of state parties.” Kashamu however seems to have the provisions of the law firmly in his corner as legal experts have expressed the opinion that the judgment of the Lagos Division of the Court of Appeal which set aside the judgments and orders made in respect of a fundamental human rights case on the basis of being speculative should be tested at the Supreme Court since the 1999 Constitution provides for the institution of a case once a citizen has reasons to suspect that his fundamental human rights “has been, is being or is likely to be contravened” as expressly captured in Chapter IV, Section 46 (1) of the 1999 Constitution. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 