By designating the 12th of June every year as the authentic Democracy Day for Nigeria, President Buhari seems to have made two critical game-changing moves that have the potentials of fashioning out a new trajectory for his electoral fortunes. First, he has put to rest decades of frustration endured by millions of Nigerians over their inability to validate the outcome of the annulled June 12, 1993 presidential election, presumably won by Chief MKO Abiola, thus putting a dignified closure to a national constitutional tragedy. Second, by the singular act of the posthumous investiture on Chief Abiola with the national award normally reserved for presidents, President Buhari has, somehow, secured for himself the much-needed traction in many places for his otherwise fledging second term bid. That gesture may turn out to be an indisputable game changer. If it was going to be difficult to stop him in 2019, being an incumbent, the MKO factor has suddenly taken such a dim prospect well beyond the realm of possibility because of the critical lubricant that it has injected into the Buhari electoral machine. This calculus is likely to create tremendous consternation in the camps of those who have lined themselves up to terminate his presidency come 2019. As a matter of fact, there were already sufficient evidence of that likelihood, with the mounting hue and cry about his lack-lustre performances that is made worse by a sluggish economy, poor communication of skills, escalating insecurity created by ethnic and sectarian tensions brewing across the land, not to mention the unbridled negative activities of the aggrieved Corruption Mafia assiduously working in tandem with the opposition to discredit the administration in every possible way. It is therefore not surprising that former president Olusegun Obasanjo, in a manner reminiscent of a man saddled with the twin burdens of guilty conscience and jealousy has suddenly found it necessary to be raising the obvious false alarm of being marked down for immediate incarceration. For those of us who laboured so hard to validate the annulled result of the election, held on June 12 1993, and later struggled to have that day memorialised as a historic watershed in the struggle to remove dictatorship and enthrone democracy in Nigeria, we have no other person to hold responsible for the unduly prolonged national tragedy than Obasanjo himself, because if he had done the needful to Abiola and to June 12 there would have been no need for anyone, 25 years later, to be righting those wrongs afresh. The truth is that Obasanjo was languishing miserably in Abacha’s Gulag while the June 12 struggle raged; he does not know much about the sacrifices of many Nigerians over it nor can he fathom the depth of the emotions attached to it. In the effort to politically placate the evidently agitated people of the South West, the outgoing Abdusalam care-taker regime decided to hand over power to someone from that zone as compensation. Fortuitously, solely on that account, Obasanjo, a fellow Egba man like Abiola was released from jail straight into the campaign trail as the presidential candidate in a race whose outcome had been pre-determined in his favour all for the sake of Abiola. That was in spite of his haven earlier been quoted to have said that “Abiola was not the Messiah”, something that should have disqualified him from that favour ab initio. In view of the propitiating circumstances under which Obasanjo emerged as a civilian president, most Nigerians expected that one of the first logical steps he would take is to heal the political wounds in the nation by upholding and proclaiming the sanctity of June 12 and then go further to posthumously honour the winner of the election whose annulment triggered a titanic pro-democracy battle against dictatorship. To the surprise of everyone Obasanjo, ostensibly propelled by some uncanny megalomania, proclaimed his own inauguration day, May 29, 1999 as the “Democracy Day” while ignoring June 12. It was an act that was akin to a stab at the back for all those who knew what June 12 and the ensuing pro-democracy struggles spearheaded by NADECO and other progressive elements in the country stood for. It was a betrayal of monumental proportions, an infamous act. It is therefore not surprising that some people have found the guts to be expressing crocodile disappointment with Mr. President over this great act of political and moral magnanimity. There is no doubt that politics has a lot to do with the action and it is sure to give a strong boost to his electoral standing before those who have waited this long for the justice of June 12 to reign. Needless to say that, as for these happy June12 veterans, Buhari’s sins have been forgiven, an unsettling development for those who have been waiting in the wings to undo him come 2019. There have also been the utterly silly arguments that the President cannot honour dead patriots. Nonsense! Rev Martin Luther King, assassinated in 1965 was posthumously honoured many decades later with the declaration of the third Monday of January each year as MLK Day, a national holiday in the US. There was also the idiotic proposition that the President needed the consent of the legislature before he could issue the proclamation or make the awards. That was, constitutionally speaking, arrant nonsense. Again, it only shows how very little many people out there know about the nature of Executive Powers under our laws and politics. As an active participant in the June 12 struggle, the developments of recent days have convinced me about the validity of the saying: “never say never”. It is very easy for those who didn’t believe in the June 12 struggle nor participated in it to want to dismiss the current Buhari gesture as mere gimmick or political ruse. But for those who knew what was involved, it represents a kind of moral validation of the logic of the struggle altogether – they have not laboured in vain. The power of justice over injustice has been manifested, so to say. Annulling an election that was universally adjudged as “true and fair” was a direct assault on everything about democracy, self-determination and justice. That some people found it convenient to disassociate themselves from the June 12 movement and indeed worked against it is a testament to political naivety: Supporting the injustice against Abiola was indirectly inviting similar outcomes on themselves. It is hard to find any segment of the nation today that has not suffered one form of political or sectarian injustice since then. If everyone has enlisted to resist the demon of injustice then, maybe Abiola’s case would have been the last. Clearly, what goes round comes around! It appears as if we are beginning to see a re-invigorated Buhari; from the erstwhile “Baba go-slow”, the new cry in town is now “Action Baba!” In a spate of one week we have seen the signing into law of some fundamental amendments to our Constitution that will definitely help to reverse (part of the change mantra?) the rudderless drift of our constitutional democracy into the abyss. The decision to restore the importance of June 12 in our history is very commendable; it has both moral and redemptive powers. Finally, I would like Mr. President to consider expanding on the number of award beneficiaries. Names like that of the late Chris Ubani, Agbakoba, Falana, Beko, Tinubu, Ukiwe and many others who risked their lives, limbs and resources in the resistance to dictatorship which produced the fruits or “dividends of democracy” that we are enjoying today readily come to mind. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 