Adeosun stated that the new excise duty rate on tobacco was now a combination of the existing ad-valorem base rate and specific rate, while the ad-valorem rate was replaced with a specific rate for alcoholic beverages. The minister added, “For alcoholic beverages, the current ad-valorem rate will be replaced with specific rates and spread over three years to moderate the impact on prices. This will curb the discretion in the unit cost analysis for determining the ad-valorem rate and prevent revenue leakages. “For tobacco, the government will maintain the current ad-valorem rate of 20 per cent and introduce additional specific rates with the implementation to be spread over a three-year period to also reasonably reduce the impact on prices.” The minister added that the new excise duty regime was in line with the Economic Community of West African States’ directive on the harmonisation of member-states’ legislation on excise duties. The ECOWAS Council of Ministers at its 62nd and 79th ordinary sessions in Abuja in May 2009 and December 2017, respectively, issued directives on the harmonisation of the member states’ legislation on excise duties. The directives seek to harmonise member-states’ legislation on excise duties of non-oil products and stipulate the scope of application, rate of taxation, taxable event and amount. Caution To the Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr. Muda Yusuf,  the increase in excise duties on the commodities would lead to price hike, while demand would drop. “As a matter of general principle, I believe that anybody involved in domestic production at this time needs all the support that the government can give them. First, because of the need to create jobs; unemployment is a very big problem. When you talk about excise duties, you are talking about tax on domestic production. “We need to be careful about the way we impose taxes on productive activities in the economy. But for tobacco, because of the health hazards that it exposes people to, I don’t mind; the less of it we have, the better. “Apart from tobacco, it is not advisable to impose excise on any other activities in the economy, because those who are in the real sector are facing enough troubles already. And we are at a time when we want to create jobs and diversify the economy.” According to him, there are other manufacturing concerns that are affected by this imposition of excise duties. “Generally, investors are being over-taxed in this economy, and it is not good for growth, for poverty reduction and job creation. Rather than encourage investors, you are burdening them with taxes at the federal, state and local levels,” Yusuf added. Besides, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, MAN, cautioned that the new policy will have drastic effects on employment and productivity, leading firms to shutting operations. Health Benefits The Head, Media and Campaign, Environmental Rights Action/Friends of the Earth Nigeria, Mr. Philip Jakpor, described the move to increase the excise duty on tobacco as a welcome development and asked the government to do more. He said: “This is one of the things we have been demanding for years. When you increase the duties, what you are inadvertently doing is that you are forcing the price of tobacco products to go up. And once it goes up, fewer people will be able to purchase. “Tobacco is dangerous to health, and the product is cheapest in Nigeria compared to other parts of the world.” To the Registrar, Chartered Institute of Finance and Control of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Eohoi, said the increase in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco was long overdue. According to him,with the Federal Government shifting emphasis away from oil revenue, there was a need to increase the rates on other luxury items in the country. He added that the imposition of additional levies on some of the items would help the government to redistribute income. A developmental economist, Odilim  Enwagbara said the hike in excise duty for alcoholic beverages was long overdue. To him, alcoholic beverages and tobacco are classified under luxury goods, adding that those who want to consume such products should be willing to pay more taxes. He stated, “It is long overdue because we have to do that to make them pay more, because the government needs to generate revenue from those areas that may generate problems for the economy in terms of health problems. “And so, to discourage consumers from taking these products, you will have to tax them more and that is the practice all over the world. “They are luxury goods and if you are really rich, then you should be able to afford the cost of drinking alcohol; and if you want to indulge in smoking, then you must be willing to pay extra for it notwithstanding the health implications.” Enwagbara ruled out such a possibility that the increased duty on these products would have negative impact on the manufacturing sector “I don’t think it will have any negative impact on the manufacturing sector, because a company can diversify its portfolio from producing what is harmful to the people and the economy to other production lines,” he stated. Former Director-General, Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chijioke Ekechukwu, was of the opinion  that increasing excise duty on alcoholic beverages and cigarettes at a time when the government was working hard to reduce inflation rate was not well articulated. “When this excise duty becomes operational, a few things will happen. Firstly, smuggling of these products from neighbouring countries into Nigeria will start. “Secondly, there will be fake products all over the Nigerian market. Thirdly, it will create additional inflation and work against the fight to reduce our inflation rate as these costs will be passed over to consumers.” He added that the policy might result to job losses as companies would strive to reduce their cost of production in order to maintain profit. “The reasons adduced for increasing the tariffs are not plausible and not economically reasonable. The revenue we intend to generate there from will be lost through the foregoing demerits,” he added. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 