The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has sensitised and enlightened prospective retirees (due to retire in 2019), on sundry steps, procedures and documentations required for a stress-free retirement. The prospective retirees comprised staff of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of the Federal Government. The workshop was meant to educate participants on how to transit seamlessly from active employment to retirement under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). Also, the regulatory agency released the time table for the 2018 verification and enrolment exercise of employees of the federal government Treasury Funded MDAs retiring in 2019. The verification will take place in 15 centres across the six geo-political zones of the country, including the Federal Capital from June 25 to August 17, 2018. According to PenCom Acting Director-General, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, “One of the salient objectives of the Pension Reform Act (PRA 2014) is to make pension administration transparent and seamless. Accordingly, the Commission has established uniform set of rules, regulations and standards for all aspects of pension administration, including payment of retirement benefits to retirees. “This was achieved in the case of the latter, through issuance of the Regulation on Administration of Retirement and Terminal Benefits; Regulation on Retire Life Annuity; the Frameworks on Pension Enhancement & Programmed Withdrawals; and the Circular on Voluntary Contributions amongst others.” She added:  “As part of our annual regulatory activities, the Commission has finalised arrangements to commence the verification of prospective retirees, who will be retiring in 2019 from the public service. “The verification exercise is scheduled to be undertaken from June 25, to August 17, 2018 in 15 centers across the country. The impending exercise, therefore, necessitated the need to undertake adequate sensitisation and public enlightenment in order to prepare prospective retirees on the steps to take towards a hitch free retirement life.” Also sensitised on the consolidation of benefits on retirement, are modes of withdrawal of benefits on retirement, rights of retirees and roles of the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and PenCom in the retirement process. They were also advised to enroll for retirement during the ongoing enrolment of prospective retirees by the commission, as enrollment by proxy will not be entertained except on proven cases of medical incapacitation. According to the Commission, participants, having been armed with the requisite information at the workshop, should be in a better position to make informed decisions that will make their retirement from active service stress-free. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 