Since the inception of the FIFA World Cup in 1930, spectators have had to grapple with unexpected results coming from teams hitherto regarded as underdogs. For instance, when Algeria matched onto the field on June 16, 1982 for their group match, little did they or the rest of Africa knew that they were going to cause one of the biggest upsets in the global football against the former champions, Germany. The Fennecs defeated their Germany counterparts 2-1 even though they failed to advance beyond the group stage. In 1994 and making their World Cup debut, Saudi Arabia pulled a surprise result when they defeated Belgium 1-0 in a group stage via a wondrous goal from their forward, Saeed Al-Owairan. The Arabs entered the match with less than 23 percent chance of winning, according to FIFA’s data analysis. In the 2006 edition of the World Cup, Ghana were making their debut but that did not stop them from beating Czech Republic 2-0 during the group stage. Similarly, Senegal’s debut appearance at the Mundial in 2002 recorded a huge surprise as the Lions of Teranga piped holders, France, 1-0 through a nineteen minutes Papa Bouba Diop goal. That was exactly what Cameroon did in the 1990 edition after the legendary Roger Milla-inspired Indomitable Lions defeated cup holders, Argentina, 1-0 in the tournament’s opener. The list of upsets at the World Cup is endless and the same trend has followed into the ongoing competition currently taking place in Russia. While Russia were expected to win the opening match of the ongoing World Cup against the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, not even the country’s incurable optimist would have predicted that the World Cup hosts were going to rout their opponent. Starting the opening match on the back foot as the Asians were dominating early proceedings, Russia turned the heat on Saudi Arabia beating them 5-0 in the process. Even Stanislav Cherchesov, the coach of Russia, in a post match press conference, which was reported by Reuters, admitted that the result was a surprise even though he expected his wards to win the match. “Today showed we are on the right track, but it was surprising that the players acquitted themselves well to win with 5-0. It was not the result we hoped to get even though I was realistic that we will win the match. We need to forget about this game … and concentrate on the next step,” he was quoted as saying. The following day, the Cristiano Ronaldo-inspired Portugal pulled off a 3-3 draw against the former champions, Spain, where the reigning world’s best player netter a hat trick. Given that Portugal are the reigning European champions, a lot should understandably be expected from them, but certainly not from the match producing six goals. This is the position of Portuguese coach, Fernando Santos, who praised his players for their discipline. “It was a tough match for us but not in my dream would I have expected six goals in a match involving Spain and Portugal. We are European champions but Spain has been there before and they are a force in World football,” he said. The match showed that Portugal are capable of playing counter attacking football in a technical game from a technical side that is packed with ball-playing midfielders. Before Morocco and Iran stepped onto the field for their match, Morocco were highly favoured to defeat the latter and rightly too. The odds were in favour of Morocco to get past Iran. Iran, before the ongoing World Cup, has participated at the FIFA World Cup four times with only one win, three draw and eight losses. They, alongside Morocco, are considered outsiders in their group also having Spain and Portugal. But after springing a surprise in the win against Morocco, the Asians then had outside chances to make it out of the obvious tough group. Entering the World Cup as one of the hot favourites to lift the trophy, Argentina were highly tipped to make light of Iceland when both sides clash in Group D’s opening game at Otkrytie Arena, but a resilient performance from the debutants meant that the Lionel Messi-captained La Albeceleste had to settle for a draw. Given the surprising nature of the result, Iceland manager, Heimir Hallgrimson, describe it as a big milestone for his side. “It’s a big milestone for this team, the first time we have played at the World Cup. Playing against Argentina is not the easiest game first up and to have a point in the bag is better than not,” he said. The tiny country put up a defensive discipline that saw off challenges from some of the world’s best forwards in Argentina squad, who included Messi, Gonzalo Higuain, Dyabala and Sergio Aguero, among others. The draw against the former world champions has gone down as one of the surprises of the ongoing World Cup. At Kazan Arena also on Saturday, the 1998 champions, France, had to rely on a last gasp effort from Paul Pogba and an earlier Video Assistant Referee (VAR) to see off resilient Australians. Before the match, pundits and punters gave France a one hundred percent odds to defeat the Australians while the former had almost zero odds to emerge winners. Antoine Griezmann scored from the penalty spot after Les Bleus were awarded a spot-kick through VAR, but Mile Jedinak levelled for Australia with a penalty for the Aussies after a Samuel Umtiti handball before Paul Pogba applied the finishing touches to a neat team move to confirm the triumph. Australia were never expected to get anything from the match but there was enough on show in that 2-1 defeat at the hands of ‘Les Bleus’ to suggest that Peru and Denmark face a battle to claim a berth in the knockout stages. Considered by many as the favourites for the tournament, France were expected to dish out a lesson to the upstarts from the Southern Hemisphere, but that didn’t prove to be the case. A spirited Australia performance, combined with several France stars failing to turn in anything like their best made it a much tighter game than expected, with technology eventually proving key in claiming all three points for Didier Deschamps’ men. In Rostov Arena, Brazil were demystified by Switzerland, as the most successful country in the history of the World Cup failed to eke out a win against Switzerland, who are not even ranked outsiders to make the podium when the curtain falls on July 15. The match ended one goal apiece. Philippe Coutinho, who was making his World Cup debut, gave Brazil the lead in the 20th minute with a volley that bounced in off the right post. Steven Zuber then headed in the equaliser in the 50th minute. Mexican referee, CÈsar Ramos, dismissed complaints that Zuber had shoved defender Miranda before getting to the corner from Xherdan Shaqiri. Brazil has won 17 of its 22 matches since Tite took over as coach in 2016. But they could not get another one in front of a very Brazil-friendly crowd at the Rostov Arena. Reflecting on the match, Vladimir Petkovic, the Switzerland coach, said: “I am proud of their determination,” Petkovic said of his team. “The first 40 minutes were tough for us, and at half-time, I told the players to stay cool and press forward. They did, and it worked.” Meanwhile, what could perhaps be regarded as the greatest surprise so far in the ongoing World Cup was recorded at Luzhniki Stadium in the match between the cup holders, Germany, and Mexico. The defending champions crashed to their first defeat in their opening World Cup games since 1982 as Hirving Lozano’s clinical finish earned Mexico a shock 1-0 victory on Sunday. The highly rated PSV Eindhoven forward struck the winner on 35 minutes after a blistering counter-attack at the Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow as Mexico beat Germany for just the second time in history. Expressing shock over the defeat, former United States of America coach, Bruce Arena, has this to say: “They had to defend with a lot of numbers for a lot of the game. That’s not really Mexican football, but they were all committed to do it and did an outstanding job. These results, according to Henry Nwosu, former Nigerian captain, have highlighted the fact that football has gone beyond given certain countries favourites’ tag, advising Nigeria to always prepare very well for all their matches. “I think what we are witnessing in this World Cup will show you that all these favourites’ tag being given to countries and clubs mean nothing if they fail to prepare. Nobody will believe that Mexico will draw Germany talk-less of winning. I hope we learn from this and always prepare our teams well,” he spoke to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT. True to Nwosu’s words, a result such as the above and what happened at the Mordovia Arena, where Japan defeated Colombia 2-1 showed that countries must up their ante if they hope to win their matches. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 