Umuahia – In the fullness of time, every good work will be made manifest and indeed define the future or otherwise of the worker. Certainly, every action and activity of a political office holder, both elected and appointed, would determine whether his constituents or he that appointed him would give him another opportunity to serve or not. However, for some elected political officeholders, the sky would be their limit as 2019 general elections approach because of the sparkling and scintillating performance they posted since they were elected as governors and legislators. However, as Nigerians celebrate the third year of this dispensation on May 29, 2018, the works and performance of every elected politician is made manifest, assessed and marks given. Among the legislators who have posted good results in terms of quality legislation and delivery of dividends of democracy, according to records available, is the former governor of Abia State and Senator representing Abia Central in the National Assembly, Senator Theodore Ahamefule Orji CON (Ochendo). Checks by our reporter showed that Orji has provided his constituents with the basic things of life; among them are scholarships for indigent/brilliant students in the six local government areas as well as given them various empowerment programmes. Such empowerments include buses, tricycles known as keke, motorbikes, sewing and grinding machines as well as foodstuffs. Apart from his quality representation at the upper legislative assembly, Orji has given the Abia Central Senatorial District the legislative excellence as he had initiated and indeed has over 20 bills at various stages of becoming laws in the Senate to his credit. Before him were three senators who represented the district. They are Senators Bob Nwannunu, Chris Adighije and Nkechi Nwaogu. Certainly, the contrast is glaring as Orji has to the true import of the word distinguished and acquitted himself him as a legislator who has not only contributed in making good laws for the Nigerian federation, but has given his constituents some needs which are fundamentals, an Umuahia-based chartered accountant, Chief Ako Atulomah, had said. As a bridge builder, Orji has built political and social bridges amongst Senators and amongst other ethnic groups and interests while in the Senate. Without mincing words, what Orji has done so far as a Senator is to say the least, visible to the blind and audible to the deaf. Unlike other Senators who represented the Abia Central Senatorial District before him, Ochendo mirrors the root of the challenges of his electorates and delved into solving them headlong. As the country’s stressed economy stifles family and business layouts, Senator is marshalling out a list plans considered as A Marshal plan that would not only give his constituents a sense of belonging, but would continually put food in their tables, most of his constituents interviewed insist. The plan is seen as a restorative arrangement aimed at sending those that have no hope of completing their studies in both institutions of higher learning and post primary institutions back to school. This action plan also would also see a number of young men and women incapacitated by lack of job become employers of labour themselves. To this end, over 600 women and youths have been trained to acquire knowledge in tailoring and fashion designing and indeed given sewing machines and their ancillaries to start work on their own in the six LGAs of the Senatorial District. And those who could not be trained and are willing to do other chores of their choice, the Senator gave them buses, keke napep and motorcycles for their day to day up keep. Unlike other Senators before him who were not able to attract meaningful federal projects, Ochendo has under the three years he has been at the upper legislative assembly, convinced the federal government on the need to rehabilitate the Umuahia-Ikwuano-Ikot Road and other federal roads in the state. That some roads, including the Abia axis of the Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway were rehabilitated is due to the problem-solving inventiveness of Ochendo. He goes extra mile to solve personal problems and has rewarded excellence and hard work. To cover the tracks in agriculture which was left unattended to by his predecessors, the Distinguished Senator provided farmers in the district equipments like tractors and harvesters for farmers. And to cap it up, he procured seedlings, fingerlings, fertilizers and anti pest insecticides for increased farm yields. So far, over 1000 farmers from the district have benefitted from the Senator’s benevolence for farmers in his constituency. It is his belief that for food to be in quantum in the area, farmers must be given reasonable incentives to produce. No wonder farms in the Senatorial District have literarily started smiling, prompting the assumption that 2019 would witness a bumper harvest in Abia state. To bridge the distrust gap between the electorates and the ruling class, TA reached out to stakeholders of the district, offering them his hands of fellowship. He involved some of them in the planning and execution of some his constituency projects; like the current rebuilding of schools, churches and town halls and other public institutions in his area of representation, according to one of his constituents and an Umuahia based legal practitioner, Barr Randie Ukawoko. For instance, the Trinity Theological Institute, Umuahia owned by the Methodist Church whose fence has remained dilapidated since after the Nigerian civil war and the St Stephens Primary, Umuahia have been rebuilt by the senator. The rehabilitation of both the church and the school is part of a comprehensive package by the Senator aimed at restoring the aesthetic beauty of Umuahia as well as promoting academic excellence and some making worship centres in the ancient city serene and angelic. In order to make the electricity accessible to the people of his constituency, Ochendo has improved the efficiency of electricity in his district by donated and installed 500kv transformers to over 400 communities there. He also sunk boreholes to about 200 communities, making him the highest in terms of the number of transformers and water-boreholes sunk in Abia Central by any representative. It should be noted that boreholes have been reticulated as his communities who benefitted from them are now enjoying them. The six local government areas in Abia Central that enjoy the Ochendo’s largesse are Umuahia North, Umuahia South, Ikwuano, Isiala Ngwa North, Isiala Ngwa South and Osisioma. To promote infrastructure acceleration in the senatorial district, the Distinguished Senator introduced community participation to enhance infrastructure development of rural area under his watch. To achieve this, he engages traditional rulers (Ndieze) of various autonomous communities in the district and ensures that their welfares are readily available during Christmas and New Year festivities. With this, his constituents are yearning for his return to the Senate, the Principal Secretary to the Governor of Abia State, Chief Emma Nwabuko declared. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 