Abuja – A youth organisation under the aegis of 372 Youth Network for Stability of Nigeria, has described the proclamation of June 12 as a pointer that is capable of returning Nigeria to the path of true democracy. Addressing journalists in Abuja on Tuesday during a press conference to mark the occasion the president of the group, Mohammed Saidu, said that it is the beginning of a genuine process of righting the wrongs of the past and setting the country on the path of recovery growth and development. He noted that June 12 remains a watershed in the political history of the country and a day of national rebirth when Nigerians jettisoned the politics of ethnicity and religious bigotry to vote for candidates of their choice irrespective of their ethnic and religious affiliations. According to him “On this day Nigerians spoke with one voice but unfortunately rather than allow Nigeria to continue on this steady progressives path of democratic revolution, the anti-democracy forces ganged up to truncate the will of the people.” From that moment onwards, many things went wrong with Nigeria and we began to grope in darkness as it were, we lost our true character and destination and became sharply divided along religious and ethnic lines as never witnessed before. Saidu stressed that it symbolised restoration of people’s mandate and respect for freedom of choice and setting the country free from the clutches of anti – people forces. The group urged assured Nigerians that the root cause of the security challenges confronting the country would be addressed and become a thing of the past. “The security in our country in the past years have been very challenging ranging from Boko Haram insurgency, Niger Delta militancy, armed robbery and kidnapping.  We commend the effort made to combating these vices. The Niger Delta militancy has become a thing of the past through various government interventions which has been able to address the root cause of these vices,”  Saidu noted. He urged Nigerian to join hands with government to tackle the rot and menace of corruption and its attendant implications on the economy.  He admitted that the anti graft war has not been able to achieve its desire goals adding that a lot still need to be done in order to secure posterity for future generations. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 