According to the International Telecommunication Union, mobile broadband subscriptions have grown over 20% annually in the last five years. A GSMA study shows that in Africa, limited network coverage remains a key barrier to mobile Internet adoption. Presently, mobile broadband networks cover around 50% of the population, meaning that 600 million people in the region do not have access to a mobile broadband service. “To ensure efficient mobile broadband adoption, stable and efficient policies and regulations are essential for mobile operators to have the best conditions to roll out mobile broadband networks in underserved areas. Private investment depends heavily on the regulatory climate,” Ericsson advised. For Mr. Deolu Ogunbanjo, National Association of Telecommunications Subscribers (NATCOMS), government at all level has been creating bottlenecks for the realisation the broadband penetration target. He said that there some policies that are not in tandem with the drive to achieve the set target. In his view, issues of multi-level taxation, lack of infrastructure and power are limiting the operators’ efforts to accomplish what has been agreed. According to him, “What is playing out is that the government is looking at telecoms companies as oil companies. It is important that attention should be given to the telecoms service providers for them to give their best to Nigerians. But the way the government at federal, state and local levels are handling issues is quite frustrating. Some of the policies are strangulating the operations of the telecoms who they expected to make the 30 percent target a reality. We cannot eat our cake and have it. For there to be significant improvement in our broadband plan and see it materialize, government must reduce multiple taxation. If they do this, the operators who will deploy the broadband will have some investment to deploy more infrastructure and robust services. But, as it stands today, we cannot go far unless sincere measures are taken. Recently, the government came with the idea of placing a cybercrime levy on the telcos for mobile financial transactions. This type of action directly or indirectly slows down the pace of network expansion which allows for broadband penetration. Ogunbanjo also frowned at the government passive position of the Right of Way challenge the operators are facing, saying the such inaction is frustrating broadband plan. “Two years ago, the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo visited the United Arab Emirates to assure them of ease of doing business in Nigeria. But we are yet to start walking the talk, because some economic policies that should be addressed are not addressed. I guess that is why foreign investors are still shying away from coming to Nigeria. And this is what telecoms operators are facing. I think things can up if the government is sincere with its policy thrust. Regulatory Constraints Responsible For Slow Broadband Penetration On his part, Engr Stephen Bello, former Commissioner at NCC, told DAILY INDEPENDENT that much can be achieved if there is a political will. He stated some challenges slowing down broadband penetration which include Right of Way constraint, regulatory bottlenecks, lack of adequate spectrum among others. Bello said: “Talking of broadband, it is an infrastructure that requires government full support because of its spread to facilities. There are three levels of permission to pass through before broadband can get to the last mile. For physical cables to be drawn to the cities, permission must be obtained from the respective cities and other authorities before full deployment of broadband to the last mile. Why all these permissions are necessary is because of utilities such as railway line, pipelines and power lines. In his view, Dr. Jimson Olufuye, former president, Information Technology Association of Nigeria (ITAN), posits that the country is doing her best in the area of broadband penetration. He how submitted that a lot needs to be done to justify what is being invested in the initiative. In his words: “Nigeria is not backward in this regard, even though we have not been able to meet the set target of 30 percent by 2018 ending. The fact is that broadband operation goes beyond local environment. There is need for more investment, even though a lot has been spend on this project. “What I think we should be focusing our attention on mostly, is the quality of service. The telecoms service providers are in almost every part of the country. If they can provide quality and steady service, it will become easier for the underserved and unserved in the periphery of the country to be reached. “Today, there are many smartphones users. This in a way will aid broadband penetration. Many mobile devices are available in the hands of many people in the country. This will help the operators to know how to get people from any part of the country to connect to their service. The drive of G4/LTE is a laudable development too. If there is quality service, we can cover more grounds than planned for.” The government at all levels needs to reconsider the importance of the ICT sector, especially since increasing broadband access is a key component of the nation’s economic growth. But it’s not enough to talk about the benefits of broadband penetration. The government needs to reevaluate its activities that are hindering the performance of the telecom operators as well as InfraCos. This will ensure that these companies not only fully cover the nation, but that Internet services are provided at a much lower cost which will, in turn, drive penetration and its effect on the economy. Government at all levels needs to reconsider industry-specific taxation while also minimising complexity and uncertainty of taxes and fees in the sector. Subsequent broadband policies should put emphasis on affordability of broadband access rather than just the spread or penetration since the price has a role to play in its adoption. According to GSMA, the consideration for assigning new spectra should be about the long-term socio-economic impact as opposed to the short-term gains of high upfront fees for the spectrum. The NCC needs to work with the CBN to have telecommunications equipment included on the list of items valid for foreign exchange. This will allow telcos and InfraCos access foreign currency at favourable rates. All these would not only drive the spread of infrastructure, Internet penetration would also deepen. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 