Senator Peter Nwaoboshi represents Delta North Senatorial District at the Senate. In this interview with FELIX IGBEKOYI, the former chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Delta State chapter, and current Chairman, Senate Committee on Niger Delta Affairs, speaks on his challenges with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), politics of the Senate and that of his state. Excerpt: People have been sympathising with you over your predicament with the EFCC. What is the development? I don’t want to really go much into the issue because it is in court. But, I will give a brief insight. Sometime ago, some boys came, precisely, Kpokpogiri and Fejiro, and wanted some financial assistance. I gave them. Then, one of them came again and it almost got to a point of extortion. And I said, I am not the type of person you will come and extort, if I want to help, I will help you. Not quite long, the Commissioner for Information called me and said two guys wanted to see me, Kpokpogiri and Fejiro. I was in Port Harcourt doing oversight functions, and I asked him to put them on the line. They said they wanted a contract from me, and I told them that I am a legislator, I don’t give contracts. But, if in the course of my job there is a way to assist you, I will assist you. Not quite long, they had meeting with my Chief of Staff that they wanted some money from me, and I said nobody can extort from me, nobody can blackmail me, because I know what I have been doing. I don’t work with government, I have nothing to hide. After that, the guys wrote a petition to EFCC, ICPC, CCB and made some bogus allegations against me. I was not perturbed because the allegations were all false without facts. Through my security network, I got to know that there were some persons they were hobnobbing with at the EFCC. What action did you take then since you might have at least  suspected danger? I advised the companies involved to go to court, to challenge the state government and EFCC. That was how we filed a case at the Federal High Court, Asaba. The moment EFCC saw that I have filed a case against it, it quickly rushed to the Federal High Court in Lagos and obtained a temporary forfeiture order against the property in Lagos without informing the court that they were already before the Asaba High Court. That interim order is called motion experte in law. However, we went through the case in Asaba, and what they were saying was that we supplied second hand equipment to Delta State government. If some of you were around during the time of Uduaghan, you will see when those equipment were exhibited. And we defeated EFCC in that matter because they were unable to prove that the equipment were fairly used; that there was no money laundering. So, we have a subsisting Federal High Court judgment, and as I speak, neither the Federal Government nor the EFCC has appealed. The matter in court now is no longer the issue of second hand equipment, it is not an issue that I embezzled money or committed fraud, it is that a loan of N1.2 billion was given to my company. The loan was completely secured for 250% because valuers of Nexim Bank valued the security, property which were valued to the tune of 250 per cent. That is to say the market value of that property as at the time the loan was given to us was about N3.5 billion. Now, the loan itself, when I finished what I was doing with the loan, I domiciled the payment to Nexim Bank. As I speak, we have paid N1.2 billion, whatever is left is just the interest. The loan is going to mature in April next year. Are you saying the EFCC has a score to settle with you? You all know my position at the Senate. I am one of those who fight to defend the institution of the Senate, and one of those who believe that we cannot have dictatorship in this country again. At a point, one of the serving ministers met me and threatened that they were going to deal with me. I was not bothered because I know that they were not going to go too far. After that judgement, the FG is trying to justify what they said about PDP by including my name as one of the looters. I have not been found guilty by any court, and I cannot imagine where I looted. So, I asked my lawyers to write EFCC that we are about to file a case in court. As soon as they noticed that, they came together again, and said the company they alleged was mine took a loan of N1.2 billion from Nexim Bank, and from that loan, we took N300 million to offset the property we bought in Lagos. They have checked me and everything, and the Acting Chairman of EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, had alleged that I was one of the principal people who stopped his confirmation as Chairman. So, they must get at me at all cost. I can never be cowed, I can never be intimidated. What is your relationship with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa? Okowa is my brother and our relationship is very cordial. Let me tell you that when we started the PDP in Delta State, we came from two different groups to merge and form the PDP. Former Governor James Ibori was leading the GDM. It was that bad. Eventually, when I was going to contest the chairmanship, Okowa supported me at his own risk as a serving commissioner. What I am trying to say is that we have a very long relationship and I believe that he was the best man for the job. It was in this house that we took a resolution that it must be Delta North, and I led the Delta North team at the time. It was me versus Uduaghan who was the sitting governor. I owe it a duty to the Anioma man to project that position which he is holding today as the Governor of Delta State. I also owe it to him as a loyal brother who has been loyal to me, to be very loyal to him and protect that position which is occupying. So, I have a duty, the duty I owe him for his loyalty and the duty I owe the Anioma people to protect that position. If he fails, the Anioma people have failed. As a man representing the Anioma in the upper legislative arm, the highest legislative arm in this country, I owe it a duty to make sure that he succeeds as the first Anioma man to be governor because that will be the yardstick to measure whether we will occupy that position in the future. As a first timer, that you were made the Chairman of Senate Committee on NDDC was a mystery. How are you able to attract some projects to Delta North? Politics is an act, it is not just a pole volt, it is an act you have to grow with. When I was elected as Senator, the first major task that confronted us was the issue of the leadership of the National Assembly. I realised that I am from the minority; hence you must know where you are coming from. I had to study the political terrain in Abuja. Having finished studying, I contacted Governor Okowa, a former Senator. He gave me his advice and both of us agreed that I should support Bukola Saraki. I went to Chief James Ibori in London and we had a very long meeting. At the end, Chief Ibori said I should support Saraki. If you know me, I am loyal to friendship. I returned to the Senate and straight to Saraki. But, before then, Ibori had called him from London and told him that I was coming to see him. So, I went there and I saw him and I gave him my word that I would support him. So, we started. I was now a bridge between him and the Eastern bloc because I speak Igbo. So, when he is going to campaign to the Igbo, I would be in the team, I was also in the South-South bloc. I never one day asked him for money. I never drank a cup of tea in his house then. But. I was on the road 24 hours campaigning for him. And when it seemed all hope was lost, he looked back and saw in me a reliable friend. I became a chairman as a reward for loyalty. When they won, all the members of the leadership of the Senate asked what I wanted for my loyalty, steadfastness and commitment to the struggle. If I had wanted any other thing, they would have given it to me because they saw in me a loyal, committed and a true friend, both in the time of enjoyment and in time of crisis. What has Delta State benefitted from your loyalty to the Senate leadership? I am not chairman of NDDC, I am chairman of the SEnate Committee on the Niger Delta Affairs. My committee oversight the oil companies, Amnesty Office, the NDDC and the Ministry of the Niger Delta Affairs. Having gotten that position, I saw that Delta State is not being well taken care off. So, we have to correct the abnormally. I also saw that Anioma land was not being taken care of. If I am there, I can’t stay inside the water and my people are not drinking water. What you see now is a tip of the iceberg; more will come, because you must give me what is due to my constituents. I am not asking for everything because you are the government in power, but even if it is five percent that is our entitlement, you must give us to develop our area. That is what we are saying. Do you have the courage to confront somebody in power, and tell him these are the facts, and this is what I want for my people? Anioma is part of the Niger Delta. So, what they are giving to me is not a privilege, it is the right of my people. It that right that was not exploited before. So, I am asking as a matter of right because I am the Senator representing the area for now. What is your dream for 2019, 2023? Two dreams. A united Anioma because my brother is the governor and of course a united Delta State. I am not one of those who think that there will be no friction within the state, but what we should do to make Delta united and successful. Whether you like it or not, when I finish my tenure, it will be used as a yardstick to measure the performance of those who will succeed me. What has been your achievements as a Senator in the last three years? Our brothers from Ndokwa, for example, because of the people there, out of selfishness of some people, when I brought the empowerment from Amnesty Office, no Ndokwa man had been empowered before I came in, and I was able to attract it to the area. We have over 300 slots. No one person from Ika, Aniocha, Oshimili; they saw that the entire beneficiaries were Ndokwa. But, I have people on the social media who are saying that Ndokwa does not want a polytechnic, that there is one in Aboh. I came into NDDC and saw that for 17 years, the NLNG did not pay a dime as the 50 percent they are supposed to contribute to the commission. I brought them to the table and brought them to their knees. I sponsored a bill that brought them to their knees. Now, they have paid over $60 million to NDDC within a space of two months. I single handedly sponsored that bill, got it passed at the Senate, got it passed at the House of Representatives and got it assented to by the President. You may not like me, but that bill and the money generated remains in my name. If I can generate that kind of money what is wrong if I asked for a small percentage to improve the area where I come from? Is that too much? You are looking at about N26 billion and we are asking for just about N2 billion to develop the area, is that too much? That is the first phase. The next stage now is that they are supposed to pay about $120 million, NLNG is negotiating with them. So, it depends on the level of preparation when you went there. I think after about 40 years as a politician, if I cannot know my left from my right, I am not worth being what it is. Apart from the EFCC trouble, can you tell us some of your challenges? I once had 26 petitions on my head from Ndokwa people because of the empowerment. When the first 96, which was even delayed as a result of the petition came, they were in Abuja and demonstrated. They said all sorts of things, they said my brothers were there. The people came and conducted an on-the-spot assessment, they did not see anything. But, where that has landed us today is that we couldn’t proceed to the second phase. We couldn’t go to the third stage, they stopped at the 96. I moved a motion for the establishment of a polytechnic in Kwale axis, and the public hearing is coming up soon. When I was going to contest for state chairmanship, if you know the circumstances which I became the state chairman, I was the man who took up arms against Chief Ibori and the state government that power must shift. I had to work on the consciousness of other ethnic groups and the Urhobo groups that power must shift and leave Urhobo land. In the process, I lost three drivers. They did not die. They would just come and drop their keys that they did not want to work, that people would, Ibrahim Magu bomb the car. I was like a rejected man. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 