After reciting the Tashahhud, Ta’wwuz, and Surah Al-Fatihah, Hazrat Khalifatul Masih V (aba) stated: while mentioning the importance of Jumuah, the Holy Prophet (sa) said on one occasion: “There comes such an hour on (Friday), which, if a Muslim encounters while standing in prayer, then whatever supplication he makes, it is accepted or whatever goodness he asks for, it is granted to him by Allah the Exalted.” Everyone supplicates during prayers according to their own thinking or need. There are also some, who, although offer the prayer, but are not moved to make any special supplications. They simply offer the prayers, repeat the words of the salat and consider it to be sufficient. They are unaware of the importance of prayer. Thus, today, during this last Jumuah of Ramadan, I deemed it appropriate to recite certain prayers, so that those who are not sufficiently aware may also understand the significance of prayers and so that we, as a community, may present our prayers and supplications before Allah the Exalted and then collectively pray for the acceptance of these supplications during the salat. I will now recite some Qur’anic prayers and some related from the Holy Prophet (sa). Those, who remember them, should recite them silently or rather those, who are able to, should, by all means, recite them silently and also continue saying ‘ameen’ quietly. May Allah the Exalted accept our prayers. SubhanAllahi wa bi hamdehi subhanAllahil Azeem. Allahumma salli ‘alaa Muhammadin wa aali Muhammad. Firstly, there are the following Qur’anic prayers: Our Lord, grant us good in this world as well as good in the world to come, and protect us from the torment of the Fire. (2:202) Our Lord, pour forth upon us steadfastness and cause us to die resigned unto Thee.’ (7:127) Our Lord, send down to us a table from heaven spread with food that it may be to us a festival, to the first of us and to the last of us, and a sign from Thee; and provide sustenance for us, for Thou art the Best of sustainers. (5:115) Our Lord, we have heard a crier calling us unto faith, ‘Believe ye in your Lord,’ and we have believed. Our Lord, forgive us, therefore, our errors and remove from us our evils, and in death number us with the righteous. (3:194) Our Lord, we believe in that which Thou hast sent down and we follow this Messenger. So write us down among those who bear witness. (3:54) Our Lord, let not our hearts become perverse after Thou hast guided us; and bestow on us mercy from Thyself; surely, Thou alone art the Bestower. (3:9) My Lord, grant me from Thyself pure offspring; surely, Thou art the Hearer of prayer. (3:39) Our Lord, grant us of our wives and children the delight of our eyes, and make us a model for the righteous. (25:75) My Lord, grant me the power that I may be grateful for Thy favour which Thou hast bestowed upon me and upon my parents, and that I may do such good works as may please Thee. And make my seed righteous for me. I do turn to Thee; and, truly, I am of those who submit to Thee. (46:16) My Lord, grant me a righteous heir. (37:101) My Lord, I am in need of whatever good Thou mayest send down to me. (28:25) My Lord, grant me the will and power to be grateful for Thy favour which Thou hast bestowed upon me and upon my parents, and to do such good works as would please Thee, and admit me, by Thy mercy, among Thy righteous servants.’ (27:20) My Lord, I seek refuge in Thee from the incitements of the evil ones. And I seek refuge in Thee, my Lord, lest they come near me.’  (23:98-99) O my Lord, increase me in knowledge. (20:115) My Lord, open out for me my breast, and ease for me my task, and loose the knot of my tongue, that they may understand my speech. (20:26-29) Our Lord, bestow on us mercy from Thyself, and provide for us right guidance in our affair. (18:11) My Lord, make my entry a good entry and then make me come forth with a good forthcoming. And grant me from Thyself a helping power. (17:81) My Lord, have mercy on them even as they nourished me in my childhood. (17:25) My Lord, bestow wisdom on me and join me with the righteous; and give me a true reputation among posterity; and make me one of the inheritors of the Garden of Bliss; (26:84-86) My Lord, I have wronged my soul, therefore forgive me. (28:17) Our Lord, perfect our light for us and forgive us; surely Thou hast power over all things. (66:9) Our Lord, we believe; forgive us therefore our sins, and have mercy on us; for Thou art the Best of those who show mercy. (23:110) Our Lord, we have wronged ourselves; and if Thou forgive us not and have not mercy on us, we shall surely be of the lost. (7:24) Our Lord, put us not with the unjust people. (7:48) My Lord, leave me not childless, and Thou art the Best of inheritors. (21:90) My Lord, if Thou wilt show me that with which they are threatened. My Lord, then place me not with the wrongdoing people. (23:94-95) Our Lord, Thou dost comprehend all things in Thy mercy and knowledge. So forgive those who repent and follow Thy way; and protect them from the punishment of Hell. And make them, our Lord, enter the Gardens of Eternity which Thou hast promised them, as well as such of their fathers and their wives and their children as are virtuous. Surely Thou art the Mighty, the Wise. And protect them from evils; and he whom Thou dost protect from evils on that day — him hast Thou surely shown mercy. And that indeed is the supreme triumph. (40:8-10) Our Lord, forgive us and our brothers who preceded us in the faith, and  leave not in our hearts any rancour against those who believe. Our Lord! Thou art indeed Compassionate, Merciful. (59:11) My Lord, forgive me and my parents, and him who enters my house as a believer, and the believing men and the believing women; and increase Thou not the wrongdoers but in perdition. (71:29) Our Lord, give us what Thou hast promised to us through Thy Messengers; and disgrace us not on the Day of Resurrection. Surely, Thou breakest not Thy promise. (3:195) Thou art our Protector; forgive us then and have mercy on us, for Thou art the Best of those who forgive. (7:156) Our Lord, avert from us the punishment of Hell; for the punishment thereof is a lasting torment. (25:66) Our Lord, we do believe; forgive us, therefore, our sins and save us from the punishment of the Fire. (3:17) My Lord, make me observe Prayer, and my children too. Our Lord! Bestow Thy grace on me and accept my prayer. Our Lord, grant forgiveness to me and to my parents and to the believers on the day when the reckoning will take place. (14:41-42) My Lord, save me and my family from what they do. (26:170) My Lord, my people have treated me as a liar. Therefore judge Thou decisively between me and them; and save me and the believers that are with me. (26:118-119) Help me, my Lord, against the wicked people. (29:31) I am overcome, so come Thou to my help! (54:11) Our Lord, do not punish us, if we forget or fall into error; and our Lord, lay not on us a responsibility as Thou didst lay upon those before us. Our Lord, burden us not with what we have not the strength to bear; and efface our sins, and grant us forgiveness and have mercy on us; Thou art our Master; so help us Thou against the disbelieving people. (2:287) O our Lord, pour forth steadfastness upon us, and make our steps firm, and help us against the disbelieving people. (2:251) ‘Our Lord, forgive us our errors and our excesses in our conduct, and make firm our steps and help us against the disbelieving people.’ (3:148) O our Lord, decide Thou between us and between our people with truth, and Thou art the Best of those who decide. (7:90) Our Lord, make us not a trial for the wrongdoing people. And deliver us by Thy mercy from the disbelieving people. (10:86-87) O my Lord, help me, for they have treated me as a liar. (23:27) My Lord! build for me a house with Thee in the Garden; and deliver me from Pharaoh and his work, and deliver me from the wrongdoing people; (66:12) Now, there are some prayers from the Ahadith (sayings of the Holy Prophet (sa)). It is narrated that the Holy Prophet (sa) taught this prayer, ‘O Allah! Forgive me my mistakes, protect me from the evil of my lack of knowledge, ignorance and injustice in my affairs and safeguard me from every harm and evil, which You are aware of far greater than I myself. O Allah! Forgive me my mistakes. Forgive all of my mistakes, whether they were committed knowingly, unknowingly or in a manner of a joke, as they are all within me. Forgive all of my mistakes, which I have already committed and which I have not yet committed; those which I committed secretly and those which I committed openly. You are the One, Who causes people to progress and regress and only You are Powerful over all things. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 