In a bid to achieve the desired growth for MMIA, Dunoma approved the promotion and deployment of Mrs. Victoria Shin-Aba, as the Acting Regional Terminal Manager, South West. Shin-Aba, who is equally a smart career woman, was the first female to be appointed into such sensitive position in FAAN. She’s overseeing the activities in all the airports in the South West, including MMIA, which is the most strategic airport in the country. In an interview with our correspondent in Lagos, Shin-Aba confirmed that there had been gradual improvement in infrastructure from the airside, terminal building and even the landside over the years, which had led to improved passengers’ comfort. She explained that the infrastructural developments led to the successful certification of the airport by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), 11 years since the exercise began and 38 years after the construction and usage of the airport. She hinted that the airport has adequate fire cover incase of fire outbreak, runway lighting, which makes flying more convenient for pilots, adding that the toilet facilities was recently improved upon by the management. She said: “Without infrastructure, you wouldn’t have had the certification of airports. The certification has to do with a lot of things especially on the safety side; upgrade and improvement in the lighting systems, fire cover with adequate fire vehicles that are serviceable, the runway improvement. There is a side, which we were able to meet up with so that we could attain the certification, which is on the airside. “Then, the terminal building, you will agree with me we have witnessed lots of developments. At inception, the capacity was 6,000, but over time, we have had this remodeling that had to extend all sides. For instance, we used to have just one screening area, which we referred to as central search, but now, we have two screening areas in Delta and Echo (D & E) of screening. “Also, the main departure all was extended. So, we have more leg space, additional space to take more passengers as well as the immigration counters that we improved upon from just 10 to over 30 on both sides of the screening with attendant numbers of screening machines. “Then at the central search, we had about three screening machines, but on both sides now, we have improved them to six; three each and additional ones for the entrance gate. “Also, we still have ongoing construction of hotels at the third floor of the terminal and waiting lounges, which were nearing completion. So, when we have transit passengers who don’t want to go to town, they can go to the hotel, which has about 40 rooms. “At the landside, we have a multi-storey building car park, which is on Public Private Participation (PPP). This has further eased the issue of parking at that side of the airport. Then, there is a new road network going on at the airport. Also, we have the new China Chinese, which is also almost completed.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 