Dr. Yunusa Tanko is the National Chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and a presidential aspirant in the 2019 election. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day by President Muhammadu Buhari. Excerpts: How do you see the declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day by President Muhammadu Buhari? The declaration is well deserved. It is what every section of the country had been agitating for. In case of the late MKO Abiola, we were all involved in it. We all queued behind Abiola during the June 12, 1993 presidential election. He was on the side of the poor and the masses. Abiola was closer to the downtrodden. It was a sacrifice he made for all. We were pained that he was not declared the winner of that election. But, I have to say that June 12 has gone beyond mere declaration of that day as public holiday. The poor is still wallowing in poverty. There is a lot of suffering in the land. People are hungry. These were what Abiola was fighting for. Some people who were part of that struggle have been part of this government, people like Dr. Kayode Fayemi. They should have done this earlier. But, it is better to be late than never. A cross section of Nigerians views the timing of the declaration. What is your take on this? Well, people who feel so have a point. But now, the government having done that, at least they should release the result of that June 12 election. This will ensure that what is being given to Abiola is a post-mortem award. That day was the beginning of all kinds of problems we have in Nigeria up till today. The Niger Delta struggles, the Boko Haram, and the IPOB agitations, all of them took roots from the June 12 struggles. Some people are of the view that the government should have retained May 29 as Democracy Day and name June 12 as Abiola Day just as there is a Martin Luther King Jr. Day in U.S. How do you see this view? What we were demanding was June 12 as Democracy Day. That was what Nigerians wanted. Proper democracy in Nigeria took off that day. Although it was a Muslim-Muslim ticket, Nigerians did not bother. There was no question of tribalism or ethnicity. The people queued and voted.  So, it was wrong to for people to continue to insist on May 29 as Democracy Day. Some political leaders, especially in the South West have said that President Buhari’s action was a ploy to get the region support his 2019 second term ambition. How would you react to this? I don’t think South West should lay claim to that date. The struggle was all over the country. All of us are involved. I am a Hausa-Fulani and I was involved in the agitation for the realization of June 12. We are all involved in the struggle. It was not a South West affair, but a Nigerian project. A Nigerian project should therefore not be seen as South West affair. There is also the view that Prof. Humphrey Nwosu, the Chairman of the National Electoral Commission (NEC) then, should be invited to properly announce that June 12 election result and should also be honoured by the government. Do you think that doing this would be right? Humphrey Nwosu was determined to ensure the success of that June 12 election. He has passed through tough times and survived. He too would have being a victim of the June 12 election. He was announcing that election until he was stopped by the military. Now, he should be given the opportunity to announce the election. He has the time now to announce it. He has been through hard times. Humphrey Nwosu deserves to be honoured like the others people by President Buhari. It would have been easy for him to announce another person as the winner of that election. But he did not do that. He did not cave in under pressure by the military. Therefore, like Abiola and Kingibe, Professor Humphrey Nwosu deserves to be honoured. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 