He explained further that in order to avoid bottlenecks in the formation and operations of a new national carrier, the Federal Government should make payment of the outstanding pensions of Nigeria Airways a top priority. Mr. Taiwo Adenekan, another former staff of Nigeria Airways and the Managing Consultant, PTD Consulting, in a recent interview with our correspondent said the country may not have another national carrier any moment soon unless some issues were addressed. Adenekan also observed that the plans would fail again unless the government pays off the outstanding benefits of the defunct carrier. He insisted that any attempt not to pay off the former workers before the reestablishment of a new one would lead to labour crisis, which might not augur well for the country. He said, “Can the government establish a national carrier without paying off the Nigeria Airways staff, which is very crucial? It can lead to a lot of labour issues and frustrate the Federal Government because those are the pioneer people that started aviation in this country and they should be paid. “Federal government should address that and ensure that the staffs are paid off before they can start with a clean slate.” But, Mr. Chris Aligbe, the Managing Director of Belujane Konsult and the former image maker of the former national carrier, in an interview with our correspondent said that the government had exhibited every sign of transparency in its plans to give Nigeria a new airline, unlike the past governments. He explained that since the unceremonious liquidation of the former national carrier, Nigeria Airways, every attempt made by the government to re-establish a new airline failed because plans of the government were shrouded in secrecy and without the political will to deliver. For instance, he recalled that former minister in the sector; Mrs. Kema Chikwe, had attempted to establish a national carrier, Nigeria Global and Air Nigeria for the country at different times, but failed because the government was not open to the public with its plans. He added that another former minister, Mallam Isa Yuguda, who later became Bauchi State Governor also unveiled Eagle Nigeria, which failed to fly while Virgin Nigeria with all the government’s support also failed and left a massive debt of N35 billion to Nigerians through the Assets Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON). He said: “I can tell you that this government has the political will to give Nigeria a new national carrier because it has gone through the Federal Executive Council (FEC), which was debated there and approved the transaction advisers. When Olusegun Obasanjo came with his Virgin Nigeria, nobody knew, we just woke up one day and Mr. Richard Branson showed us a prototype of an airline and called it Virgin Nigeria. There was no transparency in the whole arrangement. “Chikwe’s national carrier, Nigeria Global was a ruse. We actually had two under her, the first was Air Nigeria when she brought some crooks from Pakistan who claimed they worked for Singapore Airlines, but the National Assembly found out that the people were not actually working for the airline they claimed they worked for. Also, Singapore Airlines denied ever knowing them. “Also, under Mallam Isa Yuguda, we had Eagle Nigeria, which no one knew anything about it till date. The project failed and Obasanjo came with Virgin Nigeria project, which of course to me was the greatest failure because it had an accumulation of N35 billion debts, which Nigeria’s taxpayers are paying under AMCON now and no one is asking questions. “After that, we had Nigeria One under Stella Oduah, which was her dream, but again, there was no transparency because Oduah said she adopted a tunnel strategy, but once she came out of the tunnel, that dream died.” Aligbe opined that government’s equity in the impending national carrier should not be more than 10 to 15 per cent, which he said is to give the airline a sovereign cover, but not for the government to fully own and control it. He, further pointed out that unlike the unfriendly environments claimed by most of the domestic airlines as responsible for their early close of the shop, the owner-manager syndrome was their main challenge. He also mentioned poor business models and low capitalisation as some of the reasons the carriers clip wings early but noted that if the promoters of the airlines allowed professionals to run their operations, the airlines would remain in the air. “Give me an airline in Nigeria that failed and you can’t attribute it to the owner-manager syndrome. Is it Bellview or Aero Contractors that had the Ibrus? Is it Arik Air? So, owner-manager is a critical issue. The owners should remove themselves from the management of the airlines and engage those who know how to manage the airlines do their jobs. “Even the Nigerian Airways that failed had a hand of owner-manager pointed to it. All the major people in positions; directors, were appointed by the government. At a point, Federal Government even went down to appoint General Managers for the airline; it got to a point of even posting staff to international stations. “At that stage, decadence started to step in, in terms of knowledge and abilities. It was not corruption that killed Nigeria Airways as some people wanted us to believe. Aircraft insurance was also one of the things that killed Nigeria Airways. I don’t want to go far into that,” he said. Aligbe also debunked the claim in some quarters that the government approved $5 million for the transaction advisers for the impending national carrier alone, saying that the total amount of money approved for all the transaction advisers, which included leasing company, maintenance facility, concession and national carrier was far low than the money being bundled about. However, there are indications that the government may have approached the Middle East carrier, Qatar Airways as a core investor in the project. Also, it was gathered that another airline company apart from Boeing, which recently held a meeting with the government in Abuja, Airbus may have also been contacted as the provider of aircraft that would feed the leasing company for the new national carrier. Our correspondents gathered that in the interim, Qatar Airways would provide long-haul aircraft for the new airline on wet lease, which indicated that the flights would be operated mainly by the Middle East airline’s crew and technical personnel till when the national carrier would be able to take over fully. The source explained that if Airbus succeeds in providing aircraft for the leasing company, it would deploy its short-haul aircraft for domestic and West Coast operations, which would be operated by pilots recruited by the new company. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 