ENUGU – Prof Charles Igwe, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor Administration, University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN), has raised the alarm over the environmental degradation caused in South-East communities by gulley erosion. Igwe raised the alarm when he delivered the 135th inaugural lecture of the university entitled “Unfolding Soil Erosion in Southeastern Nigeria: From Model to Aggregation and Colloidal Materials.” He noted that gully erosion ravaging some parts of zone has reached catastrophic stage that in many communities people have been forced to relocate from their original homes due to devastating effect of the erosion. Igwe lamented that farmlands have been washed away, roads cut-off and houses submerged, forcing people to leave their homes. “Many communities in the South East are affected in one way or the other. In some places the erosion has reached catastrophic stage that farmlands have been washed away, major roads cut off and many people relocated from their home as houses submerged,” he said. The professor of soil conservation/clay mineralogy identified three main factors responsible for soil erosion as the soil content, rainfall and human influence. According to him, while rainfall and soil content cannot be manipulated, human influence can be manipulated. “Rainfall and soil factors are serious factors because while human factors like land use and vegetation cover can be manipulated to reduce erosion hazard, soil contents and rainfall cannot be manipulated. “The soil type and the contents which are organic and inorganic colloids determine to a large extent the ease of soil to erode in any place,” he said. The don warned those living in erosion affected areas to avoid any human activities like soil excavation and building on erosion waterways that were capable of worsening the environmental condition as well as exposing more people to danger. “Most soil in places where gully erosion is causing havoc is very fragile and we should avoid any human activity that will worsen the situation.. “Policy makers and administrators should exercise restraint in opening and deforestation of lands under conservation as most times it has resulted in serious erosion,” he said Igwe expressed appreciation to the Vice-chancellor of UNN, Prof Benjamin Ozumba for finding time in spite of his tight schedule to attend his inaugural lecture. “Ozumba and his family members have been good motivators to my academic, administrative as well as social life,” he said. Making remarks, Ozumba said the day was a special day for him as his Deputy Vice-Chancellor Administration delivered the 135th inaugural lecture of the university. “Today is a special day for me as one of the principal officers of the university excellently delivered the university highly rated inaugural lecture. “I came back from Abuja on Wednesday to ensure I witnessed the lecture today,” he said He commended Prof Ken Ofokansi, the University Senate Ceremonial Committee Chairman who had been doing a marvelous job in organising of the inaugural lectures. In his remarks, Ofokanisi said he was not surprised at the turnout of people because Igwe is an erudite professor as well as the Deputy Vice Chancellor Administration of the university. “His lecture is superb and rich in knowledge, I commend the DVC for a job well done as well as keeping to time allocated to him while delivering the lecture,” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 