The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), is the body saddled with the responsibility of conducting elections into state houses of Assembly, governorship, National Assemblies and the presidency in Nigeria. This is a unique responsibility such that INEC, as an unbiased umpire which it is supposed to be,   must go about its assignment with a high sense of probity. The way INEC goes about the conduct of the 2019   elections will determine whether the elections will be peaceful or violent. For elections to meet minimum standards it must be credible. For any election to be credible the electoral umpire must be seen to be fair and unbiased. Unfortunately, INEC and other similar bodies like it, in the past, have not inspired confidence in their conduct of previous elections in Nigeria. Right from Nigeria’s independence to date most elections in Nigeria have been characterised by one form of violence or another. This is not because Nigerians love violence but because the electoral umpires at different times have not been fair in the conduct of elections. The electoral umpire goes about its assignment with a preferred party to win. At times election results are doctored to favour the highest bidders or an anointed candidate of a political party. Electoral officers see election periods as periods for making brisk business and becoming overnight millionaires. These unpatriotic electoral officers hold nocturnal meetings with fraudulent politicians to strategise on how to rig elections in their favour at an agreed price. The cheated party and their supporters in this contest become usually aggrieved and in most cases they ventilate their anger and grievances in violence with the attendant destruction of lives and properties. It is on record that the massive rigging of the 1964 general elections was one of the remote causes of the 1966 military coup, which, in turn, truncated the first republic and snow balled into the thirty (30) months civil war. The consequences of that war were calamitous. It is therefore imperative that INEC and its agents must rise above primordial sentiments and approach its assignment with a high sense of probity and patriotism. As we approach another general election, INEC must put its house in order to avoid unpleasant circumstances. The first step in this regard is to make sure that all those who registered in 2014 who could not vote in the 2015 elections because they were criminally denied permanent voters card (PVC) are given their cards. In Lagos state alone this category of people are close to 4 million. Denying Nigerians their right to vote and choose who governs them is the first stage of election rigging by INEC in favour of their preferred party and candidate. Secondly INEC must register all those who have attained the mandatory age of 18 this year. It  is  not  enough  for  INEC  to  be  saying  there  are   millions  of  uncollected  voters  cards,  they  must take  the  cards  to  where  the  individuals   registered  originally  for  collection  to  be  effective. INEC must be mindful of the kind of people it appoints as Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC). Such people must be people of high integrity and patriotism. INEC must ensure that its staff and other ad hoc staff used for elections are well trained to do what is right at all times. They should be made to understand the import of their assignment and the implications of colluding with fraudulent politicians to subvert the electoral wishes of Nigerians. INEC must now begin to study and analyze its performance in the previous elections and note all the areas prone to abuse and manipulations for the purpose of making them fraud proof. The second stage of election rigging is the collation and the announcement of election results. INEC must sit down with political parties and work out the best way to record and announce results from the polling stations through the ward level up to the local government and state levels. We have seen situations where some INEC officers, in collusion with their preferred party agents and security agents, deny other parties access to collation centres and if they complain they are told to go to court. This is unacceptable. INEC should not give the impression that it is working for the ruling party. INEC must not allow fraudulent politicians to complicate the electoral process and now push electoral cases to the court for them to award electoral victories to undeserving candidates who are ready to procure victory at all costs. We all know that in Nigeria today an armed robber who was caught in the act can be set free by the courts because the prosecution “could not prove his beyond reasonable doubts” The term prove your case beyond reasonable doubts is a subjective one which only the judges know what it means. As the leading black nation in the world we must lead by good examples. Electoral fraud is the grandfather of all corruptions and it is hydra headed because its implication is nationwide.  The real test of   President Buhari’s sincerity in the anti-corruption war will  be  seen  in   the  way  he  handles  election  rigging  cases  by  his  partymen  in  2019. In all these, a responsible INEC must know that anything short of credible election is a disservice to Nigerians and the Nigerian nation. This is also the genesis of the foundation laying forcorruption. This is because national elections expose the very young ones who have turned 18 and are participating in our national life for the first time. When these young boys and girls are greeted with pervasive electoral fraud being perpetrated by adults, agencies of state such as INEC and the security agents they are sucked in and they quickly imbibe the culture of fraudulent national life. The reality is that they now believe that the only way to get what they want is by fraudulent means. This they will grow up with and pass same to the younger ones. We will then be breeding a generation of fraudsters. This is the danger we face as a nation. Electoral fraud aided by INEC will make electoral contest more violent as different political parties try to outsmart one another. INEC must say no to election rigging at all levels and give Nigeria and Nigerians a credible election which we all will be proud of, starting  with  Ekiti  and  Osun  states’  elections  this year. Once INEC, through probity and a high sense of responsibility,   conducts a transparent and credible election it will be contributing its quota in building an enduring democracy and democratic culture in Nigeria. Iduh,  a  veteran  Labour  leader, wrote in  from  Lagos. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 