Alagba Tunde Kelani, literary cinematographer and chairman of the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB), has said both government, stakeholders in the industry and entire citizenry should collaborate to fight piracy. This was said at the mid-year edition of Yoruba Lakotun, a quarterly cultural renaissance show, held at Ethnic Heritage Centre, Ikoyi Lagos on Sunday, June 3rd, 2018. The edition was dedicated to Kelani, who clocked 70 earlier in the year and to the memories of one of his collaborators, late Professor Akinwumi Ishola. The serene atmosphere, at the Herbert Ogunde Garden of the centre, was adorned with traditionally appealing pieces of arts which demonstrated the originality of the true Yoruba culture, had aficionados drawn from corporate and social Nigeria. During the conversation with Olutayo Irantiola, host of the show, Kelani, helmsman of Mainframe Productions, mentioned that he has been a victim of piracy that has pervaded the creative industry in the country. According to him, “there was one of the movies of Mainframe Productions that had up to five pirated versions, barrowed across major cities in Nigeria. In fact, some of the versions did not give appropriate credit to Mainframe Productions.” He lamented on the how piracy has made many artistes to go bankrupt: “It is our collective responsibility to fight piracy because it has eaten deep into the creative industry. Many people have gone bankrupt as a result of this menace. We have a movie made in 2014 but we have not been able to release till date due to the fear of piracy,” he said. He urged Nigerians to desist from purchasing pirated copies of creative works, but instead, “they should purchase original works from credible outlets and this will be a great boost for the creative industry. “There are some movies that are shipped into the country without the necessary authorisation and all of these need to be reviewed so that the nation does not keep harbouring unapproved visual contents.” Alagba Kelani equally noted that Nigerians should be proud of their culture as the beauty of the world is in her diversity. “Our culture is beautiful and this is what we can sell to the world. It is ours, we should take pride in that, and our ingenuity would make the world celebrate us.  Our devotion to research and untiring desire for excellence has set Mainframe Productions apart from the crowd.” Other headlining activities at the event include Yoruba spoken Poetry by Yusuf Balogun Gemini World Yoruba Entertainment News taken by Adeyeri Olayinka and the art of naming children by Chief Gbemisoye Ayano among others. The guests were entertaining with delicious finger-licking cultural Yoruba snacks. Ethnic Heritage Centre is located at 35A, Raymond Njoku Street off Awolowo Road, Ikoyi, Lagos. It is one of the foremost learning centers that teaches Yoruba, Igbo, Hausa and French languages in Lagos. The center exposes people to the cultural elements surrounding Nigerian languages thereby promoting and preserving our cultural heritage. Yoruba Lakotun is a quarterly cultural renaissance stage show that brings people from all works of life to a ‘Yorubanised’ audience. The show that started in 2015 had been an advocate for the sustenance of our cultural heritage and showcasing of every practitioner within the cultural space namely literature, crafts among others. The show comes up every first Sunday of every Quarter at Ethnic Heritage Centre by 4pm. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 