LAGOS, ADO-EKITI – Chief Jide Awe, the chairman of the Ekiti State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has maintained that the Friday shooting at the party office in Ado-Ekiti was a clear case of assassination attempt. This is as the party has said that there is no plan to fly abroad Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele, its chieftain, who was injured during the shooting injured, for treatment. Awe, who stated this while reviewing the events that led to the incident where five APC members were hit by bullets, said there were evidences to show that the incident was masterminded by the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Addressing journalists in Ado-Ekiti on Saturday, Awe argued that the speed at which the government agents reacted to the incident left much to be desired, even as he queried the rationale behind granting permit to the PDP after granting same to APC. Awe recalled how Governor Ayo Fayose, through the state-owned media platforms, urged the people to shun the grand rally planned for Dr Kayode Fayemi, the APC governorship candidate. “It is a common knowledge that Governor Fayose tried all he could to frustrate our programme. He went as far as instructing people not to come out to welcome our candidate. “He stylishly ordered Okada riders out of the roads under the guise of holding meeting with them,” Awe said, alleging that before the incident, Fayose had told Okada riders and the people of Ikere Ekiti not to welcome Fayemi to Ekiti. He stressed: “When the incident occurred, the state government was the first to issue press statement reading meanings to the shooting. What was their concern about shooting in APC’s rally? “All these issues prompted us to say that the PDP government was involved. Let me also clarify that we are not working at cross-purposes with the police, but our approaches may be different. “Our claim was that the man who fired the shot was fake policeman and a paid agent with a mission to kill our governorship candidate and the police said he was from MOPOL 20, but on illegal duty in Ekiti. “So, what the police need now is to convince us about the veracity of their claim,” he said. Meanwhile, Bamidele’s camp on Saturday refuted a statement attributed to the state government that he is in a critical condition and will be flown abroad for treatment. Ahmed Salami, Bamidele’s Special Assistant (SA), Media, in a statement made available to SundayINDEPENDENT, maintained that that the government’s announcement was false and lacked credibility. Salami warned: “The sordid scenario surrounding the shooting of Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele should not be deployed for morbid politicking,” even as he said the write-up was embarrassing. A statement attributed to Lere Olayinka, Special Assistant to Governor Ayodele Fayose on Public Communications, claiming that Bamidele was in critical condition and would be flown abroad for medical treatment, had been trending on social media. Salami stated: “Hon. Bamidele is fast recuperating and stabilising and no one had ever contemplated flying him abroad for medical treatment, because the situation has not degenerated to this level. “Let me also emphasise that Dr Kayode Fayemi personally drove him to the hospital and stayed with him till 1am today in company of his wife, Erelu Bisi Fayemi. Dr Fayemi could not have displayed empathy  for anyone more than he had done for his friend. “We will appreciate if Mr. Lere Olayinka could be Godly for once by exhibiting restraint and show human kindness in this matter, else we will be forced to believe that the government he is serving actually masterminded the attack. “We appeal to members of the public, APC political family and our teeming admirers to disregard this devilish information intended to traumatise our people and cause disaffection.” In another development, Chief Dare Adekolu, chairman of Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN) in Ekiti State, sympathised with Bamidele and five others who had been recovering from gunshot injuries sustained at the APC rally. Adekolu, who wished Bamidele and others speedy recovery, said the incident was a charge on the Police High Command to rid the security outfit of drunken, incompetent, unprofessional, overzealous and careless officers, to ensure the Force could effectively and efficiently ensure security of lives and property. The MPN chairman, in a statement, berated Prof Kolapo Olusola, the state Deputy Governor and PDP governorship candidate, over a statement credited to him on the incident, saying, “playing politics with human lives as he had done was the height of insensitivity and inhumanity from a person who parades himself as a pastor. Caleb Chukwuemeka, the Ekiti State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), has in a statement, said the identity of the killer cop had been known. He said: “Today, Friday, June 1, 2018 at about 1700 hours, the policeman accidentally shot Opeyemi Bamidele and one other has been arrested. “He is attached to 20 PMF, Ikeja, Lagos State, where he was posted in bank guard duties somewhere in Ikeja. The policeman came on illegal duty to Ekiti State. “A politician, who conspired and removed the said policeman from where he was posted by his Squadron Commander and came to Ado-Ekiti with him for an unofficial reasons have also been arrested. “Meanwhile, the victims of his accidental discharge are currently responding to treatment at the hospital, while the injured policeman is equally responding to treated in the protective custody.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 