Abuja – The All Progressives yesterday averted yet another crisis with barely three weeks to the party’s national convention following the resignation of Senator Ben Uwajumogu as Secretary of the national convention organising committee. Senator Uwajumogu announced his resignation on Saturday citing pressing ‘family obligations’ The party has, however, named. Senator Victor Ndom-Egba, Chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), in place of Senator Uwajumogu, representing Okigwe Senatorial zone in the upper legislative chamber. Mallam Bolaji  Abdullahi, APC National Publicity Secretary confirmed the  development in a Telephone interview, National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi adding that  the party’s leadership had since accepted the resignation of Sen. Benjamin Uwajumogu. He dismissed insinuations that Uwajumogu’s resignation has anything to do with alleged demand by Imo state governor Rochas Okorocha who had threatened to dump the ruling party should his request for a new scribe be turned down. The governor had been at the receiving end of political assault launched by a coalition of APC stakeholders in the state, where Uwajumogu and Osita Izunaso, national organizing secretary of the party, play prominent roles. Senator Uwajumogu who announced his resignation at a press conference on Saturday, said he has to resign his appointment due to pressing family matters. He said the twice-postponed dates of the national convention has now conflict with equally important family matter. The senator explained that when he accepted the appointment, he had believed that the Convention would hold on May 14, saying the new date of June 23 would clash with his long-term ambition to attend the graduation of two of his children from universities in England. Uwajimogu, who is one of  APC chieftains in Imo state  having a running battle with the incumbent governor of the state Rochas Okorocha, over the recently conducted congresses, admitted that the governor had spent two weeks in Abuja doing everything possible to get even. He disclosed that unsubstantiated reports in the social media has equally alleged that he was forced to quit the position over financial misappropriation, saying his resignation will clear the air on some of the accusations against him. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 