Title: Remarks to Leadership and Good Governance in Africa Author: Obute Nathan Agada Reviewer : Yemi Adebisi Publisher : T & D Press Limited Port Harcourt No of Pages : 272 One of the major challenges of most African countries is the subject of leadership. For real, lots of valuable resources have been wasted or confiscated by careless, selfish and corrupt leaders in Africa. Till date, some countries are yet to be free from the chains of bad governance. No wonder the youth and few elites that have not lost their sanity to virus of corruption are crying daily for African leadership emancipation. The author of the book under review, Remarks to Leadership and Good Governance in Africa: Re-Engineering Leadership With Positive Virtues Through Politics And Administration From The Top Down, Obute Nathan Agada, has done the nation proud by compiling this detailed treasure to deal with this issue with the aim of rescuing the fortune of the coming generation. The concept of leadership with positive virtues, through politics and administration on good governance from the top down has been greatly misused and misapplied for ages. Leadership, according to the author is the ability to plan, organise, control and direct for effective and efficient utilisation of scarce resources. Some schools of thought have, however, assumed that leadership is inborn and from the explanation given in this book, it is clearly stated that leadership is not inborn but rather, acquired with the aim of solving diverse problems that have encumbered humans for ages. It is obvious that the concept of leadership with positive virtues, if successfully managed, with the tools of politics and administration, it will result in good governance. Good governance is enhanced by effective and efficient leadership. This book therefore helps to x-ray and bring to the fore the hidden meaning of a true leader. For instance, leaders like biblical Joseph and Daniel were found to be endowed with great political and administrative skills. In return, they impacted their world and left a legacy for leadership emancipation. These concepts were extensively discussed in this book to further enlighten aspiring leaders on the wherewithal of leadership. The book establishes the fact that one does not need to be well connected or propped up by special interest groups before emerging as a successful leader.  Amazingly, the author said one does not even have to be a member of a political party. He says, “You can stand on your feet and speak your mind with truth and integrity because if people like your vision, they will stand by you.” The author infers that the standard operating procedure in our political system today is that everyone is owned, either by one of the political parties or by special interest groups. In his opinion, term limits should be encouraged as the most effective means of keeping career politicians out of the system. The author opines that after an individual serves the prescribed term, usually two terms under the executive organ of government, he gets a one-way ticket back to the private sector. When all these are put in place, good governance is enhanced. The book also explains the true meaning of Public Administration as an art with the organisation of government policies and programmes as well as the behavior of officials formally responsible for their conduct. By and large, the author, with his rare professional prowess, settles our quest on such relative but important terms like leadership, politics, administration, positive virtues of leaders and their respective impacts on good governance. Former governor of Imo State, Chief Achike Udenwa, in the foreword to the book, says the author’s undeniable skills in the making of the book, authoritatively provides the right knowledge by recommending altruistic leaders with devotion to the welfare of others with reference to great leaders like late President Nelson Mandela of South Africa; Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana and General Murtala Mohammed of Nigeria. The book celebrates and honours the supremacy of God in making a highly effective leader. It is a must-read for all young people with a hunger for effective leadership that enhances good governance in Africa. The author, Agada is a multi-faceted, talented and gifted young resourceful Chartered Accountant. As a prolific writer, he has authored five other books to his credit. Agada presently works as the head, Finance & Account with a multi-billion Naira Construction company in Port Harcourt. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 