Former Senate President, Senator Adolphus Wabara, Acting Secretary of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), clocked 70 on June 1. In this interview with select journalists, he spoke on his resignation as Senate President, the aborted Third Term saga and contemporary issues in the polity. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: You clocked 70 on Friday. You‘ve been a member of House of Representatives, a Councillor, a Senator and a Senate President. How was the journey for you. Was it all that a smooth ride? It wasn’t a smooth ride at all but generally speaking, it was divine. Everybody has his or her destiny, the fact that nobody can interpret his or her destiny because we don’t know, that’s why we jump from one church to the other and some people combine all kinds of things in search of destiny. So, I will advise that no one should be in a hurry looking for what the future holds for him or her. Because everybody has a destiny, even before you are conceived, God has designed what you will be in life. You see some people die at birth; so many others don’t make it. But in answering your question, whatever I have been today, I give God the glory because it was designed for me by my creator. God was involved and that was why I made tremendous success in my endeavours. I was privileged to serve this country as a local government chairman, member of House of Representatives and Senate President. It was a privilege that God gave me, which I’m eternally grateful for. Many fellow politicians tried all they could to drag me down but they couldn’t erase what God has written. Looking at the experiences in each of the political ladder you climbed, which one would you say is more interesting? There is no small election, in the first place all these positions were elective positions, not appointive. Going back to my earlier assertion, God intervened in my own case because there is no small election. In the first place, all the positions were elective positions, not appointive and it goes through the same process. You are not alone in the contest. Many others are desirous of the position. It was all keen competition. But generally speaking, there is nobody who contested election that won’t be anxious of the outcome. I was a member of House of Representatives until the late Head of State, Sani Abacha, sacked the government of Ernest Shonekan and by extension, dissolved all the democratic positions. I now left that position as member of House of Reps and the next option was to become a Councillor in my local government. I was appointed Supervisory Councillor for Education. My colleagues then were like, how would you come from that Olympian height and you want to become a Councillor in a bloody local government, so that is why I keep saying it is divine. Maybe my God designed my progress in life to serve. Otherwise, I would have heeded to my colleagues who said no, no, you can’t disgrace us; a member of House of Reps to become Councillor. But I went on there and served as Education Supervisor and from there, I blossomed. I became local government Chairman, then a Senator and as God would have it, I became Senate President. If it is something you want to go by population, or by prominence, you know my village, in the next one billion years we cannot produce a number three citizen. But God went in there and picked me up and made me number three citizen. God used some people too, the likes of Obasanjo, the President, who eventually destroyed the house he built, but the bottom line is that I give all glory to God. Going through all the things you went through under Obasanjo, at a time when you should be thanking God, the tough times came, and looking back at all that those things, what really runs in your mind as you clock 70? To those who know me, I am a man of a kind, because I am contented. All the people I have invited, many don’t believe it because they said I don’t look 70. But it is not only in death that you say the Lord giveth and He taketh. Even in positions, He gives you the positions and takes it. I keep telling people, if God hadn’t used Obasanjo to do what he did to me through the national broadcast, I wouldn’t be alive today.  So, God had to make me exit that position to save my life. If only you can wake up a dead person and ask him, that money you were looking for, can you part with that money and stay alive? That person will say, please take the money and let me stay alive. But my own God showed it to me that I should leave the position. I resigned; most people take it that I was impeached. I was never impeached. I resigned. God showed it to you in the heat of the controversy? Yes. God showed it to me in the heat of the controversy that I should just leave. I was, at the risk of being immodest powerful enough as Senate President to hold on to the Senate and close the senate for about two weeks. The likes of the Senator from Niger state, can I remember his name now, Isah Mohammed, came banging on the doors of the Senate that the Senate  should resist. But that’s not what we have now, the Senators understand themselves better now. Then the Senate was at the whims and caprices of the President, he had his boys, he had his people who danced to him for whatever, but spiritually it was time for me to go. You said that exiting that position kept you alive, were there known threats? No, No. There was none at all. I would have been the first President of the Senate to die in active service and I am telling you this not as a doctor or a prophet. I knew how my health deteriorated that time because of the work. We were not sleeping till about 5:00 a.m. because of the work. These days I see some people occupy the position and still find time to do one thing or the other. If I have something doing, I put my all into it. I will work to point that I feel like dropping. That is why I said if I had continued I would have dropped dead. Nobody threatened me. When the man carrying the Mace goes in the front shouting Mr. President, sometimes I feel like dropping. There were not dull moments. When that guy was moving sometimes I wobble, I had no stability because of the stress. If you play back the video, you will see me greeting Senators and my prayer is just to sit down.  And it was getting increasingly dangerous. When I went to the doctor, he said there was nothing wrong with me, just stress. And he said I must take things easy. But the stress was much because we were there to satisfy all Senators and you can’t satisfy all Senators then, I don’t know about now. It is surprising that Obasanjo came after you because many people thought you were doing his bidding, so how did third term become a problem? If indeed I was doing his bidding, I would have made him scale through third term. It was discussed. But you see, people with military background have a way of recruiting their own people. Maybe if I had military background, I would have understood when I was approached on the issue of third term. That means they were speaking in parables? Yes, they were speaking in parables and it was not their business to convince you. All these coup plotters in their days, they will dangle the carrots but it was not their business to convince you. You should be convinced yourself. If they had to convince you, they can’t trust you. But whatever happened, I have made up my mind as a democrat. My answer to him when we were discussing all these things was how can? But we are now friends. You have forgiven him? I have forgiven him for the simple fact that he saved my life. He thought he harmed me, but God used him to save my life. Without what happened, I wouldn’t have been here today celebrating 70. I thank him for what he did and without him I wouldn’t have been Senate President, I keep saying that but he ended up destroying what he built. Many Nigerians believe that your successor botched the third term plot. How correct or otherwise are they? No, they don’t.  And I don’t want to go into details. If you listened to former Abia State governor, Dr Orji Uzor Kalu, when he spoke about how third term was botched, you will probably get something close. He was not a Senator then but he was aware of what transpired. If he made the statement he made recently, as an investigative journalist, maybe you can get to the answer. But if I’m to give you a direct answer, I probably would be deriding certain authorities, my friends and my colleagues. But we know ourselves. Senator Chukwumerije is late now. We know Senator Ben Obi. We know ourselves. Some were double agents in that project. Money was flowing around and some will take for and take against. But the only thing I want to say is that God again used me to save those who are for and against because there could have been national crisis and deaths would be recorded. Money changed hands, but God used me to settle the score. As Gowon would say, no victor, no vanquish. My address that day put end on the issue and the baby and the bath water were thrown away. Many Senators would have vomited the money they collected. I sacrificed my life to save the Senate and those who collected. I rejected N250 million bribe that was offered to me the night before I spoke on third term by some people that I won’t like to mention. Rejection of that bribe cost my friendship with the facilitator. We kept malice for over a year. Does this your position justify Professor Attahiru Jega’s statement about National Assembly members being notorious for bribe taking? I don’t know the bases for such statement from the former INEC chairman. But he should know that we knew his worth before he became INEC chairman and his worth today. So, he should quit pointing accusing finger as the remaining four fingers are pointing at him. That’s just the only way I want to answer that question. God will save us. We just celebrated 19 years of unbroken democracy. Would you say we are on the right track? Yes we are. All these things happening now happened in our role model nations. It’s a matter of time. It is teething problem that we will overcome with time. We might not be making speedy progress but there is a gradual departure from what it used to be. As we speak, corruption is still in our system till tomorrow. Before now, some constituencies will not allow for more than one term in the legislature but we have Senators like David Mark, James Manager and few other members of House of Representatives that have spent close to 20 years in the Senate. It is a sign of progress but we ought to do more. You see, four years in the legislature is nothing and we have seen some people in American Congress staying up to 30 years. It is unfortunate that the only two lucrative industries in Nigeria today is the church and politics. Anyone that can interpret the Bible very well stands a very good chance of owning a private jet. The institution of legislation should be strengthened. The only tendency now is the issue of governors trying to populate the Senate in particular. If care is not taken, in the next 30 years, maybe every Senator will be a former governor. Why is it a bad development? A good question. It is bad in the sense that those ex-governors, a majority of them did not get there on a clean slate. They used their political powers to install themselves. I hope that will change in future. You will be shocked that most legislators don’t have good knowledge of Nigeria history. Our political process was built to favour people with deep pocket. That is why governors that completed their tenure heads straight to the Senate, whereas they have more than enough money which they could probably use to establish an industry and create jobs. They will keep it and head to the Senate. And Governors, their forum is very tough. They are just like the military. They don’t go against themselves. What is your assessment of Buhari’s three years in office? There is a difference between democracy and governance. Our democracy is going through a natural phase. But governance is completely a different kettle of fish. In a situation where government cannot provide security, in a situation where government cannot create jobs, in a situation where government does not know what nationhood is all about, you cannot tie that down to democracy. Our democracy is growing. If not, you would not have had the Senate President from the APC and his Deputy from the opposition party. That is democracy. But when it comes to governance, what you don’t have, you can’t give. I’ve never seen, even in faraway America where we borrow a leaf from, that since the inception of this government, everybody in the cabinet is perfect; even those you know cannot perform. So, it just shows that the man at the helm of the affairs does not know what he is doing. What are the chances of your party in 2019 elections? Our chances are very bright in 2019 because Nigerians have tasted APC and PDP. So, Nigerians will be judge. However, politics is no mathematics.  Anything can happen. APC’s perceived failure does not translate into victory for PDP. So, we have to do a lot of work and we have started with the apology to Nigerians and I’m sure Nigerians have accepted it. We must have made mistakes but that could not be compared to the calamity that has befallen Nigerians in 2015. With our 16 years of experience, we know where we went wrong. I don’t want to go too much into details. Otherwise, all these so called fight against corruption, that fight is not real and nobody is above the law. We heard the president saying something about power which he said received $16 billion intervention from previous administrations. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 