Enugu – Tragedy struck in Enugu on Sunday following the death of eight persons in an auto crash that occurred at Ugwuonyeama axis of Enugu-Onitsha Expressway. Seven out of the eight deceased persons were identified as members of one family. According to an eyewitness account, the accident involved a Carina Camry car with registration no CM 960 FKJ conveying a family and a Toyota Hiace bus with registration number ENU 75YY belonging to a popular mass transit company. Our sources said both vehicles had a head on collision. Following the accident, men of the traffic division of the Central Police Station, Enugu, were promptly alerted. On arrival, the victims were rushed to ESUT Parklane and Orthopedic Hospitals, Enugu, where the family of seven travelling with the Toyota Camry car was confirmed dead and their bodies deposited in the hospital mortuary of the ESUT Parklane. Meanwhile, four others injured as a result of the incident are still receiving medical attention at the ESUT Parklane Hospital, Enugu. Ebere Amaraizu, Spokesman of Enugu State Police Command, confirmed the incident. Amaraizu, a Superintendent of Police, said a full scale investigation has commenced into the incident. In a related development, the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) in Niger State said that five people were killed in an accident on Saturday along Lambata Kwakuti Road in Gurara Local Government Area. FRSC Sector Commander, Yusuf Garba, who disclosed this to newsmen in Minna on Sunday, said that the accident involved a car and a truck. He said the accident involved a white colour BMW with registration number BWR 264 SR and a Scana truck with registration number ISR 16 XU. The sector commander said that all five occupants of the BMW died, adding that his men evacuated them to the Suleja General Hospital. According to him, the cause of the accident is over-speeding and dangerous overtaking. He said that FRSC would continue to monitor road users to guard against overloading and dangerous driving. Garba also called on road users to adhere to traffic rules and regulations to avoid unnecessary road crashes. “We have already embarked on a 24-hour patrol on all the federal highways to ensure safety of road users by enforcing traffic rules and regulations,” he said. He also appealed to residents in the state to promptly report road accidents to enable patrol officers to save lives. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 