Politicians, like the British weather, are unpredictable. An apparently bright weather in London suddenly turns hazy and cold. Two or three politicians in positions of authority in the country sooner than later sit in dinghy chambers to deliberate on how best they could upset the current Apple Cart. A few decampees from the old PDP who are in temporary positions of power are already meeting and also strategising to move en masse out of the APC to give the APC run for its money. Names frequently mentioned,  Dr Bukola Saraki, Senate President, Yakubu Dogara, Speaker of the House of Representatives, and Aminu Tambuwal, Governor of Sokoto state, are believed to be  holding clandestine talks on how to move out of the APC ahead of the 2019 general elections. When commentators speak of politics as a dirty game, they only mean the actors or practitioners in the game of politics play dirty and mean. They harbour no touch of decency or respectability, as they all know the end justifies the means. Timing is of great essence . Politicians conceal their utmost plans under wrap and key and not even the magician can decipher what is lurking inside their minds. The President or Governor is a tin-god and could turn any stretch of evidence against possible contenders for their positions before 2019. The Senate President, Dr Saraki, has been so embattled over time , having dates with the Code of Conduct Tribunal and has been dribbled for some time over non- disclosure of his Assets from his days in Kwara state as Governor under the PDP. Many believe that he (Saraki) and his Deputy, Ike Ekweremandu, are nursing Presidential ambitions. And not long ago, the former governor of Kano state, Alhaji Rabiu Kwakwanso, is now under the search-light of EFCC, over some missing monies amounting to N900 million, while he presided over the affairs of Kano state. Besides, he is believed to be a potential presidential contender. It has been reliably learnt that any politician with a tinge of corruption label around his or her neck is likely to be denied INEC’s approval for any political contest in the country. A situation where a politician is accused of corruption before he is found guilty in a competent court of jurisdiction for alleged crimes is rather too dicey for any upcoming contender, especially, at the Federal level. Currently, there appears to be acclimating of muteness in the air as potential contenders do not complicate their chances unnecessarily due to the seemingly vindictive style of the powers that be in the centre. Since the power of arrest lies in the hands of the Police and even the EFCC an unknown criminal suddenly emerges from the blues just because he has indicated an interest in contesting an election. As we write today, there are fears in the air about the Buhari government wanting to send the back god in the EFCC after a former President Olusegun Obasanjo (OBJ) over the trumpeted $16 million dollars power scandal under his watch as president from 1999. Such a retrospective trial and investigation against OBJ is a clear sign that a battle line is about to be drawn by one former general against a fellow general, in terms of settling political scores. Most Nigerians are aware of former President Obasanjo’s campaign against Buhari over his trumpeted second term bid in 2019. ‘It is like a case of If you Tarka Me I will Daboh you’ an old tale of Minister Tarka and Mr Daboh, all from the Middle Belt. To me, politics is about undoing one’s opponents, in which ever way one could, to see the downfall of other politicians. There is neither righteousness nor morality in politics. Reaching the top is the end game and if one could spill as much blood as one could, the better. Nigerians are not too sure that PDP, the second largest political party, could benefit from the fallouts of the subterranean movements of political actors in the country. An unconfirmed political leader told me recently on the phone that sooner than later the Social Democratic Party (SDP), one of the parties founded by Ibrahim Babangida (IBB), might soon become the repository of all decampees in the polity at the National Assembly. The issue is what happens if an unknown political party controls the National Assembly; what becomes of the party in power at the centre- the APC? Will this turn- around of parties lead to an easier way to impeach the Executive leader of the country? Messy days are coming ahead of the 2019 general elections and if care is not taken, this may lead to a collapse of the system? Many Nigerians believe, and perhaps, righteously too, that change of government through the barrel of the gun via a coup is now old- fashioned and out-dated. But a legislatorial coup is democratic and legal. But for long, most Nigerians feel a coup through the bullet box or ballot box is also a coup. One is bloodless while the other is bloody. For all practical purposes, ‘All Change Na Change’, just as ‘All Die Na Die ’.  Every change is as good as a feast with supporters rolling out their drums for a party for the winners; while wailing is for the losers in the battle for power. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 