Lagos – Access Bank continued sponsorship of the annual UNICEF Charity Shield Polo tournament that is in its 15th edition is because of the bank’s belief in UNICEF’s projects for orphans and vulnerable children. It is also because the UNICEF’s projects are in consonance with the core corporate social responsibility of the bank. The tournament, in its 11th year of Access Bank exclusive sponsorship, is a reaffirmation of the importance the financial house attaches to the lives of the orphaned and vulnerable children in Nigeria. Executive Director, Personal Banking, Access BankPlc, Victor Etuokwu, who said this during the week, noted that the Bank would continue to maintain its yearly commitment in supporting UNICEF towards its projects for orphans and vulnerable children. “This year’s tournament is more than an affirmation of our commitment to socio-economic wellbeing of mankind and acknowledgement of the impact the initiative has had on the lives of the orphaned and vulnerable children in northern Nigeria especially in Kaduna state,” he emphasized. “We have been working in Kaduna, in collaboration with Fifth Chukker Polo & Country Resort and UNICEF to elevate quality of lives. “ We need to do a lot more in support of these orphans and vulnerable children to enable them look forward to a better tomorrow,” he added. According to him, “Reports from UNICEF and our visits to the orphaned and vulnerable children in Kaduna state provided us with a soothing level of assurance that our sponsorship of the competition is delivering on our institutional objective and resolve of promoting sustainability though every of our activity”. The Access Bank Charity Shield Polo tournament was inaugurated by Fifth Chukker Polo and Country Club in 2003 as a fund raising platform to support local charity organizations.  Since 2006, however, this effort has been exclusively geared towards UNICEF’s intervention projects for orphans and vulnerable children. So far, more than N100 million has been raised during the charity event, for underprivileged children in northern Nigeria and this has been hailed as a huge achievement for a sporting partnership. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 