As part of efforts to further intensify the advocacy drive for a healthy living and other wellbeing measures especially amongst women in the society, Power Oil has demonstrated its support for the Lagos Women health Forum, a project being put together by the First Lady of Lagos State Mrs. Bolanle Ambode. The programme which attracted lots of powerful women had in attendance  Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr. Oluranti Adebule, wife of the first civilian governor of Lagos State Abimbola Jakande, Senior Special Assistant to the president, on Sustainable Development Goals, Mrs. Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, Lagos State Head of Service Mrs. Folasade Adesoye amongst others. Speaking at the forum with the theme, ‘Woman…Your Health, Your Social Environment,’ Ambode noted that sound health is one of life’s greatest blessings, hence the need to encourage and educate the women to always live in good health for long life and for optimal performance in all aspects of life. She said: “Good health is the gateway to everything. To have good health, we need to take care of our body, mind and soul. “It is when we have good health that we can run around for business and engage in other activities. While also condemning the spate of social vices in the state, Ambode urged the women to voice out their discontent with domestic violence, child abuse, rape and teenage p Also speaking at the event, the Lagos State Deputy Governor,  Adebule stated that the forum provided a platform for women to say “enough” to challenges they were facing. “We should no longer be stereotyped into silence but become vocal advocates for an improved health delivery system and social justice for women in Lagos State and the country,” she said. In her own remarks, Omotayo Azeez – Abiodun,  the Public Relations Manager, Power Oil, said Power oil is delighted to associate with such a laudable health awareness and general wellbeing programme particularly as it regards to the women in the society noting that the program shares similarities  with what the brand stands for – “Healthy Living and general well-being”. “Because of the multifunctional nature of women, they equally deserve being in a healthy state in order to carry out their duties efficiently, which is one of the reasons it is recommended they take advantage of the free health checkup and medical consultation opportunity which Power Oil health camp offers,”Omotayo stated. It would be recalled that Power Oil initiative, Power Oil Health Camp  went into collaboration with Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development of various states across the country where it organised various annual health awareness initiatives which inspire consumers to stay fit and take good care of their health. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 