ABUJA – Malinga Moono Banda, UNICEF, Water Sanitation and Hygiene specialist, has said that as many as 45 million under-five children die from diseases caused by poor sanitation and hygiene. Banda added that sanitation in Nigeria was declining even when we invest more on sanitation and called for concern. She made this known at a two-day media dialogue on Water Sanitation and Hygiene organised by the Child Rights Information Bureau (CRIB) of the Federal Ministry of Information in collaboration with UNICEF, saying, it required a multi-sectoral approach to tackle. Banda noted, “WASH has a role to play in the prevention of Neglected Tropical Diseases which is a silent killer of children as well as diarrhoea.” She said diarrhoea could also affect a child nutritional status as “one Multiple Country studies found that 25% of stunting in children under the age of two could be due to five or more diarrhoea episodes.” “Repeated bouts of diarrhoea causes under-nutrition which in turn reduces a child’s resistance to subsequent infections. “Diarrhea causes death by depleting body fluids resulting to childhood growth and cognitive development,” she added. Earlier, Mr. Olumide Osanyinpeju, Deputy Director, Child Right Information Bureau of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture commended UNICEF, European Union for their continuous and huge support in ensuring that safe water, sanitation and hygiene were brought to the rural people of Nigeria through the WASH Programme. Osanyinpeju said that the issue of safe water and sanitation had been in the front burner of development issues in Nigeria because it affects a major segment of our society, many of whom were children. “Water, sanitation and hygiene are very important in the life of a child. The Sustainable Development Goal 6 clearly emphasises the importance of clean water and sanitation. Water and sanitation are essential for the survival and development of all children, while simple hygiene such as hand washing can save lives,” he buttressed. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 