Since the presidential proclamation of June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day a few days ago there have been some muted but misguided attempts to rob it of its legal and moral validity through the mischievous deployment of pedantic legalism and the deliberate misreading of the sacred purpose of the Rule of Law as a pliable tool for perpetuating injustice. What is the rule of law without commonsense, fairness and substantive justice? While it is conceded, and as conceded it must be, that people are free within the expansive parameters of freedom of speech to express themselves whichever way they like on any subject that catches their fancy, it must however be said that it is useless, tendentious and utterly irresponsible to want to use the constitutional vehicle of free speech to be spreading falsehood and confusion while pretending to be executing some arcane intellectual project. It doesn’t help the nation-building project if all we can articulate is only about resisting everything government, by using sectarian and ethnic platforms as launch pads. We have already seen it fiendishly deployed to judicially frustrate some positive national projects like the fight against corruption and electoral malpractices all to the detriment of the polity. How can anyone opt to challenge an act that is as desirable, as honourable and as redemptive as the due recognition of June 12 as the nation’s Democracy Day? There has to be some limits to petty politics, revisionist intellectualism and prejudiced legalism motivated largely by irresistible hatred and ethnic or sectarian bigotry if this country is to ever grow to fulfil its manifest destiny. I perfectly understand that not everyone was happy that Chief MKO Abiola of blessed memory won the June 12 election in the first place and that they were indeed instrumental to its unfair annulment. For many years, they were very happy about what they did. Now that justice has somehow been done to the matter they have suddenly become very sad.  Angry indeed. Under Section 5 of the Nigerian Constitution (similar to Article II of the US Constitution), the “Executive Powers of the Federation” are vested in the President and “extend to the execution and maintenance of this Constitution, all laws made by the National Assembly and to all matters with respect to which the National Assembly has, for the time being, power to make laws”. The only question that I want to ask the unrepentant rejectionists who are today frantically questioning the powers of Mr. President to declare June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day is whether or not he was validly elected and subsequently sworn as the President of Nigeria. If the answer were “yes”, then why would anyone want to deny him of his legitimate constitutional authority to exercise presidential powers like all other presidents, being the Head of State as well as the Commander-in-Chief? It is Constitutional Law 101 that the President, acting in his capacity as the Head of State, the sovereign alter ego of the Nigerian State, can make certain lawful Proclamations or issue Orders and give Directives, which, though may not yet have been legislated upon, are nevertheless valid as long as they fall squarely within the legislative competence of the National Assembly. It is therefore nothing but an abuse of the Rule of Law to want to deploy the revered Diceyan contrivance for determining legality to vitiate such a presidential gesture by insisting that there has first to be a “law” before a President, even within his aggregate capacity as the Head of State and Commander-in-Chief, can confront a compelling national challenge. Where then are the President’s Prerogatives? Just because the military junta made law that turned logic on its head, like Decree No 61 of 1993 did when it sought to give an unjust legal stamp to the evil of annulment, should not turn us into robots. It is bizarre to want to uphold such an unjust Decree by pleading the noble Rule of Law. Which law? Is it the law that decrees, for example, that we should all pluck off our eyes? Such mischievous and extravagant positivists jurisprudential interpretation of the “Law” only does damage to the Rule of Law instead and that is why no honest intellectual blindly associates with it. Tyrants should never be permitted to use the “law” to suppress justice. No way! With what legal authority did Babangida annul an election that was duly contested and won, an electoral act of the People to whom the sovereignty of Nigeria truly belongs? Are we not turning the Rule of Law on its head by arguing that just because a Decree was once passed by an illegitimate junta, no matter its justness or otherwise, we must continue to obey it like zombies? Isn’t that an indirect devaluation of the Rule of Law? No one disputes that it is the Parliament that has the power to make laws. It is also an indisputable fact that the Constitution also gives the Executive the authority to exercise Presidential Powers, which historically extend to the issuance of Proclamations and other similar directives under the general rubric of Delegated Legislation in our constitutional practice. Our Constitution is a modern replica of the US Constitution and every American President since George Washington has used the Executive Order power in various ways. All other Presidents have also made significant policy decisions via Executive Orders and Presidential Proclamations. Why not Buhari? We all now accept that slavery was bad, an unpardonable abuse of personal liberty and human dignity. But the truth is that as at the time of slavery, it was fully backed up by laws. In other words, slavery was legal. When, however, President Lincoln wanted to abolish it, he knew that Congress, many of whose members were benefitting from the evil system, would not support him legislatively. He was actually met with vigorous juristic and political protestations by those who were benefitting from slavery but the justness and moral energy of his Proclamation was so strong that only a Congress with a suicidal disposition could have sought for a legislative challenge to the gracious Presidential Proclamation prohibiting slavery. So Lincoln, without prior legislative authorisation, successfully abolished slavery. The Proclamation on June 12 falls into the same constitutional mould as that of Lincoln on slavery on January 1, 1863. It has to be said that the authority of a Presidential Proclamation is less than that of an Act of Parliament, to the extent that a capable Legislature can always override it legislatively but that prospect is very unlikely especially if the Proclamation is a just and popular one. As recent as 2012, President Obama issued a Presidential Proclamation that gave temporary protection to alien children that were illegally brought into America by their parents under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or simply DACA. Upon his election last year President Trump immediately issued a counter Presidential Order that sought to eliminate DACA. He was however surprised when the Courts upheld the validity of DACA with the reason that he didn’t have valid grounds to upturn the well-reasoned and humane act of his predecessor. So until Congress acts on it DACA stays. The President has, within his constitutional powers, made his Proclamation and until it is legislatively over-turned, all the intendments of the proclamation on June 12 shall remain in force and no amount of political and juristic acrobatics can reverse them. The critical question now is: Is there really a legislative body in Nigeria that would be so politically irresponsible as to want to reverse the popular Proclamation on June 12? Time again, will tell. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 