Of late, the spate of accident on Nigerian roads has assumed an alarming rate. Only last week, the National Bureau of  Statistics put the number of deaths from road accidents in the country between October 2017 and March 2018 at 2,598.Meanwhile,15,815 Nigerians were reported to have sustained varied degree of injuries during this period. Indeed the Road Transport Data for 4th quarter, 2017 and 1st quarter 2018 by NBS indicates that 1,306 and 1,292 Nigerians died respectively as a result of road accidents. This obviously calls for concern among stakeholders, Nigerians and government. In the past, what was seen to be a major contributor of road accident was the deplorable nature of the roads. There is no gain saying that most of the roads were full of pot holes making vehicular movement difficult. For many years successive governments in the country had tried to repair the roads but to no avail. Nigerian roads in the past were seen as death traps for motorists and commuters. And that has caused fear in the mind of road users.past. Indeed, pot holes on Nigerian roads have caused unnecessary delay of movement of passengers and  led to countless road accidents. Of course, this factor has made some road users to abandon road transport for air transport. Losing lives through road accidents has been a matter of global concern. In 2015, the World Health Organisation (WHO) noted that as high as 1.3 million people die annually from road crashes, almost becoming the leading cause of deaths ahead of even the HIV/AIDS or malaria worldwide. One of the major factors that led to the establishment of Federal Road Safety Commission was to control road accident and the nature of cars that ply the roads. The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) has done enough to curtail road accident in the country. Indeed, it is worthy of note that most motorists flout road ‘traffic laws which in turn lead to accident. Most drivers do not obey road signs. It is worrisome to see some drivers driving at 100km/h  where there is a road sign of 40km/h. We acknowledge that some efforts have been made to make the country’s roads safer through the establishment of FRSC and maintenance agencies but the reality has shown that there is still a lot more to be done. Road accident has become a daily ritual that must be heard every day. It is possible to control road accident if road users would adhere to rules and regulations guiding driving on the high ways. Those on high speed limit beyond traffic regulation should be arrested as it is done in other countries of the world. It is pathetic to see how people flout traffic laws and go scout free in the sight of Federal Road Safety Commission officials on the country’s high ways. Most of the cars plying the roads are with expired tyres and these should not be allowed on Nigerian roads. The articulated vehicles, more than any other, have been seen to be responsible for more fatal accidents. There is obviously the need to control the movement of such dangerous vehicles especially on township roads. Motorists, both private and commercial, must avoid driving under the influence of alcohol. Indeed in the country most of the commercial drivers drive under the influence of alcohol, thereby causing unnecessary accident on the roads. The National Union of Road transport workers should educate their members of the negative effects of over speeding, over loading, using expired tyres and driving under the influence of drugs and alcohol. The Federal Road Safety Commission whose statutory function is to control what happens on the roads should sit up to arrest traffic offenders in order to control the spate of road accident. Definitely, the high ways are taking a new look, therefore accidents prone to bad roads should be a thing of the past. We call for the speedy revamping of the railway system as it will reduce substantially the pressure on the country’s road transportation. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 