Lagos /Abuja /Abeokuta – President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday in Abuja said the military regime of President Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida stole the presidential mandate of the late Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola when it annulled the June 12, 1993 election. On behalf of the Federal Government, Buhari tendered an unreserved apology to the family of MKO Abiola over the annulment of the poll, insisting that Nigerians will no longer tolerate the perversion of justice under any guise. The apologies came at a special national honours investiture and award presentation to heroes of June 12, 1993 poll, at the Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, where Abiola was bestowed with the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR), while Ambassador Babagana Kingibe and the late Gani Fawehinmi were bestowed with the Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger (GCON). While Kingibe served as running mate to the late MKO in the botched election, Gani in conjunction with several civil society organisations led struggles for the actualisation of the mandate until his death. According to Buhari, the recognition of June 12 was not intended to unearth old wounds but to bury the negative effects that trailed it. He said now that June 12 has come to be recognised as the official Democracy Day and the names of some of those personalities who fought for it struggle gazetted in the presidential order, all efforts will be geared towards nurturing it for future generations. “Today, I am very happy to be present and to preside over the commemoration and investiture, marking the formal official Federal Government recognition of June 12 as national Democracy Day. “The decision and this event is not meant to be and is not an attempt to open old wounds but to put right a national wrong. Nigerians of their own free will voted for the late Chief MKO Abiola and Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, the presidential flag bearer and running mate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the 1993 elections. The government of the day inexplicably cancelled the elections when it was clear who were going to be the winners. “We cannot rewind the past but we can at least assuage our feelings; recognise that a wrong has been committed and resolve to stand firm now and in the future for the sanctity of free elections. Nigerians would no longer tolerate such perversion of justice. “This retrospective and posthumous recognition is only a symbolic token of redress and recompense for the grievous injury done to the peace and unity of our country. “Our decision to recognise and honour June 12 and its actors is in the national interest. It is aimed at setting national healing process and reconciliation of the 25 year festering wound caused by the annulment of the June 12 elections. I earnestly invite all Nigerians across all our national divide to accept it in good faith. “Our action today is to bury the negative side of June 12, the side of ill-feelings, hate, frustrations and agony. What we are doing is celebrating and appreciating the positive side of June 12. The June 12, which restates democracy and freedom. The June 12 that overcome our various divide and the June 12 that produced unity and national cohesion. This is the June 12 we are celebrating today and we will nurture it to our next generation. “Accordingly, on behalf of the Federal Government, I tender the nation’s apology to the family of the late MKO Abiola, who got the highest votes and to those that lost their loved ones in the cause of June 12 struggle. “At this juncture, ladies and gentlemen, I would like everybody present to stand and observe a minute silence in honour of the memory of Chief MKO Abiola and Chief Fawehinmi and indeed all those who lost their lives in the struggle of June 12 1993”. Brief Events That Trailed June 12 Annulled Election Recall that Tuesday, June 12, 2018, marks the 25th anniversary of the historic presidential election held on Saturday, June 12, 1993. It also marked the first time a Southerner would win a presidential election, widely adjudged to be the freest and fairest in Nigeria’s chequered political history. The June 12 struggles had its roots in Babangida’s transition to civil rule programme, in which he promised to hand over power to a democratically elected government. Prior to the annulment, Gen. Babangida had in 1987 announced a transition programme which was scheduled to begin in the third quarter of 1987. The timetable included local government elections on a zero-party basis, the lifting of the ban on politics and the registration of political parties as well as the inauguration of elected state governments and the inauguration of a new president in 1990. However, Babangida later shifted the hand-over date to 1993 but the inauguration date never came to pass. The late Kudirat, wife of Abiola, also fell victim to the June 12 struggle through her active and socially conscious criticism of the military administration. Her unflinching support for the mandate freely given to her husband, particularly when he was incarcerated pulled the string of her death. She was assassinated by some gunmen in Lagos on June 4, 1996, allegedly on the orders of the Sani Abacha military junta. After Babangida annulled the election which presumably was won by MKO, the action sparked riots throughout the country, especially in the Western region. The presumed winner of the annulled election, MKO Abiola, seeing his right denied, declared himself president which led to his arrest; he was convicted on the charges of treason and felony during the military regime of Gen. Sani Abacha. Accolades, Knocks For Buhari’s Govt The investiture ceremony which had the likes of Kola Abiola, eldest son of the late Abiola; Mohammed Fawehinmi, eldest son of Gani Fawehinmi; Chief Frank Kokori, Femi Falana, Prof. Wole Soyinka, Fidelis Tapgun, Chief Olusegun Osoba, Sen. Jonathan Zwingina, Iyorchia Ayu, Ameh Ebute, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, governors of Ogun, Kogi, Ondo, Plateau, among others, had its fair share of accolades and bashing for President Buhari. Wole Soyinka, who said he accepted Buhari’s apology, noted that the mere fact that the president made an open apology on behalf of Nigerians knocked off many grievances which citizens held about the president’s style of leadership. He, however, criticised Buhari who he noted was confusing Nigerians by retaining the national honours title of the late General Sani Abacha in previous administration. According to Soyinka, the only way Buhari could immortalise the legacies of Abiola was to end poverty in all its ramifications. “Most of what I wanted to say have been actually knocked off my mouth by one singular gesture, the presidential apology. It is a dimension which I did not expect from today’s ceremony. “I had a lot to say, but unfortunately the words have been taken off my mouth. However, I will like to make a request. Mr. President since we are honouring heroes of democracy today, I like to request that you manage to stop creating confusion in the minds of Nigerians. “It is not possible to honour MKO Abiola in one breath and admire his tormentor in another breath. Loyalty is all very well but loyalty can become perverse if that loyalty is retained to an individual who if he were alive today would be before the International Court of Crimes against humanity. The one who broke the laws of Nigeria, international laws, pauperised this nation, it is confusing if professional loyalty is carried so far as to be accorded such an individual”, Soyinka said. Continuing, he said, “We had a private conversation some time ago and I remember one of the things which I mentioned to you was this: I said you are fighting corruption, how cometh that a notorious dictator, corrupt ruler is honored by one of the most important avenues in the capital of Abuja, whereas, individuals like the martyrs of the struggle, philanthropists have not been honored. The answer you gave to me was not too satisfactory. But like let it pass. “Today perhaps is also an opportunity to inaugurate our hall of shame so that as we have our hall of heroes on the one hand, we can also have our hall of shame, as a lesson to future generation, but your apology has been most touching. “On behalf of the Nigerian people, I accept it. I accept and I am sure that most Nigerians will agree with me. “It is a beginning. I do not agree that this is closure to the event of June 12. There are far too many traumatised individuals walking around the streets, pauperised individuals walking around as a result of the policies and attitudes of one of the most brutal dictator. In fact, the most brutal dictator that this country has ever known. “Closure will come by responding to those traumatised individuals or victims of unspeakable tortures, some of whom were compelled to watch even their beloved ones being tortured on behalf of a man who was determined not just to demonise, to dominate his environment, but also to dehumanise that environment”. Chief Frank Kokori, one of those who made the military junta uncomfortable, said he least expected that Buhari will effect the June 12 mandate.” He said, “If this is coming 25 years later, it means one day your country will remember you because some of us felt when we came out of Abacha’s gulag and we were not recognised, I just felt what sort of country is this. Like my personal experience as one of the most famous prisoner of conscience in the world, I saw that my country did not even appreciate the four years I spent in one of the worst cells in the world. And we did all these for our country and the country did not recognise us. “So, now we are happy and we are very grateful to our president, the least president we expected who should have done this, Muhammadu Buhari. “We thought people like Obasanjo should have done that for us long time ago. There was so much pressure not Muhammadu Buhari, we least expected it, so in doing it for us, he has a great soul and we appreciate it.” Mohammed Fawehinmi, on the assumptions that his father would have rejected the award if he was alive, said, “I know he would have taken it, I know my father more than anybody. There are two reasons why he would have taken it, one, because June 12 was actualised, two, because MKO Abiola was recognised as president elect. “You can see from the suggestion at the Senate that they are going to eventually declare the election result and he is going to be given all his benefits after 25 years which he has lost. So, for that reason that is victory for him because he went through hell and high waters to make sure that June 12 was actualised.” Former governor of Ogun State, Olusegun Osoba, said Buhari has shown unprecedented courage to have recognised June 12 struggle. “Buhari has shown that with the conferment of these awards he has demonstrated that he is courageous to do what others could not do. “I was just telling Chief Kokori that the fact that the two of us are alive to witness the event of today is a thing of joy, because Kokori became the last man standing when everybody was taken and I was wrongly accused which is not true. “So I am happy that we are all alive today. The significance of what we are doing today is that the president has the courage to do what others failed to do.” Babagana Kingibe noted that he agreed to run with Abiola in the botched election because of his convictions that the late philanthropist could bring about economic emancipation of the people. He described Abiola as the messiah that Nigerians never had owing to events that culminated in the annulment of the polls. NADECO Wants Abiola Declared President, Immortalised Meanwhile, the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) has called on President Buhari to posthumously inaugurate the late MKO Abiola as president. NADECO is a pro-democracy group that was at the forefront of the struggle for the restoration of the June 12, 1993 mandate. In a statement signed on Tuesday by its General Secretary and Spokesperson, Ayo Opadokun, the group said it believes Abiola should not remain in Nigeria’s history as the presumed winner of the June 12, 1993 election but should be inaugurated as Nigeria’s president. The group said it was expedient for President Buhari to inaugurate Abiola as president after emerging winner of the 1993 election, an election widely believed to be Nigeria’s freest and fairest. The group also expressed delight in the pronouncement of President Buhari declaring June 12 as Democracy Day and the national honour conferred on Abiola as the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (GCFR). According to the group, “We welcome with satisfaction President Buhari’s courageous announcement in spite of the criticisms emanating mainly from the political opponents of President Buhari’s political party. “The Nigerian state should ask Professor Nwosu to be recalled on emergency for the purposes of a formal declaration of the final result of June 12, 1993, presidential election as the chief returning officer.” NADECO also wants Nigeria to be returned to a federal constitutional arrangement, and urged President Buhari to uphold democratic values and ensure electoral dignity in the country. In the meantime, at Oke-Ido in Gbagura area of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, a call went out to Buhari to follow the footsteps of the late Abiola by doing all in his powers to end poverty steering Nigerians in the face. The call was made by the family of the late Abiola and some civil society organisations during a Democracy Walk to mark the 25th anniversary of the June 12 election. They said ending poverty was what Abiola stood for. The Democracy Walk that started from June 12 Cultural Centre, Kuto, Abeokuta, and terminated at the family house, was led by the Ogun State Deputy Governor, Mrs. Yetunde Onanuga, and the Secretary to the State Government, Taiwo Adeoluwa. Speaking at the Abiola family house, Alhaji Muritala Abiola, Head of the Abiola family, thanked and appreciated Buhari’s decision to finally recognise their son as the winner of the annulled June 12, 1993 presidential election. He stated that the late Abiola wanted to end poverty by all means and that was why he contested and won the 1993 presidential election. He said the best the Federal Government could do was follow the footsteps of the late Abiola. In Lagos, Akinwunmi Ambode, the state governor, reified the June 12 campaign in a memorable way by unveiling a 46-feet statue of Bashorun Moshood Kasimawo Olawale (MKO) Abiola, to commemorate the mandate and the struggle. At the unveiling of the statue at the MKO Abiola Garden in Alapere, Ketu, Governor Ambode said it was in the tradition of the state government to recognise and remember heroes and heroines who contributed to the greatness of the nation and the state, in particular, adding that Abiola deserved the best from the state as Lagos was his success story. The governor, who alluded to the fact that a statue was previously sited at the location, said his administration decided to erect bigger statues of Abiola and Chief Gani Fawehinmi, the late rights activist, to properly situate their immense contributions to nation-building. “There was a statue done by my predecessor, Babatunde Raji Fashola, but in the divine world, some things are more glorious than what you think. “And, so, we decided at the end of 2016 that we should do bigger statues for Chief Gani Fawehinmi and MKO Abiola since almost everybody passing and entering Lagos go through this particular Ojota axis. “So, we stated late in 2016 that we should build something bigger, and it took us about a year to do this. “Today, we declare that their sacrifice has not been in vain,” the governor said. He also commended Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for being the pioneer governor to declare a public holiday on June 12 throughout his tenure in office as well as Babatunde Raji Fashola for his steadfastness in upholding the tradition, saying that the occasion attests to their visionary leadership. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 