Amidst profound pride and nostalgia, I wish to use the privilege of this two-legged piece to celebrate initiatives of those who, in spite of their modest achievements both individually or collectively, are profoundly humble and have contributed to society’s development, compared with those mediocre and public treasury looters being celebrated. It is not difficult to recognize those who, through dint of hard work and perseverance, have earned enviable personal accomplishments compared with the growing number of political charlatans and dubious elements Nigeria’s corruption-ridden society celebrates unashamedly. This write-up is for two distinct celebrations. First of all, it is intended to mark 40th anniversary of graduation of my humble self, along with my 43 others from the Department of Mass Communication, University of Lagos. Exactly 40 years ago, in June 1978, the underlisted, numbering 44, successfully concluded in three-year degree programme in UNILAG’s Department of Mass Communication. How time flies! And, of course, the second leg is essentially to celebrate uncommon initiative of authorities of the University of Ilorin for boldly embarking on a crucial exercise which is one of Nigeria’s age-long societal problems. UNILAG’s 1978 MASSCOM Alumni Adedeji Adebayo, Adegbite Oladipo, Adio Hameed, Agbroko Godwin, Ajala Adeogun, Ajayi Ayodeji, Ajayi Sunday, Akanle Toyin, Akpan Michael, Anyaeji Chudi, Araka John, Aremu Ayoola, Aribike Olusegun, Awobiyi Ayotunde, Ayeni Victor, Balogun Abiodun, Bashir-Bello Nadir, Dafinone Coral, Dua-Sakyi Gloria, Esiekpe Daniel, Fadugba Nicholas, Idahosa Paul, Ige Bamidele, Ighure Isaac, Iwere Samson, Jimoh Najeem, Jukwey James, Kamson Olanrewaju, Kareem Bolaji, Lewis Abiodun, Ladipo Olusegun, Mowah Austin, Masokoane Glenn, Ndukauba John, Nwuko Emmanuel, Obi Lewis, Odetayo Kayode, Olunuga Timothy, Oso Olayiwola, Obilana Babatope, Olayinka Kofoworola, Omene Maureen, Sosanya Olufunmilayo, Sote Lekan and Tonwe Stella. However, this article will not be complete if, on behalf of my fellow alumni, I fail to appreciate invaluable contributions of the following Faculty Staff to realisation of our academic dreams at UNILAG. Late Head of Department of Mass Communication & University Orator, Professor Alfred Opubor, will never be forgotten. He was not only Nigeria’s first Professor of Mass Communication, he, until he died in 2011 at the age of 75, was also Africa’s first doctorate degree holder in Communications. Brilliant and very lively, he used his sterling leadership attributes to ensure the department maintained eminent position in areas of teaching, professional training and research, as well as quality of Mass Communication graduates. Also, unflinching efforts of his successor, Professor Ralph Akinfeleye, late Dr. Delu Ogunade, late Mr. Bisi Aborishade, Professor Onuora Nwuneli, Dr. Frank Ugboaja, Professor Idowu Sobowale, US-based Professor Olatunji Dare and Dr. Adidi Uyo __ both alumni of the department, will remain evergreen in our minds. Personally, I cannot forget Professor Dare – a First Class product, who, as Supervisor of my final year research project, greatly endeared himself to me judging by his uncommon unwavering commitment to duty. Incidentally, unlike what has virtually become a recurring social menace within the Nigerian university system these days, our lecturers did not sexually harass female students. We can vouch for our lecturers that it was not in their character(s) to misbehave compared to what randy lecturers do these days to female students. In our time, unconditional cordial relations existed between lecturers and students of both sexes and there was nothing like sex-for-marks. Lecturers were always there to attend to academic challenges of their students who knew that there was no short cut to academic excellence. It was because of this that while they were being formally presented at the venue of Convocation in January 1979 to the then Vice-Chancellor, Professor B. Kwaku Adadevoh, the 1978 set of grandaunts were described by their beloved lecturers as one of the best the Department of Mass Communication had produced. UNILORIN’s Exemplary Initiative When mentioning Nigerian universities noted for devising landmark initiatives specifically targeted at solving protracted societal problems, especially those militating against development and growth of the Nigerian university system, University of Ilorin, in Kwara State, occupies a well-deserved frontline position. Known for its enviable record of doing things differently and positively too, compared with others, many were not surprised when recently, it was widely reported that authorities of UNILORIN, unlike the unending show of shame and unbridled corruption being witnessed in many government establishments such as Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), conducted a screening exercise to determine who among the staff, no matter highly placed, possesses fake certificates. I was pleasantly impressed when I learnt the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sulyman Abdulkareem, voluntarily submitted himself for screening. This is one of the qualities of a good leader. This is very rare in Nigeria where some of the so-called leaders have no certificates or possess fake credentials. No wonder that over the years, the university has made notable strides in academic pursuits, as well as national development worthy of emulation. By allowing himself to be screened to ensure authenticity of his certificates, Abdulkareem had clearly demonstrated he has no skeleton in his cupboard. This clearly explains why other staff also complied to ensure success of the important exercise. Other Vice-Chancellors should emulate UNILORIN for conducting such exercise to determine genuineness of certificates of their staff, especially judging by the fact that some panels of inquiry in the past had revealed that there were lecturers with fake doctorate degrees in Nigerian universities and since this could happen, no wonder those in possession of fake doctorate degrees are producing unemployable graduates. For taking this bold and highly worthy initiative, authorities of UNILORIN deserve to be celebrated. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 