Abuja – Kemi Adeosun, Minister of Finance, said on Thursday that there would be a few days of delay in the payment of salaries of workers at the state and federal levels. The minister disclosed this amidst another allegation that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) had under-remitted cash into the treasury where funds were domiciled before sharing. She stated this shortly after the National Economic Council (NEC) meeting chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The monthly meeting of the Federation Account Allocation Committee ended in a deadlock on Wednesday in Abuja following discrepancies in the actual funds expected in the account. FAAC is a monthly forum where state governments and the Federal Government meet to share money generated through the sale of oil. Some of the state Commissioners for Finance who attended Wednesday’s meeting were said to have emerged from the venue wearing long faces. Last month, May, NEC also accused the NNPC and 17 other agencies of failing to remit over N8 trillion into the federation account. The indictment followed a forensic audit of the agencies conducted by the international firm, KPMG, a development that prompted the NEC Chairman, Osinbajo, to direct the affected federal revenue agencies to remit the missing sums into government coffers. Besides the NNPC, the Nigerian Customs Service; the Nigerian Ports Authority, the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS); the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA); the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC); the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), among others, fell into the category of major defaulters. Explaining to State House correspondents, Adeosun said: “In my capacity as Chairman of FAAC, I briefed governors on the deadlock that we have got currently in the federation account and explained what happened. “There was quite an extensive debate on what to do. For the purpose of this briefing, we operate NNPC as a business, we have invested public capital in that business and we have expectations of return and when that return falls lower than our expectations, then the owners of this business which, in this case, is the Federal Government and states need to act. “So, that was what caused the deadlock yesterday (Wednesday) and we really felt the figures the NNPC was proposing for FAAC were unacceptable. “We felt that some of the costs couldn’t be justified and so we have decided that rather than approve the accounts, we will go back and do further work. “Further negotiations and interactions are going on with NNPC as we speak. “However, we did brief both Mr. President and Mr. Vice President on the deadlock and asked for their support and their forbearance in this, because the consequence of this is that salaries might well be delayed in many states as a result of this. “But we feel that in order to get to the accurate figures that we need, we have asked for forbearance and the governors and the Federal Government are all in agreement that we need to get to the bottom of those figures. “In particular, now that the oil price is now $76 per barrel in the spot market, which means that bonny light is about $78, we want to be aggressively putting money away into the excess crude account. “This window of relatively high oil price might not last and we will like to be able to save. “If we cannot get into the federation account the sort of revenues we are expecting, then we will not be able to save. “So, it was a very important point really underscored by all the governors and they really want action taken and they are fully in support of the positions of the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Commissioners of Finance not to approve those accounts until we get further explanations on some of the costs.” Meanwhile, the rot in education over the years caught the attention of the NEC, prompting the leadership to set up a presidential committee that would look into areas of urgent intervention in the time being. Among those to serve in the committee were the governors of Kano, Osun, Delta as well as the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele. The Finance Minister later gave the balances in the Excess Crude Account as $1,916,742,289.60; Stabilisation Fund as N18,892,864,216.65, while Natural Resources Fund stood at N133,715,427,387.37. Nigerian Sovereign Investment Fund Peaks At $88m Q2 Meanwhile, pool funds jointly owned by the three tiers of government but managed by the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority peaked at $88 million consecutively for five years. Ifeanyi Okowa, Delta State governor, revealed this on Thursday after the National Economic Council (NEC) meeting in Abuja. He, however, said the bulk of investments that would be coming from the Fund in year 2018 would go into power, agriculture, and health sectors. Okowa, who gave a breakdown of the Fund’s audited account for the year ended December 2016, noted that NSIA reported 5th straight year of profitability in all its funds with core profits (excluding FX transaction gains) of N26.28 billion ($88 million) for the year. According to him, it also reported total assets under management at about $1.25 billion for the most part of the year, but said the additional contribution of $250 million was not received until the third quarter of 2017. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 