Muslim women have been urged to seek for beneficial knowledge always and engage in research regularly in order to update their knowledge. This call was made at the ninth edition of the Sisters’ Annual Seminar organised by the Standard Bearers Islamic Organisation (SBIO) at the African Peoples Hall, GRA, Ilorin, Kwara State. Speaking on the theme, ‘The Agenda’, Head of Science Department, Vanguards’ Academy, Odosengolu, Ogun State, Hajia Ni’matullah Ojuroye, told the audience that the Western world is out all day to diminish the status of women all in the name of feminism. According to her, they are waging this war through different means, especially the Conference on Elimination of Discrimination Against Women and Children (CEDAW). Hajia Ojuroye said: “Some of the ways the West is setting the agenda for women is through encouraging free sex, setting adulthood at the age of eighteen, lesbianism, among others.” She therefore urged Muslim women to be up to the task in overcoming the challenges of the world. This can only be done by “returning to Allah, seeking beneficial knowledge, dedication and devotion to Allah, being disciplined in all our affairs, being determined to distinguish yourself among your peers and having sincerity of purpose”. In her submission, the CEO of NUTAN Foods Nigeria Ltd, Hajia Nurat Qamardeen, said the solution to the challenges is to stop complaining about the Western agenda but provide an alternative system to all the systems plaguing the world, having a right mind towards the solutions given and reforming the self first. Delivering the Health Talk on Menstrual Disorders, Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist at Sobi Specialist Hospital, Ilorin, Dr. (Mrs) Salamat Isiaka-Lawal listed several menstrual disorders, among which are premenstrual syndrome (PMS), which is characterised majorly by mood swings and occurs about a week to the beginning of the menstrual cycle. “Others are dysmenorrhea (menstrual pain); abnormal menstrual bleeding (heavy and prolonged bleeding); hypomenorrhea (scanty bleeding); intermenstrual bleeding (bleeding between two cycles); polymenorrhea (having 12-15 days cycle); oligomenorrhea (having 40-60 days cycle) and amenorrhea (cease in menstrual bleeding).”, she added. The causes of these disorders, according to Dr. Isiaka-Lawal, are pregnancy complications; uterine fibroids; polycystic ovary syndrome (more common among women of reproductive age); brain problems and local problems in the cervix. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 