In October 2016, Reuben Abati, former Special Adviser to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, described Nigeria’s seat of power, Aso Villa, as an evil place. He, therefore, advised the Nigerian government to turn the Villa into a spiritual museum. In the article, ‘Rituals, blood and death: The spiritual side of Aso Villa’, the veteran journalist opined that recent happenings in the presidency should give the citizens headache. For those who did not read the article, I ask for Abati’s permission to reproduce some parts of the piece here. “People tend to be alarmed when the Nigerian presidency takes certain decisions. They don’t think the decision makes sense. Sometimes, they wonder if something has not gone wrong with the thinking process at that highest level of the country. I have heard people insist that there is some form of witchcraft at work in the country’s seat of government. I am ordinarily not a superstitious person, but working in the Villa, I eventually became convinced that there must be something supernatural about power and closeness to it. I will start with a personal testimony. “I was given an apartment to live in inside the Villa. It was furnished and equipped. But when my son, Michael, arrived, one of my brothers visited with a pastor who was supposed to stay in the apartment. But the man refused, claiming that the Villa was full of evil spirits and that there would soon be a fire accident in the apartment. He complained about too much human sacrifice around the Villa and advised that my family must never sleep overnight inside the Villa. I thought the man was talking nonsense and he wanted the luxury of a hotel accommodation. But he turned out to be right. The day I hosted family friends in that apartment and they slept overnight, there was indeed a fire accident. The guests escaped and they were so thankful. “Not long after, the President’s physician living two compounds away had a fire accident in his home. He and his children could have died. He escaped with bruises. Around the Villa while I was there, someone always died or their relations died. I can confirm that every principal officer suffered one tragedy or another; it was as if you needed to sacrifice something to remain on duty inside that environment. “Even some of the women became merchants of dildo because they had suffered a special kind of death in their homes (I am sorry to reveal this) and many of the men complained about something that had died below their waists too. The ones who did not have such misfortune had one ailment or another that they had to nurse. From cancer to brain and prostate surgery and whatever, the Villa was a hospital full of agonising patients.” If you read that piece and check what is happening to government officials, you may not agree less. He just reeled out what he saw under Jonathan; how evil and demons reigned in the seat of power. You still doubt. By the way, how many times did Buhari go for medical check abroad before he became president? Don’t reply me, just keep the answer. If you observed, those in the presidency behaved saner before they set feet on Aso Villa. Check their recent doublespeak. One ‘man of God’ I thought would have been a check on the misdemeanour of his colleagues has been sucked in. The Minister of Information, who was a beautiful bride before the All Progressives Congress (APC) wrested power from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has become the ‘defence minister’ of the indefensible. How about the Lagos poster boy who was given three ministerial portfolios because he mocked PDP for failing to fix power in six months? He has tucked his tail between his thighs and swallowed his words. Remember the ‘transmission’ speech? Even Femi Adesina? All of them in the Villa. The latest was from Festus Keyamo, that fearless lawyer who used to take along a pillow whenever he was arrested, for fighting the people’s cause. The pillow? He was not ready to make the detention cell his home. What else do you expect from a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) who accepted appointment as the Director, Strategic Communications for President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2019 presidential campaigns? Is Keyamo not supposed to be aspiring to the presidency? Let someone tell him that President Emmanuel Macron of France is in his 40s. Keyamo said in recent interview with VinMartin Obiora Ilo on ‘The Signature Show’ that Nigeria would have collapsed after 2015 without Buhari at the helm of affairs. Thank God, he has refuted the statement credited to him that the killings were not real. Through his twitter handle on Saturday, he said those attributing negative statements or stories, which never emanated from him, should be bold enough to disclose the source of such stories. Oh God, please deliver us from generational curses embedded in our presidential villa before 2019, so that our next leader will maintain his sanity. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 