Hon. Victor Akande represents Ojo Constituency 1 at Lagos State House of Assembly. In an Interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, he spoke about the crisis in the All Progressives Congress (APC), the strategic crisis management capability of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the party’s National Leader, among other issues. Excerpts: With 19 years of uninterrupted democracy in Nigeria, do you think that our democracy has been deepened? We have used 19 years to practice the rudiments of democracy. The military incursion has done a lot of harm to our democratic process, because, so much harm was done to the system and it would take a longer time to clean up the mess before the gains of democratic practice will become visible. We have just had 19 years of uninterrupted democratic practice and I must say that we have not done so badly, even though we should have done better. We are learning to water the seed sown in 1960 by our fathers, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, Alhaji Tafawa Balewa, etc. What has been battered for over 50 years will take a long time to fix. It took America 150 years to be where they are today. Nigeria is just 58. If it took America 150 years to standardise democracy, we will get there. All we need to do is learn from our past mistakes. We just need to put the right peg in the right hole and things will fix. Nigeria is a great country, blessed with enough human and natural resources Your party had a crack when it had parallel congresses in the last state congress in Lagos. How would it manage this crisis ahead of the 2019 elections? APC Lagos did not have two parallel congresses. We had one major congress and one was a charade. You cannot call a charade a congress. Where do you hold a congress? Is it not in the secretariat of the party? You also look at the calibre of people that attended the congress. We had all the House of Assembly members there, the House of Representatives members were there and all the senators were there. The governor was there. Will you say that there was another congress better than the one the governor attended? We had only one congress in Lagos State, the one that took place at Airport Hotel was a charade. I want to say here that the reason the party has continued to wax stronger is because of the ability of our national party leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, to manage crisis. God has given him the wisdom to call his people to a roundtable and settle issues. Each time we cross a  hurdle, we get stronger. He will resolve every outstanding issue in the party. You can see what he is doing at the national level. He has been reaching out to aggrieved party members and he has done very well in that area. Can you clarify the that the main stream APC in Lagos State is gradually losing members to the other camp? Which camp are you referring to? It is the media that is creating that in their heads. We have only one APC in Lagos State. The media want to paint an unpainted building to give it a facelift. We don’t have two camps in Lagos State. Once it is APC, it is APC. There is no other APC. What you may be seeing as crisis is a family affair. What you expect from a formidable party is to have conflicts sometimes. The way you manage the conflict will tell the world how good your party is. A party that does not have name will not have conflicts. A party that does not have future will not experience conflicts. A party that is big, has future and hope will experience upheavals because a lot of people want to associate with it and tap from its wealth. I will also say that some of the conflicts may simply be another way of people drawing the attention of the party to themselves. When you see crisis sometimes it may not really be crisis but love. Timi Frank, the suspended member of your party wrote to the American president, Donald Trump, alleging that President Muhammadu Buhari’s government was a threat to democracy. What is your take on this? Timi Frank alleged that he was a member of APC. Did he show you his identification card? Timi Frank couldn’t have been a member of the party because a house divided against itself cannot stand. How do you prove that he is a member of the party? Anybody can claim to be a member of APC, PDP etcetera. There is no right thinking human being that will act the way he did. He did not see any person in Nigeria to complain about the issues he had with the government of Buhari, but to run to America and start writing a letter to Donald Trump. He was looking for cheap popularity. He wanted to feel important. We would not join issues with political miscreants. That action is tantamount to bringing down the good reputation of this country. Some Nigerians are worried that the polity could be heated up if President Buhari should probe former President Olusegun Obasanjo in respect of the $16 billion power project. What is your view? In ‘Animal Farm’ by George Orwell, all animals are equal, but some are more equal than the others. Does Obasanjo want to tell us that he is one of those animals that are more equal than the others? May be that was the analogy that was building in some of his actions and utterances. I must say that the man who started that anti-corruption crusade should not be afraid to be tried, except he has skeleton in his cupboard. Let me tell you that Obasanjo’s antics cannot work again in this dispensation. It worked during Jonathan’s regime because the South was fooled and they believed so much in him. He wanted to try it in the North and it failed. His letter writing antics did not work. Let him tell us what he knows about the $16 billion power project. Prove his innocence and everyone will hail him and call him ‘Baba ke’. Ayo Fayose is still alive. He said how he (Fayose) was coaxed into donating N10 million to Obasanjo Library. Since he is an anti-corruption crusader, let him submit himself for probe. There is also the insinuation in some quarters that APC came up with this allegation to get back at Obasanjo because he advised Buhari not to run in 2019 presidential election. What can you say about that? They were two petitions brought against Obasanjo. Should they be thrown into the dust bin? No, he would need to prove his innocence to Nigerians. When he wanted to remove Jonathan, he wrote. And now, he is also writing. Did anybody tell him that the letter he was writing would affect Buhari during election? Since nobody stopped him from writing his letter, let nobody bring up the sentiment that it was because he wanted to stop Buhari’s second term that he is being asked to answer to the allegation. Any matter can come up at any time. Let him just respectfully as a senior citizen of Nigeria respond to all questions. Amnesty International (AI) has accused Nigerian military of raping and starving the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the North. What is your view about the allegation? If there is any prove, let it put the National Assembly on notice. It will be responded to because we cannot hand over the safety of the lives of our people to the military and we hear such allegation. It is not good enough. But, an investigation will put records straight if AI comes up with proof. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 