Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State recently had an encounter with newsmen during which he spoke on the giant strides of his administration.  ONOJA AUDU was there to bring an excerpt: How far has your administration gone in completing abandoned projects you inherited on coming to power? You know, this is not my first time in government.  You will recall that I was a member of the state House of Assembly between 1999 and 2007. Within the period, I was made the Assembly Speaker. Now, I am here as the state governor. There were memos before the Assembly during our time that emphasised the danger of abandoned projects as well as its economic implications. So, now as a governor, I should not be the one to leave inherited projects uncompleted and start mine. Some of these abandoned projects could be traced to the era of the state’s first governor. Subsequent administrations after J. D. Gomwalk also left a lot of uncompleted projects. When we talk of abandoned projects, they cut across both military and civilian administrations in the state. But, it is not about which government laid the foundation for projects. It should be the benefit of such projects to our people. It is not about me or whoever, the interest of the people should supersede all other considerations in terms of government programmes. Besides, any project started with public fund, it is Plateau’s money. It does not belong to any individual. So, public funds should not be allowed to waste through abandoned projects. Thus, when I came on board in 2015, I resolved from day one that I would pick up all these abandoned projects and complete them for the benefit of our people. General Yakubu Gowon has always encouraged me to doing so. He told me that projects are about the people who would benefit from them. He also told me that whoever abandoned inherited projects is cheating the people as it is the people that will suffer the consequence. So, I don’t allow the people to suffer, but will go ahead and complete any abandoned project. General Gowon has been commending me each time he hears that I have competed one of such projects. How many of such abandoned projects have you revived in the last three years? So far, we have revived the long abandoned Jos Highland Bottling Company. It has commenced production. The state’s Fertiliser Blending Plant that was abandoned by the last administration has been revived and is now producing fertiliser for the state and neighbouring states. The Barc Farm was sold by a particular administration. I have re-purchased it. It contains over 4,000 hectares of land. The Hill Station Hotel has been remodeled. We have acquired 75% shares of it. The Jos Ultra-Modern Market abandoned since 2002 has been planned for any private investor, just like the Jos International Breweries Plc. The overhead bridge at the Secretariat Junction as well as the road that links it to Maraba Jamaa has been completed and commissioned. However, the fact that I have been working on inherited projects does not mean I have not initiated new ones. Now, there are 22 road contracts going on. Before then we initiated, completed and commissioned 17 township roads. I have also resolved to complete any new project I initiated. I will never leave any project uncompleted because I am trying to establish a culture which subsequent administrations will follow. Villagers displaced by gunmen are complaining that the government has abandoned them. Does the government have any plan to return them to their ancestral homes? I am one of the six governors representing the Northern Governors Forum in the North Central programme of ensuring food security. It is a presidential committee headed by Mr. President. One of the tasks of the committee is to resolve the farmers/herders conflicts. The committee has put some measures on ground, one of which is to ensure that we bring back residents who were earlier displaced from their villages. For instance, the crisis in Bassa Local Government was rumored to be ethnic or religion. But, the people of Bassa themselves told me the problem is about land dispute. Some people were displaced in that conflict and the groups that displaced them are insisting that they will not be allowed to come back. The same resistance against IDPs returning to their home is also happening in the troubled local governments in the state. Now, the presidential committee is insisting that those displaced should be allowed to return for peace to reign. But, the displaced people do not want to return until they are sure their security is guaranteed. They said that if they return without adequate security, the same people that attacked and displaced them can come back and kill them. So, to guarantee their security, the Federal Government has initiated another policy aimed at mopping up arms. That policy is now being implemented. According to the policy, those who willingly surrender their arms will be rewarded. I will encourage citizens of the state to surrender their arms willingly because the committee headed by the Vice President will visit every residence in the mop-up exercise. So, the Federal Government is prepared to fight every force standing against peaceful co-existence. Also, the Federal Government has earmarked funds to assist IDPs in rebuilding their houses. This rehabilitation and reconstruction programme will go along with the mopping up of arms. So, it will not be a short term programme, but will take some times. The Federal Government is prepared to do everything within its power to resettle displaced persons. From the programme on ground, the issue of herdsmen/farmers’ clash will soon be a thing of the past. There will open grazing for those who want open grazing. In Plateau State we have settled for ranching. That is why Plateau State is captured among the first five states to implement the pilot scheme. Very soon the programme will start in Plateau State. We have our land, we are not worrying anyone to donate his or her land for ranching. We have a very large land in Wase already inspected for the take off of the ranching pilot programme. The Federal Government said the land in Wase local government is enough to begin ranching and stop importation of milk to this country. A lot of potholes exist in streets within the state capital. What is government doing about it? The administration has taken note of the wears and tears on our roads within the metropolis. But, the challenge has been that of bitumen. As a state government, we cannot import bitumen. It is very expensive. The alternative is to buy bitumen from construction companies in the country. That is, if the companies have excess to sell after completing their work. There are so many new roads under construction across the state. The contractors are at moment working hard to deliver the projects within the time frame we gave them. So, it will be difficult to go to them and ask for bitumen so as not to give them excuse to delay the jobs we gave them. But, another challenge we have for which we need to send an appeal to the citizens is the issue of cutting the tarred road to put speed bumps as a way of minimising hit and run vehicles. That contributes majorly to the deterioration of our roads. The government imposed curfew on Bassa local government since last year due to violence conflicts there. When will the curfew be lifted? As the governor, I am the Chief Security Officer of the state. I work with all security agencies to ensure peace in all nooks and crannies of the state. On the curfew in Bassa, I do not unilaterally impose curfew. I work on the intelligence provided by security agencies. We agreed to impose the curfew due to prevailing security situations. They have not reported otherwise. As soon as the security agencies see the need to lift the curfew, I will do that immediately. However, I will not compromise the issue of security. I have the primary responsibility to protect lives and properties of citizens, else I am not worth to be called a governor. We hold security meetings regularly. We are monitoring the situation in Bassa very closely. As soon as the security situation improves, I will lift the curfew. There are several issues in the state begging for attention like the renovation of J.D. Gomwalk House, Tudunwada-Kabong road project, etc. What is government’s plan about these projects? The J.D. Gomwalk House has suffer neglect in the hands of past administrations. It is one of the abandoned projects I inherited. It is on the list of abandoned projects we have slated for renovation. It is just that the resources at our disposal are so little to do all at the same time. We have competing demands and we have minimum resources to work with. So, we have not neglected it. That building is a revenue earner for government and we cannot afford to abandon it like past governments did. As soon as we get the necessary resources, we will take it up. Then the Tudunwada/Kabong road is among the ones initiated by this administration. I will not abandoned it for it is important for security and economic reasons. We started the road, but work was stopped because of funds. It is not true that we have abandoned the project. The same thing applies with Angwuan Rogo road network. It was also initiated by me. If you see me completing projects abandoned long ago by past administration, why will I abandon the ones I initiated? I will not do that. As soon as we have the funds, we will get back to work. What is being done to harness the tourism potentials of the state as alternative source of revenue? Government has placed its tourism sites for concessioning. We need private investors there. Government is ready to hands off management of tourism facilities in the state because we need to make it a business venture, a revenue spinner for government. All that we need to do as government is to create the enabling environment for investors come in for real business, especially, the Jos World Life Park. Government cannot continue to keep and maintain it. The laxity on the part of government can make us lose the revenue that the sector ought to generate. The other time, I was away from the country attending an international workshop on tourism development. All of a sudden, I heard that lion had escaped from the Wild Life Park and the only way to prevent it from killing innocent citizens was to kill the lion. That was a very sad moment of my administration. May the lion’s soul rest in peace. I kept making calls from where I was to ensure that the lion was never killed. But, there was a lot of tension that the lion would attack people if allowed to enter the town. Soldiers were brought in and before you know it, they did it in their own way and the lion is no more. That lion was brought into Jos zoo when some of us were not born. The lion has contributed to tourism attraction in the state because people were coming from all over the country to watch it. But, government had since replaced it. We went to Johannesburg to bring a younger lion as a replacement. The next thing is to privatise it. We are calling on investors to come in and take over the World Life Park. You will realise why I made peace and security top priority in my administration. This is because the investors will not come when we have no peace. But, with the level of peace we have achieved so far, the state will witness influx of investors, a good numbers of them have indicated interest in agriculture and tourism. Your government has dwelt much on efforts to restore peace. How much has the government spent so far in doing that? It is unquantifiable. That was why the government had to appeal to the Federal Government to include Plateau State in the North East Commission. Even though our appeal was rejected, the fact remain that if you talk of terrorism in Nigeria, it started from Plateau. That was our argument. That is why I am not going to give up in making case for Plateau in this regard. Good enough, on the issue of farmers/herders clash, a committee was set up by the Federal Government. Plateau, Benue, Zamfara, Kaduna, Taraba and Kogi are all included in the work of the committee. The presidential committee has visited Benue State to see how to rehabilitate the farmers. We are already compiling our own figures to be presented to the committee when it comes visiting. My government is not leaving anything to chance in terms of peace and security. It has cost us so much, but it is not for public consumption. Whatever we spent to restore total peace for the comfort of citizens is worth it. We don’t want to look at what we spent. We should be more interested in the result of what we are investing in peace and security. If you ask me, the result is glaring and impactful. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 