Tuberculosis (TB) prevalence rate in Nigeria is a cause for serious concern. The statistics are grim and the treatment outlook rather bleak. Figures from agencies involved in management of  tuberculosis indicate that at least 600,000 Nigerians are believed to be living with the disease, with an annual death rate of 170,000 persons.  According to 2017 Global TB Report, Nigeria is rated seventh among the 30 high TB burden countries in the world and second in Africa. Worse, the country is in the unenviable status of 1st position globally in low detection and low awareness of TB among the general population. That is not all. Nigeria suffers chronic deficit in funding the fight against TB. These are daunting challenges. Minister of Health, Isaac  Adewole, acknowledged the seriousness of the situation when at a March 2018 press briefing to mark the World TB Day 2018, he disclosed that the country’s TB programme suffers ‘’ a major drawback in low TB case finding for adults and children as there are a lot of missing TB cases that were either not diagnosed or diagnosed but not reported.’’  For instance, in 2017, only 104,704 TB cases were detected and offered treatment out of an estimated 407,000 of all forms of TB cases expected to be detected that year, thereby reducing treatment coverage to just 25.8 percent. To remedy the situation, the government in 2017 embarked on what the minister described as moving from passive to active TB case finding involving house-to-house search that detected 11,500 cases. Funding the fight against TB suffers from fund limitation globally, but with the situation aggravated in Nigeria.  The WHO  stated that $2.3 billion is needed globally to tackle the menace of TB but that 40 percent remain unavailable. For Nigeria, the funding shortfall is $215 million, representing 64 percent. The National Coordinator of the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme, an initiative of the Federal Ministry of Health, Mrs. Adebola Lawanson,  had at an Abuja Roundtable on sustainable financing to end TB in Nigeria, noted that of the $336 million the federal government declared as needed in the fight against TB, it only provided $31 million representing a paltry 9 percent.  International donor agencies contributed  $90 million, representing 27 percent,  leaving the $215 million deficit. The Health Minister tries to show that the federal government has not folded its arms in surrender with regard to the fight to end TB in Nigeria and has listed efforts which include nearly doubling Directly Observed Therapy (DOT) Centres to 6,753 in 2017  from 3,931 in 2010;  microcopy centres from 1,148 in 2010 to 2,650 in 2017  and GeneXpert machines  from 32 in 2012 to 390 in 2017. However, given the magnitude of the TB problem, we consider these measures as mere palliatives. That the federal government provided only 9 percent of the funding deemed needed for a credible fight against TB is indicative of the seeming lack of appreciation of health as a critical factor in national development. One cost effective area in tackling the emergent scourge of TB  that the government has neglected is the preventive strategy of creating awareness among the populace on hygienic habits to prevent contracting the disease.  Sustained awareness campaigns will significantly reduce new cases of TB  as well as encourage those in the early stages of the disease to seek help in the nearest government health facilities. The commendable response to the Ebola crisis offers a template as to the efficacy of saturation information dissemination in cases of health emergencies. We urge the federal government to see the resurgent cases of TB as an emergency, especially given its highly infectious nature. Efforts at mobilising private sector partnership should be intensified so as to reduce the financing gap.  The example of Chevron Nigeria Limited and its Agbami partners which have spent N2.2 billion since 2008 in support of the fight against TB in the country is commendable.  Such private sector support, however, cannot detract from the primary responsibility of the federal and state governments in substantially increasing funding for the management of TB epidemic. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 