Owerri – The Duru family of Amaudara, Izombe, Oguta council area of Imo state has made a passionate appeal to Governor Rochas Okorocha to ignore the recommendation of the state Ministry of Happiness and Couple Fulfillment to pardon one Chifoani Okorie already tried and convicted by the supreme court for the murder of Nze Dominic Duru. According to the family, the 72 year- old Dominic was on the 3rd of March 2005, murdered on a farmland by some agents of his assailant. In a statement in Owerri, representative of the bereaved family, Hon Emma Duru argued that although the governor might be seen to have unfettered powers to grant pardon to a convicted person, such powers should not be exercised for political reasons, stressing that the powers are normally exercised in the public interest in case where there is fresh evidence against an accused person. Giving a graphical detail of the gory incident, Duru alleged that the suspects had on that fateful day, visited the house of the deceased to remind him of their previously scheduled arrangement to visit their farmland to, among other things inspect the farmland for farming and remove the beehive that had infested a tree. Upon their arrival at the deceased house, Duru said that they met his wife and son without the Deceased and thereafter left for the farmland as earlier agreed. The deceased he said later returned but immediately returned on his bicycle to meet to the farmland to meet with the visitors. However, later in the afternoon, when he was yet to return, the family became apprehensive and his wife prepared his Lunch and directed his son to take same to him on the farm. Curiously, on getting to the farmland, he heard the muffled cry of his father, parked his bicycle at a spot and tiptoed closer to the scene and saw most of the accused persons in the matter including the said Chifoani Okorie and made some noise that attracted the attention of the accused persons. In his words, “They rushed after him in hot pursuit with their weapons but he managed to escape and hid somewhere in the bush and when he was convinced  that his father’s assailants must have left, he went back to the scene and found his father dead with injuries on his body” The matter he said was reported to the police and after, nine persons were arraigned before the High court of Imo State, charged with conspiracy and murder of the deceased. After their plea on the 23rd of 2007, the matter proceeded to trial and at the end of the trial, the learned trial judge convicted eight of the nine accused persons for the offences of conspiracy and murder of the said Nze Dominic Duru. “It is true that by virtue of section 212 of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Governor may grant prerogative of mercy or pardon to a person convicted of any offence created by a state law. And by the provision of sub-section 2 of the same section, It is provided that the powers of the Governor to grant such pardon shall be exercised by him after consultation with the advisory criminal of the state on prerogative of mercy as may be established by the law of the state, the question is whether that provision of the law is meant to release a convicted murderer who has not shown remorse for the offence she committed especially at the time when the appeal of her co-murderers are still pending in the court? he queried. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 