Lagos – The 2018 FIFA World Cup, the 21st FIFA World Cup, a quadrennial international football tournament contested by the men’s national teams of the member associations of FIFA, will kickoff in Russia today, June 14 with final to be played on Sunday, July 15 in Moscow. Russia, who was awarded the hosting rights on December 2, 2010, are hosting the first World Cup in Europe since the 2006 tournament in Germany, and the first ever to be held in Eastern Europe and the 11th time that it has been held in Europe. Out of the 32 national teams, which include 31 that scaled qualifying rounds and the automatically qualified host team, 20 are making back-to-back appearances following the last tournament in 2014. The returning teams are the defending champions, Germany, Brazil, Argentina, Spain, Belgium, England, Portugal, Croatia, Uruguay and Nigeria, the only African team returning. Others are, Iran, France, Australia, Japan, Russia, Switzerland, Mexico, Costa Rica, Colombia and Korea. Iceland and Panama are debuting at this tournament. Teams returning after absences of at least three tournaments include: Egypt, returning after a 28-year absence from their last appearance in 1990; Morocco, who last competed in 1998; Peru, returning after a 36-year absence (since 1982); and Senegal, competing for the second time after reaching the quarterfinals in 2002. It is the first time three Nordic countries (Denmark, Iceland and Sweden) and four Arab nations (Egypt, Morocco, Saudi Arabia and Tunisia) have qualified for the World Cup. Notable countries that failed to qualify are four-time champions Italy (for the first time since 1958) and three-time runner-up, the Netherlands (for the first time since 2002), and four reigning continental champions: 2017 Africa Cup of Nations winner, Cameroon, two-time Copa América, champion and 2017 Confederations Cup runner-up, Chile, 2016 OFC Nations Cup winner New Zealand, and 2017 CONCACAF Gold Cup champion, United States (for the first time since 1986). The other notable qualifying streaks broken were for Ghana and Cote d’Ivoire, who had both made the previous three tournaments. The 32 qualified teams were divided into eight groups of four teams each for the preliminary matches with the first two teams in each group qualifying for the knock-out stage. A total of 64 matches will be played in 12 venues located in 11 cities. The final will take place on Sunday, July 15 at the Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow. The World Cup winner will qualify for the 2021 FIFA Confederations Cup. Pre-tournament, favorites to win the final were Brazil, France, Germany and Spain. For the first time in the history of the World Cup, all eligible nations – the 209 FIFA member associations minus automatically qualified hosts Russia – entered the qualifying process. Zimbabwe and Indonesia were later disqualified before playing their first matches, while Gibraltar and Kosovo, who joined FIFA on May 13, 2016 after the qualifying draw but before European qualifying had begun, also entered the competition. Places in the tournament were allocated to continental confederations, with the allocation unchanged from the 2014 World Cup. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 