Over the years, Nigerians have been craving for fast internet for the exploration of Information Communications Technology (ICT) services. In this interview with Mr. Ernest Akinlola, Managing Director/CEO of ntel, spoke with JUSTUS ADEJUMOH on the factor militating against speedy data services, steps being taken by the company to expand its 4G/LTE-Advanced Network LTE across the country among others. Excerpt: Ntel seems to be more focused on data than voice service. Why is that so? Talking of being data-centric and not voice-focused compared to what MTN did, I think that is a throwback to what I said earlier in my presentation. We went ahead of the crowd. We were advanced and came up with 4G LTE and our voice is fantastic, really crystal clear, but we couldn’t emphasize the voice because we do not have the voice specific orders and that is what national roaming is going to do. Would I say it was a mistake and would have done it that way? A legacy is a legacy and we are addressing that so that we can have a voice and data proposition across all Nigeria. National roaming is the spear head for that and we will become a success story. With the challenges confronting the telecoms industry and of course the country as whole, how are you tackling them since you took over as the helmsman of ntel? When I came on board, I found that the previous management was dealing with infrastructure, but there was limited awareness of 4G LTE and the difference in 3G/2G. There were challenges in coverage in metro areas, network sharing (National roaming) and strong fixed broadband (Residential and Enterprise) capability development via investments. We have to solve some of these by driving revenue. We have entered into key partnership with premier OEMs Nokia, Samsung, Motorola, Huawei and ZTE. We are equally preparing to roll out national roaming services (2G and 3G) with two foremost operators, 9mobile Nigeria and MTN Nigeria which is expected to go live in second quarter (Q2) 2018. Now the benefits to be derived from this include: immediate coverage parity, service backward-compatibility (4G to 3G/2G), handset compatibility and speed to scale. We also want to undertake key commercial initiatives in driving growth, enhancing capabilities, visibility and branding, aggressive tactical channel sales, new and disruptive marketing value propositions. The outcome now is 167 per cent compounded average growth in customer number and an increase from +26 per cent to +51 per cent. A combination of high-impact commercial initiative brought about in subscribers acquisition and gross revenues in recent months. Our plans include delivering service to the enterprises and residential sectors and using Sat 3 Global Connect to provide global connectivity across Africa, Asia and Europe. We will use terrestrial broadband while revamping NITEL’s legacy of roadway infrastructure. We will consolidate on current funding and investment for future expansion from our strong shareholders support to bridge immediate funding gaps, external party investment debt/equity. This will further boost ntel’s efforts to bring affordable and abundant broadband to all Nigerians. There is a renewed belief in the management of ntel as we have strong local investors. What we expect in 2018 and beyond is expanded national coverage: Metro LTE coverage, 2000+ ntel site in cities, national resilience and commercial expansion. Our plan is going to be expanded by national roaming. What are you doing to retain your existing customers and attract new ones on your network? What is paramount in the mind of customers is service. We are proactive and take complaints from customers and respond promptly. Don’t you think ntel embarking on national roaming with 9mobile and MTN will encourage porting? National roaming is not a new concept, but we are only putting the impetus behind it. Our focus is on getting national scale. What we want is passive revenue and we have a good handshake with 9 mobile. They have 3G and ntel has 4G. We and 9mobile are currently on commercial discussion stage. We have carried out a proof of consent, a trial which the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) witnessed and it’s been very successful. Mobile initiating and mobile terminating calls, SMS and data have all been successfully delivered. The stage we are right now is that we are finalising the pricing. What national roaming is going to do is to give ntel the opportunity to acquire customers across Nigeria where we can’t at the moment. We have been to Ikorodu to acquire customers there. We all know that we have to pay to use 9mobile network and that will be viable because we can’t charge higher than the prevailing market price for a call. We are currently in discussion with 9mobile to agree on what that price should be in terms of international legs and national legs, national mobile originating and mobile terminating calls. We are hoping to get confirmation on that very soon and once we get that, the next stage is to get approval from NCC for the launch to make sure it is a viable product across Nigeria. Our target is to launch national roaming around April. In terms of MTN we have just got approval from NCC to launch a trial with them as well. Subscriber acquisition is very important to us. What are you doing about last mile connectivity? The last mile asset is encumbered because we have breakages in our fibre ducts. What it requires is investment within the ecosystem. No player, MTN, MainOne, Vodacom has complete last mile footprint. We do have the right of way as ardent asset within ntel. In terms of having full marking of last mile, nobody will have a hundred per cent. There will always be on-going collaboration between the eco-players to deliver services to the customers. We are going to use SAT-3 Global Connect providing Global Connectivity across Africa, Asia, and Europe; Terrestrial Broadband in revamping legacy NITEL roadway infrastructure(intercity fiber and metro ducts, metro transmission poles), while last mile connectivity, ntel will use the best  of breed technology to connect small, medium and large business, via wired or wireless technology. Is there any mapping by ntel to NITEL’s asset which could be a key to deployment? In terms of our mapping, we have invested in mapping our fibre ducts, towers, property, but a lot of them have been encroached from the old NITEL days, like the Base one property on Gerard Road, Ikoyi Lagos. In addition to that, we also have many consultants who said they were engineers with Siemens many years back and were involved in NITEL’s co-mapping. I hope they could help us to finish the mapping process. All we want is to collaborate with what we already have and like I said, some of our towers have been deployed with our current network and some with the IHS Tower company. You know there are a lot of diggings of fibre ducts in Nigeria at the moment and so fibre ducts are constantly being stolen and broken. It is a continuous process and it is only funding that will be able to get us to the place we want to reach. We have assessed the situation and we know there is a gap to be taken care of. On the issue of link with NITEL, everybody knows that we came from NITEL and we have a heritage. Often times, I hear people talk about the fixed line, towers and other stories. Believe it or not even the younger generation is saying the same thing not even old people like me. There is a strong heritage in NITEL, but we cannot call ourselves NITEL for legal reason and because of liquidation, but we can leverage on that legacy. When I was appointed as CEO, many people said oh, you are driving the BT of Nigeria. All we need to do is build the brand ntel, make a mercantile, drive the proposition and start to change people’s mind with good quality service. The brand doesn’t have that negative legacy. In terms of percentage coverage of Lagos, we have about 72 per cent coverage. We are all the way to the West, all the way to Agbara and we are moving into Badagry. In the East, we moving on to Makwe right now; and to the North, we are already at Sagamu. We have actually spread to the different parts of Ogun State. In Abuja, we actually have the largest LTE coverage than any network. We have covered about 92 per cent of Abuja. Right now, we have network in Suleja in Niger State. We have about 60 per cent coverage in Port Harcourt and the roll out is expanding and the  growth is fast, but the heart of the city is covered and trying to get the coverage  into Abia State. We have a plan to be in about 20 States with our own coverage within the next 18 to 24 months. How do you ensure that ntel recharge cards are rolled out, and will it be like the existing one that will enable subscribers make calls and access the internet? The recharge card is basically our own way of getting the product to everybody. Today, many of you are familiar with recharge cards that have pins and done by dealers. So we started with virtual air time because it is easier and more flexible and you can buy any denomination you want. But there is still a limitation, because people have to get to our service points before they can recharge. We have done the best we can, taking lessons from our previous experience to make the card secured and also flexible. So you are going to have a lower denomination at the rate of N500, because with virtual you can actually buy this, but with recharge card you have to have minimum value. So, we are going to have airtime cards and data cards. You can buy in data card and recharge directly with your data plan. We have variety of supported handsets and our own handset called the Nova, so once you have ntel supported handset you will be able to use the recharge cards. Why we are introducing recharge cards is for integrity reasons and it is a good start for us to introduce our recharge card for reason of believability, that this is ntel recharge card and you get confidence in the product. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 