Without equivocation, the issues being thrown up by both campaign teams are a sort of referendum on both the incumbent and challenger’s time in the exalted office of the president and commander-in-Chief of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Do Nigerians require apologies from the two contenders for their past mistakes in governance before they can seek for and probably receive our mandate to lead us?” Amazingly, the path that candidate Buhari declined to take in 2015, he has gladly decided to walk without external prompting as l tried to do three years earlier. The wisecrack, ‘necessity is the mother of invention’ is instructive in this instance as President Buhari did not need my prompting this time. Having lost power as a military dictator in 1985 and now basking in power as a democratically elected president since 2015, perhaps president Buhari realises that it’s better to be a legitimate leader than a despotic ruler, hence he seems to have become conscious of the fact that (as footballers do) he has to fight for his shirt to be in the world cup squad by doing politically correct things. As to be expected, some critics have dismissed the political brinkmanship of resurrecting the ghost of MKO Abiola, 8 months to 2019 election, as a futile effort because it would not sway the Yoruba to vote for Buhari and APC. But in my view, they are wrong because if the gesture did not have potentials of winning votes for Buhari, why are so many prominent Yoruba opposition leaders talking it down? Bringing June 12 and by implication MKO Abiola’s ghost to the front burner of Nigerian politics is both pragmatic and savvy. Despite the duplicity of honouring both the victim and still being besotted to the villain, reflected by president Buhari’s abstinence from publicly denouncing Sanni Abacha, the military dictator that incarcerated MKO Abiola for Four years before his unfortunate demise, making June 12 the talking point in the run up to 2019 election is still beneficial to Buhari. It may not be a zero sum game but it is politically correct to do so. That’s simply because, somehow, MKO Abiola has become what Martin Luther King Jr, MLK, represents for blacks and democracy in the USA- a symbol of struggle for civil rights and liberation from racial inequality. So just like the Democratic Party in the USA use MLK as a rallying point and the Republicans use Teddy Roosevelt as their anchor, any quick thinking politician that chooses to ride on the ghost of MKO Abiola would reap positive dividends in Nigeria. So the deft move is bound to yield some political capital for president Buhari and the APC party, not only in the south-west, but nationwide as the initiative has struck a chord amongst all lovers of democracy. The question may be weather the current momentum of support can be sustained. Well, that depends on if those advising president Buhari or those he is listening to have more rabbits to pull out from their hats, literarily. According to Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the government of the federation, plans are afoot to honour more June 12th heroes. I won’t be surprised if Humphrey Nwosu, who was the umpire in the election and who introduced the famous and efficacious Option A4 is equally honoured for conducting what has been universally acknowledged as the freest and fairest public office election in Nigeria. Such a gesture would stir up some warmth for Buhari in the hearts of Nwosu’s kits and kins in lgbo land who are already clamoring for it. From the look of things, there appears to be even more from where the proclamation of MKO Abiola as the winner of June 12 1993 election came from. Already other gambits have been used by president Buhari, who is waltzing his way back on his negative characterisation of Nigerian youths as lazy in the course of his interview with Voice of America, VOA, and assenting to the Not-Too-Young-To-Run law, which is a pro youths engagement in politics policy. Obviously he is struggling to rebuild the broken bridge between him and the youths, who used to be his main support base until he failed to deliver on myriads of campaign promises and even portrayed them as lazy. Owing to the aforementioned remorseful steps taken to mend fences, to some extent, the ice between Mr. President and the youths is thawing and that’s evidenced by the reduced amount of vitriolic against Mr. President online. Although it’s not yet Uhuru for Buhari and the ruling party, what seems to be going on currently unnoticed and unattended to by the opposition is that president Buhari and his team are quietly engaging in real politicking, while the opposition is busy gnashing their teeth and labelling them as desperate. That’s why some cynics may also dismiss the following policy initiatives which could generate political fortunes for president Buhari and the ruling party if implemented. Since the three key issues identified below are actually what Nigerians have been yearning for, irrespective of the timing, decisions by the establishment to address those concerns could swing the pendulum of election in the direction that would facilitate the extension of president Buhari’s residency in Aso Rock villa for another four years. . And that’s assuming the ruling party successfully quells the present internal insurrections led by nPDP and the party’s convention scheduled for later this month is successful. The following are the policy decisions that can be rolled out to sustain the positive momentum. (1) President Buhari publicly calls out the marauding herdsmen and gives the Inspector General of Police, IGP, a marching order to arrest any herdsman bearing arms and ammunition and he makes sure that this time around, his directive is not flouted? It won’t cost him anything to make that commitment, would it? (2) As farfetched as this option may appear, it won’t surprise me if President Buhari, in the next few weeks or months, modifies his hard stance against restructuring of the country, which is as dear to Nigerians as correcting the injustice done on June 12 when MKO Abiola and Babagana Kingibe were voted as president and Vice President respectively. Can anyone truly argue against the fact that if a panel is set up to review the recommendations from the last national conference with a view to implementing the less contentious items on the agenda that Buhari won’t win more converts countrywide? After all, TSA, fuel subsidy and many other policy initiatives that are currently being implemented are carried over from the previous regime; so why not take a second look at the CONFAB report? Onyibe, a development Strategist and former Commissioner in Delta State wrote in from Lagos. (3)If the proclamation of June 12 as democracy day and the conferment of the highest National honour on MKO Abiola was a tsunami, the replacement of the present Military service Chiefs and heads of security agencies with new ones reflecting a balance in religion, would be the mother of all tsunamis. Apart from the skewed composition of the Security Council in favour of Muslims over Christians which has generated avoidable opprobrium for president Buhari, Nigerians are particularly offended by the inability of the security forces to protect lives and properties, as evidenced by the fact that the death toll from violent crimes has skyrocketed since they assumed office. Reorganising the security architecture would certainly appease the angry masses who, owing to security breaches, have lost loved ones to Boko Haram terrorists, killer herdsmen and deadly cultists from Sambisa forest up in the north, to the Savannahs of Benue, Plateau and Nassarawa states in the Middle belt, down to Nembe creek, in Bayelsa and excravos in Delta states of the Niger Delta region. All president Buhari and the ruling party, APC, need to do is introduce and implement each of the highlighted initiatives and schedule their release every two months until the election next February, which is merely 8 months away. With a systematic feedback mechanism put in place, with a view to reinforcing the positives and countering the negative fall outs of the policies, the momentum started with the June 12 democracy day date change and conferment of National honours on MKO Abiola would be sustained. Furthermore, it should strike some fears in the opposition that compared to 2015, the new Buhari has become more invigorated physically and more astute as well as sagacious politically. And that’s obviously because his UK physicians have done a terrific job and apparently Mr. President has been learning real politicks on the job. When opposition parties fail to take cognizance of these new attributes of president Buhari, they do so at their own peril because with the new reality, their chances of upstaging the ruling party in 2019 is in more jeopardy. Need we be reminded that when candidate Buhari was determined to clinch the presidency in 2015, he was adorned with fanciful Western suites and tuxedos as well as apparels indigenous to all the major tribes and zones in Nigeria, which made him look dandy and also endeared him to most Nigerians across ethnic and religious divides? Nothing suggests to me that president Buhari won’t do more this time around to secure the votes that would guarantee his retention of the keys to Aso Rock villa for another four years, come February, 2019. In the light of the foregoing, l’m convinced that riding on the ghost of MKO Abiola would not be the only political trick that president Buhari and the ruling party APC might have up their sleeves to gain victory in February 2019. Expect more. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 