Following the passage of the National Transport Commission Bill by the Senate on Thursday 15th of March, 2018, the Senate yesterday passed the report of the Conference Committee of the National Assembly on the National Transport Commission Bill. The Conference Committee, which was chaired by Senator Gbenga Ashafa representing Lagos East Senatorial District, was set up by both chambers of the National Assembly with a view to harmonise the differences between the versions of the Bill as passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate respectively. With the passage of the conference committee report, which was first sponsored in the National Assembly in 2008, stakeholders now eagerly await the transmission of the  bill to the Executive arm of Government for the assent of President Muhammadu Buhari. While addressing the press after the passage of the Bill by the Senate in April, Ashafa had stated that “the National Transport Commission when signed into law is capable of setting the transport sector on the path of positive development. With this bill, we would successfully create a multi-modal transport sector economic and safety oversight regulator for the transport sector. This is very good for business as it brings standard and structure to the transport sector while also increasing the revenue of Government.” He stated further that, “The Joint Senate Committee worked with the understanding that this is one of the priority Economic Bills of the 8th Senate and therefore ensured that all imputes from stake holders were considered and the best possible version of the bill was presented to the Senate.” The National Transport Commission Bill when signed into law is expected to create a multi-modal transport sector economic and safety oversight commission that will drive the National Transport Policy. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 