Lagos – Nigerians were jolted on Sunday when they heard that Ras Kimono, Nigeria’s reggae legend, had passed on. Aside the fact that the news was quite unexpected, the music artiste from Delta State had stated in a recent interview that he had been a vegetarian for 37 years, while steering clear of alcohol and cigarettes in order to live a healthy life. Born Ekeleke Elumelu in Delta State, he attended Gbenoba Secondary School, Agbor, from where he joined and became an active member of the Jastix Reggae Ital, alongside other music maestros like Majek Fashek, Amos McRoy Jegg, and Black Rice Osagie. In his lifetime, he was known for music that was quite satirical in nature, as his music, greatly influenced by the poverty, inequality and hardship he witnessed in his early life, told the story of the hardship in the life of the common man. He released his solo debut album ‘Under Pressure’ on the platform of Premier Music label in 1989, an album that brought him to the limelight and numbered him among the legends. The album had hits such as ‘Under Pressure’, ‘Natty Get Jail’ and the all-time special, ‘Rhumba Style’. He later released a string of hit albums, touring all over Africa, Europe and the United States, promoting his brand of reggae music, a brand that netted him several awards, including the Nigeria Music Awards, Fame Music Awards, and many more. In the last decade, his achievements, unlike other music stars in his cadre, did not wane. In 2010, he was still performing to a loyal fan-base of all ages and his music, still quite relevant, enjoyed fair airplay on radio throughout West Africa. Like Fela Kuti, Kimono was a fervent advocate of social change, and he touched several issues, including controversial topics like the legalisation of marijuana and the need for Africans to intellectually repel colonialism and its arbitrary boundaries between tribes. He was never shy about naming those in power whom he disapproved of. Also quoted, based on interviews he granted in the course of his career as an actor on stage and sexually, Kimono had the energy of a youth and disapproved of waywardness in any form. Kimono, who had released an album in the later months of 2017 titled, ‘Senseless Killing’, had been away from the Nigerian music scene for about six years in the course of his career, a hiatus which, he said, had a negative impact on his career. The singer, who was reportedly scheduled to travel to the United States on Saturday night, was said to have complained of not feeling too well. He was rushed to a hospital in Ikeja, Lagos, then later taken to another hospital on the Lagos Island where he reportedly died at the age of 60. Chief James Onanefe Ibori, former governor of Delta State, who related very well with the passing star, described his death as a big blow to him personally, Delta State, Nigeria and the entire globe. Ibori said, “Kimono was a gifted revolutionary who applied his immense musical talent and impressive energy to make not just Nigeria but the entire world a better place.” In a statement by Tony Eluemunor, his Media Assistant, Ibori said of the legendary musician: “I have known Ras Kimono for a very long time. “While I was Delta State governor from 1999 to 2007, the musician remained close to me all through. “He would often visit me and I was open to whatever advice he had to offer. I also enjoyed a warm personal relationship with him. “He would often come along with one or two of his fellow musicians and would throw banters on end.” According to Ibori, “Ras Kimono was one of those who kept the flag of Delta State flying as the talent hub of Nigeria which has produced thoroughgoing professionals, gifted musicians, actors and actresses, sports people, comedians, intellectuals, top polity-enhancing bureaucrats, immensely talented youths who excel in all wholesome fields.” He added: “Nigeria will never forget Ras Kimono. For me, his memory will always have a warm place in my heart, for he was a dear friend who remained faithful through thick and thin, and who brought pride, not just to his Onicha-Olona town, but also to the good people of Delta State.” Ibori sent his condolences to Ras Kimono’s family and prayed that Almighty God would grant eternal rest to Ras Kimono’s soul. Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta also commiserated with the Nigerian music industry, family as well as friends of reggae music exponent, Ras Kimono. The governor’s condolence message was conveyed in a statement issued in Asaba by his Chief Press Secretary, Charles Aniagwu. Okowa also condoled with the Onicha Olona community in Delta where Kimono hailed from. He described the deceased as a true music legend whose songs entertained Nigerians in the 80s. The governor noted that Kimono spent all his life promoting good governance, good entertainment and healthy community relations through his reggae music. “I received with sadness the news of the passing away of Ras Kimono, a great reggae legend. “He will be remembered for his hit song “Rhumba Style’. “I join lovers of reggae music to mourn this great loss. He belonged to an era of great reggae music exponents in Nigeria,” Okowa said. He commended the late Kimono for contributing to the development of music in Nigeria and sustaining his interest in the music industry even in old age by participating in several music concerts. Okowa affirmed that the music industry in Nigeria benefitted from the contribution of the late musician who also mentored many young musicians. Senator Dino Melaye and Senator Ben Murray Bruce took to social media to express their grief. @dino_melaye: Death why! Why! My brother and my friend. Legend Ras Kimono rest in Peace. What a black day! What an unceremonious exit. I love you and will miss you. Sad sad sad. Dino, who shared a close relationship with the reggae star, posted a video of himself and Ras Kimono among other tweets that showed the close relationship they both shared. @dino_melaye: Ras Kimono and myself in my village (Aiyetoro Gbede) on 31st December 2017. Legend is gone. What a dark day. RIP my brother and reliable friend. @benmurraybruce: I feel so sad hearing about the death of reggae legend, Ras Kimono. He redefined the face of music and there will be none like him. He will be dearly missed. Austin Peter, a popular reggae artiste known as ‘King Wadada’, expressed deep sadness over the death of Ras Kimono. Peter said in Lagos that the entire music industry would miss Ras Kimono. He said that Kimono was one of the greatest rub-a-dub artistes to have reigned in the whole of Africa. “Ras Kimono is gone, I am going to miss him a great deal because he really impacted positively on some of my music. “It is going to be a sad moment in the music industry because he had a lot of friends and fans all around the country,” he said. The musician said that he was short of words and could not say much because he was still in shock of the reality of Kimono’s death. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 