Prof. Oserheimen Osunbor, a former governor of Edo state and chieftain of the ruling  All Progressives Congress (APC), in this exclusive interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI in Abuja , spoke on the three years of the Muhammadu Buhari administration and other issues. Excerpts: The Muhammadu Buhari administration marked three years in office last week. How will you describe the journey so far? The journey has been quite successful so far. The only blight on the record of the administration is the issue of killings all over the country, reportedly perpetrated by herdsmen, cattle rustlers and some criminal elements in different parts of the country. But for these unfortunate incidences, the administration’s record these past three years, especially in the core policy areas can be described as impressive. This success has attracted the commendation of not just vast sections of Nigerians but the international community, notably, the African Union and the United States President Donald Trump. This level of endorsement of a President has been uncommon in the history of Nigeria. Has he done anything differently from PDP government since he became president? Very much so! This is obvious for all to see as reflected in many areas of governance too numerous to recount here. Principally, he has brought a new level of integrity to governance different from our experience under PDP. The looting of public funds with impunity has stopped or reduced drastically. If there are still public officials bent on stealing public funds, they have stringent preventive measures such as the Treasury Single Account now operational, to contend with and override and they do so mindful of the fact that if caught this APC administration will bring down the full weight of the law on them. Under this administration, foreign crude oil tankers no longer sail into our shores in fleets to steal crude oil and sail out unchallenged as was the order of the day under PDP especially in their last ten years. I can go on and on. Simply put, the personal integrity of Mr. President has permeated all facets and brought positive impact on the quality of governance in Nigeria. It is no longer business as usual. The president said his focus will be on three key areas Security, Economy and War Against Corruption. How has he fared on these areas? The APC manifesto covers many areas but President Buhari chose to focus on the three most critical core areas of security, economy and war against corruption. This is understandable because without successfully tackling this malaise,  it is impossible to succeed in other areas. Regarding security, it is a huge achievement that not a single village, nor Local Government Area, is today under Boko Haram occupation. The terrorists now engage only in hit and run and use children for suicide bombing of soft targets. Regrettably, however, the gains made in the defeat of Boko Haram are being cancelled out by killings all over the country said to be the handiwork of Herdsmen. Same way the killers are actually Boko Haram fighters that have been flushed out of their home base in the North East who disguise as herdsmen. It is comforting that government is intensifying efforts to end these killings, whoever may be responsible, by moving troops with more sophisticated equipments to the troubled spots. On the economic front, the nation has recovered from recession and revenue from crude oil sales – the mainstay of our economy – has risen from a low of about $28 per barrel to about $70 per barrel at a point. With improved revenue, including accruals from taxation, customs and excise and other sundry sources, government is able to release money for capital projects, old and new. Since the economy is driven by government spending, many people are getting back to work and more money is going into circulation. The result is that as the money trickles down, many businesses are bouncing back to life and employment is being created. Agriculture is contributing more and more and farmers across the country are getting richer. My only concern though, is that in some places, people are now afraid to go to their farms because of fear of being killed by so-called herdsmen. Same with miners in parts of the country. To that extent insecurity will sadly, threaten economic recovery. The war against corruption has recorded some successes despite the difficulties in securing conviction in many cases due to a combination of factors. For me, the greatest measure of success of the anti-corruption war is that the era of impunity in stealing public funds has ended and people are being held to account for what had hitherto been accepted as normal. With effective implementation of the BVN and TSA policies, it has become increasingly difficult to steal public funds and even more difficult to hide the money which can now be tracked easily. Coupled with the whistleblowing policy, those who hide their loot in homes, soakaways and in their farms are under constant fear that they will be exposed by whistleblowers and their loot forfeited. In the midst of these successes, I am appalled by criticisms by some people that the anti-corruption war is selective and targeting the opposition. If there is any selectivity, it is because the thieves selected themselves as partakers in the stealing of public funds so they should hold themselves to blame and bear the consequences. At any rate, are the critics therefore implying that the culprits should go scot-free until all the thieves are put on trial? The danger in that line of argument is that Evans will be entitled to also insist that he should not be prosecuted unless and until all other alleged kidnappers in Nigeria are similarly put on trial. This is where people are leading us to with their argument about EFCC trials being selective and it must not be encouraged. True enough, every corrupt person, irrespective of political affiliation without exception ought to and should be brought to justice speedily. The president on his inauguration also said he will president for everybody and not for nobody. Has he lived up to that promise? When the President made that famous remark at his inauguration, people gave it different interpretations. Accordingly, as to whether he has lived up to the promise or not depends on your own interpretation. For me, I understood the remark in its literal meaning in plain English. Based on that premise therefore, I believe the President has lived up to my expectation because he is my President, your President and the president of every Nigerian. Nobody can say he owns the president exclusively and to that extent he has kept his promise. It took the president over six months to constitute his cabinet and three years down the line, he has not reshuffled. What do you think is responsible for this? It is the prerogative of the President to appoint his ministers and to reshuffle his cabinet, remove or appoints ministers as he deems fit. He has not reshuffled them probably because either he has not seen any need to do so or the time is not right for him to do so. How will you assess his relationship with the National Assembly in the last three years? From the inception of the administration, President Buhari made it clear that he would not interfere in the election of the principal officers of the National Assembly and that he would work with whoever emerges. You may or may not agree with that position but he has kept faith with it. I am always very pleased when I see the leadership of the National Assembly going to the Villa to confer with the President in matters of importance to our country. This is commendable as it will vastly reduce friction which is bound to arise from time to time as the National Assembly asserts its independence and exercises checks and balance on the Executive arm of government under the doctrine of separation of powers. Having declared for reelection, do you see him winning in 2019 if he becomes the flag bearer of APC? Yes, the president has a very good chance of winning re-election if he gets the APC presidential ticket which again is likely. As we speak now we cannot see any serious threat to his success whether in APC or in any of the sixty-seven other political parties. Some prominent Nigerians have asked him not to seek reelection, should he heed this counsel? I believe the prominent Nigerians merely offered their personal opinion and advice as they are entitled to do. Mr President is also entitled to accept or reject their advice and from every indication he has chosen to reject their advice. We must, as Nigerians, learn to respect and defend the rights of every Nigerian guaranteed under our Constitution and other laws like the Electoral Act, whether it is freedom of movement, freedom of association, or the right to vote and be voted for subject only to prescribe eligibility criteria. Having experienced both APC and PDP, is  there any difference between the two? There are marked differences between them. The level of impunity, wickedness, greed and selfishness that I witnessed in PDP cannot be matched by any political party, APC inclusive. They don’t even seem to have learnt their lesson even though their National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus recently apologised for the wrongs they inflicted on Nigerians. He was an insider in PDP both at the State and national levels so he knows what went on which they hid successfully from public glare but not from God. Let me use this opportunity to comment on remarks some people are fond of making that APC and PDP are the same because most members of APC were formerly members of PDP. This is an illogical argument. Those who left PDP, or most of them, did so because they had differences with the party or powerful elements within the party. They left because they are different from those who controlled and converted PDP to their personal property. Those who left Egypt for the Promised Land are not and cannot be the same as those who remained. This is common sense. What are your expectations for the 2019 presidential election? I am hoping that INEC will improve on their performance in 2015 and that at the end of the elections they will be adjudged credible, free and fair. I also hope that APC will win the Presidential elections and consolidate on its hold on power at all levels. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 