Senator Ifeanyi Okowa is a continuation of a triumvirate. From Ibori, through Uduaghan and now the third leg of the triumvirate had done three years. Government, being a continuum, has a way of recycling old projects, not fully completed by previous governors and the onus on Governor Okowa is to rejig and retouch some of the old projects started by previous governors. Some of the projects that come to one’s mind is the Asaba international Airport, which has problems of security posers like the runway and allied matters. The airport was begun by Dr. Uduaghan between 2007 and 2015 with the sole aim of cashing in on the Onitsha traders zone, who could take advantage of the vast business men and women East of the Niger. Dubbed Smart Agenda and proclaiming prosperity for all Deltans, governor Okowa has declared to all persons who cared to listen that as an oil producing state, the people inhabiting the geographical space should not lack the essential things that make for progress and prosperity. There are attempts to also consolidate on the sporting prowess of Delta state, which had made its mark in all national sporting festivals by coming tops. For the purpose of helping sports men and women to excel in their areas of specialty, governor Okowa is currently bringing about a refurbishment of the Asaba Township Stadium, also nicknamed Stephen  Keshi stadium. We remember that the stadium was started under Chief James Ibori and was passed onto Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan. It will take quite some billions to rectify the stadium in good stead before the August African Athletics Championships billed for Asaba this year. There seems to be so much pressure on the government as the governor has promised to make his visits to the stadium much more regular to ensure early completion of the works at the Stadium. It has a swimming pool to be name after Miss Forcados, a girl from Torugbene in Burutu local government, who hauled many gold medals in many Nigerian sporting festivals. I hope the pool is in good shape for the upcoming African athletics competition in Delta state. The smart dimension of the Okowa administration is poised to empower the unemployed youth through skills acquisition in various fields- carpentry, dress making, welding and allied professions, to make the youth become an employer of labour. In an era where white collared jobs are in short supply teaching young men and women certain basic skills is an indirect way of providing jobs for the people who had always believed the duty of government is to provide jobs in offices and Ministries. The resources accruing from the Federal pool is declining and if not for the prudent management of scarce resources, things could have gone out of hand. Delta state under Governor Uduaghan did popularise the slogan ‘Delta No Dey Carry Last’,  and with this mindset both  the leadership of the state and the followers are inclined to believing that we can always win in any competition. Apart from completing projects of yester years, we do believe that by his second term, which he is poised to contest in 2019, he should put his stamp of authority on something new initiated by him and completed by him. For an enduring legacy for Governor Okowa there must be conscious effort on his part to start a project anew and make sure it is completed. He is too experienced in politics to know that repairing and refurbishing projects from other governors may likely detract from his creative frame of mind. The people of Delta are always critical of the way government runs its affairs, especially, the routine payment of salaries of workers at both the state civil service, and local government staff, all the year round, will not add any fresh accolades to a governor in power. The issue of payment of scholarships to students of Delta state in universities is a welcome development but such are recurrent issues. My wish for the Okowa administration is to construct more roads in rural communities where access to townships is difficult to navigate. For posterity sake, an Okowa will be better appreciated by communities earlier promised with higher institutions like Polytechnics in Bomadi and Aboh, long abandoned by successive governors. I know there are already calls for good network of road to Okerenkoko Maritime University in Warri South West. Bomadians long tempted with a Polytechnic deserve a place in the Sun, and the names of Okowa will ever remain indelible in the annals of the history of Delta State, for bringing a higher institution to the people of Bomadi. The Ayakoromo Okwagbe bridge, which had received the right kind of support from this government, must not be allowed to pass unattended to by the end of the 2019 election year. The budget is filled with projects but prioritising it will go a long way in meeting the dreams and wishes of the people of Delta State. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 