Lagos – The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday urged a Lagos Federal High Court, Lagos, to dismiss a fundamental rights suit filed against it by Aiteo Energy Resources Limited and its directors. The agency accused Aiteo Energy Resources Limited and its directors of allegedly stealing $300million in connivance with former Petroleum Minister, Mrs.Diezani Alison-Madueke. Aiteo Energy Resources Limited, an oil and gas operator had dragged EFCC, one of its investigators, Iliyasu Kwabi and the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) demanding the sum of N10 billion, as general damages. The other applicants in the suit are: Aiteo’s Executive Director, Tunde Akinpelu, Managing Director Ewariezi Useh, and and its company’s lawyer,  Oladele Awonuga. The applicants through their  counsel, Chief Wole Olanipekun, and Chief Mike Ozekhome  both Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs), had prayed the court to hold that EFCC’s invasion of their business premises and their alleged arrest and torture violated rights to personal liberties and human dignity. The applicants said it was in a bid to arrest their Founder and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Benedict Peters, over an issue he was not privy to. They urged the court to declare the alleged invasion unlawful, and to hold that their intimidation and harassment by EFCC was unconstitutional. According to them, the respondents “brute use of physical force, viet armis, assault, detention and threats of more physical abuse on the applicants for purposes of harassment, intimidation and armtwisting under the guise of procuring the arrest of Mr Peters amounts to resort to self-help…and subversion of the rule of law…” But, the EFCC, through its counsel Anselem Ozioko, urged the court to dismiss the suit, adding it was a ploy to stop the Commission’s investigation of Peters. EFCC in its counter-affidavit deposed to by one Kwarbi, a member of EFCC Special Task Force on the Recovery of Stolen Public Assets, said the Commission received an intelligence report in 2016 over allegations of conspiracy, stealing and money laundering involving former Minister of Petroleum Resources Mrs Diezani Alison-Madueke, Peters and Aiteo Energy. The investigator said EFCC found that Mrs Madueke, Bernard Otti, Peters, Aiteo Energy, Northern Belt Oil and Gas Ltd and Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) officials allegedly stole $300million. Kwarbi said EFCC wrote Peters to assist in the investigation, but that he “was not willing and ready to honour the invitation”. Peters was not on medical vacation overseas as he claimed but was “merely trying to avoid investigation, he added. EFCC said it obtained a warrant for Peters arrest and that its men were civil and courteous when they went to his office to “check on” him, adding that the officers were not armed nor did they brutalise or arrest anyone. “The first respondent’s officers did not storm the first applicant’s premises in a commando-like manner of locked the gate or blocked the entry and exit gates for three hours as alleged,” the commission said. Justice Oluremi Oguntoyibo, adjourned the matter to   September 27, for judgment on the suit. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 