Lagos – The National Industrial Court (NIC), sitting in Abuja, has ordered two Jos-based companies, Grand Cereals Nigeria Limited and Spring Waters Nigeria Limited, to recall workers sacked for over two years due to their involvement in union activities in the companies The court also directed the two companies to pay the affected workers the arrears in salary and allowances from the date of their purported termination up till the day judgment, given less any amount that might have been paid as redundancy or terminal benefits when they were terminated. Grand Cereals Nigeria Limited and Spring Waters Nigeria Limited were also ordered to pay the backlog of check-off dues to Food, Beverage and Tobacco Senior Staff Association (FOBTOB). The case filed against the two companies by FOBTOB through their counsel, Femi Aborishade, was also adjudicated on by the Industrial Arbitration Panel, IAP. Delivering his verdict, Justice O. Y. Anuwe of the NIC granted relief that 28 FOBTOB members, whose employments were terminated and retired on account of belonging to the union and engaging in union activity were all to be immediately reinstated. He also ordered the respondents to compute and remit to the appellant the check-off dues of the appellant’s members in the employment of the respondents starting from the respective dates the appellant introduced the union to the respondent to the date of the verdict. “We find in this appeal that the workers are registered  with the appellant members of the appellant and their check-off dues ought to be remitted to appellant commencing from the date the appellant introduced its members  to the respondents. “The IAP found that the appellant is the proper trade union to unionise the senior staff in the employment of the respondents and also directed respondents to recognize the appellant accordingly but it failed to make consequential award for the remittance of check-off dues to the appellant sought by the appellant in the arbitration. “Also, the submission of the respondents’ counsel that the workers had no relationship with the appellant is an admission that the respondents have not deducted check-off dues of the workers who registered with the appellant or remit to the appellant “It is our view that the appellant is entitled to check-off dues of all its members in the employment of the respondents. We therefore resolve this issue in favour of the appellant.” In the final result, we find that the appeal has merit and it is allowed. For cross appeal, it is unmeritorious and we hereby dismiss same.” The workers who benefitted from the court’s verdict includes; Dung Bala Gwom, Cyprian Maren, Peter Pam Guang (Gyang), Victor U. Anger, James Shehu, Mrs. Motunrola A. Olaiya, Luka Gyang Yakubu, Sunday Egbunu, Pam Deme, Vincent Davon Pam and Emmanuel Bauda. Others are: Matthew F. Osenoyenim, Baba Ali James, Ruth Ibrahim Pankyes, Oshioke Joy Dennis, Muncha Audu Gwong, Sahuna Direba Zabe, Patrick Pamkatai, Aboyi Idoko, Samuel Danyaro, Yabe Jatau, Sunday Ekara, Yillim Daton, Sati Dasihit, Dachan Inusa, Kirmang Danjuma, Victor Bakfur and Moses Toktu. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 