As the crusade for financial inclusion continues to spread in the country, Mr. Tunde Ogungbade, the Managing Director and CEO, Global Accelerex Limited, a payment terminal service provider and a payment terminal application, has stressed the need of telecoms services in enhancing the cashless drive of the nation’s economy. Ogungbade stated this during an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, stating that government should create an enabling environment for the telecoms industry to act as a catalyst to the financial inclusion initiative of the banking sector. In response to the issue of the 00.05 levy being introduced for telecoms operators to pay as a result of the 2 Cyber Security Act of 2015, he said the development should be handled with caution and should be carried out without impeding the progress made so far in the penetration of the cashless services in the country. According to him, “I am aware about that levy, details of the regulation and the regulator who is imposing a levy. I think it was CBN that introduced it. I know telecoms are regulated by NCC, and not CBN. One thing stands out; I know that there is nothing you can do in a cashless economy today that will not involve data telecom or ICT. So, telecom plays a very critical role in the cashless economy. “But regulation is one way to achieve various things by a government arm, and I am sure there is a law that went into the decision. Whether there is still a draft or an actual proposal that is going to be exploited and implemented by the government, it is yet to be seen.  But I know that when an industry kicks against a regulation, there is a cost component to it; and likewise, if the regulator comes up with something that affects the size of our pizza, reduces it a little it is just natural to do that.” Speaking further, “So, I would say that one thing we need to ask ourselves is, if we are a regulator seven years ago and was advancing the cause of cashless, at this level of maturity settling, shouldn’t there be regulation trying to input that? My thinking is, a lot has been put into consideration and a lot of it is being done to advance and address the same cause of this cashless.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 