ENUGU – Fear has engulfed Ehamufu community, Isi-uzo Local Government Area of Enugu State and environs, where three persons have been gunned down within the past 24 hours. SATURDAY INDEPENDENT gathered from security sources that the victims were working in their farmlands when they were waylaid and killed by the gunmen. Another victim was said to be in critical condition at the time of filing this report. The killings, earlier linked to Fulani herdsmen forced residents of the area to start fleeing their homes for safety on Friday. Reports of the killings in Ehamufu also created anxiety in Enugu metropolis, especially in Enugu East LGA, which shares a common boundary with Isi-uzo. The police however dissociated the Fulani herdsmen from the killings, saying the killers were known to Ehamufu community. In a statement on Friday evening, Ebere Amaraizu, the spokesman of Enugu State Police Command identified the killers as two ex-convicts from Ehamufu community. Amaraizu, a Superintendent of Police (SP) confirmed that the suspects have killed three persons and injured one person inside a bush in Ehamufu. He said the police have intensified manhunt for alleged killer suspects who have created fear in the minds of the members of the public within Ehamufu and its environs. Amaraizu said: The suspects in this illicit act are identified as Emmanuel Edeh from Ehamufu and Chibuike Odoh also from Mgbuji Ehamufu. It was gathered that the suspects believed to be ex-prison inmates had allegedly between June 14 and June 15, 2018 shot and killed no fewer than three persons and injuring one other inside the bush. “The suspects as further gathered; kill whoever they come in contact with inside the bush. Operatives of the Enugu State command have commenced manhunt and urgent combing of bushes around Ehamufu and its environs with a view to fishing the suspects out and recovering their weapons” Amaraizu said. The motive of the killers was yet to be ascertained as at press time on Friday. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 