Dr Frederick Fasehun, founder of Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), in this interview with Joy Anigbogu speaks on crucial issues in the polity such as the signing of the Not-Too-Young-To-Run bill into law, 2019 general election and other matters. Excerpts: Recently, President Muhammadu Buhari passed the Not – Too –Young – To – Run bill into law and also attached a condition to it that the proponents should wait till after 2019. What is your view about that? If I were Buhari I would not attach a clause because you don’t become a national leader until you have won an election. His action meant he was preempting the Almighty. Only God knows who will win the next election. Nobody is sure of the winner and let no one preempt God. There is also this view that the President might have assented to the bill to appease the youths who he had earlier disparaged outside the shores of this nation. Do you agree with that sir? The damage he had done to them and the entire nation was huge because he had passed that comment abroad. If he had done that in Nigeria, it would have been pardonable but for him to make such a comment about a people who he is their leader was most unfair. It was a big damage. He stripped them naked in foreign land. We will wait and see what happens. The House of Representatives members have kicked against the use of electronic voting system in the 2019 general elections and the president on the other hand said that it was actually the card reader that helped him to win the 2015 election. What can you say about that ? Let us first get the assurance that there would be constant supply of electricity otherwise it would not work. When the electricity is disrupted, how do you power the machines? I came from a village, how do you guarantee the flow of electricity to the machines in my village? When the electricity goes off during voting, how do you manage the people on the queue? When that happens, those determined to steal the electorate votes would have a field day. We had tried that before and the experiences were not good. We are still analyzing the voters’ machine. If we had a bad experience, why do we have to try it again? Nobody should bring that rubbish into our voting system now. The citizens should be educated on the use of the machine. There are so many things to put in place. How much training has been done in schools, in universities about the electronic voting system? You need to orientate us about the use of the machine if you want us to use it. Democracy is the rule of law let us have the system legalized. You cannot just wake up and tell the electorate to use the card reader without adequate preparation that is probably why we have not got it right. Our leadership has been failing; people have been confused and confounded. Today the leadership would say it is fighting corruption. If you are fighting corruption with corruption, the result will be corruption. How prepared do you think INEC is to conduct the forthcoming elections with allegation of sale of voters registration forms in some areas by its officials? Nigeria’s democracy is not for sale because when you sell democracy you will get illegal democracy and that is not what we have been battling to sustain all our days in this country. Democracy has always been free and it will continue to be free. If you are offering democracy for sale, you are offering illegality and that is why a lot of politicians’ would claim that they have registered millions of people. Are those claims true? People that have just turned 18 should be given the opportunity to get registered and if you demand, N2,000, N1000 from them, where will they get the money to pay for these forms? In-built illegality, in-built corruption will produce bad elections, bad result and bad system. The authority should view the issue very seriously. Investigate the allegation and bring all perpetrators to book. We should be working towards the standardisation of our democracy and not moving it 50 years backward. The opinion polls suggest that president Buhari has not been able to fulfill his campaign promises. Don’t you think that if he is given another opportunity in 2019 he would perform better? He would not perform any magic. In three years he has failed which magic does he want to perform in 2019? In good leadership, there must be honesty. There is nothing like abracadabra. In past elections we were well conducted and the results declared in the presence of the people. I don’t think Nigerians are ready to take any strange result. He has spent a lot of money to confuse us and we have ended up in this mess. We are not prepared to go that same way again. The issue of $16 billion power project fund misappropriation and the insinuation that former President Olusegun Obasanjo may be probed by the government of President Muhamadu Buhari. What is your view about that? Obasanjo has come out to tell him to probe him. He has offered to be probed as long as he has enough facts and figures. I am sure Obasanjo is ready to set the pace but if he probes Obasanjo he must be ready to probe every other past leader including himself. You cannot just probe Obasanjo and you go and sleep. What can you say about the allegation that the computer based test (CBT) conducted for the recruitment of new intake into the police force across the country was done in Islamic language and the position of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) for outright cancellation of the examination? We have a lingua franca in his country which is English language. Most of the schools in this country teach in English language. All examinations should be conducted in our lingua franca. What is the position of the legislature? They should not force down our throat a foreign language that is very unfair. They should be fair to all the citizens during the examination. When was it discussed that Islamic language is now our lingua franca. Let no one force it down our throat unless they want crisis. They were not fair to the teachers, neither were they fair to the people who took the examination.  Who would mark the examination, the teachers who don’t know Islamic language or the ones who understand the language? 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 