P/Harcourt – It is no more news that the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is in a deep-rooted crisis. Though the crisis may not be unusual, it is a very common phenomenon that is always associated with politics. Interest is what defines the game. That is exactly what is currently ripping the party apart in Rivers State at the moment. To political observers in Rivers and indeed, across the political landscape of Nigeria, the face-off between the former governor, now the transportation minister, Rotimi Amaechi and the senator representing Rivers south-east senatorial district, Magnus Abe, is quite worrisome. APC members are already disturbed that the crisis between the duo may likely spell doom for the party in the state as 2019 beckons fast. The feud between the two men is more worrisome in view of their long-standing relationship which spans close to two decades, which is about to collapse like a pack of feeble cards.  Abe, Amaechi and Governor Nyesom Wike had enjoyed unmitigated political friendship until lately when a deep-rooted suspicion swaddled with burning interest, set in. How The Three Musketeers Started From 1999 when democracy berthed in Nigeria after the first stint which has become known as the First Republic, these three young men: Abe, Amaechi and Wike had strategically positioned themselves for a big political exploit. While Amaechi was in the House of Assembly as a Speaker, Abe was a Minority Leader from that early stage of 1999. Wike was already at the same time, a local government chairman of Obio/Akpo, the richest council area in the state. During the administration of Dr Peter Odili, when Amaechi was the Speaker, Abe was made a commissioner in that government. Amaechi remained a speaker for eight years and Wike was a two-time chairman of the Council. Incidentally, when providence made Amaechi governor in 2007 against his master’s (Odili’s) calculation, Abe became a secretary to the state government, SSG. At that time, Wike was the chief of staff to then Governor Amaechi. Poised to do more exploit politically, Abe resigned from that position and contested to represent his Rivers south-east people at the senate. He won. While Abe was still in the senate, Amaechi had finished his eight years as governor and was then appointed minister in President Muhammadu Buhari’s cabinet. It is worthy to recall that after Amaechi’s first term, Wike was “pushed” out to Abuja on a nomination to be appointed as minister in a very controversial circumstance. At this time, Wike who was the pillar of Amaechi’s government, in fact, the man who defined the strategy that eventually ushered in the historic victory of Amaechi’s Supreme Court case, was chastised and despised by the same system he put his neck in the guillotine for. When Wike went to Abuja and suddenly became a super junior minister of Education, envy and jealousy were hatched. Amaechi and Abe broke out from the cyst. Both were no more comfortable with Wike’s sprouting political prowess in a den he was hauled to supposedly pine away. He survived it. Further Crack In 2015 Prior to the 2015 governorship election after both Abe and Amaechi had decamped to APC and squared up together to confront Wike who was already in the good books of the then First Lady and wife of the former President, Dame Patience Jonathan, almost everybody including Abe himself believed that Amaechi would have no choice than to make Abe a governorship flagbearer of the APC. For a long time, Amaechi kept the identity of his choice candidate closed to chest only to divulge the direction of his interest at a stakeholders’ meeting where the name of Dakuku Peterside suddenly emerged as a potential flagbearer for the party. Everyone thought it was time for Abe to dump the APC and move on. He did not. He rather supported Dakuku to the fullest. Dakuku was taken to the cleaners by Wike’s towering political sagacity at the 2015 poll. A defeat too hard to forget. Amaechi’s choice of Dakuku to confront Wike in that election was viewed as strategically unsavory. Though, he thought that the nest of the upland/riverine dichotomy could favor his choice of candidate, it ended up a miscalculation. Giving the experiences that ensued in the course of the runoff legislative elections and in view of the deployment of avalanche of federal security architecture, it was clear and very well so, that Wike and his PDP have gained a taproot into the heart of Rivers people. Like the enigmatic Williams Shakespeare, “it is like an iron peg hammered into a frozen ground, Immovable.” Several insinuations have been linked to the transportation minister to the effect that ‘over his dead body will Abe be the governor of the state’. Echoes from The Dome on Odili road to ESI hall located on Woji road, GRA to the Port Harcourt international Airport, the swansong appears to be the same, “operation Abe must not be governor.” Apparently irked by the broken chain of love and Amaechi’s campaign of calumny against Abe, he (Abe), considered by many political watchers as competent to be governor by any standards, dared every opposing force and publicly declared his willingness to contest the 2019 governorship election against all odds. He went further to prove his level of seriousness when he opened his campaign office christened “Freedom House” on Evo road, GRA, Port Harcourt. It is a nest of beehive of political activities and strategies. Abe Indicts Amaechi Senator Magnus Abe who is also the chairman, Senate Committee on federal road maintenance agency, FERMA, opened the pandora box when he on March 4, 2017 during a meeting that attracted important members of the party that it was Amaechi who made certain statements that led to the crisis that is rocking the boat of the APC in Rivers state. “We all can recall that the Rivers APC was in relative peace and harmony until March 4 this year, when the Hon. Minister of Transportation and our former governor called a meeting of all leaders of our great party at the Dome on Odili Road in Port Harcourt. In that meeting, the Hon. Minister made several shocking pronouncements that herald the root of our present crisis. “The Hon Minister of Transportation publicly declared that Senator Magnus Abe and Dakuku Peterside were both running for governor, and that he had ordered both of them to stop. He said Peterside had stopped and Senator Abe had not, and that anyone supporting Senator Abe should leave the party immediately. He went on to name party leaders sympathetic to Abe and declared that they must leave the party.” He continued, “the Minister of Transportation declared at that meeting that anyone who failed to show absolute loyalty to him personally should receive no benefit or recognition from the party whatsoever, including contracts and patronage. He also declared that any party officer who associates with Senator Abe or those relating with him should consider themselves out of office and out of the party. He concluded that if the party stakeholders refused to heed to his decree, he would destroy the party and rebuild it in his own image.” Not done yet, “It was after that meeting that the Minister started to openly remove those he perceived as friends of Senator Abe as leaders of LGA caucuses in an embarrassing fashion. Ever since then, every action within the party has been calculated to implode the party and cause untold bitterness amongst party members in the state in order to enforce those directives. “We cannot stop Governor Wike from playing his own politics as an opposition governor but what is important for us in the APC and for the Federal Government led by President Buhari is to continue to vigorously pursue our commitment not just to the clean-up of Ogoni land and the Niger Delta, but to keep faith with our country men that in our time there will be justice for all, no matter the cost.” APC Congress Of Tribulation Earlier in May, Amaechi was alleged to have hijacked the materials meant for the Ward congress in the state. Despite a court order restraining the conduct of the exercise, the group loyal to the minister went ahead with the congress. This prompted the Abe’s camp to shun the process just to obey the court’s order. As the ego-crisis between the transportation minister, Rotimi Amaechi and Senator Abe continued unabated, the Rivers State High Court sitting in Port Harcourt nullified the ward, local government and state congresses conducted by the state chapter of the APC, a feat as cheer providence working for Abe. The court said that the elections were held despite an injunction that was duly served the party to stay action in the conduct of the congresses. Presided by Justice Chiwewendu Nworgu, the court declared that the congresses that eventually produced Ojukaye Flag-Amachree as Rivers APC chairman were not supposed to be conducted and adjourned the matter to June 26th for hearing of the originating summons. Nworgu ruled that the APC should return to status quo of May 11th, 2018, and restrained officers, agents and leaders of APC from conducting any congress in the state until the main suit was determined. Justice Nworgu, who condemned the action of APC leaders for disobeying the court’s order noted that they deliberately attempted to ridicule the judiciary and portray it as a dog that barks and not bite. The judge also said the High Court does not have the records of stay of proceedings pending at the court of appeal just as he ruled that Rivers APC was properly served through its Legal Adviser. “What you have done is a calculated attempt to ridicule the judiciary. The act of Tuduru Edeh, lawyer to the respondent was unprofessional. He tried to force the hand of the court with the claim of an appeal. There’s no official record of appeal before the court. “No party has the right to take the matter into his own hands of a matter befor the court. Persons must obey the order of court no matter how it is presented as long as it was lawfully made. It is the obligation for parties to obey a court order until it discharged. “The precedent of action of the respondents by conducting the congress in the pendency of the suit is an attempt to frustrate the matter. “It is a design to ridicule the court which the court will resist and tackle head on to protect the integrity of Nigeria.” It will be recalled that some members of the party had protested at its secretariat on the eve of the ward congress over alleged denial of forms to participate in the election. Also, the camp of Abe secured an injunction at the Rivers State High Court stopping the camp of transport minister, Amaechi from conducting the congresses after hoodlums and some security operatives blocked the entrance of the Rivers State Judiciary Complex. Meanwhile, the new party chairman, Flag-Amachree in his reaction to the annulment of the congresses, said that the ward, local government and State Congresses that took place on May 19, 20 and 21 respectively which led to his emergence as chairman and other members of the state executive were not a subject of any court action. In a statement by the party’s publicity secretary, Chris Fynebone, who also returned as executive member, Flag-Amachree stated that the party’s counsels had filed a notice of preliminary objection against the jurisdiction of the court. “The reported annulment must be connected to the matter relating to the disputed May 5 and 12 Ward and Local Government APC Congresses of which our lawyers have actively been pursuing. “As far as we are concerned, we were not served any fresh cause of action against the May 19, 20 and 21 congresses. It is unthinkable and unimaginable because no such linkage exists. “We believe that the court knows that it is its duty to determine the matter of preliminary objections and other motions filed by APC counsels before it can question subsequent congresses or actions of the party. “At this moment, there is no court action and/or order on the State Exco or all those that emerged at different levels of the party on May 19, 20 and 21 congresses.” The Third Force Phenomenon Politics, they say, is a game of interest. Following the cold shoulder given to each other, Abe had since withdrawn from the Amaechi’s iron cyst into a bolus. By all standards, he feels a bit relived in what observers say, tilting to the zone of Governor Nyesom Wike without any damage to political affiliation. That is the general feelings among the APC members loyal to Amaechi. But sources close to Abe insisted at the weekend that the senator will continue with the politics without bitterness but that he will neither renounce his ambition nor defect to the opposition PDP. “It will amount to self deception and integrity to go back to the party which he and his colleagues brought down through their sudden exit that finally let to its defeat. Besides, Abe was quoted as saying that if he and any of their colleagues decides to go back, the punishment to be meted out to them may be more that what some are saying are being subjected to in APC,” says a source close to Abe Gov Wike had sometimes ago given out fifteen posh cars (Sports Utility Vehicle, SUV,), to be specific, to the fifteen national lawmakers representing the state at the National Assembly, NASS. Abe was not on ground to collect his car but the leaders of the Rivers caucus in the National Assembly collected for all others. APC members cried suspicion, Abe said he has had a way of playing politics without any form of bitterness, hence the necessity to go back to your opponents for a handshake, embrace each other and move on for the best interest of those you represent. On Monday, December 4, 2017, while delivering the SUVs to the lawmakers, Wike charged the recipients of the luxury cars to “defend the interest of the state wherever you are. This is from the Government of Rivers State which you are part of. This is to aid you to carry out your official functions in Abuja.” It did not end there, Abe has been seen severally with the governor mostly leading his senator colleagues on a courtesy call on Wike. In one of those times, he was criticised by his party faithful, he explained, “On receipt of the Governor’s invitation, I was consulted by the House of Representatives Caucus and I did not just agree, I insisted that members honour the Governor’s invitation (which for the first time was extended to all parties). “It is important that though we belong to different political parties we should maintain lines of communication within the government that will enable us to serve our people better, which is the reason we were elected in the first place. Rivers State is not the only state where some lawmakers and the governor are from opposing parties.” Few months ago, Wike graciously graced a thanksgiving service organised by Abe at the Polo Club in Port Harcourt. The likes of President Muhammadu Buhari (represented), senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara (represented), Rochas Okoracha, Imo State governor, among others were at the event. That same day, Amaechi was in Bori, Abe’s hometown for APC rally. On May 10, thugs suspected to be loyal to the transportation minister as early as 6am locked up the Rivers State judiciary complex to forestall the court from sitting so that it would not grant an injunction sought by Senator Magnus Abe to stop the local government congress of the APC slated for Saturday, May 12. While the police looked on, the youths padlocked the gates and chased the judges, lawyers and litigants away and laid siege to the complex. The incident took a frightening dimension when another group of youths suspected to be members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and backed by another set of policemen stormed the place to open the gates. Violence erupted as both set of youths attacked one other with bottles and other dangerous weapons and in the process destroyed some structures within the complex including vehicles belonging to lawyers and staff. The complex was forcefully opened by the orders “from above” as no one wanted another round of anarchy in the state. Remember that in his time as governor, Amaechi had locked up the judiciary for close to two years. Stakeholders’ Verdict Opinion is now divided on whether there is a third force that is stoking the fire of discord in the Rivers state chapter of the APC. Mr. Chris Finebone, the publicity secretary of the party in the state was affirmative that Governor Wike is principally in support of Abe just to “spite the transportation minister”. Hear him. “That is our position. We have a belief which is premised on the fact that Governor Wike is working with a group in the APC to weaken the party. We have seen all the behind the scene activities by the prompting of the Governor. These things are already manifesting. Wike is working with a renegade group in the state APC. “This same renegade group collected SUVs from the Governor. Wike used to say that the strength of Abe is in Hon Barry Mpigi (member, House of Representatives from Tai/Eleme federal constituency). Right now, Mpigi is in PDP. He left the APC and joined the PDP. He is my friend. “Wike knows that by taking Mpigi away, Abe is already weakened. Wike wants to see a weak Abe coming out as APC governorship candidate so that things will be easy for him (governor) in 2019. Wike is supporting Abe to spite the minister of transportation”, Finebone said. But to Hon Chidiebere Okwuwolu, chieftain of the APC, former House of Assembly member and Abe’s loyalist said it was a wrong postulation for anybody to blame Governor Wike for the crisis in the state APC. “That is not true. Magnus wants Wike’s job. So how can Wike support somebody who wants to take his job? Magnus is the strongest candidate that the APC has right now in Rivers. “On the issue of using the SUV gift as a yardstick to brand Wike as a third force in the crisis, it has become a tradition that every sitting governor gives out a car gift to national legislators. Odili did it. Omehia and Amaechi did it. Magnus needs this job and we are all for him. “People should know that there is a difference between the way Magnus and Amaechi play their kind of politics. Magnus is a gentleman. When I was in the House of Assembly as a member of Alliance for Democracy, AD, Magnus was a stabilizing factor in the Assembly. He deserves to get the job”.On his part, Desmond Akawor, former Nigerian Ambassador to South Korea, said the APC members in the state were like drowning people ready to clinch on any stick for survival. “Governor Wike is too busy to think about what is happening in the APC. The man is busy commissioning projects and setting target for new ones. “The APC people are drowning and they want the slightest stick to hold onto. They are having a leadership crisis and it is important that they solve their problems once and for all. They should leave Wike alone to concentrate on governance and the good things he is doing for the Rivers people”. Conclusion Rivers APC will definitely meet its waterloo at the national convention of the party scheduled on June 24 at the Eagles Square, Abuja. This is so because, there is fear of double delegates lists that may be sent by the two contending forces. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 