OGHARA – Oghara town, the headquarters of Ethiope West Local Government Council, Delta State, is one of the oldest councils in the former Mid Western Region. On, Saturday June 16, 2018, for nine hours, Oghara stood still for Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and Hon. Ben Igbakpa. That day, about 10,000 youths from Ethiope West and East Local Government Areas unanimously endorsed Governor Okowa for a second term and their son and brother, Hon Igbakpa as member representing Ethiope Federal Constituency in the  2019 general elections. The sunny weather,  coastal breeze wafting across the environment and the clement weather indicated that the elements also honoured them on that particular occasion. Cheerful drummers and dancers with echoes of ‘Okowa and Igbakpa na them we want’ rented the air throughout the town, from Ovade, through Otefe, Ijomi, Otumara, Ogharefe to other areas. The coalition of supporters, populated by women, both young and old under 40s of Ben Igbakpa Political Forum (BIPOF), ably led by Comrade Favour Ededey, the president of Oghara Youth Association (OYA), echoed and outlined the need for delegates of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to ensure they conform to the already established arrangement for the designation of political positions. Prominent among those at the rally were Joseph Egbeburu, Personal Assistant to Igbakpa; Keneghe Ejomafuigho, aka Ogboru, Youth Leader, Ethiope West PDP, and others. Apart from the frenzy that the occasion generated, the youths stirred the political current as the stormy petrel of Oghara caught the attention of everybody, hoping that the governor and Igbakpa, former lawmaker, Delta State House of Assembly and Commissioner for Transport, would step out to formally declare their aspirations to everybody. They expected the same scenario that formed the earlier declaration in Warri some weeks back to come to play. Youths in their thousands who believed in the ebullient and grassroots politics of Igbakpa from Warri, were gyrating and chanting various political songs to Oghara. As early as 7.00 am the signs were evident of a big political event in Oghara. Buses regularly emptied passengers from within and outside the Ethiope West LGA. Groups dressed in various T-shirts with various placards bearing the picture and name of Governor Okowa and Igbakpa at Ajagbodudu residence of Ededey, Special Adviser to the Governor on Youth Development patiently waiting for their son, brother, friend and leader with whom they were well pleased. Ceaseless sirens, announcing the arrival of top politicians blared through the community, altering the idyllic nature of the place. Sea of heads dotted the community streaming into the elegant arena. Army of people shoved, pushed in determined efforts to be part of the event. A visitor would need no assistance to understand that something unusual was about to happen in Oghara, as markets and shops closed for hours to give support to Igbakpa. The  crowd at the rally was unprecedented; the take-off from opposite the police station was filled to capacity .The number of people waiting at the express junction was 30 times more than those from the take-off. Leading the crowd, Ededey, in hischaracteristic humility, stood up in his black Honda Car with opening and was waving to the innumerable followers. The name Ekwueme, Igbakpa rented the air, sobriquets they were known for. The confidence was unanimously reposed on them by a voice vote sequel to a motion moved by Hons. Brain Ehwarieme and seconded by Ganiga Festus at the carnival-like reception, where large number of youths in the area agreed that it must be Igbakpa or nobody. In an interview, Igbakpa said he was overwhelmed with the warm reception accorded him and the governor. While giving account of his stewardship, he thanked the youths for the confidence reposed on him and promised to continue to deliver his promise of purposeful representation to the people of Ethiope federal constituency. He reminded of the allotment system within the PDP, which allocated a maximum of eight years each to Ethiope East and Ethiope West Local Government Areas in the scrabble for House of Representatives seat. He said: “We have a common sharing formula in Ethiope Federal Constituency. Under the PDP platform, Ethiope West got it first and served eight years through Hon. Halims Aguda. The following eight years was served by Ethiope East, now coming to an end. We are now demanding that the opportunity returns to Ethiope West from 2019 for another eight years.” According to him, the only thing that is constant in life is change, adding, “We are here to collectively address what may be political marginalisation in Ethiope federal constituency. We are bonded by the same constituency and it behooves on us to be united and focused so as to attain our collective goals.” Speaking further, Igbakpa, said: “I was once elected by my primary constituency as a lawmaker, to the Delta State House of Assembly. Sooner than later, I became a commissioner, in charge of transport. I never disappointed the people of Ethiope West and East, my constituencies. I shall put in the same zeal and enthusiasm which I used to serve the people of my primary constituency when voted into power. I will redefine the parameters of representation, with unwavering commitment to constituents.” Ededey, who coordinated the rally, lauded Igbapa, on his display of humility and decorum. “As far as PDP is concerned, Igbakpa is a heavy weight who have paid his dues, and urged him to continue to spread his tentacles by reaching out to leaders of the party, and wish him well in his chosen endeavor. He said although without a political position since 2015, Igbakpa’s reputation continues to grow in leaps and bounds across Ethiope Federal Constituency. He continues to maintain the confidence of his people through devoted acts of philanthropy and support to most of their concerns. “We have tested him to before, he performed very well, and we want him again. He is a legislator to the core,” he added. The decision of the well-meaning supporters to lend their backing towards the affirmation of the credibility of Governor Okowa and Igbakpa, he said stemmed from the fact that youths were not given their rightful place in the scheme of things, especially in federal recruitment until Governor Okowa started to give youth’s appointment and Igbakpa complimenting him. “Igbakpa will make frantic effort to engage the youths. Other aspirants in the spirit of equity should allow the House of Representatives seat to move to Oghara in 2019. Out of the 360 federal constituencies in Nigeria, it is only Ethiope Federal Constituency that has not experienced rapid development from 1999 to date. It is disheartening that since 1999 to date, the voice of Ethiope Federal Constituency has not been heard prominently in the Green Chamber,” he reiterated. After a critical analysis of the politics of the constituency, it has come to the inevitable conclusion that Governor Okowa and Ben Igbakpa shall contest the 2019 elections for Delta and Ethiope federal constituency. Their decisions are borne out of our personal conviction and wide consultations. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 