Some Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), at Fariya camp in Maiduguri, Borno, have decried their  poor living condition amidst Eid-el-Fitr celebrations. The IDPs made the complaints in  separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). Malam Jiddah Ambari, the leader of the camp said the IDPs in the camp celebrated Sallah with little joy, but a spokesman of National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) said the camp would never attract government attention, as it is illegal. Ambari said that more than 5,000 IDPs in the camp celebrated this year’s Eid-el-Fitr without enough food or clothes. He listed poor feeding, sanitary condition, lack of proper medical attention and poor security as some of the challenges in the camp. “We are left to eke out a living on our own. Many people fast in excruciating hardship without anything to eat. The last time food was supplied in this camp was nine months ago by Save The Children, a Non Governmental Organisation. “They supported us with cash and some food items on monthly basis but the program had wound up. Most of us now survived through hustling. Those with no means had to engage in street begging to make a living. “We are from Marte Local Government Area. Since we came to this camp in the last three years, nobody from either National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), or State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), ever came to our aid,” he said. Ambari urged government and the humanitarian organisations to come to their aid. “They must stop calling us unofficial IDPs, because we are also citizens of Nigeria displaced by Boko Haram insurgency,” he said. Ibrahim Kachalla, another IDP, appealed to government to support the IDPs with farm inputs to enable them engage in farming and become self-reliant. Kachalla lamented that life was becoming difficult everyday urging well meaning Nigerians to come to their aid. Reacting, Malam Bashir Garga, Zonal Coordinator, National Emergency Management Agency, denied the claims, saying the  camp was illegally set up. He lamented that Boko Haram elements can easily infiltrate into such camps, disguised as IDPs, to cause havoc. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 