LAGOS – Nyerere Anyim, the 2015 governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State has commended the courage and tenacity of President Muhammadu Buhari in supporting the truth about the annulled June 12, 1993, presidential election which was regarded as the freest in Nigeria’s history. Anyim said that the ghost of June 12 had been haunting Nigeria over the years before Buhari’s recent intervention, noting that the president’s decision to honour Chief Moshood Abiola and other heroes of June 12 should be applauded by all Nigerians. He said Buhari’s action has shown that the sacrifice of those who died during theJune 12 struggle was not in vain as their souls would now rest in peace. Anyim who is aspiring to govern Abia in 2019 on the platform of APC, said that what Buhari has done was being adjudged in the comity of nations as a wonderful decision and the step on the path of justice. Anyim in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT Monday dismissed the claims by some politicians that the president’s recent action on June 12 Presidential election and its presumed winner was a ploy to win re-election in 2019. He, however, urged Buhari to listen to the voice of reason and also extend similar honour to the chief umpire of that election, Prof. Humphrey Nwosu, saying that Nwosu deserved commendation for his courage, sincerity and uprightness that he used to conduct the election. He said Nwosu equally has a place in history for conducting the freest and fairest election in the history of elections in Nigeria. On the allegation by Buhari’s opponents that he made the June 12 pronouncement to score a political point, Anyim said, “You don’t expect those who were unable to do it to be happy. There were presidents who were in the position to make such pronouncement but they did not have the conscience and courage to do it. “Whatever reason they gave, if doing good is for him to be re-elected, he should go ahead and do good. What Buhari has done is adjudged to be a wonderful thing and someone is attributing it to the fact that he wants to win a second term if doing good will make people vote him in for the second term, then to God be the glory,” he said. Anyim observed that the backlash of the annulment of June 12 presidential election shook the nation to its foundation, he nevertheless absolved the politicians of blame in the annulment, saying that the military with the connivance of some individuals annulled the election. “The politicians did not have the willpower to stop that annulment. But we should know that impunity has its expiring date. People should learn that there is tomorrowand we should remember God in whatever we do,” he said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 