Lagos / Abuja – The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders’ Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) on Monday said the killing of more than 120 persons in Riyom, Barkin Ladi and Jos South local government areas of Plateau State on Saturday was a retaliatory act. Though the police said only 86 people were killed, residents and Pam Chollom, Pastor in charge of Church of Christ In Nations (COCIN) in Rop, Barkin Ladi Local Government Area, said more than 120 persons were killed. Danladi Ciroma, Chairman, North-Central zone of the cattle breeders association, said herdsmen in Plateau lost about 300 cows in the weeks leading to the attack. He accused the communities of hiding cattle rustlers among them as well as frustrating peace efforts of the state government. “These attacks are retaliatory. As much as I don’t support the killing of human beings, the truth must be told that those who carried out the attacks must be on revenge mission,” Ciroma said. “There have been recent reports of cow rustling and destruction of farms between Berom farmers and Fulani herdsmen. The people carrying out these criminal activities are well known to the communities but the communities are hiding them. “Fulani herdsmen have lost about 300 cows in the last few weeks – 94 cows were rustled by armed Berom youths in Fan village, another 36 cows were killed by Berom youths. In addition to that, 174 cattle were rustled and the criminals disappeared with them to Mangu. “Since these cows were not found, no one should expect peace in the areas. Even soldiers that went after the criminals to recover the rustled cows were shot by the armed rustlers and eventually escaped with all the cows. “The government of Governor Lalong has done a lot to restore peace, but the criminal elements hiding among their people are the ones frustrating these peace efforts.” He added that the security agencies should be fair to all parties, and should not neglect any report presented by the Fulani “because such report can lead to attacks and deaths if not properly handled.” “Criminals thrive a lot in Berom communities, but when the Fulani, who are always victims of their crime, react with attacks, they blame the government,” he added. Again, another leader of the Fulanis, Abubakar Gambo, claimed that on Thursday evening, four traders of ethnic Fulani stock, returning from a cattle market, were allegedly ambushed and killed. A day later, the Cattle Breeders Association in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area accused the Berom speaking natives of the town of being behind the attack which occurred along Hiapang, Barkin Ladi road. Gambo also accused the attackers of carrying away the corpses of the victims. “The unfortunate incident occurred between 6.30 and 6.40pm, Thursday at Hiapan. The Berom people ambushed and killed four of our people, burnt the car they were in. The people were returning from a cattle market from Bukuru, Jos South Local Government Area. They took away their corpses,” Gambo said. He said his association reported the matter to security agencies. “The victims are all married with children. They are Bala Adamu, Isa Mohammed, Ibrahim Ahmed and Lawal Abubakar Dangana. We informed security operatives, members of the Special Task Force on Jos crisis came to the scene. They got there while the fire on the cars was still burning,” he said. This is the third time such attacks on our people by Berom people are occurring. We want a stop to this dastardly acts on our people,” Gambo said. Police Officer, 15 Others Killed In Fresh Attack At least 16 travellers, including an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), were ambushed and killed along Anguldi, Mararaban Foron and Mararaban Jama’a in Jos South, on Sunday. It was a reprisal attack on travellers in reaction to the killing of indigenes of some villages in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State on Saturday. In that Saturday attack, about 120 villagers were said to have been killed by suspected herders. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that eight out of the 16 persons were travelling from Kanke and Pankshin councils in Central Plateau, and were on their way to the Citizenship and Leadership Training Centre, Shere Hills, for the annual peace youth camp organised by a popular non-governmental organisation. An eyewitness told DAILY INDEPENDENT on Monday evening in Jos that other youths who were travelling with the eight youths had informed them that the eight youths were removed from the vehicle and killed. They said they were able to find two of them while the remaining six were yet to be recovered. However, the Bukuru Muslim community, aided by Muslim aid group and the Bukuru Police Divisional Officer (DPO) also recovered eight corpses, seven of whom were buried at the Dadin Kowa Muslim cemetery while four out of the corpses were buried separately in the morning. Three others who were burnt were given mass burial. The leader of search and recovery mission, Alhaji Danlami Yaro, said the other corpse was identified as a police officer with the rank of ASP. “We identified one of the victims as a police officer with the rank of ASP from the remains of his uniform and his tag name. “We could not bury him because we are expecting his family or the police to come and pick his corpse,” he said. According to him, several cars, including a bus belonging to Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU) and a truck-load of food grains on its way to Niger State, were burnt while the truck driver and the conductor were said to be missing. The commander of Operation Safe Haven, Major General Anthony Atolagbe, visited the scene of the incident for an on-the-spot assessment. 2019 Politicking Cause Of Plateau Killings
— Buhari However, President Muhammadu Buhari said on Monday that the bloody crisis in Plateau State that has consumed over 120 villagers was mostly the handiwork of political gladiators. The president said the fight for advantage by politicians ahead of the 2019 general election had driven them into bloodletting. Buhari spoke through his Media Aide, Garba Shehu, saying that it was regrettable that people were making human lives look cheap in their quest to promote instability and chaos. The president’s statement indicated that he had received reports on the Saturday/Sunday incident that has been described as another major act of ethnic cleansing in the Middle Belt. He said the latest crisis arose from the rustling of about one hundred cattle by a community in Plateau State, which had led to the death of some herdsmen. According to the president, the state governor, Simon Lalong, had invited the aggrieved groups and pleaded against further action while the law enforcement agents looked into the matter, but less than 24 hours later, violence broke out. President Buhari lamented how increasingly cheap human life was becoming in Nigeria as desperate people pursued their quest for instability and chaos which they hoped would give them an advantage in the coming elections. “Some local thugs then took advantage of the situation, turning it into an opportunity to extort the public, and to attack people from rival political parties.” Hold Buhari, APC Responsible For Plateau Killings — PDP Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday accused President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) as responsible for the killings. Bemoaning the killings, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP said that President Buhari’s failure to address and bring to book the perpetrators of killings and bloodletting in various parts of the country is emboldening insurgents and marauders to further attack and murder defenceless Nigerians. The party pointed out that if the president and the APC had adhered to wise counsel by the PDP and Nigerians, such killings would have been averted. “It is most disheartening that compatriots are being killed daily because those saddled with the responsibility of safeguarding lives care less about the wellbeing and safety of the people, as they focus only on their ill-fated 2019 re-election bid. “Even when the Zamfara State governor, Abdul-aziz Yari, cried out that he was overwhelmed by the spate of insecurity and killings, the Federal Government gave him an ineffectual response laced with their trite blame game.” IGP Deploys Special Intervention Force Following the killings, the Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, has deployed Special Intervention Force to Plateau to restore peace in Barkin-Ladi, Riyom, Jos South local government areas and other flash points in the state. A statement by the Force Spokesman, acting DCP Jimoh Moshood, on Monday in Abuja, noted that two police aerial surveillance helicopters, five Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs) and three Police Mobile Force Units (PMF) were deployed. He said that two Counter Terrorism Units (CTU) and Police Intelligence Unit and conventional police personnel from other states have also been deployed to the affected areas. Moshood added that the Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of operations had relocated to Plateau on the directive of the IGP to coordinate and supervise the operations. He noted that “the IGP has directed the Commissioner of Police in charge of IGP monitoring unit to lead the police special investigation team to the affected areas and other flash points in Plateau.” He stated that the investigation team comprised the Intelligence Response Team (IRT), the Special Tactical Squad (STS) and the Technical Platforms. He said “the team is to carry out thorough and discreet investigation into the killings and promptly apprehend those responsible.” The spokesman added that the police special intervention force included personnel of Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (FCIID), a detachment of Police Explosive Ordinance Department (EOD), Police K9 (Sniffer Dogs Section), conventional policemen, special anti-robbery squads. Moshood said that the team, which had started arriving, were already working with the police command in the state to restore peace and sustain normalcy in the affected areas. He pointed out that “to achieve success in this operation, the team will be proactive and strict in the enforcement of its mandates, police standard operations procedures and rule of engagement will be fully adhered to. “The police special intervention force will ensure full enforcement of the curfew imposed on the affected areas by the Plateau Government.” Lalong Vows To Arrest, Prosecute Perpetrators Of Plateau Killings Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State has vowed to ensure that the perpetrators of Saturday killings in some communities in the state were arrested and brought to book. Lalong made this known in a state-wide broadcast on Monday which addressed the killings. He said it was with a deep sense of regret that he was addressing the people regarding the loss of lives and property in the state. According to him, the resurgence of violence in Plateau State was reprehensible as much as being condemnable. He said the development was a stark reminder of the magnitude of peace and security challenges staring the people in the face on behalf of the government. He commiserated with the families of those affected and prayed that God, in his infinite mercies, would accept them in his glorified kingdom. He added: “Government is conscious of its responsibilities of protection of lives and property of its citizenry and we have always striven to meet that expectation.” Only Restructuring Can End Killings — Afenifere Afenifere, pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, on Monday said Nigeria has degenerated in the last three years under President Muhammadu Buhari owing to the failure of the government to restructure the country. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Yinka Odumakin, the body’s National Publicity Secretary, said if the Buhari administration had implemented key recommendations of the 2014 National Conference it would have greatly addressed the killings by Fulani herdsmen in the country. “Nigeria had degenerated in three years of this administration than it ever did. The imperative of restructuring has never been higher than now. One thing about a dying nation is that it is not sudden loss of breath like a human being. All the symptoms of a dying country are all over Nigeria. “For any honest Nigerian, the problems of this country are structural and you can’t solve them without restructuring. It is not that restructuring will solve all our problems but you can’t solve any of them without restructuring”. Nigeria May Not Survive Continued Killings – Lamido If the present spate of killings continued, Nigeria might not survive the next thirty years, according to Sule Lamido, former governor of Jigawa State. Lamido expressed regret that Nigerians were dying in droves by the day. Lamido said given the pace at which such incidents were taking place in the country, it might be destroyed in 30 years. The ex-governor was referring to the recent incident in Plateau State in which over one hundred people were killed in cold blood by suspected herdsmen at the weekend. Lamido, who was in Port Harcourt to commission some projects executed by Governor Nyesom Wike, urged the governor to use his position as a respected leader of the country to rally other state governors to stem the tide of insecurity through high-profile stakeholder engagements. “There is nowhere in the world where people are being killed like in Nigeria. Today, Nigerians have been turned into displaced persons across the country. Violence is now defining our lives,” he said. Lamido stated that the investments of Rivers State governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, in the educational sector were divine as they empowered future generations. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 