LAGOS – Comrade Chris Okonkwo, President of Senior Staff Electricity and Allied Companies (SSEAC), says the future of the nation’s power sector is shaky and gloomy due to the inherent lapses in the sector’s electricity value chain. He told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the haphazard manner the successor companies of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria(PHCN) were auctioned has continued to manifest in the stunted growth of the sector five years after the private owners took over the assets. The power distribution companies, he said, have failed to meter Nigerians and collect revenue appropriately which have resulted in the estimated electricity billing regime perpetrated by the firms. He added that the companies are insincere to Nigerians following the frequent excuses they give continually to meet the expectations of the citizens. ‘’I am not surprised to hear about discos N1 trillion debt to Nigeria Bulk Electricity Trading Company(NBET ) because they are not collecting revenue from energy sold to customers proportionately or they collect and fail to remit sincerely in addition to the very low efficiency. This means energy is used, but the money that should be paid for it was not collected. That’s what built up to the N1 trillion debts,” he added. He said the generation companies were castrated in the last five years because there was no reasonable investment therein in line with the expectations of Nigerians who clamoured for the sale of the assets. He added that generation companies inherited power stations, but most of them have not expanded, while some declared false capacities. “Some of them declared false capacities because of failure of the regulator. There is no way the regular can remotely know what is going on in these power stations, so they rely on information by interested parties. The current capacity has not surpassed the original capacity of the stations they bought. They are even struggling to see if they can get to that level. Even the one they claimed they generated, discos are not collecting the money for it so they can’t even investment their revenue,” he added. To him, the Transmission Company of Nigeria electricity at 330 voltage, but the distribution companies are not collecting money for the energy transported by the company. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 