Abakaliki – Jonah Mkpuruka, Nigeria’s Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Argentina, Peru, Chile and Paraguay on Tuesday alleged that the marauding herdsmen who have killed many Nigerians and destroyed properties in different parts of the country have the backing of the opposition parties who want take over power in 2019. He alleged that the opposition elements adopted the strategy to discredit President Muhammadu Buhari in order to pave the way for their “comeback” to the presidency in 2019. Mkpuruka, who is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State, made the allegation in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, shortly after the swearing in of the 17 newly elected state executive members of the party. Also inaugurated on the occasion was the seven-man Reconciliatory Committee headed by a former senator for Ebonyi North Senatorial District, Sen. Anthony Agbo, as Chairman and Dr. Paul Okorie as Secretary. “The killings you are hearing, they are being sponsored by desperate people who are not satisfied with the loot they have made; they want to come back. They are not comfortable with the anti-corruption programme of Mr. President. “They want to make sure they boot him out at all cost. But I want to tell you that he is returning to put this country on the right path,” the ambassador declared. Speaking further, the diplomat said: “As I said earlier, as APC members, we must stand together to blunt the cutting edges of these criminals. They’ve trained to intimidate us in the forthcoming elections. It will not work. “In 2015, one of us here won election and he lost his result on transit. This time around, from here to Abuja there is nothing to disturb us in delivering our results. We are going to win and we are not going to lose our results on transit again.” “Lack of good governance breeds corruption and destroys institutions that support democracy and development,” she added. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 