Lagos – Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) has called on plastic producers and those on the consumption side, as well as policy-makers, to explore sustainable alternatives to the material that takes up to 100 years to degrade. This is the fall-out of the World Environment Day (WED) event marked by NCF with an art exhibition at Lekki Conservation Centre (LCC), Lagos State. Muhtari Aminu-Kano, director-general of NCF, further urged the stakeholders to urgently “reduce the production and single use of plastics polluting our oceans, damaging marine life and threatening human health”. Plastic pollution involves the accumulation of plastic products in the environment that adversely affects wildlife, wildlife habitat, and humans. The inter-school arts exhibition and other activities were organised by NCF to enable students showcase their creative abilities in turning plastic wastes into arts and crafts, while learning about ways the government and other stakeholders were helping to reduce plastic production and adverse effect on the people. WED is an environmental awareness programme aimed at promoting environmental education, ingenuity, teamwork and general environmental friendliness among children and youths. The theme for this year, ‘Beat Plastic Pollution’, urges all to adopt more than a single use of plastics. Ede Dafinone, chairman of the occasion, in his welcome address, stated: “Most of the plastic waste generated comes from deliberate dumping of garbage into waterways and mismanaged waste disposal.” More than 50 per cent of plastic waste generated comes from inadequate management due to lack or infrastructure associated with an ever-increasing population.” Aminu-Kano revealed that “30 million tonnes of plastics are produced annually all over the world, eight million tonnes find their way into the ocean, while the rest litter our streets, clog our drainages and some flying in the air, causing health problems.” Raymond Kayanja, Country Director, United Nations Information Centre (UNIC), Lagos, who was the guest speaker, called on all parties, government, corporate organisations and individuals to come forth to stem the big challenge plastic was posing, which may lead humanity into big problem, if not urgently checked. Eleven secondary schools and seven primary schools (both public and private) across Lagos State participated in the art exhibition/competition. The winners in the secondary school category are Mayors Height School, Epe Girls Senior Secondary School and Genesis High School as first, second and third positions in that order. Refiners School, Genesis Primary School and Learning Ladder Montessori School emerged winners in the primary category as first, second and third positions. NCF has over the years used WED to grow environmental literacy among the youths and the students. Avenue is usually created for the participants to individually or collectively develop solutions to current environmental challenges. The arts exhibition is an idea about up-cycling (converting waste plastics to arts and craft) rather than recycling. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 