Nigeria is among 92 countries  with  high infant populations, but do not have national policies in place which ensures new fathers get adequate paid time-off with their newborn babies, a new  analysis by  the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has shown. The analysis also revealed that almost two-thirds of the world’s children under one-year-old (nearly 90 million) live in countries where their fathers are not entitled by law to a single day of paid paternity leave. In a statement signed  by UNICEF Nigeria’s Communication Officer, Eva Hinds, which was made available to DAILY  INDEPENDENT in Lagos, the agency called for  investment in family-friendly policies that support early childhood development. The statement read,”UNICEF calls for investment in family-friendly policies that support early childhood development including paid paternity and maternity leave, free pre-primary education, and paid breastfeeding breaks. “Ninety-two countries do not have national policies in place that ensure new fathers get adequate paid time off with their newborn babies, including India and Nigeria – which all have high infant populations. “In comparison, other countries with high infant populations, including Brazil and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, all have national paid paternity leave policies albeit offering relatively short-term entitlements. “This contrasts with just eight  countries (including the United States) that do not have a policy on paid maternity leave. “Positive and meaningful interaction with mothers and fathers from the very beginning helps to shape children’s brain growth and development for life, making them healthier and happier, and increasing their ability to learn. “Evidence suggests that when fathers bond with their babies from the beginning of life, they are more likely to play a more active role in their child’s development.” Research also suggests that when children positively interact with their fathers, they have better psychological health, self-esteem and life-satisfaction in the long-term”, the statement read. Mohamed Malick Fall, Representative of UNICEF Nigeria observed, “By implementing national family-friendly policies that support early childhood development, including paid paternity leave, the Government can provide parents the time, resources and information they need to care for their children”.
Acccording to him, “The Government’s recent commitment to extend maternity leave from 12 to 16 weeks indicates to me that the momentum for family-friendly policies in Nigeria is growing,” Fall added. “Investments in the provision of support services to caregivers as well as quality pre-primary education and good nutrition for children are investments in healthy and productive future Nigerian generations.” The new analysis forms part of UNICEF’s Super Dads campaign, now in its second year, which aims to break down barriers preventing fathers from playing an active role in their young children’s development, the statement said. The campaign moment celebrates Father’s Day on 17 June and focuses on the importance of love, play, protection and good nutrition for the healthy development of young children’s brains. “Advances in neuroscience have proven that when children spend their earliest years –  particularly the first 1,000 days from conception to two years old – in a nurturing, stimulating environment, new neural connections form at optimal speed. “These neural connections help to determine a child’s cognitive ability, how they learn and think, their ability to deal with stress, and can even influence how much they will earn as adults, the statement added. The Lancet’s Series, Advancing Early Childhood Development: from Science to Scale, launched in October 2016, revealed nearly 250 million children under five were at risk of poor development due to stunting and extreme poverty. The series further showed that programmes promoting nurturing care – health, nutrition, responsive caregiving, security and safety, and early learning -can cost as little as 50 cents per capita per year when combined with existing health services. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 