Umuahia – Tragedy struck on Sunday at Itaja-Obohia in Olokoro, Umuahia South Council Area, Abia State, the hometown of former PDP National Chairman, Prince Vincent Ogbulafor, when a man, simply identified as Okechukwu Osoagbakwu, and his two sons, mysteriously died a night after his daughter’s traditional marriage. An account had it that after the low key event which took place on Saturday, the deceased’s wife and her little son left for their abode at World Bank Housing Estate, Umuahia, Abia State. According to feelers from the community, her daughter (who wedded) called her father and brothers several times on Sunday morning but no one picked her calls which made her to be curious and apprehensive. She quickly rushed to their house in Olokoro where she observed that the entrance doors were still locked. With the help of others, one of the doors was forced open and, behold her father and brothers were lying dead after vomiting blood. Another account had it that after Saturday’s event, one of his daughters came down to Olokoro to see her father and siblings. On arriving, she called several times and nobody responded, so she forced the door open and then saw her father and siblings dead, with blood gushing out from their mouths. Reacting to this sad development, a traditional village head from Umuonuzo village, a neighbouring village to the deceased’s village, Chief Chukwuemeka Nwosu, described the incident as sad and unfortunate, adding that the entire community was quiet because of the strange occurrence. He suggested that the Nigerian p;olice should carry out an autopsy to ascertain the cause of “this strange death”. “We are mourning a tragic death. Before this tragedy, we have four corpses in the mortuary, but this tragedy involves a father and his two sons, who died after the marriage rite of his daughter,” Nwosu lamented. Also, the Executive Chairman of Umuahia South LGA, Hon. Obioma Ezeogbulafor, described the incident as an unfortunate one and prayed God to grant their souls eternal rest. Meanwhile, the Chairman, Umuahia South Council of Traditional Rulers, HRM Eze Godfrey Onwuka, has expressed shock over the ugly development. Eze Onwuka, who is also the traditional ruler of Umutowe autonomous community, Olokoro, said such incident had never happened in the history of Olokoro. “It is really a shocker to all of us. We have not seen this type before. We don’t know yet whether it is generator smoke that killed them or poison. “They have been taken away to the hospital for the test sample and possibly to mortuary. After the hospital’s investigations, we will know the cause of their death. It’s really painful.” Efforts made to reach the deceased family members, especially the newly-married daughter, proved abortive as she was in a heavy mood. She was seen cursing whosoever might be involved in her father and siblings’ death. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 