Otunba Olusegun Abiru was the Clerk of Lagos State House of Assembly and now Chairman, Ikorodu Oga Development Association. Abiru is aspiring to represent Lagos East Senatorial District in the National Assembly. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on his ambition and other crucial national issues. Excerpts: You are aspiring to represent Lagos East Senatorial District in the 2019 general elections. What exactly informed your decision to vie for the position at this time? Thank you very much. Some people are wondering why   the decision to contest for senatorial position, but I want to say that my choice of the senate is deliberate. It has been my plan to join politics after retirement from the state civil service since we are not allowed to participate in politics while in service. Also, the upper chamber of the National Assembly has been my choice. Moreover, I have been following the politics of Lagos State, especially the Lagos East and I felt that this time around, I should inject some actions.  That is not to say that the people who had been there had not done their best. But, I believe I can bring in fresh ideas that would help move the zone forward. That is why I am offering myself to serve the people. Again, I am not new to legislative activities having served as the Clerk of most vibrant House of Assembly, not only in Nigeria, but perhaps in Africa. That is to say that I know what I am doing. I know what I want and have the capacity and the intelligence for that position. When you talk about legislative responsibility, primarily, it is a place where laws are made. I know that there are so many laws that need to be tinkered with in order to serve our people properly. I believe with my experience in the state House of Assembly, I will contribute my quota to legislative responsibilities in that regard. The action of President Muhammadu Buhari in declaring June 12 as Democracy Day to honour late MKO Abiola, the assumed winner of June 12, 19993 presidential election, has attracted a lot of controversies. What is your take on the matter? First and foremost, let us commend President Buhari for doing what people had long waited   for.  This is the honour that was supposed to be given to the duo of MKO Abiola and Babagana Kingibe on the June 12 saga, but nobody thought about it.  Former President Olusegun Obasanjo believed May 29, the hand over date from the military to civilian, should be the ideal date for Democracy Day. However, many people were not happy that May 29 was chosen instead of June 12, especially those of us from the south west. We believe that the democracy we are all enjoying the dividends today came as a result of the efforts and sacrifice of Abiola. What Buhari has done is to right the wrong and that is why everybody is applauding the declaration. It is what most Nigerians expected the former Presidents, especially Obasanjo, to have done. But, he did not deem it important to do that. It is true that a lot of people have been commenting on the bold step, especially as it concerns the legal aspect of the declaration, because we should not do anything against the constitution.  But, what appeals to me and other Nigerians most is that Abiola and Gani Fawehinmi were given a deserved honour. I heard that Justice Belgore and Femi Falana were giving different legal interpretations to the declaration. I know there is nothing wrong in doing that. But, what is paramount is that the recognition was done in good faith.  I want to appeal that all other things that are needed to finetune the recognition should be done by members of the National Assembly or the organisation responsible for doing that. I must stress here that President Buhari has done what many Nigerians have been yearning for and that is what governance is all about. You listen to the people and attend to their yearning, which is what we call democracy.  I am sure that those who are talking about the legality of the honour are not saying that Abiola did not deserve it. They are only pointing at the legal implication, which cannot be wished away because we are governed by the country’s constitution and we must abide by that. So far, the President has warmed himself into the heart of many Nigerians and I say kudos to him. I pray he would continue to right the wrongs which the people have been desirous of. The All Progressives Congress APC, which you are a member, would in few days’ time conduct a national convention.  But, there are fears that the exercise may polarise the party further and jeopardise its chance in 2019 general elections. Are you not afraid too? That is a mere figment of imagination. There is no way when you have four to five people doing something that  you would not have misunderstanding among them. If you look at the calibre of people we have in APC, you will discover that there are men of integrity who have the capacity to douse tension at anytime. I am not envisaging any problem. But, there may be minor uproar which is common in any democratic dispensation. Don’t forget, democracy is all about the ability of people to air their views and that is what has been happening. But, I can assure you that the national convention will hold and whatever may be the decision at that convention will be bidding. APC is a party governed by rule of law. What we have been doing has been according to the constitution of the party and that of the country. You would recall that when some people were discussing about tenure elongation for the present executives, the party vehemently opposed the idea and insisted that fresh election must be conducted. We have started it and I am sure we will conclude it. APC will come out stronger and mightier. Don’t you think the decision of Senator Gbenga Ashafa to re-contest the senatorial position would affect your ambition to represent the same senatorial zone? The law allows as many people as possible to contest. Who will emerge victorious at the end of the day will be determined by the people. My brother, Senator Ashafa, has not done anything wrong against me or the people of the zone which I intend to represent. I believe it is time for people like us to come out and show our qualities to the people. I can tell you that he has done his best for the people. But, I feel I have my own quota to contribute to the progress of the zone. But, I must emphasise that that it is not a do-or-die affair. I cannot see myself offering myself to serve the people and be hell bent that I must be there. I don’t play politics that way. I play politics that is progressives, politics without bitterness. I play politics that is collective. If my people who said I should come out to contest decide otherwise tomorrow, I have no option, but to obey their voice. But, because they said I should come to vie, that is why I am aspiring.   And you know that the more the merrier, because it now affords the people opportunity to choose the best from many aspirants. However, I want to appeal to the people that money politics will not take us to anywhere. Money politics has been the bane of our political experience for a long time and that is why our politics remains what it is. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 