The Africa Network for Environment and Economic Justice (ANEEJ) has hailed the conviction of former governor of Plateau State, Joshua Dariye. Dariye was given a 14-year jail sentence for diverting, for his personal use, the state’s N1.162 billion ecological fund when he was governor from 1999 to 2007. Rev. David Ugolor, ANEEJ Executive Director, noted that the court’s verdict was a Democracy Day gift to Nigerians. “The court, through the judgment, delivered the best Democracy Day gift to Nigerians as the rule of law remains a significant hallmark for the flourishing of democracy, a tenet that the Late Chief M.K.O Abiola lived and died for. “All Nigerians, irrespective of religion or tribe, attest to the fact that Corruption has been a serious impediment to the growth and development of the country since independence in 1960. “To nip this problem in the bud requires a strong judiciary that promptly delivers sound judgments and punishes corruption timeously,” Ugolor said. He commended the judiciary for its latest effort at dealing with corruption cases, as Joshua Dariye was the second former governor in one month who had been sentenced to prison without an option of fine. According to him, “Convicting former Governor Joshua Dariye is good news. Dispossessing him of the looted assets is key to ending corruption because when looters are not allowed to enjoy proceeds of corruption, it goes a long way in ending the business of corruption. “We, therefore, commend the Nigerian judiciary, which is now living up to its billing as the last hope of the common man by rising to halt impunity in the looting of the public treasury. “The Federal Capital Territory High Court’s sentence of Senator Dariye to two years in prison for criminal breach of trust and 14 years for criminal misappropriation of funds, and forcing down hot tears down his cheeks is significantly deterring.’’ He added: “ANEEJ equally believes that if the same kind of will put to bear to convict the former governor of Plateau state is put to bear on all of the high-profile corruption cases, Nigeria would not need to use the institutional mechanisms of foreign countries to rein in the corrupt in Nigeria. “This is the time to use this case as a deterrent to future cases of official misdemeanour.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 