Telecoms service provider,Globacom, has sent off the first set of seven winners of its ‘GO Russia’ promo which will produce a total of 22 winners. They include Agbede Temidayo Bayodele from Ekiti State, Adeoye Adefisoye Simon from Oyo State and Olugbokiki Mukail Omolola from Ogun State. Others are Orewa Edwin Ehi from Rivers State, Aghaegbunem Marvel Chukwufumnaya from Abuja, Oladunjoye Joseph Babatunde from Ogun State and Kome Sunny Ikpeba from Delta State. The seven winners left the country Wednesday evening, accompanied by Globacom officials on an all-expense-paid trip to Russia in the consumer appreciation promo for loyal customers of the network. While on the trip, which is more of a vacation, they will visit different tourist attractions, historical sites and monuments. All the winners were sourced from the universe of subscribers who send GO to 240 on the Glo network. A draw was subsequently conducted and winners were contacted directly by Glo Customer Care officials. The Russia-bound winners left the Mike Adenuga Towers’ headquarters of Globacom after receiving their travel kits and goodwill messages from the company. They were challenged “to be good ambassadors of Nigeria in the former Soviet nation”. Before leaving for the airport, all the winners expressed gratitude to God and to Globacom for the opportunity given to them by the promo. One of the winners, Kome Sunny Ikpeba  a 45-year-old man from Delta State said he had never won anything before, therefore the Go Russia trip was a new experience for him. Another winner, Oladunjoye Joseph Babatunde, a Lagos film maker and a loyal Glo subscriber from roll –out, praised the GO RUSSIA promo saying that the trip will be “a very good experience for him”. On his part, Agbede Temidayo Bayodele, a final year Mechanical Engineering student of Ekiti State University advised subscribers not to regard the promo as a scam because “it is for real!” The promo which runs from May 16 to July 8, 2018, is open to all new and existing Prepaid/Postpaid customers on the Glo network nationwide and according to Globacom, it is the company’s way of appreciating its subscribers. The company in a statement released after the departure of the winners said that it is committed to empowering its subscribers and giving them access to “the best value and pricing at all times.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 