ASABA – Residents of Isoko Nation, particularly Ozoro in Isoko North Local Government of Delta State will not forget Saturday May 12th 2018 in hurry. On that day a rally was organised by the Delta Political Vanguard for Governor Ifeanyi Okowa 2019 election. The gathering perhaps brought together the largest of such in the state in recent times. Those who harboured misgivings about the popularity of Governor Okowa have learnt better that he draws tremendous support statewide. The Ozoro crowd was unprecedented. Very few, if any gathering had witnessed such a massive turn out of people in the area since its creation several years ago. As early as 7:30am on that Saturday morning, party supporters and members of the group had gathered in large number for a rally scheduled for 11:00am at the Anglican Girl’s Grammar School venue of the ceremony. The venue wore a carnival-like atmosphere on that memorable day as scores of dance troupe and other entertainment groups were on hand to add glamour to the occasion. It was a field day for tricycle (keke) operators as they made endless trips to and from the venue. Political associates and supporters of Governor Okowa, former chairmen of various Local Government Councils, ward leaders, former and current Commissioners, women groups, traders, pensioners, civil servants, both the employed and unemployed and well wishers, attended the epoch making – events. Yet there was orderliness as security personnel at strategic points leading in and out of the venue of the rally were literally idle, hawkers made brisk sales of bottled and sachet water, drinks and assortments of beverages Not even the scorching sun could deter the crowd as they kept coming. It was a political rally of sorts. Banners of various sizes dotted poles on Ozoro streets. On the banners were messages of good will and solidarity for Governor Okowa and Hon Diden. The entire leadership cadre of the group was present; they included Hon Micheal Diden, Asuper Forteta, Chief Askia Ogie, Douglas Okolotu, Engr Omeni Sobotie, Sunny Ogun, Ifeanyi Eboigbe and a host of others. While welcoming the group to the venue, the state Commissioner for Youths, Mr Oghene Cairo Ilolo an indigene of Isoko, one of the chief hosts, urged the mammoth crowd to renew their support for Governor Okowa. He said Governor Okowa’s government would continue to pursue the cardinal objectives of his earlier campaign manifesto which include infrastructural development, unity, peace and social development. At the end of the speech, it was clear that virtually everybody at the rally was convinced that the right choice had been made. Those who know Okowa very well would readily agreed that he is an arch apostle of selfless service, an attribute which natural flows from his instinct as a medical doctor.  As we all know, doctors are the most selfless people anywhere toiling for others and hardly for themselves, he said. Hon Askia Ogie, former Chairman of Isoko South Local Government Council and currently Executive Director, Finance and Administration, DESOPADEC who was inaugurated Vice Chairman of the Delta Political Vanguard stated that Okowa’s vision of politics which has magnetized all those who gets close to him is that of an opportunity to make a difference. While speaking, the National Coordinator of the Delta Political Vanguard and an aspirant for Delta South Senatorial Seat in the 2019 general election, Hon Micheal Diden, maintained that the Governor had brought to bear exemplary leadership with a view to ensuring that democratic government prevails in the state. “Governor Okowa is passionate about wealth creation and economic development for Deltans. While unfolding his mission to the community, Diden said he was presenting Governor Ifeanyi  Okowa as the right person to lead Delta for another four years as he intends to bring to bear exemplary representation and leadership. Governor Okowa will no doubt offer strategic representation which would lead the state to higher level of advancement and development. The journey towards achieving these objectives will be easy with the foundation already laid and your support.” He will particularly focus on empowerment of our people which is all about dividends of democracy” Diden posited. ‘’I wish to inform you that the Governor has pursued the politics and programmes with renewed vigour, deep sense of responsibility and has also delivered proactively to every nook and cranny of the state”. While speaking, Hon Ilolo described Governor Okowa as intelligent, industrious and focused. “I believe in his forthrightness and he is ever blunt. There is need for all and sundry to mobilize support for him. We will “hence forth beginning to sensitize the people on why the entire isoko Nation should support him to achieve his second term ambition. The Governor has completely transformed the entire state within a space of three years. His giant strides are wonderful’’. He however, assured the Governor of the support of the entire Isoko Nation. “No doubt, Governor Okowa will have the mandate of my people come 2019. We are going to mobilise sons and daughter of Isoko for him. Ifeanyi Osuoza, Delta PDP Publicity Secretary I his judgement of the Governor looked at the recession, ‘’when we had the recession if not for the fact that God blessed Delta State with the person of Okowa as Governor, so many states suffered untold hardship but the Governor was able to manage the scarce resources quite effectively well to seeing us out of the recession. According to him, there is no stopping Okowa in 2019, he is working and everything he is doing will be what Deltans would judge him with. So people should disregard what those in opposition are saying, they cannot know peace in that APC, they are disarray and they will remain in disarray till 2019 and after 2019. ‘’Delta State is PDP and PDP is Delta State, we don’t have an opposition in Delta State’’. One of those that expressed joy, Madam Janet Iredia, a retiree from Ozoro recalled that several years ago, the only means of transportation in her community was motorcycle before the introduction of tricycles. She noted the newly constructed road by the administration of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa would afford her an opportunity to probably purchase a vehicle. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 