Lagos – Super Eagles second half display against Three Lions of England in an international friendly at Wembley on Saturday inspired hope of a good outing at the summer World Cup in Russia. Though Nigeria lost 2-1, scoring their first goal against England in three meetings, if their first half performance were anything to go bye, then Super Eagles have no business in Russia. But after a heart rending first half, Coach Gernot Rohr made four changes before the start of the second half and Super Eagles began to prove why they qualified for the World Cup. Kenneth Omeruo came in for Leon Balogun, Tyronne Ebuehi replaced Abdullahi Shehu, Oghenekaro Etebo came in for Ogenyi Onazi, while John Ogu replaced Joel Obi in the middle. These changes brought a spark into the team and barely two minutes after resumption, Super Eagles pulled one back. In the first half Super Eagles struggled to contend with the Three Lions’ movement in attack, and were sloppy in possession,” Peter Rutzler, wrote in the News. “England’s second goal was as a result of a sloppy pass from Ogenyi Onazi, who simply handed Eric Dier the ball, who triggered the attack for Harry Kane to then score. Keeper Francis Uzoho didn’t do himself any good, letting the ball slips beneath him. The first goal was nothing better, as it exposed the team of defensive frailties in marking set pieces. The corner was an out-swinger and Gary Cahill loses his marker John Obi Mikel expertly, before leaping perfectly and connected perfectly for bang. But the second half offered hope. Alex Iwobi woke up from his slumber and grabbed the game by the scruff of the neck, creating an opening for Odion Ighalo before drilling home the rebound. The team began to mark and play more possessive game, rattling England several times. The two full backs became alive as England never had those free balls from the flank which was their weapon in the first half. If Nigeria can produce more of that desire at the World Cup, bolstered by the return of key players like Wilfred Ndidi, then maybe there will be more to this Nigeria team. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 