Lagos / Akure – Olusegun Mimiko, former governor of Ondo State, on Thursday announced his return to the Labour Party. Mimiko had on Wednesday resigned his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He was registered as LP member at Ward 7, Ondo West Local Government Area of the state. The former governor, while addressing a large crowd of his supporters at the Oba Adesanoye Civic Center, Ondo, said he decided to rejoin the LP because the party was his political family. Mimiko said the social democratic mantra of LP remained the best possible outlet for leading Nigeria into a new era of progressive governance. “I most humbly announce to Nigerians today my decision to quit the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and return to Labour Party (LP), my true political family. “By the grace of God, using the platform of LP, we demonstrated for eight years in Ondo State (2009–2017) what it means for government to be pro-people. “It is our hope that working within LP and hand-in-hand with other Nigerians of like minds, we would begin to sharpen the ideological divide in Nigerian politics with a view to mainstreaming the welfare and interest of the mass of our people. “It is for the foregoing reasons that I and Nigerians across the country and in the Diaspora, who admire what we represent as demonstrated in our varied accomplishments in government, have elected to have us return to LP. “This is a decision we consider as correct, reasonable, and patriotic. With this, we are no more restrained from offering to the Nigerian people a pristine, truly ideologically driven, well-thought-out, and historically valid alternative for repositioning our country,” Mimiko said. In his speech entitled, ‘Ideological Platform for Incisive Political Engagement: The Labour Party (LP) Experience in Ondo State and Beyond’, he insisted that the decision he and his followers took in moving to the PDP in 2014 was for the higher interest of the country, and that there was no personal gain in focus, neither were they in conflict with the LP. The former governor won his two terms in office as Ondo State governor in 2007 and 2012 on the platform of the LP, but returned to the PDP just before the 2015 general election. He disclosed that the desire to help realise the restructuring agenda unveiled by former President Goodluck Jonathan attracted him to the then ruling party, the PDP. Mimiko insisted that political restructuring was now more relevant than ever before. “We particularly had in focus the agenda of restructuring, which frontier the then president had extended a bit by convoking the national conference. “We thus felt compelled to work with his party, hoping that his victory in the 2015 election would translate the vision of restructuring the Nigerian federation into reality. “Recall also that INEC had tweaked the order of the 2015 election, joining the presidential and National Assembly elections – to hold on the same day. “It posed a huge practical challenge to get our supporters to vote a PDP presidential candidate and LP legislative candidates, in the same election, on the same day. “We thought helping to elect a presidential candidate that had demonstrated this commitment to restructuring of the country was well worth the risk associated with our having to step out of our LP platform onto PDP, on which the former president was running. “Even now, restructuring remains for us the critical plank without which the much needed stability and functionality of our country cannot be procured.” The former governor pointed out that there was lack of political direction in the country’s politics because of the ideological fluidity of the existing political parties which, he said, tended towards right of the centre. The LP, he argued, presented the alternative because of its distinct ideological interest that mainstreams the Nigerian masses as its focus. According to him, “Virtually all the existing political parties in Nigeria today belong to the right of the centre, ensconced as it were in a neo-liberal mental construct, the name or mantra they choose to enrobe themselves in notwithstanding. “This is evident not in terms of the pretentious claims they make to ideological purity, but in the way and manner they have used power; including the extent to which they have mainstreamed the interest and welfare of the weak and poor in our society. “This ideological fluidity, within which the nation’s extant democracy has evolved since 1999, deserves now to be fully interrogated, with a view to engendering a transition to a more ideologically defined system of engagement.” Abdukadir Abdusalam, Labour Party National Chairman, expressed delight at the return of Mimiko, saying the former governor would add value to the party. He said: “I feel highly delighted to preside over the return to Labour Party of His Excellency Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, the immediate past governor of Ondo State, and all his followers. “His people oriented programmes in health, education, housing, rural development, urban renewal, youth and women empowerment attest to the value inherent in his return to the party. “In him, we have an example of what power could be used to achieve on the side of the people. “Therefore, our hope and confidence is rekindled by his return to the party today to be part of the renaissance of the party and Nigeria.” Earlier, in a statement, Abdusalam described Mimiko as a social democrat. It disowned the claims of factional National Chairman, Dr. Mike Omotosho, who had declared on Wednesday that Mimiko would not be received back in the party. Dr. Omotosho had accused the former governor of turning its back on the LP at the darkest hour, when the party needed him most. Alhaji Abdulsalam said that the position of Dr. Omotosho did not represent the party’s. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 