IBADAN – Mr. Soji Eniade, a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State on Wednesday, stressed the need for people of the state to elect a result-oriented politician as the next governor of the state. Eniade, who is the immediate past Head of Service (HOD) in Oyo State, noted that the next governor of the state should be someone who is ready to consolidate on the achievements of incumbent Governor Abiola Ajimobi. The Oyo APC gubernatorial aspirant said when he visited the state secretariat of the party in Ibadan to officially declare his intention to contest in the 2019 election. Eniade, who was accompanied to the Oyo APC secretariat by hundreds of his supporters, maintained that one of the key drivers of socio-economic development of any society is policy consistency. He said Oyo State has continued to experience substantial level of socio-economic progress in the past seven years under the leadership of Governor Ajimobi, adding that the people of the should not allow the wheel of progress to be rolled back. The APC gubernatorial aspirant said: “Fellow pacesetters, what we have to do to get to the desired destination is to keep moving forward. Unarguably, considering the substantial level of socio-economic progress we have experienced in our state in the last seven to eight years under the able leadership of Governor Ajimobi. , every well meaning citizen in Oyo State will agree with me that there is no other direction to go than forward. “This is why the major thrust and driving purpose behind by gubernatorial ambition is to ensure that our state keeps moving forward. As such, I believe strongly that to move our state forward, we have to adopt a SWIFT approach. This coined acronyms will serve as the guiding components to drive our state forward “. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 