Abuja – Joshua Dariye, former governor of Plateau State, has been jailed for 14 years by Justice Adebukola Banjoko of the High Court, Abuja, for frittering away the N1.2 billion ecological fund he received from the presidency on behalf of his state. Dariye was governor of Plateau State from 1999 to 2007 and is the current senator representing Plateau Central in the National Assembly. He was prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on a 23-count charge bordering on money laundering and diversion of funds. The court held that the ex-governor criminally embezzled the funds and acted in violent breach of public trust and his oath of office. However, the court discharged and acquitted the ex-governor on eight-counts which, it said, was not sustained with sufficient evidence. While the court sentenced the defendant to two years imprisonment on each of the counts bordering on misappropriation, he was handed 14 years for the counts involving criminal breach of trust. The court held that the sentence would run concurrently, just as it ordered the EFCC to return all the funds it recovered in the course of the investigation into the coffers of Plateau State. His trial commenced on January 25, 2016, after he made concerted efforts to halt the court case, which had journeyed from the trial court to the Supreme Court. Justice Banjoko gave the sentence after listening to the plea of defence lawyer, Paul Erokoro (SAN). The court convicted the ex-governor on 15-count charges of criminal breach of trust and criminal misappropriation punishable under sections 315 and 309 of the Penal Code Act, respectively. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission’s lawyer, Mr. Rotimi Jacobs (SAN), had opposed the defence lawyer’s plea for mercy and asked the court to impose the maximum sentence. Delivering judgment that lasted over six hours, Justice Banjoko said she was minded to convict the former governor based on substantial evidence by the prosecution to prove the case of fraud. Banjoko reasoned that Dariye, being a public officer, was in control of the ecological funds that accrued to Plateau State from the Federal Government in 2001. From the totality of oral and documentary evidence tendered before the court by the prosecution, the court said it was convinced that Dariye converted and diverted the funds for his personal aggrandisement. The court expressed dismay over what it described as “brazen act of systematic looting” which took place while the defendant was in office as governor. Justice Banjoko held that evidence before the court confirmed huge outflow of funds from the Plateau State treasury into accounts Dariye operated with All States Bank and Lion Bank (now Diamond Bank), using the name of a fictitious company. The court viewed the circumstances that surrounded the opening of the accounts as “suspicious”, as no picture was used in the opening mandate. However, the court noted that the signature of the ex-governor appeared in four places on the account opening package. The court had noted that following a Mutual Legal Assistance Request from the Metropolitan Police in London, it was uncovered that Dariye sequentially laundered funds from Nigeria into National West Ministers Bank in the United Kingdom, using an account he opened in the name of a fictitious firm. In addition, the court noted that a former detective with the Met Police, Mr. Peter Clarke, who testified as the ninth prosecution witness, PW-9, during the trial, disclosed that Dariye laundered funds from an account with the fictitious firm – Ebenezer Rednar Ventures – operated with All States Trust Bank in Nigeria, into nine separate accounts he opened at Barclays Bank in London. Clarke, who led a team of Metropolitan police officers that arrested Dariye on September 28, 2004, had informed the court that a warrant of arrest that was issued against the ex-governor after he jumped bail in London and ran back to Nigeria to escape being prosecuted on money laundering charges, was still valid. It noted that admittance by All States Bank that it granted the defendant waiver to operate the account without the required mandate picture, led to the prosecution and conviction of some of its key officials. Justice Banjoko held that forensic analysis confirmed that signatures on the account operated in the name of Ebenezer Rednar Ventures belonged to Dariye. She said the account was opened on December 19, 1999, without proper documentation and with false and untraceable address, observing that Dariye had, in his statement before the London police and the EFCC, admitted that Ebenezer was the name of one of his children. “As at the time the account was opened on December 19, 1999, the defendant was still the governor of Plateau State. “Wrong account opening forms were used, details were falsified, all in a bid to conceal the identity of the true owner of the account,” the court held. Daniel Haruna, the court noted, was the second signatory to the said account which was opened as if it belonged to an individual but operated as a corporate account. Banjoko said that could not be located. The defendant was “the face behind the mask” that operated the account, the court observed. According to the judge, “The court is satisfied that Ebenezer Rednar Ventures and Chief Dariye are one and the same person. The defendant is adequately capable of answering to any charge against the firm.” The court maintained that the defendant, being a public servant, was not permitted by law to operate a foreign account. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 