Following continued killing of farmers and destruction of communities by the herdsmen, the Federal Government recently unfolded plans to build 94 ranches in 10 states of the federation. The project, according to the government, will cost a whopping N179billion. But, a cross section of the nation sees it as a devil’s alternative. It came amidst fears that the herdsmen, who are Fulani, might use the opportunity to take over people’s land across the country and intimidate Nigerians. It also came following rejection of cattle colonies by several states, even as the Federal Government seems not to be comfortable with the enactment of anti-open grazing laws in some states of the federation. The states to be involved are Adamawa, Benue, Edo, Ebonyi, Kaduna, Nasarawa, Oyo, Plateau, Taraba and Zamfara. Among those who were in the meeting where the decision was taken included representatives of the National Economic Council (NEC), Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom; Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbe; and the Coordinator of the plan, Dr. Andrew Kwasari. According to them, the NEC, chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, had approved a 10-year National Livestock Plan, which would cost about N179 billion. About N70 billion of the budget would be disbursed between now and the expiration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s first four-year tenure next year. The project was expected to take off in Benue and Nasarawa states any time from now, even as it was stated that the Federal Government would not seize anybody’s land by force. Open Grazing No Longer Viable – Ogbe Chief Ogbeh, while speaking on the project, maintained that open cattle grazing is no longer in vogue in part of the world, hence there was no going back on the creation of ranches. He also contended that conflicts between herdsmen and farmers were not about anti-open grazing laws. He said: “The conflict didn’t begin because the laws were passed. No, the conflict has been brewing, but the laws were enacted in desperation by a state. Farmers went to the governor and complained, ‘they are killing us’. So, the governor says, ‘let me pass a law’. If we did what we are doing now 20 years ago, we will not be where we are now. “The truth is that open grazing is no longer viable. We may not end it in one day, but it has to end and government has to help. This conflict is not peculiar to Nigeria alone; it’s happening in Argentina; it happened in the U.S. in the 19th century, in Pakistan and others. So, this is what we should have started doing 20 years ago. We didn’t and that’s why we are where we are.” However, a cross section of Nigerians who were taken aback by the Federal Government decision to embark on ranching projects, wonder why it should go into such, knowing full well that like every other venture, cattle rearing is a private business. Thus, many question the rationale for the government to embark on a venture that will profit only one of the Nigeria’s vast ethnic nationalities, this time the Hausa-Fulani, the President’s kinsmen. Some wonder if this may not be an indirect way of enforcing what many perceive as the alleged Islamisation policy of the President. They wonder if the Federal Government had not caved in to the alleged pressure of rich northern cattle merchants of which a lot of eminent people in and out of government are part of and masquerade as Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association. They maintain that the Federal Government’s action might be a ploy to give human face to the Fulani herdsmen, who the United Nations (UN) had already declared as the most dangerous terror organisation. Cattle Rearing Is A Private Business – Livestock Consultant Dr. Blankson Momoh, a Benin-based economist and livestock consultant, said: “I am not against the establishment of ranches all over the country. But, why should the Federal Government involve itself in the project? I am a livestock farmer and I am using bank loans to finance all my projects. “If the Federal Government is saying that because of the unending crisis between the herdsmen and farmers all over the country, the herders should be granted minimal interest loans to purchase land from the state governments or any communities of their choice to establish ranches, I will say yes it is the right thing to do to solve the problem. “But, for the Federal Government to say it was going to build 94 ranches in 10 states of the federation for a start, I would say no because cattle rearing in Nigeria as at today is a private business, unless the government is planning to go into the business, where it will now have its ranches under the Ministry of Agriculture. “But, for it to say it will spend the taxpayers money to build ranches for herders who are doing their private business is a policy not practised anywhere in the world.” It May Lead To A Civil War – Right Activist Comrade Prince Kehin-de Taiga, Chairman, Committee for the Defence of Human Right (CDHR), Delta State, has warned the Federal Government not to proceed in its attempt to build 94 ranches around the country as it would lead to a civil war. According to him, “It is inconsequential as it would cause a big problem in the country. Cattle rearing is not a Federal Government business. Government does not benefit from cattle rearing as it is an individual business.” Taiga also stated that it was strange for the Federal Government to carry out such actions. He said: “If the Federal Government is giving land for the grazing of cows, then they should also build stores around the country for businessmen. I don’t see any way the country is benefitting from rearing of cows to boost the economy of the country.” He said it is pertinent for the Federal Government to review the possible consequences of their actions, adding, “It is totally inconsequential and if the Federal Government goes ahead by creating grazing land across the country, it will lead to war in this country and this will be e disastrous.” Continuing, Taiga added: “I wonder why the Federal Government wants to create ranches across the country for cattle rearing. We don’t know if it is because President Buhari is a Fulani man that is making him feel he can create ranches around the country as that has not been done before now.” While he bemoaned what he termed the insensitivity of the Federal Government, he stated that “Even those who are producing oil in the country, which is one of the highest sources of revenue to the federation, those places have not been well treated. But, now we are talking about creating ranches across the country.” He asserted that it would be better if these grazing ranches are created in the North alone. He stressed: “If they want to rear cows, it should be for them in the North and not extending it to the South-South and other parts of the country. “In this country, we have the Islamic law which works within the confines of the North. So, creating cattle ranches within the North will be better and should not be extended to other parts of the country as that would create war.” FG Must Get States’ Consent – Lawyer Olu Omotayo, an Enugu-based human rights lawyer is of the view that Federal Government must get the consent of respective states before siting cattle ranches in their domain. Omotayo, who is the President of Citizens Rights Realisation and Advancement Network (CRRAN), said if the states have no objection, then the Federal Government can go ahead with policy. “If states have no objection, it is okay. When states do not want it and you want to foist it on them, that is when there will be problem,” Omotayo said. The Action Can Lead To Nigeria’s Break Up – Activist Comrade Kindness Jonah, a mathematician and human rights activist, said the Federal Government should never try building cattle ranches anywhere, unless they want the country to break up abruptly. Jonah insisted that cattle rearing remains a private business and that the Federal Government should not have any hand in it. He also maintained that the secularity of Nigeria should never be comprised, as the action may have a religious connotation. Jonah stressed that there are numerous problems facing Nigeria now that the Federal Government should give attention to, rather than talking about building cattle ranches. FG Should Not Go Into Ranching – Agriculturist Clementina Gajera, a MInna-based grassroots politician and agriculturist, asked: “The Federal Government to build 94 ranches in 10 states, in whose land and at whose expense? “It very disturbing any time I hear the level of attention the Federal Government is paying on anything that has to do with Fulani cattle breeders, Fulani herdsmen or whatever you call them, forgetting that the Fulani herdsmen are just like any other farmer in Nigeria, a group that I also belonged to. “It is disturbing because I spend my money to acquire land depending on what I intend to farm; subsistence or farming that just require few plots of land. “Why must Fulani man’s kind of farming becomes the headache of the Federal Government? You are asking me if the Federal Government should go ahead with plans to build 94 ranches in 10 states of the federation. “For which people and at whose expense? Who are these Fulani? Are they Nigerians? Which state or states are they from and what is the numerical strength of their herds of cattle? “Assuming the Federal Government is being adequately guided or better still, President Muhammadu Buhari is being sentimental about ending carnages by his Fulani kinsmen, every state has land rules. “So also land acquisition differs in most regions or states of the federation. Why can’t these Fulani herdsmen, like any other farmer, buy land by themselves according to individual state’s Land Use Act and use it for the purpose for which they needed the land, if they so wish? “Why is the Federal Government trying to treat a Fulani farmer, who chose to rear cows, sheep and goats special above other farmers like us, who chose to be in Pig, Chicken Or Vegetable farming? “Enough of this Fulani this, Fulani that. Fulani are just one of the over 200 tribes and languages in Nigeria. They only use language and religious advantage to migrate into Nigeria from neighbouring countries, where many of them and their cattle starve. “Why must Nigerians be troubled every now and then because of the Fulani herdsmen? I would have been interested or support your question if the incentives will go round. If they are building ranches for the Fulani herdsmen, then they should find out from other farmers what should be done for them. The media should tell the Federal Government the bitter truth or advise Buhari adequately through ‘developmental journalism’ so that Nigeria will no longer be a laughing stock of other countries. “I am not against whatever anybody wanted to do for any group of farmers, but they should understand that Nigeria belongs to all of us and they cannot be more Nigerian than some of us from north-central states. “I suggest that the federal government hands off anything that has to do with individual choice of farming but be more concerned at ensuring that on no account should any Fulani man be allowed to go about with guns or continue killing of people in the name of trying to protect their cattle, for religious reasons or whatsoever. “Igbo people rear cows, goats and sheep, but they tend to the animals without even their next door neighbour knowing about it. Why has the Fulani man’s cows become a national assets? We know that many of the Fulani are not Nigerians. They took advantage of the country’s porous borders and once they settle at a particular place, the next thing they do is to hide under the, Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association to perpetrate Islamic expansionist agenda. “There are millions of farmers who are engaged in different types of produce in Nigeria today but none has ever taken up arms against another farmer except the Fulani man simply because they think that Nigeria belonged to them. If the federal government wants to build cattle ranching, the incentive must go round for all the different brands of farmers in Nigeria. What is good for the goose should be good for the gander, we are all Nigerian farmers and no farmer should be treated special above others Ranching, A Good Idea, But,… Chief Ndubisi Nwobu, Anambra PDP Chairman, Dr. Chris Nwafor, a public affairs analyst, and Mr. Jude-Mary Nwachukwu, hailed the establishment of ranches as a good idea, but that the money should be recouped afterwards. Nwobu said that government can invest to provide ranches, but that money should be recouped because it is business. According to Nwobu, Awka, Anambra State-based hotelier, people take loans for investment and repay later, adding that it is a similar thing with the investment in ranches. He added: “What I am opposed to is government using public fund to build what should be private businesses.” Nwachukwu on his own believes that using Federal Government’s money to build ranches for a few cannot enhance the nation’s growth, but will promote chaos. He added: “We are business people and we know what it is to start business. When you start a business, you are starting it for a purpose and for profit. “In this case, you want to start a business for someone else to make money, feed his family at the expense of others? It is not proper.  So, I don’t see it as a venture that will promote peace.” Nwafor, on his own, looked at the positive side of the venture. According to him, the debate on ranching has been on the front burner for a long time and since it conforms with international best practices, they should be built to stop animals from roaming everywhere and causing constant clashes between farmers and Fulani herdsmen. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 