After 18 years of observing May 29 as Democracy Day, with President Muhammadu Buhari also doing so for the past three years, since assuming power, the Government has announced a change of date. The change coming a few days after observing the last one and a few days to the new date, strikes me as a prodigious afterthought. To the political schemers at Aso Villa, I am sure it was an idea that came with the EUREKA! scream. They believe it’s the missing jigsaw to seal next year’s re-election bid. Methink, however, it is not exactly ingenious or original; in fact, for a “change” government it took too long in coming. It has always been plain to many progressive-minded Nigerians that the soil of democracy was watered by the sweat and blood of Nigerian patriots across the country both known and unknown. June 12 has always been held as a symbol of the struggle to protect the sanctity of the democratic rights of Nigerians from the tyranny of military dictatorship. But I make a critical distinction. For me there was more democracy after June 12 than before it. I normally don’t join the crowd (and apparently it includes Aso Villa) singing June 12 elections were the “freest and fairest. “ No, they weren’t!  Can an outcome ever be more qualitatively than a process that produces it? The election held on June 12, 1993 was itself the most gagged ‘democratic’ elections ever; perhaps, it was the most “guided and guarded” election in the modern world; a whole lot of people were banned by the military from participating, freely organised political parties were banned and two “a little to the right and a little to the left” parties were created by the military government, party officials in reality were “appointees”; there was constant shift in the handing-over date, etc! How could that make an election the “freest and the fairest”? I was a Lagos-based editor and abreast with the political goings-on in the city; I attended a number of dinners hosted by MKO or my colleagues at the Concord newspapers, where he would be present; but I was never personally enamoured to him. However, it was owing to the fact that my name sake, Dr. Jonathan Zwingina, also my senior at University of Ibadan and then resident of Jos, was the Director-General of his campaign organisation, that I became one of the journalists closely courted by his campaign. Still, I regarded MKO, as many of my other colleagues did, as President Ibrahim Babangida’s stooge. The assumption was that Babangida had banned Adamu Ciroma and Gen (rtd) Musa Yar’Adua, the former erstwhile candidates of the two-created parties, to pave way to Abiola’s victory. So discredited was the entire process that I distinctly recall Prof. Wole Soyinka calling the impending elections a charade. Indeed, it was what happened after the elections that stood the event out as significant. The refusal of Chief Moshood K.O. Abiola to stand down after convincingly winning the polls was, to me, the turning-point in the battle for democracy in this country. Accustomed to riding roughshod over the people’s wishes, the military had the temerity to annul the peacefully conducted polls. This time MKO said NO and Nigerians literally rose with him to defend their democratic rights. For the first time since the anti-colonial struggles, Nigerians actually came into their own in the struggle for democracy. That, for me, was the first time I saw Chief Moshood K.O. Abiola as my Knight in Shining Armour; he rose in valour, vigour and charisma. It was then that I recognised the significance of the moment in history; the day that we said NO to the military! Everybody had expected Abiola, well-known friend of the military, to accept the annulment and withdraw into his cocoon to lick his wounds like the Ciromas and Yar’aduas, but apparently we didn’t know MKO enough. The most fatally hit by this character misjudgement, however, was his bosom friend, President Ibrahim Babangida. He never recovered politically from the self-inflicted wounds. June 12 is Abiola’s glory as much as Nigerians’.  But like every struggle there are enemies and there are heroes. I hope President Buhari has all along been on the side of June 12 not “by mouth” (putting it the Nigerian way).  Unfortunately, the body language is worrying; a number of commentators have remarked that it is an electioneering gimmick. It is being speculated that the President fears he might be losing support from the Yoruba-speaking South West region and therefore has decided on the commemoration of June 12 as an emotional appeal to the voters. More discernible Nigerians see the contradiction in the Government foreclosing discussion on restructuring of the federation for justice, fairness and equity while gleefully celebrating a day when people stood up for these same principles. The issue of restructuring the federation was at the core of the June 12 struggle. What June 12 agreed on was to return Nigeria on the path of nationhood and democracy through the convocation of a sovereign national conference to decide the terms and conditions. The demand was packed with the heat of the day; it was, indeed, steaming hot and remains so. Last year at the summit tagged “Restructuring: The Yoruba Agenda 2017” held at Ibadan, the Yoruba returned the same.  In January 2018, Igbo and Yoruba socio-political leaders successfully organised the “Handshake Across the Niger “conference not only to forge better relations but also to adopt a common position on restructuring the federation. They were also joined by representatives of the Middle Belt and the South South. Now, if the Buhari Administration has the intention of deepening democracy in this country, or to specifically address the interest of the Yorubas, is there any doubt as to what this should be? To observe June 12 as Democracy Day and yet continue rejecting restructuring, in favour of the present oppressive political system, is to continue to bury the truth of that day. A lie has only but a lifespan. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 