Engr. Etido Inyang is the Board Chairman, Ibom Power Company, Akwa Ibom State and the immediate-past Commissioner for Special Duties and former Senior Special Adviser (SSA) to ex-Governor Godswill Akpabio on Technical Matters. In this interview with IDONGESIT ASHAMERI, he spoke on steps the Federal Government can take to improve the nation’s power situation, efforts by the state government to achieve constant power supply and the industrialisation policy of the present administration, among other issues. Excerpts: What is your overview of the activities of the Ibom power plant? When people say that they don’t have power, it does not mean that full power was not supplied. The point is that the power is being supplied and it stops at certain areas. So, it is important that infrastructures are put in place to ensure that power is taken from point A to point B so that those other people will not be in darkness. That is why Governor Udom Emmanuel is busy ensuring that all the communities in the state have power. There are some places in this state that have never seen electricity. Take for example, a place like Ikot Abasi has been off for a long time.  It was discovered that since the inception of that village there was no power or electricity, but Governor Emmanuel had been able to give them power and by May ending, Ibom power commissioned it. Also Ekim substation 2/60MVA, we are working assiduously with Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) through the vision of His Excellency and in collaboration with the Federal Government.  Hopefully, the substation will soon be ready. We will be tapping power from the station to the various local government areas in the state, especially, Ikot Abasi, Mkpat Enin, Onna, Oruk Anam and Eket. These five local government  areas will feed from Ekim. So, the governor is providing power strategically in order to achieve his five-point agenda, which is anchored on economic and political inclusion, infrastructural development and expansion, wealth creation, job creation and poverty alleviation. We have been hearing the slogan ‘Power for All’. What does it seek to achieve? This was borne out of the governor’s vision of ensuring that various communities and entrepreneurs in the state have power to develop their businesses. That is why we ensure that substations, transformers, restringing, and  even new lines are provided where they are needed in communities. We are proposing to take power to industrial hubs in 2019. Uyo has an industrial hub at Itam. Ikot Abasi and Ikot Ekpene also have theirs. When we say Akwa Ibom is a power hub, there is a lot of issues with power from Ikot Ekpene. Power comes from Alaoji, through Ikot Ekpene. So, there is a plan to drop 2/60MVA to take care of Ikot Ekpene, Ini, Ikono up to Ukanafun. By the time Gov. Emmanuel finishes in 2023, the whole of Akwa Ibom state will be linked up. When ‘Power for All’ initiative is achieved this 2018, by 2019, a lot of companies will relocate to Akwa Ibom because of the importance of having constant power supply.  Those in Ewet Housing will tell you that after the commissioning of Afaha Ube substation, they now have an average of 20 hours power supply in a day. But, a situation where people tapping power from Afahaube fail to have that number of hours, it means that something is wrong with their transformers. Power transmission is in the Exclusive List of the Federal Government. Why is the state spending so much on provision of power? Well, there is no plan for that. They are two bodies in charge of power, while  TCN is of the Federal Government agency,  PHEDC is of private investor. But, this private investor has partnership with the Federal Government, while the state government has only 10 percent of that deal. They have several issues on that deal. Akwa Ibom government is proactive in this aspect because if we want to wait for PHEDC or FG, everybody would be in darkness. The transformers are bad and FG is not providing them, so the state government is intervening. It is like this inter-ministerial, state government is intervening in schools likewise in power. Meanwhile, TCN is in collaboration with us in that if they are providing the equipment, we provide the civil works. But, if we decide to leave it solely for FG, it may do it, but it may take them two to five years. What about the issue of Debt by DisCos to GENCOs and Ibom power is not an exception. What are you doing because if they go, power may no longer be generated? This is a very serious issue. You know Genco has taken FG to court over huge debt in the industry.   I will not like to comment on that, but Genco has not been paid in their invoice and we receive as low as 22 percent from FG, that can be published anywhere though there was an intervention in that area where the FG provided N701billion into the sector and that has assuaged to an extent.  We still receive 22 percent, but they are taking care of the gas component, which will exist till December this year,  after that we do not know what will happen next. Another thing is that Discos are doing the collectibles and it is declaring its 32 percent.  PHEDC is complaining that it is not getting enough of what it is supplying. There are lots of reports about power theft, people use this power and are not willing to pay for it. So, we have decided to hang some meters on the pole to monitor the power that is consumed in the pole because some people tap light without taking it through the meter. It is not only PHEDC, but all the distribution companies (Discos),  it has been a national problem and the current administration is not fixing the problem. So, what is the solution? There is no solution for now, but we hope that the Minister of Power and those at the centre are working out a policy that will take us out of here. In Nigeria, we might be producing 67,000 megawatts of power and only 40,000 are being evacuated, that is another major area.  Government, that is, TCN should come up with intervention policy. It is solely the responsibility of TCN to evacuate power.  This is what should be done. If not, Nigeria will still remain in darkness. Being in darkness does not only mean not having light to see your way, but the effect it has on industrialisation. The youths are not engaged because of lack of industries.  Industries are not in Nigeria because investors are not encouraged with the state of power. When they look at their feasibility studies, they discover that they cannot break even by running generators. So, Nigeria is not a major destination for that.  When you see Governor Emmanuel attracting investors, it is with hard negotiations. That is why he is succeeding because they have seen the plan for ‘’Power for All’ that the governor is passionate about providing power. Power is the major issue when it comes to industrialisation.  So, Nigeria has to stand up. We need to fix our power before we talk of industrialisation that will engage the teeming youths. When you talk about industrialisation, power is key. That is why Gov Emmanuel sleeps, wakes up and thinks about power How are you sure that after investing so much in power that Akwa Ibom government can push its  industrialisation agenda without the Federal Government frustrating its efforts? This is why you must have the good will of the Federal Government first because power is in the Exclusive List. For Gov. Emmanuel to do what he is doing, there is a lot of collaborative efforts.  We are in constant discussion with TCN, PHEDC, Permanent Secretary and the Minister of Power. There is a serious understanding within these collaborations. Sometimes, when it needs signing MoUs, we don’t hesitate to do that. As soon as we deploy the transformers, you see the effect immediately on the community so that are not be taken away. The state generates more than it can even consume, yet we still have epileptic power supply. Does it mean it was as a result of infrastructural decay? Yes, it is an infrastructural decay.  I can show you from my phone whatever  is supplied in a day.  I have a stream of what is sent out, when we are down, it shows that we are down with power and when it is put on the grid, it goes anywhere. So, what we are doing now is to string or retain what we need to retain here. You could imagine the day we commissioned the substation at Afahaube, it was reported by TCN that what they had running in that station was over 100 megawatts, but what was taken by PHEDC was about 20+ megawatts, then PHEDC will complain that people are not paying. The infrastructure to where  they are sending it to is not taking it, so it becomes a problem. So, you see that the state government is doing a lot to take power to the people and promised to ensure 20 hours of power a day before going to 24 hours, but for the infrastructure. The Office of the Special Adviser on Power is taking statistics of those areas. People can still come up now and say we are not enjoying power. But, when we get through ‘Power for All’, all the infrastructures and substations will be provided at different areas and transformers provided at different areas and lines. That is when we will say the governor has achieved this vision. So, when are we expecting that? We are still working on it and the governor’s vision is that it will be sometime in 2019, but it is going to be in phases.  There are people in Uyo metropolis that do not have power due to lack or bad transformers. So, we are looking at Uyo, Ikot Abasi,  Eket, Ikot Ekpene, Onna and Oron, because of industries situated there which you must take power to, around six major cities will be done first then we move into other local governments, but within a year of its commencement we will complete the others. When are you commencing the second phase of Ibom Power? You know, when we came in, we said we were working on second phase. We are still working on the second phase, but this is  an aspect. You know that you cannot do without the FG.  We have a gap of 500MW for anybody who wants to bring in power, number one, we have to look at the feasibility. Once you have the 500MW, you will be able to pump out. There is a project that is coming to Ibom Power to evacuate power, that line will be able to evacuate 1200MW. So, if you take out 500MW, we are left with 700MW and 500MW will be consumed by QIPP, the new power station. So, we still have an allowance of 200MW for any other company that is coming in. So, there is provision for evacuation for the second phase. The issue now is Federal  Government having issues with provision of sovereign guarantee that backs up the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA). So, for anybody that is coming in with 500mw of power, you have  a minimum of $500million to invest by the rule of ton, it could be $1million per megawatt. So, for you to bring $500m  to invest, you need a guarantee and power purchase agreement which every serious investor needs and there is what we call a lacuna in the industry presently that people are looking for PPA because PPA is backed up by sovereign guarantee and Federal Government is not ready to give out that sovereign guarantee for now, but we are marking time with the investors that are with us. There are discussions ongoing. But, when once that clarity is given, we will be able to go into our second phase. We have seen meters distributed across the state, is that from the metering plant? Yes, they are from Ibom Metering Company. So far, we have distributed about  40,000 pre-paid meters. This is part of the efforts of Gov. Emmanuel to improve on the quality of service for electricity consumers in the state. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 