Owerri – Recently, Nigeria acclaimed as the giant of Africa and the most populous black nation celebrated her 19th anniversary of unprecedented and unbroken civilian administration. The hilarity, banter and frivolities, pomp and pageantry that heralded the historic joyous event was not unexpected, given the rot inflicted on the nation by several years of military hegemony and despotism which not only slowed the pace of her march to greatness, but also alienated the people from their leaders. Thus, when the democracy was once more restored on that eventful day of 29th August, 1999 by the then General Abdulsalami Abubakar led-administration, hopes and expectations rose to unimaginable high crescendo among the people that what had eluded them during the donkey’s years of military fascism would now be at their beck and call in abundance. Curiously, experience has shown that the unfolding situations over the years point  to the contrary as the people appear  to have been retrogressively alienated from their elected representatives arising from social barrier between them and them. But to a non-governmental organization “Hope Givers Initiatives, once upon a time begins a story, just as the journey of thousands of kilometers equally begins with a foot step. Fired by the desire to enthrone participatory and good governance in the polity, the Organization, in partnership with INEC and the Imo State House of Assembly and powered by Christian Aid recently took the bull by the horns and organized a sensitization programme anchored on “Building Active citizens through constituency outreach/ voter education in the 10 federal constitutions in Imo State. The exercise which attracted traditional rulers, and members of their cabinets, women and youth leaders, presidents general, market women, Artisans, representatives of the people in the state House of Assembly as well as sundry community leaders and opinion moulders had already taken place in Enugu, Anambra and Ebonyi states. Mrs. Onyeka Okey Udeqbunam, executive director of the NGO, speaking in all the constituencies visited said, “We are for good and participatory governance by the people and to encourage you people to begin to make input in governance”. Mrs. Uchegbunam regretted that a good number of the peoples’ elected representatives do not carry out constituency briefings to acquaint their people with their stewardship and have first hand information of what they need. She noted that budget proposals which is the oil that lubricates the wheel of effective governance to address the needs of the people is usually done without any input from the people leading more often than not, the execution of projects not relevant to the needs and aspirations of the intended beneficiaries. “It is important that you should make input in governance and also in the way and manner budgets are fashioned so that at the end of the day, you get what you want  and what you expect from government. We work with the Christian Aid, which helps the poor and they are called Voice to the people  (V2P). We have voice but more often than not, we do not use our voice to get what we want”. With a mission to make governance work for the poor and the marginalized, Mrs. Uchegbunam regretted that the people do not use their voice to demand what they want from their elected representatives and that at times, project said to have been executed by their representatives do not exist anywhere at all. “We are called the giant of Africa and yet, we have nothing to show for this. Ghana which we used to mock and deride some years ago has bounced back and our people now rush there for greener pastures”. Time has come, for us to speak out and demand what we want from our representatives because they are there with our votes. Watch out, 2019 is fast approaching and they will come back to you with such incentives, baits and allurement as bags of rice and salt, bales of cloth so as to attract your votes. But you should be bold and courageous enough to ask them where they have been all this while and why they should come back to you now. Use your votes to either re-elect those who desire a second tenure or reject those who do not deserve it. Our votes should not be for sale and our children should not be used as thugs by power seeking politicians”. The executive director who lectured the people on the functions role of the legislature on law making, representation and oversight function advised the people to always demand quarterly constituency briefings from their elected representatives to enable them to know what they had been able to achieve for them. Members of the Imo State House of Assembly who witnessed the epoch-making event with reactions all signed an agreement to sustain the engagement. Additionally, INEC electoral officers in the LGAs who participated in the exercise dwelt extensively on voters education and enjoined the people to be part of the on going voters registration exercise. The electoral officers decried non-collection of thousands of PVCs by their owners, saying that they now move from ward to ward in some area to register people, adding that the exercise would end three months to the forth coming 2019 general elections and that card readers would be used for it. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 