The tragedy of the Nigerian State is that the ruling elite habitually spend so much of their time actively sowing the seeds of discord within the polity as well as actively laying political booby-traps against themselves all in anticipation of an eventual state collapse just the same way that parties in a terribly bad marriage look forward to an eventual divorce. Anyone who has lived in this country long enough would have observed that the leadership, political and otherwise, almost from inception, is perpetually prepared to sacrifice the future wellbeing of the post-colonial State for their immediate political and material conveniences with the result that personal interests have always superseded both social and national interests. Some have argued that the incurable problem of nation building in Nigeria and most of Africa is traceable to the seemingly inability of post-colonial societies to appreciate the need to constructively align the aspirations of their nation with those of the newly independent States. In other words, whereas these pioneering leaders saw themselves as heirs to the overbearing and intimidating state powers left behind by the colonial masters, they were unable or refused to situate their responsibilities within a coherent and sustainable national order in which the interests of the people and those of the communities were to take precedence over the artificial entity that the sovereign state represents. In other words, the emerging leaders were holding on firmly to the form and paraphernalia of statehood while neglecting the substance – the people. For clarity, the “Nation” of Nigeria is made up of the various nationalities that were carved out within the framework of the Berlin Conference, where the continent of Africa was arbitrarily partitioned by Europeans and amongst themselves. On the contrary, the “State” is the superimposed legal entity established within the framework of International Law of Statehood endowed with the full attributes of sovereignty (police, courts, civil service, etc.,) through the declaration of independence. So while the “nation” of Nigeria predates both colonialism and the resulting independence, the “state” of Nigeria did not exist until the formal British conveyance of the instruments of sovereignty to the indigenous national leaders on the 1st of October 1960. The task, therefore, before and even now, is for those who found themselves at the helms of leadership, by whatever means, to always have in mind the onerous responsibility to integrate the extant nation with the new constitutional state with a view to creating a truly modern sovereign State that is constitutionally accountable to the nation and not the other way round. This task is even more onerous today, as those who pioneered the post-colonial entity didn’t quite understand the scope of their responsibilities. Particularly, for those states that enthusiastically adopted federalism supposedly in recognition of their deep-rooted cultural, ethnic and sectarian separateness and diversity, as the most viable path to nation-building, their leaders unfortunately refused to accept the fact that they were produced by the regions to go to the centre to help forge a united nation out of the existing polyglot and not to weaken the union. They were caught in the dilemma that was presented by the fact that they only got to the centre through the votes of their regions and if they fail to put their regions first and over the centre, they may never return to power again. This thought process pervaded the actions of both those who won the right to govern and those who lost and were then left in the opposition. With so much attention focused on their local bases they cared much less about the direction of the central government while everything was done to reinforce the affinity with their tribes, religion and other cleavages. The immediate result was that the new focus of attention provided some alibi for their obvious lack of concern for the overall interests of the nation while they pursued personal and nepotistic agendas. Corrupt leaders know that when the people war perpetually against themselves they will never be able to hold them accountable while corruption and bad governance would then endure to the ultimate detriment of the society and the State itself. With attention thus diverted from the process of governance and greater attention paid to individual and sectional concerns, corruption was able to thrive unabated. The leftover of national resources after the lootings were then miserly allocated in the most unbalanced of ways across the country with the result that if “your son” was not in-charge you are most likely to be excluded from the national largesse. This unfair exclusion led to an extreme form of disillusionment amongst the various nationalities to the point that they became bitterly antagonistic to the larger State, a development that led to several avoidable civil wars fought with rebellious impulses. A more patriotic national leadership would have considered the fair allocation of resources and opportunities amongst the people as a direct path to national integration. This official policy/disposition of fairness to every citizens, whether in government or in opposition, is what is generally referred to as Social Justice. How fairly the government is able to distribute the scarce opportunities and privileges within the society are a direct function of how mentally and morally committed the citizens would be to the idea of a governing “State”. In the present Nigeria, we can easily see how politicians want to keep their citizens busy fighting themselves while they ravage the commonwealth. Citizens are being falsely told that the other groups or religions are out to dominate them and that the only way to avoid that catastrophe is to continue to keep their ethnic and tribal leaders in power. With the present dispensation in which there is some official attempt to curb corruption and thus free up some of the public resources for national development, we can see how active these people have been at pushing the envelope all in their bid to mislead the electorate that one group has a genocidal intent against the other and, in most cases, they actually go out of their way to promote mayhem, violence and discord just to prove their point. The Buhari government, being the government in power, must take the initiative, to reverse these negative tendencies by actively pushing active and verifiable policies of national reconciliation and integration that are backed up by the conscientious application of Social Justice as a tool for positive social engineering.  The forces trying to divide Nigeria so that they can take over power and corruptly rule us again would be seriously disarmed if the government is able to reach out to everyone, aggrieved or not, and then bring them back into a legitimate sense of belonging followed by open admission of mistakes, genuine apologies offered and mutual reconciliation inaugurated. I would like to recommend the ongoing Kenya effort at national reconciliation through mutual apologies and forgiveness as a model for African political dispute resolution. The current language of “losers” and “winners” in competitive politics is totally un-African. The imposed Anglo-Saxon’s mentality of “trial by battle” in which it is fashionable to talk about losers and winners is quite unhelpful in Africa where state institutions are still very weak and public perception of governance remains largely as an oppression machine. As I always tell students in my Arbitration and Conciliation classes, European legalism is alien us; the Western-type politics of “winner takes all” is inherently divisive, corrupt and very much against nation-building especially in an emergent state like Nigeria. Social Justice, not naked show of political power, is key for the evolution of a stable and truly progressive nation and its superintending State. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 