Last week a Yola High Court presided by Justice Abdul-Azeez Waziri sentenced five young Bwatiye (Bachama) men to death over the killing of a Fulani herdsman. The court held that on June 1, 2017, at Kodomun village in Demsa local government area of Adamawa State, the five, namely, Alex Amos, Alheri Phanuel, Holy Boniface, Jerry Gideon and Jari Sabagi “willfully and intentionally conspired and attacked three herdsmen rearing cattle, killing one of them, Adamu Buba, whose body they threw into a river and also maiming several cows.” The news must have come to many Nigerians as a surprise; surprise because this time around, the villains and the victims are in reversed position in the long running crisis. In Adamawa State and other states of the Middle Belt, for over a decade now, Fulani killer herdsmen have been laying siege on communities killing thousands of unarmed citizens, maiming tens of thousands and destroying billion Naira worth of properties including crops and homes. These killings, unfortunately, have taken place within the full glare of the government, which all this time appears lost in coming up with an appropriate counter measures to protect the innocent lives and the economic mainstay of their beleaguered communities. The Nigerian government, in spite of its monopoly of intelligence and security resources has failed to stem the tide of the herdsmen attack to this day. So far, not a single so-called Fulani “gunman”, “militia,” or “herdsman,” has been arrested or successfully convicted in any court. That is why in some quarters, the news of the conviction will be received not with surprise but rather outrage; outrage that a state which has woefully failed to provide common defense or justice to individual victims and beleaguered communities in the bloody violence has suddenly turned round to be such a scrupulous enforcers of the criminal justice system because the “other” is at the receiving end of justice. Let me hasten to say this, if the deceased Adamu Buba played no part in the conflict, I join in mourning his passage as a fellow human being and also praying for the repose of his soul in Jannatul Firdaus. However, we cannot ignore the socio-political context of his death. The “Condemned Five” did not set out from a bestial motive to murder Adamu, or “maim” his cows. There were extenuating circumstances in which this couldn’t be described as homicide in the strict sense. On June 1, 2017, Adamu and his cows represented something else to the Bwatiye people in Kodomun in Demsa Local Government Area. He was not just a man, any man and his animals; he was something more sinister. Adamu on that day represented the Grim Reaper itself; the harbinger of death! Wind back to the year 2016. On January 24, 2016, Fulani herdsmen invaded a nearby town to Kodomun, called Koh, in Girei Local Government Area, killing over 60 people including a serving Police Divisional Officer from Vunoklang, thus sending shockwaves around entire Bwatiye land. Not long after, the killer herdsmen turned to Kodomun and its surrounding where, between January and July, over 25 people were killed in several raids; its population of 2,500 dispersed in different directions with several villages burnt down completely. Addressing a Press Conference in Jos in August 2016, the representative of the umbrella organisation of the Bwatiye in the city, Pere Da Byatiye, Prince Hezron Fada, lamented the attacks describing them as a “design to annihilate the Bwatiye race” saying, so far,  “no one has been apprehended, questioned or sanctioned…” Mr. Fada disclosed that the then Adamawa State Commissioner of Police, Alhaji Ghazzali Mohammed, not only refused to visit the scene of crime but when questioned by journalists said his information was that it was a communal clash and that the police was unwilling to intervene as that would amount to taking sides. It was under such circumstances that Kodomun was, once again, attacked by the Fulani herdsmen on August 1, 2016. This time the casualties were again well above 25 with many missing. When the Police chief visited the traditional ruler, Hamman Batta, Chief Alhamdu Teneke, all he could utter was to condescendingly advice on the virtue of good community relations. Again no arrest was made, no action taken. Tension worsened, traditional Bwatiye-Fulani relations deteriorated as the herdsmen intensified their attacks all over Southern Adamawa. In a publication dated October 9, 2016 by a group calling itself Gongola Ethnic Nationalities Development Agenda (GENDA) reacting to a belated Commission of Inquiry set up by the Adamawa State Government, the insincerity of the government action against the background of “condemnable failure of the security operatives to promptly respond to the attack and the absence of arrest [which] has remained an unresolved riddle to this day” was raised. On his part, Prince Fada had warned ominously that it was “becoming challenging to restrain our people from rising up to their own self defense…” Now back to Kodomun, June 1, 2017. Why were there suddenly Adamu and his fellow Fulani herdsmen grazing their cattle in the middle of the on-going genocidal violence in the village? Even an amateur security analyst can sense danger in Kodomun at this period not to talk of Fulanis who are natural reconnaissance experts; they can sense danger from man and beast, miles away, the reason why they survive the wild. Kodomun was a risk and a more responsible Government would have temporary halted Fulani herders from the area for their own safety. Why else do foreign nations issue periodic travel advisory cautioning their citizens from visiting crisis or potential crisis spots around the world? I question the motives of the Fulanis in Kodomun that day. As someone who has studied the pattern of herdsmen attacks over the years, I clearly recognise this as conforming to type. The fact the Fulani siege moved apace thereafter and ultimately enveloped the entire Bwatiye land by December 2017 is proof of this. These young men should not die because of Government’s failure to provide security for all. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 