The trial, detention and subsequent sentencing of Jolly Nyame, former governor of Taraba state has generated protests in the state capital of Jalingo on Monday. The former governor was sentenced to 14 years imprisonment over the misappropriation of state funds to the tune of N1.64billion while in office penultimate week. The protesting youths in large numbers were reported to have gathered under the auspices of Mumuye Cultural Development Association on Monday as they protested the detention of former Jolly Nyame in the state capital. The protesting youths commenced their protests from around 11am, beginning from the Mile 6 Junction and traversed through major streets in Jalingo carrying placards with various inscriptions like “Free Nyame; Temper Justice With Mercy”, “We Don’t Want Selective Justice”, amongst others, caused heavy gridlock on the highway. The peaceful protest was however, terminated at the residence of Jolly Nyame in Jalingo where the National President of the Socio-cultural group, Anthony Vowaty, read an address to the protesters. According to Vowaty, he explained that the reason behind the peaceful protest was to show solidarity with their kinsman who is currently in detention. “We are not fighting the government but, we are out to march for solidarity to call on government to be just in its fight against corruption. “Nyame is our political leader in Taraba and we are ready to take instruction from him even if he is in the prison”, Vowaty stated. The group was however, quick to express its optimism that an appeal process will reverse the judgement of the Abuja High Court that led to the detention of Nyame without an option of fine. “We still believe that the Judiciary is the last hope of the common man and we believe the Court of Appeal will free him,” Vowaty stated.  2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 