Lagos – Having incurred their wraths with his statement in the United Kingdom (UK),  will Nigerian youths listen to  President Muhammadu Buhari’s appeal now? Though a lot of  Nigerian youths rejoiced last week rejoiced when President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Not-Too-Young-to-Run Bill’ into law which will give more youths the opportunity to contest for elective positions in the 2019 general elections, the plea by the president asking young Nigerians to defer their ambition till after 2019 is already causing some ripples in the polity. Though many had claimed the president purposely signed the bill into law as a way of placating young Nigerians whom he had ‘offended’ by his remarks in United Kingdom (UK) some few months ago, lots of Nigerians believe the law may be the needed tonic the country need towards electing resourceful, purposeful and virile leaders who will apply their ingenuity in rescuing Nigeria from the brinks. The president described the bill as a landmark law, noting that the bill showed that the youth can achieve anything they conceive if they work hard at it. The new law lowers the constitutional age limits for aspirants to presidential and legislative positions in the country, as clamoured for by majority of young Nigerians. In his remarks after signing the law, Buhari canvassed for additional amendment to reduce the age limits for aspiring governors and senators, which was proposed but not reflected in the final bill he had just signed into law. He said the signing of the bill was not the end of the journey but the beginning of more work to be done to get younger persons into government. In signing the bill into law, the president said “This is an opportunity for me to affirm that this Administration will continue to do everything in its power to make Nigeria work for you. “You may all know that the Bill I just assented now becomes an Act of the National Assembly. “You may have noticed already that every one of you represents one of our 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory. This is because today is about preparing for the bright future of our country. “I am confident each one of you will transform Nigeria in your own way – whether through media, agricultural enterprise, economists, engineers, or as lawmakers in your States or at Federal levels, or as State Governors – and even someday, as President. Why not?” Please don’t contest against me”. President Buhari also told the youths to shelve their Presidential ambition in 2019 and wait till 2023 perhaps, when he must have completed his two year tenure of eight years. He pleaded, “But please, can I ask you to postpone your campaigns till after the 2019 elections!”. The last few months have seen a resurgence of youths, leaders in their rights  who are angling to replace  President Buhari in 2019. Few among them are Professor Kingsley Moghalu,  Dr. Tanko Yunusa, Dr Chris Nwaokobia, Mr Victor Okhai, Mr Fela Durotoye, Mr Adama Garba, Mr Ahmed Buhari, Mr Chris Emejuru, Mr Omike Chikeluba Lewis, Mr Mathias Tsado and Omoyele Sowore, publisher of Sahara Reporters who has almost traversed the length and breadth of the country with his ‘Take It Back’ campaign. Coming during a period when Nigerian youths are obviously frustrated with the status quo and are demonstrating a serious awareness in political participation in the country, it remains to be seen if the youths will defer to the president and forgo their presidential ambition till 2023. Speaking on the president’s appeal, two youth groups, the Ijaw Youth Council and the National Youth Council of Nigeria,  said  the president’s comments were against the rule of law and against democratic principles, noting that the President was joking. The IYC National President, Pereotubo Oweilaemi, said, “Asking the youths not to contest against him (Buhari) is also against the law that he has just passed. He would have signed the bill after the 2019 elections that he is gunning for. It is a law and the President should not speak otherwise”. Also, the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, said President Buhari’s comments on the youths indicated why he had delayed the signing of the bill into law. The CDHR President, Malachy Ugwummadu, said, “One begins to wonder if President Buhari’s initial reluctance to sign the bill into law was not the fear that Nigerian youths would want to contest against him. But he need not have that fear, this is democracy and everyone must have a level playing field. “The President, immediately he signed that bill into law, is bound by it and cannot persuade or stop any youth from contesting the office of the President as stated in the new law” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 