LAGOS – Things are no longer the same with the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) following the recent defection of Hon Moshood Adegoke Salvador, the erstwhile state chairman, to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Salvador, in a press conference where he announced his decision to leave the party, said he would be leaving the party with about 15,000 members of the party and that he was going to chart a new course for his political career where he would be appreciated. The politician, who said that he was leaving because all his efforts to move the party forward had been frustrated by some people in the party, including Chief Bode George, his political godfather, who he said had done everything to put a clog in the wheel of the progress of the party in the state. He also said that he had to quit as his efforts had not been appreciated by the national leadership of the party as well. Salvador stated: “The PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, called me for the first time since my travails. He had not called me since I was put in jail on a framed murder charge. He called to know why I wanted to defect. I told him that it would not be possible for me to be in the same party with Bode George because he had undermined all my efforts to re-position the party. “The chairman of Board of Trustees of the party also called me on the defection plan and I told him that I would consult with my people and would get back to him.” He added: “It would be recalled that when Bode George was doing all these things, the national leadership allowed him to have his way with the excuse that he was an elder.” Salvador had maintained that his exit from the party meant that PDP would die in Lagos State because he had used his resources and time to nurture the party to an enviable height even as he said that some of the leaders were not really interested in winning elective positions in the state. Chief Bode George, on the other hand, had refuted the claim by Salvador that he was the problem of the party in Lagos State. He, however, accused the former chairman of running the party like his private estate, causing rancour and unnecessary wrangling in the party. Barrister Gani Taofik, the State Publicity Secretary, on the other hand, said that the defection of Salvador to APC was a good radiance to bad rubbish. He described the former chairman as an unstable politician whose inordinate ambition and penchant for falsehood would soon be discovered by APC. It would be recalled that Hon Salvador emerged the party’s chairman in November 2017 after a long battle for the soul of the party by Ali Modu Sherriff and Ahmed Makarfi factions of the party in a long drawn legal battle that was decided in July 2017 when the Supreme court, led by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, reinstated Ahmed Makarfi, who was earlier sacked by a Port Harcourt High Court, as the chairman. The party organised congresses across the country, and in Lagos State, Hon. Moshood Salvador, who was in the Makarfi faction with Chief Bode George, emerged the chairman. Salvador, who was once a member of  the House of Representatives on the ticket of Alliance for Democracy (AD) between 1999 and 2003, later joined PDP and was a committed member of the party, working very closely with his political godfather, Bode George, until he emerged the party chairman in November 2017. Then the national leadership of the party came with a formula to appease all sides of the party in an agreement tagged ‘No victor , no vanquish’. The Makarfi group was to get 65 percent of the executive positions, while the Ali Modu Sheriff faction would make due with 35 percent. The crisis in Lagos chapter of the party started brewing when there were counter accusations of the tampering of the authentic executive council (EXCO) list. The blame was more on the side of loyalists of Salvador and Bode George and eventually the rift deepened and there seem to be no peace in sight. The cause of the rift could also be traced to insistence by Bode George that executive should not be inaugurated until a future date. But, Salvador, who felt that there was no time to waste because the fortunes of the party had dwindled, explained that he needed to do that so that the ward secretaries who had the power to register new members would start work. His action in going ahead to inaugurate the executive did not go down well with Chief Bode George. Salvador also went ahead to have two successful rallies in Oregun where the last one was said to have about 7,000 card carrying members in attendance, a development that was seen as an effrontery. Chief George, the former PDP Deputy National Chairman, was not happy that his instruction, which he gave while he was in far away United Kingdom was flouted by his benefactor and the debacle which ensued only deepened the rivalry. The party became worst for it with the general elections less than seven months ahead. The last stroke that broke the carmel’s back was the murder of Hon Niyi Aborishade, the PDP chairman for Apapa Local Government Area (LGA), who was killed in a fracas during the visitation of Salvador as the party’s state chairman, to in Eti-Osa Local Government Area. Salvador was arrested, detained and arraigned in court alongside 10 other chieftains of the party. The case was subsequently dismissed and Salvador and nine others regained freedom, except the chairman of the party in Eti-Osa LGA, Hon Fassasi, who the court only granted bail. The claim by Salvador that he would formally declare for APC last Monday with about 50,000 members of PDP might not have been taken with a pinch of salt. Findings by DAILY INDEPENDENT showed that the plan was in top gear, as some PDP members, including aspirants, had been given one promise or the other, to make the event a huge success. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 