ASABA – Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, Delta State governor, has described the array of aspirants for the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2019 general election as a good omen, saying it would give strength to the party. Governor Okowa spoke in Asaba during a consultation visit by Senator Rabiu Kwakwanso, the former Governor of Kano State and one of the Presidential aspirants on the platform of the PDP. Okowa said, “We are happy that so many of our party members are coming out to contest for the presidential ticket of our party from the North. It gives strength to the party; all that matters is for the party to manage the situation, I am one person that believes in a free and fair election. I talk about it, I preach about it and I live with it.” “I believe that people should be allowed to freely decide who will be our presidential candidate in Abuja; we should ensure we provide a level playing ground for all our aspirants, especially, in the presidential primary,” he said. The governor added, “If all aspirants for different positions are aware that there would be a level playing ground, they would go all out to meet delegates and canvas for their votes. Also, when the result comes out, everybody would accept it as free and fair; this is the right thing to do.” He asserted that as Governor of Delta State, he would not be squeezing the hands of people in a direction. “I believe in free and fair election and we shall promote such in our state,” he said. While noting that Senator Kwakwanso was working hard to get the presidential ticket, Governor Okowa congratulated him for coming back to the PDP, disclosing that the doors of the party are open to receive people from other political parties. Senator Kwakwanso disclosed that he was in Delta State to consult with the people concerning his aspiration to contest for the presidential election on the platform of the PDP. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 