OLADELE OGUNSOLA IBADAN – Oba Owolabi Olakulehin, the Balogun of Ibadanland has said that the decision of the Ekerin Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Abiodun Kola-Daisi, to restore the suspended Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso’s local government allowance was a personal decision which did not enjoy the support of other Obas in Ibadanland. Nine of the Ibadan High Chiefs, who were last year promoted to beaded-wearing crown by the governor of Oyo State, Sen. Abiola Ajimobi, following the review of Ibadan Traditional Council Law jointly decided to withhold the allowances due to the Olubadan from their respective local government traditional councils, where they are the chairmen as a way of hitting back at the Olubadan, Oba Adetunji, for his refusal to recognise them as Obas. But, in a letter written to the Ekarun Olubadan, Oba Kola Adegbola, by Oba Kola-Daisi, had instructed the Oluyole Traditional Council to begin the payment of Olubadan’s allowance as from the end of the month of July. He also disclosed that a similar instruction had been given that all the withheld allowances of the Olubadan, totalling N900,000.00 be paid to the monarch. However, Oba Olakulehin, who carpeted the Ekerin Olubadan for his unilateral decision to upturn the decision jointly taken by the High Chiefs promoted to Obas maintained that there was never a time the Obas met to take the decision, hence, the Ekerin Olubadan could not have spoken on behalf of other Obas. Insisting that the decision to withhold the Olubadan’s allowances from the various local government traditional councils where they superintend is still in force and that the decision of Oba Abiodun Kola-Daisi to back out could not amount to the Obas joint decision. Meanwhile, DAILY INDEPENDENT reliably gathered that the reconciliation process towards resolving the acrimony between the Ibadan supreme monarch and his junior Obas had reached an advanced stage. A source, which would not want his name in print informed that the peace being brokered by some Ibadan sons and daughters in Diaspora would in no distant future materialise and that both the Olubadan and the Obas would be on the same page. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 