Late Sunday night, Apple announced that it had removed several controversial Infowars podcasts from the iTunes podcast directory, including its popular Alex Jones Show podcast. The only Infowars podcast remaining on the iTunes directory is “Real News With David Knight.” Previously, Infowars published 6 podcasts on the Apple podcast directory. This means that someone who fires up the default podcast app on their iPhone or iPad and searches for Infowars won’t see the Alex Jones Show, a popular daily show that’s been widely criticized for pushing conspiracy theories, and for promoting fringe right-wing politics that some believe constitutes hate speech. But if the same person were to fire up the Apple App Store and search for Infowars, they’d pull up Infowars Official, a free app that opens up directly into a feed topped with the most recent video of the Alex Jones Show, which can be viewed live, or listened to as background audio. There’s a second Infowars app on the App Store, too, called Alex Jones Radio, although it appears to have been abandoned by the organization and doesn’t work with iPhones running up-to-date software. The Infowars app doesn’t contain back episodes of the Alex Jones Show, meaning you can’t use it to find the content affected by Apple’s decision. It also includes a newsfeed of written Infowars stories. There are no in-app purchases, and it’s a free app, so Apple doesn’t make any money from downloads. However, there is a tab in the app which brings you to the Infowars store, which sells Jones-endorsed nutritional supplements and other merchandise. The Infowars Official podcast app launched in July. It’s been downloaded close to 60,000 times, according to app analytics firm Sensor Tower, with 75% of those downloads coming from the United States. It made it as high as No. 12 on the News category for iPhone apps but never ranked in the main “all categories” free apps list, which means it was outside the top 1,500 apps. Infowars Official currently ranks as No. 45 in the News category in the App Store in the United States. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 