Dr. Imuetinyan Igbinnosa is a presidential aspirant. His party,  Just Party for all Peoples (JPP), was not among the 23 political parties registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), so he has decided to adopt the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2019 elections. In this interview with journalists in Lagos, he speaks on this and other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: Could you please give a brief background of youself and why you desire to occupy the highest office in the land come 2019? My name is Dr. Imuetinyan Igbinnosa, a 55 years old Nigerian from Edo state with a P.hD degree and postdoctoral experience in Plant science. A former United Nations consultant, and International and National Research and Development fellow: currently a Food producer and author. In response to divine prodding, I am among a magnitude of people running for office of President Federal Republic of Nigeria: Qualified to run for elections by Section 131 (a, b, c, d) of the 1999 Constitution, and by national call for compatriots to arise to serve our fatherland. Just Party for all Peoples (JPP) is one of the organisations that applied for registration as a political party but it was not among the recent parties registered by the INEC; as acting national chairman of JPP, how do you feel about that and what is your plan? Since 2010, INEC has declined three attempts at registering JPP, citing inclusion of a “spiritual entity:” Meaning ‘God Almighty’ who is still our Party Chairman Contemporare. JPP chairmen only act on His behalf. Then, the administrative fee for registration was N100, 000 plus each time. So a lot of money was spent. JPP National Executive Committee (NEC) was still feeling bad about perceived injustice and strain, when administrative fee alone was suddenly increased to N1million. Since it is not our way to quickly go to court, JPP prefers to invite advice and contributions in a fourth attempt: and to adopt the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as our party for the coming 2019 elections. That is the plan. In the end, God owns INEC and does with it as it pleases Him. Why did JPP decided to adopt PDP among the 91 political parties in the country? Our decision was based on two fundamental reasons. First, JPP decision-making process and the prodding that came. JPP is a covenant party that does nothing except the Most High is involved; a privilege open to everyone and every party. Decision to adopt PDP came by divine prodding as we campaigned and strengthened JPP structure in each state capital in the South-West and South-East regions; and members agree this is the right decision. If Nigerians hesitate, it is because electing same old ever-quarrelling and conspiring leaders, is like going from frying pan into fire. PDP is a great party and will present new intelligent leadership Nigerians will vote into power. You once declared your interest for presidency; are you still in the race? I received a divine prodding to be among a magnitude of people running for office of President in 2019. I am among a magnitude of people running for office of President Federal Republic of Nigeria: Qualified to run for elections by Section 131 (a, b, c, d) of the 1999 Constitution, and by national call for compatriots to arise to serve our fatherland. I am still in the race; with the courage of the eagle that resisted the opposition to sweet discovery it has the superior power all along. I am in this race to the end, to demonstrate a model of rapid development, ‘God and Man – a Partnership that works,’ to Africa, and to a fast globalising world. Why are your chances, considering that a lot of political gladiators are also in the presidential race? I unexpectedly and surprisingly received divine permission to run for this office, among other contestants. In the end, the Almighty and His people will choose who will best serve to bring abundant life to suffering majority Nigerians. I am obeying Nigeria’s call for compatriots to arise to serve our fatherland so that the labour of our past heroes will not be in vain. Every election is a race between good and evil. Need for suffering majority citizens to escape cunning sometimes, violent men with hidden intent to dominate, makes it a national imperative for the good to win from now on. That the people are groaning loudly is evidence wicked spirits and men are in government, no matter how they try to mask reality. Electing the same old leaders preoccupied with building legacies for themselves is like going from frying pan into fire. I am in the presidential race to bring abundant life God Almighty wants all citizens to enjoy. My chances of winning, is like the eagle that flew against the elements to the sweet discovery it had power over them all along. It is for the glory of God Almighty, with peace and goodwill to all people. As a presidential aspirant, do you think you can realize your aspiration in PDP? Divine prodding to adopt PDP, is my confidence and endorsement that PDP is a democratic party with a divine mandate. Victory at the polls will not come by the same old leaders with colonial mentality, and proven  inability to go beyond conflicts and a personal lust for advantage and wealth: It will come through a new generation of intelligent Godly leaders, prepared to build on the progress our founding fathers and heroes past labored for. For this, we must work hard in a truly democratic forward-moving party called PDP. I am running for office of President in 2019 to implement divine covenant that every action government takes will aim at abundant life for all citizens, or it is null and void. To erect a memorial of freedom that commemorates citizens’ right to freedom God speaks for all. If I am elected, my government will change existing constitutional laws to laws of freedom God speaks for all; end history of colonization and end constant Constitutional reforms plaguing the country since 1914. There would be true federation at the state level through restructure and reorganise national and institutional governance and development. Citizens would be allowed to express themselves freely and there would be simplify market and access to credit. I will defeat potholes to national development, like corruption. Police would be strengthened to effectively and efficiently combat insecurity concerns. Are you in support of alliances between PDP and some political parties to form CUPP, as a strong platform to challenge APC in 2019? Some alliances can only lead to tribulations, depending on the motive for such alliances. If intent for CUPP is to strengthen house-to-house campaign in ways that checks electoral malpractices, then there is no need to be worried about APC. Let us focus on the Creator’s desire to bring abundant life to suffering majority Nigerians, with words and with sustenance. How do you see recent defections of some politicians from one party to another? Political prostitution has a face. In my view, readily switching from one party to another indicate instability and character flaw, they unfortunately exhibit in government. It is time to elect stable and righteousness leaders to govern a nation where majority citizens needing to transit from a history of colonisation to a future of freedom God speaks for all. What is your take on vote buying election? Vote-buying is an electoral crime anywhere in the world. Guilty parties and leaders should be punished on one hand. And the people should be enlightened to resist this temporal gratification that sustains this history of colonization, under-performance and under-development our people suffer. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 