Custodians of culture are not only historians; they are the bards whose memories and knowledge are preserved in the lyrics of the music they write. When such a bard like Adekunle Gold makes timeless music, generations after taste stories of their culture on the content of the lyrics. Gold’s ‘About 30’ album caused quite the stir on social media, and Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade decided to go to the source and find out exactly what went into the production of the much-talked-about album. In this interview, Dekunle Gold reveals details previously unknown of the album, what goes into the production of his songs and why About 30 is truly special. About 30 is the album everyone is raving about. In fact, many have even labeled it the album of the year. Can you tell us a bit about it? About 30 is a culmination of 30 years of my life on earth. All the pain, the fears, everything I’ve had to do in 30 years; the lessons I have learnt, the stories I have seen and heard, the different genres of music that I have listened to. Basically, About 30 is a summary of my 30 years on earth. I started making the album two years ago and it has been an exciting journey with my producers. There were times I would have to travel to Ghana, London, America to make music. So we made this music everywhere and I am happy that at the end of the day it is successful. When the album was not even a day old, people were already talking about it, and that makes me happy. Imagine that in the shortest while, I invited people to come for the listening party and they came around for me. Since the album release, my phone has been buzzing non-stop with notifications and people calling me to talk about the album. It feels really good to be loved. What challenges did you face in writing the songs in the About 30 album? I didn’t even see it as a challenge because in the songs I am just ‘gisting’ and telling stories. So it all came naturally for me. Tell us about some of the songs. Each song is a story. For a song like ‘Damn Delilah’, if you remember Nurse Alabere, it is still the same girl I am talking about. A song like Mr. Foolish has a personal meaning. It’s a term my dad uses for me when I do something wrong. Also, it is a satire. I wrote the hook since 2015. When it was time to finish the album, we didn’t plan for it to be on the album. We just felt like something was still missing and we went to the archive. Pheelz is a genius by the way. Another of the songs on About 30 was supposed to be in the Gold album. I removed it and kept it for this one. That is why you should make timeless music. There were some songs we left out of this album too for the next one. A lot of your music is about love, why is that? I love ‘love’. You are known for merging your culture, language, proverbs even, into your music in a way that makes it beautiful for everyone who listens to it. When it comes to music internationally, do you think that there is a language barrier? Never. In fact, my songs are listened to the most by people that don’t even understand my language. And it makes sense. It shows that with music, language is never a barrier, there is nothing like language barrier. Good music will transcend all languages. Which of the songs in the about 30 album stands out for you, which do you love the most? I love ‘Ire’, I love ‘There is a God’, I love ‘Somebody’, I love everything on the album. That’s because everything is sincere, it comes from my heart and it only makes sense to just love them because this music is personal to me. These songs are personal to me, and I really loved making the songs with the sleepless nights and all. I am happy. But if you were to pick, which would you call your baby. Most parents have that one child that they love most of all, which is it for you? Ire. But really, it is everything, to be honest. Mr. Foolish too. Because I make the songs personally from my heart, it feels good to say “Yes, I did this.” So, the truth is that I love every song on the album. What inspires your style of music, the kind of songs you write? To be honest, it is the quest to be different. That’s because I feel that being different sells. And in this world where you have saturated kind of music, you need to stay ahead and this is my leeway to just be different and stand out. My music is my life story. My music is from within, so I could just see a red shirt and want to talk about it. Like I said before, it is natural. When you started making music professionally, it became the trend to say ‘Oh, I like Adekunle Gold kind of music’, which some describe as urban highlife. It wasn’t just your voice that made your music unique; it was a quality in the kind of music you make that distinguished you. Was that the plan from the get-go, to make a unique brand of music, or was it simply chance? It was the plan, I won’t lie. I wanted to be different, I wanted to make music how I know it and I am happy that people are loving my sincerity and how I make my music the way I know how to. So it was a conscious effort. How does it make you feel seeing the way the songs on About 30 were so well accepted? On social media, people could not stop talking about it. We sent invites out to the listening party just a day before. Some of the invites were even sent on the morning of the listening party and the turnout was exceptional. The place was filled, over 200 people showed up. It makes sense and I feel loved. If that is not loving, I don’t know what it is. I will be lying if I say I saw it coming, but I am happy that it is this way because it shows that people love good music. In the first place, I was never afraid to do it, so I am happy with the outcome. You said earlier that you already set aside some songs for the next album, what can we expect? Well after the tour for this album, I want to rest for a bit before I make new music. This one took a toll on me. But there will be a lot of collaborations and many people will be surprised. With a schedule like yours, when do you have time to write your music? I write a lot on the plane. So when I travel to write, I do it mostly on the plane. Another reason for that is because that is the only place that there is no social media to catch up on. Once there is Wifi, there is no songwriting. Your relationship with Simi has been quite debated, what’s can you say about Simi? Simi mixes and masters all my songs. When I am mixing a song and I am scared she might not like it, it is over. I fight her all the time because she brings the best out of me. Every time I want to be lazy, she pushes me to do better. As an artiste and a music connoisseur, what kind of music do you listen to? I listen to King Sunny Ade, Ebenezer Obey, Asa… and a lot of great songs. In your opinion, what does it take to break into the industry? Hard work; God and then hard work. If it is your own, your calling, and God wants you to do it, you’ll break in. The political space is currently saturated with people, information, policies and parties, what’s do you have to say about the coming 2019 elections. Go and get your PVC o! Me I am voting and hopefully, by God’s grace, we will get the best candidate to vote for. We are still waiting. Are you currently a member of any political party? For now I don’t belong to a party, but eventually, if any party that makes sense comes along. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 