Lagos – The Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode, has promised to reward successful Nigerian players participating in the ITTF Nigeria Open financially. The Director General of the Lagos State Sport Commission (LSSC), Babatunde Bank-Anthony, who disclosed this, said that the governor has instituted bonus for Nigerian players that performed well in all categories, including the Men’s and Women’s singles. “We will make use of the bonus wisely to encourage Nigerian players to go further and we believe that this will help them to at least improve and perform better,” he said. From the inception of the ITTF Challenge Nigeria Open, no Nigerian player has won the title in the singles events but assurance from Olajide Omotayo and Esther Oribamise has shown that the host will not disappoint this year. Commonwealth Games silver medalist, Omotayo believes with the present form of some of the players, they were ready to wrestle the titles from the foreigners. “We are all ready for the tournament this year because we have the quality to match the foreigners and I am hopeful that we will give our best and hope for the best. The likes of Aruna Quadri, Bode Abiodun and Segun Toriola have always inspired us that we can be the best in the game. We are ready to see Nigerian players on the podium this year,” he said. Oribamise, a bronze medalist at the 3rd African Youth Games in Algiers is optimistic that things would look up for Nigerian players this year. “We are all in good shape and I can tell you that all of us know what is at stake. Apart from the prize money we are also aiming to improve our ranking with this tournament,” she said. Meanwhile, the President of the Nigeria Table Tennis Federation (NTTF), Engr. Ishaku Tikon has lauded the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for his commitment to the annual ITTF Challenge Nigeria Open as well as creating a conducive environment for table tennis to strive in the state. He charged other states to take a cue from Lagos, noting thattThe support of partners and sponsors has been unprecedented. We are also appreciative of the fact that their input has helped us to raise the profile of the sport in Nigeria,” Tikon said. For the chairman, Local Organising Committee (LOC), Waheed Oshodi, Lagos has been the backbone of the tournament. “This tournament actually started as collaboration between the NTTF and the Lagos State Government with the Lagos International Sports Classics and it has grown to become ITTF jewel in Africa. We must give kudos to Governor Ambode. The endorsement we received from government helps this tournament to grow from year to year and more importantly the love for sports from governors of Lagos State over the years for this tournament. The last year’s final which the Governor graced showed that he is big fan of table tennis and we are hoping that this year he will be with us again.” Oshodi said. The tournament, which served off on Wednesday, August 7 at the Molade Okoya-Thomas Hall of the Teslim Balogun Stadium, will end on Sunday, August 12 at the same venue. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 