Lagos – Air Peace at the weekend took delivery of its second Boeing 777-300 aircraft, as part of its expansion drive. The airline had on February 23, 2018 took delivery of its first B777-200, thereby becoming the first carrier in the country to acquire the big airliner. The airline also said that apart from the two aircraft, the airline would before the end of the year takes delivery of another airliner in a its plan to commence long haul routes. Mr. Allen Onyema, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Air Peace, speaking at the occasion, said that the airline would soon announce dates for the launch of its long-haul operations to London, Houston, Dubai, Sharjah, Guangzhou-China, Mumbai and Johannesburg. The new aircraft, a 320-seater Boeing 777-300 christened ‘Ojochide’ and marked 5N-BUU, was flown into the Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos by Capt. Victor Egonu, Air Peace Chief Pilot and Emmanuel Iwhiwhu, Senior First Officer of the airline. The aircraft touched down to a rousing welcome by staff of the carrier, aviation workers and water salute staged by men of the Fire Service of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) at about 1.36 p.m. Onyema assured that the airline was now ready to begin its international operations and fix the challenges of Nigerians, Africans and other travellers on the long-haul routes. Onyema, who was represented by Mrs. Oluwatoyin Olajide, Chief Operating Officer, Air Peace, said the carrier’s international operations would boost the nation’s economy, create more jobs for players in the industry and allied sectors and offer travellers an exceptional choice. “We are very happy we’ve taken delivery of another of our Boeing 777 aircraft in preparation for our international operations and we are looking at commencing operations on one of the routes before the last quarter of the year. “We believe that this will enable us create more employment opportunities for Nigerians because that is the reason we exist. We want to help curb the unemployment situation in the country.” Onyema confirmed that the airline received its first Boeing 777-200 aircraft in February, adding that two more of the aircraft types were being expected before the end of the year to boost the airline’s international operations. Onyema also confirmed that the Federal Government had designated the airline to operate flights to London, Houston, Dubai, Sharjah, Guangzhou-China, Mumbai and Johannesburg. He commended Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of State for Aviation and President Muhammadu Buhari for supporting Nigerian airlines with the removal of Value Added Tax (VAT) and granting of waivers on aircraft spares. Also, Egonu described the B777-300 as a state-of-the-art equipment with high performance capacity. The B777-300 aircraft has 12 first class, 48 business class and 260 economy class seats. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 