Katsina – Mrs Asiya Rita, mother of three, suspected human trafficker and another trans-border drug dealer, Mohammed Kabir have been arrested by the Nigeria Immigration Service in Katsina State. Mr. Joshua Olusola Ajisafe, the state controller of immigration paraded the trafficker alongside seven of her suspected victims (including three of her children) and the drug dealer on Monday in Katsina. Ajisafe said the trafficker and her suspected victims were arrested at Jibia Magama control post on their way out of the Nigerian border area. Mrs. Rita, according to the immigration boss was arrested in possession of a residence visa of the state of Libya and her passport which indicated that she was a frequent traveller who recruits victims for slavery and prostitution among other related trafficking offences. “The victims are aged between 11 to 44 years and all are Nigerian citizens. It may be pertinent to also note that the rescued victims are not all from the same state, while three are from Oyo state, two are from Lagos State, one each from Bayelsa and Ogun states respectively, but obtained their travelling documents in Oyo state (Ibadan). Five of them obtained their travelling documents on 25th July, while the remaining two obtained theirs on 27th July 2018. “People are bent on trafficking. They devise means to beat the enforcement agencies but we will not relent and we will always be ahead to track them and their activities,” the Comptroller stated. Mr. Ajisafe was, however, quick to put the number of arrests made by his command within a period of a month (July 17th till date) was two suspected human traffickers and eighteen suspected victims of human trafficking. In a related development, the Comptroller also said the command has succeeded in intercepting and arrest one Mohammed Kabir, a trans-border drug dealer in possession of two high-grade cannabis at the Babbar Ruga area of the state in an attempt to cross the Nigeria border into the Niger Republic through an illegal route. “The suspected trafficker and the suspected victims will be handed over to our service headquarters in Abuja for further interrogation and Mohammed Kabir (Nigerien) will be handed over to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for further necessary actions,” he stated. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 