Samuel Ogidan, Ahmed Musa Abuja – The tension at the National Assembly on Wednesday took another dimension as the All Progressives Congress (APC) senators moved to forcefully reconvene the Senate. The tension, it would be recalled, was triggered by the recent defection of 14 senators and 37 members of the House of Representatives from the APC to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Africa Democratic Congress (ADC). To this end, some senators were seen on Wednesday morning gathering in front of the Senate building. The senators seen included Senate Majority Leader, Ahmed Lawal; Hope Uzodinma (APC, Imo); Yusuf Yusuf (APC, Taraba ), among others. The lawmakers, however, drove to the Presidential Villa in a bus after about ten minutes of staying at the Senate. The move may not be unconnected with the declaration by the presidency last week that the two months’ recess embarked upon by the two chambers of the National Assembly had become a threat to some presidential requests pending before the National Assembly. It was learnt that one of the issues for which the APC lawmakers were seeking to get the Senate to reconvene was the N242 billion budget proposal for the conduct of the 2019 election. But the move by the senators to forcefully reconvene contradicts the Senate standing rule. The Senate standing rule said only the President of the Senate had the powers to reconvene the Senate if it becomes necessary for the upper chamber to sit on a date different from the date it had earlier adjourned to. According to the Senate rule: “Whenever the Senate stands adjourned either to a date fixed by the rule of the Senate or to a date determined in accordance with paragraph (1) of this rule and it is represented by the leaders of the political parties in the Senate to the President of the Senate that the public interest requires that the Senate should meet on an earlier or a later date or time than that on which it stands adjourned, the President of the Senate may give notice accordingly, and the Senate shall meet on the date and at the time stated in the notice.” The Senate had on July 24 adjourned plenary till after its long vacation amidst complaints of pending requests by the Federal Government. The lawmakers who would resume sitting on September 25, 2018, commenced vacation after the Department of State Services (DSS) invaded the homes of Senate President Bukola Saraki and the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, in Abuja. The Senate President’s convoy was reportedly blocked by the security operatives while he was about leaving his residence. PDP Reps To Keep Vigil At NASS Over Alleged Plot To Impeach Saraki Meanwhile, PDP lawmakers in the House of Representatives on Wednesday vowed to keep vigil at the National Assembly to prevent alleged plot by APC senators to invade the Senate chamber with a view to impeaching Senate President Bukola Saraki. The lawmakers equally vowed to resist the persons of Senators Abdullahi Adamu, Ovie Omo-Agege, Ali Ndume and others who are Pro-Buhari and are believed to be responsible for the alleged plot. Deputy Minority House Leader, Chukwuka Onyema, who raised the alarm accompanied by 10 PDP lawmakers, said that they were going to keep vigil at the National Assembly complex to thwart the plot against the Senate President. Onyema said that the caucus has information that three senators, Abdullahi Adamu, Ovie Omo-Agege and Ali Ndume, were planning to forcefully invade the Senate chamber while the Senate is on recess to carry out their nefarious act. “The aim of their invasion of the Senate chamber while senators are on recess is to come and sit illegally when everybody is out on recess is to impeach the Senate President. “We also have it on good authority that they are planning to come back this night and tomorrow morning aided by security forces, our own security forces whose job is to protect the lives of Nigerians. “They are the ones leading these dissident senators to come and truncate our democracy. We might think they want to take over the Senate, that’s not what they want to do. “They want to truncate this democracy of ours. But we, the PDP caucus, have decided to stay here to keep vigil and wait to see what’s going to happen tonight and tomorrow night,” the deputy minority leader stated. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 