Victor Olaiya, a 13-year-old boy, is suffering from a heart disease which has made life difficult for him and his single mother. Victor lives with his mother and 10-year-old sister in Pakuro, Mowe Ogun State. He is from a polygamous and dysfunctional home. In a letter dated July 21, 2015, a consultant Paediatric cardiologist at the University Teaching Hospital, Ibadan, recommended that Victor needs N2 million for an open-heart surgery to optimise his growth and increase his potentials for healthy living. Since that date, Victor’s health had been managed by off the counter drugs whenever he has a crisis and his care had been solely on his mother whom she lives with. His father who is a cow peddler in Lagos is reportedly not to have been committed to the financial and emotional upbringing of the children as they had been separated since 2010. Victor cannot speak but he can make sounds. He, however, can respond to instructions most time. The mother said he was healthy at birth but while growing up, he was not developing like other children and she never knew he was challenged until he fell sick and he was to taken to various hospitals before it was finally diagnosed he has a problem with his heart. From a private hospital in Lagos, Victor was referred to Adeoyo Maternity Hospital, Yemetu, Ibadan, and he was seen by Paediatric cardiology clinic after complaints of recurrent episodes of a cough and easy fatigability since the age of one year; these were associated with fever and necessitated admission. He was later referred to the University Teaching Hospital, Ibadan and examination revealed that he is small for his age with dimorphic feature (micro-cephalic, flattened nasal bridge and epicanthic folds). Victor has not been able to attend any school since his health challenge was discovered because the school in Mowe, Ogun State, cannot take care of his inadequacies as he had been in baby class and he cannot read or hold a pencil to write. The mother is soliciting financial assistance from public-spirited individuals to give succour to the boy. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 