WARRI – Apprehension and suspicion of possible cover up is trailing the alleged theft by Naval Personnel and two others arrested by the Nigeria Police last month for theft of part of the properties seized from Ex-freedom Fighter, High Chief Government Ekpemupolo a.k.a, Tompolo’s by the federal government two years ago. The Naval Personnel, Lance Corporal Usman Shaibu alongside a driver of a Mercedes Benz Self-loader, Okugbe Lucky and his conductor, Chime Chukwuka were arrested for attempt to steal a transformer from a jetty near the Chevron Clinic in Edjeba Community in Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State. It was learnt that two other Naval Personnel, Staff Sergeant P O Ekon and Sergeant L S Elijah who were allegedly involved in the criminal act escaped and are on the run while during interrogation at the Charge Room at the Police Station, Shaibu confessed to have committed the crime just as he disclosed the names of his fleeing colleagues that they planned to sell the stolen transformer at the rate of N700,000. They had already succeeded in carrying the transformer with a Mercedes Benz Self-loader with Registration Number Edo XE 763 BEN and at the point of their departure Shaibu with two of his colleagues on guard duty at the jetty were rounded up by the Police based on information. While the Commanding Officer of the Nigerian Navy Services (NNS) Delta, Commodore Ibrahim Dewu, have bluntly insisted that NNS would not make any comment on the matter, the  Commissioner of Police, Delta State, Mr. Muhammad Mustafa, revealed the suspect who was in their custody has been released to NNS for investigation. “They told us that they needed to carry out their own investigation because he is a security agent and you do not take a serving member to court. They will conclude it before they hand over the suspect to us again.” He maintained that NNS is not obstructing the police in any manner in the course of its investigation, saying: “The Navy has already reduced the officer’s rank so there is no complication at all’’. “They were in our custody at “A” Division in Warri. They were arrested, investigated, and handed over to the Navy to finish their administrative part of it. Of course, they will bring him back for prosecution. Investigation has been done, so when he comes back, we shall finish it. Police do not take serving personnel to court that way; we have to write their organization, finish some vital aspects before handing over to us,” Mustafa disclosed. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 