LAGOS – An American actor once shared that a man only learns in two ways: one by reading and the other by association with smarter people. In this clime, combining both means of learning is a better idea, and this is exactly the edge that the Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA) Convention offers. ANA is the official body in charge of writers in Nigeria, and every year, the association organises a gathering of writers both locally and internationally for a convention where ideas are shared, knowledge acquired and newer trends established. This gathering, usually rotated among Nigerian states will this year be hosted by the Lagos State Chapter. Mr. Akin Adeoya, Chairman of the Local Organising Committee (LOC), ANA 37th international convention explained during a courtesy visit by the LOC to INDEPENDENT Newspapers Limited on Thursday, August 2 that the last time the convention was held in Lagos was in 1995 at the University of Lagos. “It was a sad occasion because it was while the convention was on that we heard that the famous writer, Ken Saro Wiwa had been hanged by the Abacha regime. Since then, Lagos has not had the opportunity to host the convention. This year, we have been given the hosting rights. We have since been working hard to deliver a world-class convention, and in doing this, we would be short-changing ourselves if we do not seek, the support off credible organisations.” Speaking on the objectives of the convention, Adeoya further shared that, “One of the major highlights of this year’s convention is to address the state of writers in Nigeria, some of whom cannot even earn income from their creative works. We are looking into what technology can do for us. Beyond the talkshow, ANA Lagos is organising a colloquium a day before the main event on digital publishing, called the Tayo Aderinokun Colloquium on Digital Publishing, which would entail two days of talks, discussions and papers. The subject matter, being how writers can take advantage of the World Wide Web to publish their works online, earn income and also sell to a global audience. Many of our writers here are not aware of the opportunities that exist for this. And we want to use the colloquium to drive home the point.” Hon. Feyi-Abiodun Samson Oyeniyi, Lagos State Chapter Public Relations Officer (PRO) II and spokesman for the LOC also stated that, “The publishing industry in Nigeria has been in comatose, pirates have taken advantage of writers in Nigeria and the income of writers have depreciated. In other parts of the world, we know that with one book, a writer can become a millionaire. So while we are celebrating, we want to analyse and critically examine the industry. We would welcome suggestions about how government can take advantage of the industry and grow the national income and help writers to be able to pay their tax and fulfill their responsibilities in the nation.” The Chairman, Lagos State ANA, Mr. Yemi Adebiyi upon appreciating INDEPENDENT Newspapers for constantly reporting news on ANA, explained that the writing profession in Nigeria suffers a lot and the intent is to use the opportunity of the 37th edition of the annual international convention to address some naughty issues. Also to be addressed, according to Adebiyi, is the issue of piracy since writers’ works suffers piracy among other things. He explained that they intend to look for ways in which technology can be employed to both protect and help authors get their content out there, something other industries have tapped into. Among other activities preceding the convention, the colloquium will hold on August 23 and 24 while the Patrons’ Night will hold on the 26th at the Freedom Park. Meanwhile, this year’s convention is slated to hold between October 25 and 28. Apart from members from the 36 states of the federation, other writers are coming from United States of America, United Kingdom, Kenya, Nepal and other countries across the globe. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 