Nigeria is the most populous black nation in the world, her beauty, Art, and Aesthetic experience are of immense dimensions and show themselves in different ways to different people. Because they are so inherently difficult to define, we approach a discussion of their relation to the recreative life with no illusions. When we speak here of art as in football, which is one special focus where the entire universe applauds Nigeria for her artistry and mastery of the game, we are also thinking of the manipulation of realism of purpose in mind when tinkering the global most glamorous sport-football. We are also thinking not of the technical art whose products are useful for other aesthetic effect which end impression is the beauty, good association, gains, patriotism, unity, development and pride of place under the government that rules the game across nations of the world, Nigeria not exception. And if this is what the art of football is all about and the much development and progress it brings to every member nation which adheres to the rules of patriotism, which, in essence, is to play the game according to the rules and the dictates  of the World’s football governing body, FIFA, then, it means FIFA cannot be wrong when a member nation is walking on the cliff edge of its sanction, just like Nigeria, with the unnecessary protracted crisis between the  incumbent president of NFF, Amaju Pinnick and aggrieved Ambassador Chris Giwa-whose ban for five years by FIFA is still an unresolved issue. This was even made worse by the sports minister, Solomon Dalung, whose knowledge on the status of the game had been beclouded with very unpatriotic tendencies that had brought so much embarrassment, displeasure, misinformation, division, hatred, sentiment, nepotism, tribalism, and ethnicity and clear disobedient of FIFA order! FIFA had said to Nigeria, “go and settle the rivalry between Pinnick and Giwa amicably and make sure the incumbent is seated at the Glasshouse with his board, so that Nigeria’s football could continue to thrive”. (emphasis mine). But instead of the sports ministry boss to take heed and do the needful, he continued to entangle himself with circular politics of the local courts of the land, which have no bearings in FIFA’s matter. It is on record that Giwa failed before FIFA and at the court of Arbitration for sports presenting his case; hence, the grievance to resort to the local courts which are inconsequential to FIFA ruling. This postulation is known to all member nations as they are all witnesses and signatories; therefore, the path Dalung trekked was a prohibited lane; little wonder FIFA threatened to ban Nigeria if the instruction given was not obeyed before 12noon of that Monday this week. It was shameful seeing Dalung turned back on his proposed visit to Switzerland to have another “wrong” plea with Infantino to get his way but got the shocker of his life when he was turned down to go do the needful as spelt out by FIFA to Nigeria. The sports minister, cajoled, made so much rhetoric, danced and hovered around his conviction with pretensions thinking it was easy to bamboozle Infantino and his led team in FIFA headquarters to submission; but alas, he ended up eating the humble pie. What a way to subtly humble a man when FIFA retraced its ban threat! And how did this happen? Guess – the minister saw the yellow card in the hands of the referee raised, while his other hand had the red to finally hammer a stubborn player who does not play to “fair” rule and he immediately went on his knees pleading with the referee for pardon! And so, NFF is back to its full glory; the incumbent is back to his seat with his men. The African championships for both men and women will be on with Nigeria in attendance in all designated countries as it were. The ban nightmare is over at least for now. The NFF presidency election is in focus and I believe all the stakeholders involved will be putting their houses in order to get it right this time. Many thanks to the acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who took the bull by the horn when Nigeria was to drown under Dalung! Good morning! Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 