Lagos – Football like any other sports is played by humans who have but a short life span.  When a player reaches his or her zenith, he or she usually quit the game. And this is the saddest part of the game. As humans, we don’t want them to quit because we’ve developed certain relationship along the way. We’ve grown up watching them, developed some likeness for them and believe that they should play all life. These are the players that we grew up watching, with some of them making us watching our television or going to the stadiums. These players have become idols. But one day these players will succumb to nature, when their legs become tired. They may want to play for as long as they want, but nature will have to cut short their playing careers. In short, football isn’t really a lifelong profession. “A player only has about, at maximum, 20 years to leave his mark on the game. In that time, he/she makes a lot of fans—a lot of people whose hearts they will break at some point in their life. This is the hardest part of being a football fan,” wrote U.K Dey of Sports news. Since the sudden retirement of one of Nigeria’s most dependable players at the moment, Victor Moses, tongues have been waging on what could have led to the development. Injuries and personal decisions had forced players to cut short their playing careers. Eric Cantona retired at age 30. Cantona could have kept it up for at least five more years or maybe even longer. But instead, he left with four Premier League titles, two FA Cups and one FWA Player of the Year award. Just Fontaine quit football in 1962, one month short of his 29th birthday. Injuries forced Fontaine out, but not before he secured his legendary status with 13 goals at the 1958 World Cup. Alan Shearer retired from the national team at age 29, after England’s disastrous performance at Euro 2000. Incidentally, England really could have used him over the next few years. Shearer kept playing professionally until 2006, but he never again featured for the Three Lions. So to ordinary mind, it should not have been an issue to see Moses retiring but given that he did not give any notice, neither were there any issues or rumoured crisis or faceoff with the technical crew, questions have been asked. Speaking to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, a coach of one of the NPFL side, who craved anonymity, averred that the last might not have been heard of Moses’ sudden retirement. He noted that questions would be asked when something such as this happen. The coach said that perhaps the player might have had a form of coercion from his manager, resulting to the action. “Foreign coaches can do anything and I want to tell you that we may not have heard the last over this sudden retirement of Victor Moses. He is one of our top performers and he is still quite young; what could be his reason for just dumping the national team like this? “I think when something like this happens; we should begin to ask ourselves questions on where we got it right or wrong or what might have happened that we don’t know because Moses never gave any sign that he will be leaving the national team so soon. I want the NFF to have a talk with him because tomorrow, it may be Iwobi that will say he wants to concentrate on his club career and also to give young people a chance,” the coach noted. Taking the coach serious, a look at some of the players earlier mentioned, who retired early showed that they quit the game at a much older ages of between 29 years and 30 years. But some Nigerians who aired their views believe that Moses might have seen himself not capable of combining the rigours of national team football and club career, and decided for the latter. This was the position of former Manchester United great, Paul Scholes, when he retired at 29, saying that he could no longer cope with the rigours of playing for his club and donning the colours of the Three Lions. But speaking to our correspondent, Henry Nwosu noted that instead of lamenting what Nigeria might have considered a loss in Moses, it was imperative that the coaches and the authorities start to look at what should be done to motivate the national players the more and ensure that they give their best. “The player has taking the decision and I think we should respect that. It is solely his decision to know when to continue with the national team and when to quit. I feel that he still has some years to put in the Super Eagles but he thinks otherwise. “We should by now start looking at what should be done to further make the national team more attractive to players and make them commit more to it. Moses has done his bit; he has tried and we should wish him well,” said the Africa Cup of Nations winner. Ike Shorunmu, while wishing the player well, called for a replacement of Moses in the team. Shorunmu said that Nigeria was blessed with a lot of talents and asking the coaches to take advantage of his retirement to discover other wingers. “You know I expressed surprise the moment I heard of the retirement but you see, Moses may have thought it well to quit at this time and there is nothing anybody can do about that. All we should be doing now is to search for his replacement. His exit is an opportunity for us to discover other good, if not better, wingers,” he said. Moses, since his debut for Nigeria in an Africa Cup of Nations qualifier away to Rwanda on February 29, 2012, has remained integral part of the team. He, alongside Ahmed Musa, went ahead to become Nigeria’s most trusted wingers in the period under consideration. But Nigeria is not bereft of wingers, with Mikel Agu, Moses Simon and Samuel Kalu, just to mention a few, being the others that could step up their games at this time. Already, news surfaced earlier in the week that Coach Gernot Rohr was not resting in his drive to present a formidable team when Nigeria plays Seychelles next month, and had gone ahead to court Kalu of French side, Bordeaux, as Moses’ replacement. Kalu, it will be recalled, missed the cut before the World Cup when Rohr said that he had players in that position, mentioning Moses and Simon. Simeon, it will also be recalled, impressed Rohr during Nigeria’s 1-0 friendly win over Poland and was instrumental to Nigeria’s ceaseless attacks on the opponent, one of which resulted to the penalty that was converted by the retired Moses. But injury days to the World Cup meant that he missed the train to Russia. Victor Moses has taking the decision and Nigerians should do more to remember his good times as against his sudden retirement from the team. Even though the player severally came under criticisms before, with fans and analysts questioning his commitment and patriotism to Nigeria, given that he sometimes missed key matches, he repaid same with eye-popping performances in vital games. For instance, in the 4-0 World Cup qualifying win over Cameroon, Moses displayed high level of commitment, setting up one goal and scoring one to cap a memorable night at the Godswill Akpabiyo Stadium in Uyo. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 