Barrister Jiti Ogunye, a constitutional lawyer and public affairs analyst, is the Principal Counsel, Jiti Ogunye Chambers. In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he spoke on the gale of defections, National Assembly, and other issues. Excerpts: What do you think of the gale of defections going on among political parties in the country today? Absolutely nothing!  The average Nigerian and indeed the entire Nigerian people stand to benefit nothing from the gale of opportunistic, promiscuous, immoral defections as I call them. Let’s put it generally. In this clime, politicians have a fixation on power because political power is central in prevailing circumstances in our country to primitive accumulation of capital. So they are not in the business of power, rather they are in power for business.  In other words, they see political power as an opportunity for them to build war chest, amass illicit wealth and then enhance their economic and social standings in the society.  They are not in politics for service, they are in politics to make ends meet and to build empires for themselves. Therefore, they are perpetually concerned with what can guarantee as a platform, their access to power. So, it is not about politics of ideology, it is not about politics of principle, it is not about politics of programmes , policies and manifesto, it is about raw power and how to gain and wield that raw power. So, there is usually no fidelity to high principles. They can be in a political party in the morning, they move to another one in the afternoon, move to another one in the evening or return to the one they are fleeing from in the morning.  For them, there is no fidelity to any political party. Their only allegiance is to themselves and their selfish pursuit for power.  So that’s why for now and a foreseeable future, as far as Nigeria is burdened with this tribe of politicians, we will continue to see these movements across political parties. We will continue to see politicians criss-crossing political parties, particularly towards the general election for them to position themselves so that they can achieve their political ambition. I believe political ambition is legitimate. Tenacity, perseverance and long-suffering for a cause  are virtues. So nobody is crucifying Nigerian politicians for their seeming consistency. Rather, what we decry and condemn is this desperate quest for power that does not take into consideration political morality. Why do you say that? It is because it is immoral for you as a politician not to have principles, ideals. Societies that have succeeded in the world have succeeded on the basis of ideals, sound principles, values, integrity and loyalty to a cause; not on the basis of flip-flops or on the basis of opportunism. Hardly can you identify Nigerian politicians with a set of principles or ideals, that this is a welfarist party, this is a conservative party, this is a party of liberal democrats  or this is a socialist party’.  Those lines are flawed in Nigeria. All that is important is that ‘I want to occupy an office and as a Southerner, it is our turn. I am a Northerner, it is our turn’.  It is the turn of the South- South; it is the turn of the South- East or North- West’.  That is all they say. Even within states broken into three senatorial districts. The Nigerian political elite threw up the dubious address to federal character principles as if they are a signification of a federal character principle. In other words, they project themselves as representing the people. That it is the slot of their people they are taking. It is the turn of their people. All these jejune arguments they throw up in order to corner power. When they corner that power, they hardly use it for the public good. So, what is going on is not beneficial to the Nigerian people. However, and this is paradoxic. It may without such intention from the political class benefit the Nigerian people by default.  Because the Nigerian people will now be made to see the dirty rump of this political class, see them in their stark nakedness and realising that they’ve never been with the people. They’ve always been for themselves and therefore, they are more or less, the same tribe of people. This will now enable the Nigerian people to now seek real and genuine alternatives outside the current crop of tribes of these politicians, such that we can now have a credible alternative. Unlike the two sides of the same coin, the three parts of the same trinity that we’ve always had.  So, in a way the political class is cutting its nose to spite its face in that sense. The Nigerian people have started realising that these politicians and the ease with which they move from one political party to another indicate that they are part of the same family of oppressors, part of the same gang of anti- people elements and that therefore; political salvation and economic revival can’t come from these politicians. Nigerians may now be forced to start looking in other directions and that may help the country in the long run. Do you think the long adjournment by the National Assembly till September 25 is for personal reasons, especially considering the fact that the budget of INEC is yet to be passed? Obviously! All of them even now agree that there is a need for reopening the National Assembly. In other words, even before that agreement, they recognise that the time the National Assembly was hurriedly shut is inappropriate.  The National Assembly most unfortunately as important as that arm of government is, being the arm of government where the representatives of the Nigerian people can be seen discussing Nigeria and all that, as important as that arm of government is to the sustenance of democracy, the National Assembly has been run in a way that undermines democracy. The National Assembly is not an executive arm of government and we are not practicing a parliamentary system of government. If anybody in the National Assembly wants to go into the Executive arm of government, he should leave the National Assembly. There is a provision to that effect in the constitution that a member of the National Assembly who gets appointed in the executive arm off government will lose their seats.  The point I am making is, there is no point in the National Assembly members seeing themselves as an alternative to government or as a parallel government. We are not saying the executive  arm of government is not guilty of excesses in certain respects but there is this funny notion  by some members of the National Assembly, especially  those who have been governors before that they are also a government and therefore, they have to set the agenda, they have to govern and so on. That is not the role that is ascribed to them by the constitution.  I have no hesitation in condemning the closure of the National Assembly and the refusal to reconvene. From what we can see, it is obvious that the two dominant political parties who are in the National Assembly and are at daggers drawn are squaring up for a showdown. It just appears therefore that at least the leadership of the National Assembly is not really sure of what may happen if it reconvenes. Can we really blame NASS especially given the invasion  carried by DSS officials ? The DSS barricaded the National Assembly which was condemnable but how did some members of the National Assembly get into chambers eventually?  Is it what they wanted to do or blackmail?  Look, if they want to open, there is no threat to them. They should open the chambers and do their work! How did they get into the National Assembly when they wanted to constitute their leadership in June 2015? Before then, how did Aminu Tambuwal  and his people get into the National Assembly?   They will travel the deepest ocean, they will traverse the hottest desert, they will climb the highest mountain, they will scale the highest fence when they know that their interests is at stake but when it is the interest of the  Nigerian people, they now treat it with a cavalier and non-challant attitude. That is why I said that we can blame the executive for certain acts but on this one, the blame squarely lies with the leadership of the National Assembly that is reluctant to throw open the doors of the National Assembly for reason of survival in office. I am not even talking of the leadership of the Senate now but even the leadership of the House of Reps because it is obvious that the leadership of the Reps is at undeclared odds with the leadership of their party. The gale of defections in the House of Reps wasn’t sufficient to offer the leadership some comfort to enable them defect. They assume that there will be very grave consequences even much more than what is going on in the Senate if they were to defect because the APC  still have a sizable majority in the House of Representatives. So, it’s been a game of pretense on all sides and of course, the APC too has been saying it doesn’t have any problem with the leadership of the House of Reps; speaking tongues in cheek. It is an interesting time but as I have said,  they are being paid handsomely for work done and work  not done. So, let them do the job they were elected to do. They need quality time to scrutinise that proposed budget for the election submitted by INEC because as Nigerians know, that budget is the highest for any general elections in this country. So, they will need to look at it critically to determine whether we really need that kind of humongous money for the election. So, my take is: open the National Assembly. Even if that is going to cost you your leadership, open it. We will see what will happen because if you don’t open the National Assembly for fear of your being removed from office, then that that means you are holding the entire country to ransom. The APC is insisting that Senate President Bukola Saraki will be removed when the House reconvenes.  What is your perspective on that? My view is simply this: follow the Rule of Law. If you follow the Rule of law, there won’t be any problem. The APC is hell-bent on changing the leadership of the Senate on account of the defection of the Senate President.  They are boasting that they have the requisite number and that they will do it democratically, the requisite number being 73 out of 109 senators.  The constitutional prescription is that the leadership of the senate and the House of Reps can only be impeached by two thirds of majority of its members. Some people have been doing some funny interpretations, playing with words and using semantics such as ‘Oh, that provision doesn’t say all its members. It is only those who are present on the floor of the House’. That is not my own understanding of the Law. Two third majority means a majority of all the members. As at the time the Senate leadership was constituted in June 2015, only 64 members of the entire House were there. When that aberration occurred, I wrote a beautiful piece which was circulated worldwide on the illegality of the senate presidency of Bukola Saraki and deputy senate presidency of Ike Ekweremadu. I also offered solid reasons, including the fact that to constitute that leadership,  you need ALL the members, except those who are sick and they will be few. The argument that ‘Oh, they knew the time but they chose to go for a meeting’, that was rather sinister. So,  what I expected those who are now talking about this leadership to do then was to insist that having been disenfranchised by an act of omission or commission on the critical question of  constituting the senate leadership, they will want to participate in the constitution of the senate leadership.  And if that struggle have even taken the entire life of the 8th senate, it will be a worthy cause.  It will not be correct to now latch on to the illegality  and unconstitutionality of that time to  make the point now that you can also achieve a removal unconstitutionally.  That is a very dubious argument.  I am not going to offer any advice on whether the senate president should resign or whether the APC  should remove him because if you go back to my fundamental premise, I have stated that politicians are always angling for political power so there is no morality in that issue.  In any case, the APC that is talking about removal now, what happened within their ranks in the National Assembly for almost three years now?  The senate president was playing a chess game with them. Kabiru Marafa was one of the most outspoken critics of Saraki but the Senate President reshuffled the committees and made him (Marafa) the Chairman of Petroleum Downstream.  That was the end of his criticisms.  So, it is not useful for Nigerians to just queue sheepishly behind politicians and helping them achieve their selfish aims. So, if they wake up and say ‘wake up Nigerians, then we start waking up. If tomorrow, they say ‘we need to have a siesta now and so Nigerians must start sleeping, then we start sleeping’.  We are not dummies. How they are going to sort out the issue of the senate leadership is their own problem.  All Nigerians must insist on is that they must follow the Rule of law. Looking at the sack of DSS boss, Lawal  Daura. Do you think Osinbajo acted on his own? He couldn’t have acted on his own. The presidency is one, although in the current circumstances, we have a Vice- President who served in acting capacity while the president was away on vacation. Going back to precedents that Nigerians are eager to remind themselves about, I will also want to remind Nigerians about this same past precedent.  When President Buhari took ill and stayed in the UK for months, when he returned, publicly he acknowledged the services rendered to the country and the administration by the Vice- President. He praised him openly and even joked but made a serious point that he couldn’t have had a better Vice- President.  He said that he is a retired soldier but the Vice- President is a man of books, a Professor and he has realised that they complement each other.  He said that he has his areas of strength and that the Vice- President also has his areas of strength.  Based on this, I think that they work together from what we have seen.  Second, there was an incident that had to do with the NHIS Executive Secretary. The man was suspended while the President was away. The president came back, looked at the matter all over again and then reinstated him. A lot of Nigerians asked the Minister of Health, Prof. Adewole to resign because the president’s action was a vote of no confidence in him. Of course, he didn’t resign.  The controversy at the NHIS has not ended even as we speak but I referenced that to argue because the suspension of the NHIS Executive Secretary has the blessing of the Vice- President who was also in acting capacity as president then. So, the reinstatement by the president was like  countermanding Osinbajo . So, I referenced that to argue that a knowledgeable, experienced and reasonable Vice- President as an Acting President will see that as an example and will not want that fate to befall him again the second time. So, I presume that the President and the Vice- President were on the same page on the sack of Daura.  That sack also had the imprimatur or signature of the National Security Adviser who is in terms of reporting relationship higher than the DSS Director, NIA DG and Defence Intelligence Agency. In fact, all of them report to him because he is the national security adviser.  So i think that decision must have earned the blessing of the president. In any case, it’s a great decision. The appointment of DSS DG is as important as appointment of Ministers. So, it’s like the Acting President removing Ministers in the absence of the president. So, if they weren’t on the same page, i doubt of Osinbajo could have taken that decision regardless of the President. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 