OJO OYEWAMIDE AKURE – Afenifere, the Pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation on Tuesday condemned the plot to impeach Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State. Eight of 30 members of the state House of Assembly on Monday served an impeachment notice on the governor. Afenifere described the action of the lawmakers as legislative rascality that should not be allowed in any part of the country. The group’s position was contained in the communiqué issued after its monthly meeting at the home of its leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, in  Akure, Ondo State capital. The communiqué was signed by Chief Korede Duyile, Dr. Akin Onigbinde, Comrade Jare Ajayi and Chief Femi Alafe-Aluko. “The meeting observed with concern the development playing out in Benue State. “Afenifere condemns in entirety a scenario in which eight legislators purported to suspend 15 of their colleagues and served an impeachment notice on the governor. “This legislative rascality has been condemned in Ladoja’s case and must never be allowed in any part of Nigeria. “The right of citizens to freely associate with any political party of their choice should never be visited with state-inspired persecution, intimidation and direct assault as is being visited on His Excellency, Governor Samuel Ortom,” it said. Expressing worry over the security situation in the country, Afenifere said the excessive migration from the north especially by unskilled youths was a cause for concern. The group noted that the Federal Government’s failure to take decisive steps in curtailing security breaches had not only emboldened perpetrators, it was accentuating insecurity and seriously endangering the lives of millions of Nigerians. It decried the widespread use of money as an instrument of election into public offices by contestants and their parties. Afenifere said, “INEC as the regulatory authority on electoral matters must take visible and credible steps to prosecute offenders to make this practice impossible in future elections. “The meeting also observed with grave concern the excessive deployment of security forces. “Never again should elections be conducted in an atmosphere of fear and intimidation by the police, DSS and other security forces other than what is reasonably required”. “The Osun State election presents Nigeria an opportunity to correct manifest ills that played out in the recent Ekiti election. “The meeting demands from INEC to adhere to the highest standard in election transparency, failing which Nigerians would lose faith in its ability to conduct the free, fair and credible election in 2019.” It insisted that a restructured Nigeria remained a fundamental solution to the challenges that the country was currently encountering. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 