Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to emulate two security men who returned a valuable-laden handbag forgotten at the Murtala Muhammed Airport by an American returnee. He said the conduct of both men reflected the new Nigeria that was being desired by all. Recall that a Lagos-based medical doctor, Banji Oyegbami, had met a family returning from America at the airport on August 18, 2018. In the process of loading their luggage into the car of their host, the handbag of the returnee’s wife fell, unknown to anyone. It was not until 90 minutes later that an officer of Halogen Securities on duty at the airport called the couple to come for the bag. When the bag was eventually collected, the contents, including a handsome amount of American dollars, a phone, a wristwatch, and other valuables, were intact. The grateful couple offered a generous gift but Francis Emepueaku and Achi Daniel declined to receive it, saying they were merely doing their duties. An excited Buhari said he believed that despite the scoffing of a minority number, Nigeria was resolutely on the road to a new dawn. The president, who spoke through his media aide, Femi Adesina, said, “Honesty remains the best policy. We must exhibit such behaviour in whatever position we find ourselves, whether high or low.” According to him, “The security men could have chosen to behave differently, following the self-serving principle of ‘if you can’t beat them, join them.’ But they have chosen to be examples of good, honest Nigerians. I commend their conduct to the rest of the country.” The president also urged Nigerians to bring out the best in themselves at all times, noting that with such minds, they could never be hoodwinked again by those who sought power for selfish and dubious reasons, and who would return the country to an inglorious past. “Nigeria will no longer be a byword for corruption and plundering of public resources. That is the path we have chosen to take, and our country will eventually get to a new shore,” he said. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 