Samuel Ogidan and Sulaiman Fasasi People Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday assured its members of equal treatment ahead of 2019 general elections. The party leadership gave this assurance against the backdrop of complains from members, who were afraid that the new entrants will be given preferential treatment. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan assured its members of adequate protection, accommodation and a level playing ground at every level of political engagement and aspirations. The PDP says it has taken note of all concerns raised by highly respected and committed leaders of the party, as it concerns accommodation of interests, as well as new alignments, and has since taken extensive measures that would ultimately ensure that no person or group is, in anyway, short-changed. Appreciating the concerns raised, the party said, “It is instructive to inform that the national leadership of our party has already envisaged the challenges of an enlarged family and has since made adequate arrangements that would effectively cover all interests for the task ahead. “The repositioned PDP has amply learnt from the past. All members must therefore dispel every fear in relation to control of our structure as well as processes for selection of candidates for election, especially on the choice of our Presidential candidate, as such will be handled with the strictest adherence to the principles of internal democracy and zero tolerance for imposition. “Our great party has now, more than ever before, become a centre of the new patriotic and broad-based engagements by overwhelming majority of Nigerians, across board, in the renewed democratic realignment that places priority on rescuing our nation from the misrule of President Muhammadu Buhari and his anti-people All Progressives Congress (APC). “Whereas the APC has the colossal misfortune of being stuck with a very unpopular and unimpressive Presidential candidate, who has brought unpardonable pain and anguish to millions of innocent citizens, the PDP remains open, as the only dependable platform for all Nigerians, across board, to democratically and transparently coalesce and throw up that credible pan-Nigerian President and a government of national unity to move our nation out of the woods which we have been plunged by the dysfunctional APC.” Meanwhile, the National Executive Council of the PDP has insisted that the Senator representing Ogun East Senatorial District, Buruji Kashamu remained expelled from the party and has lost all rights and privileges of the party. This was contained in letters addressed to the Ogun State Director of Department of State Service, Police Commissioner and Independent National Electoral Commission, a copy of which was obtained, Saturday by Sunday INDEPENDENT. The party leadership also informed the agencies that the trio of Engr Bayo Dayo, Semiu Sodipo and Segun Seriki also remained expelled from the party. Dayo and Sodipo were State factional chairman and Secretary, respectively, of party loyal to the Senator before their suspension few weeks ago. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 