AWKA – Five people have been reported dead in multiple motor accidents that occurred in three separate places in Anambra State on Tuesday. According to police report, in the first accident that claimed three lives, a Toyota pickup van with registration number NSR 428 AU, traveling along Enugu-Onitsha expressway from Aguleri in Anambra East local council and carrying eight passengers lost control as it descended Upper Iweka, near Onitsha and summersaulted. The casualties were pronounced dead on arrival at Borommeo Mission Hospital and their bodies deposited at the hospital’s morgue while the five survivors were admitted for treatment. In a second multiple motor accidents a Mercedes tipper lorry registered FGG 405 XV had a break failure at Awka and hit three tricycles and one Toyota Camry car registered KPP 262 AA. One person lost her life, while four sustained injuries and were admitted into Amaku Specialist Hospital for treatment. The driver of the lorry is now in police custody and the lorry taken to Vehicle Inspection unit. The third accident involved an unregistered caterpillar belonging to a construction company. The accident occurred when the caterpillar brushed a motorcyclist while trying to avoid a pothole. The motorcyclist was fatally injured and was pronounced dead on arrival at a hospital. Meanwhile, the Anambra Commissioner of Police Mr. Garba Baba Umar has sent his Sallah message to the people commending them and the Muslim Community for a Peaceful and hitch-free Eid-El-Kabir celebration. Umar thanked them for their support and usual cooperation towards promoting safety and security in the state. He enjoined the general public not to relent in providing useful information to enable the Police serve them better; assuring  the citizens of adequate protection of life and properties before during and after the celebration. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 