Omooba Aderibigbe Adeleke Tella, former House of Representatives candidate, was Coordinator, Door-to-Door Ambassadors Group for the re-election of Governor Ibikunle Amosun, and Coordinator, Ogun-West Campaign Team for Buhari/Osinbajo 2015 Presidential campaign. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, Tella, an All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Ogun State, speaks on his agenda, among other issues. Excerpts: Since you declared your intention to run for the governorship position in your state, how far have you gone on the project? The journey has been challenging and an eye opener due to the desperation of Ogun people. It has been an exposure to all the nooks and crannies of the state. We have visited all the towns and communities in Ogun State. The journey has renewed my determination and resolve to be a weapon in the hands of the people to actualise our own dream. It afforded me the rare privilege to have first hand knowledge of efforts of the incumbent governor on infrastructural building and efforts to liberate the economy of the state. In agriculture, commerce and industry, housing, roads, health sector, the government has actually ministered golden virtues to the people. Our resolve is to build on the achievements of the incumbent government and take Ogun State to world class. It is an initiative that will bring fresh, sustainable solution to our people. How would you describe the people’s reaction to your aspiration as you have been on meet-the-people tour? Our experience has been eventful. It documents a sort of history in my mind. The people are excited and are generally identifying with our aspiration. A lot of them want to be part of our effort. A lot of women have shown interest in our programme for women and children. It gives us idea of what the people and the elite think. It shows the level of commitment on our effort. They are anxious to partner with us, especially the youths. The youths are excited with our plan to make them originators of ideas. We will back them with resources and open opportunities in their chosen careers. They love our plan to make Ogun a hub of creative industry, even in the area of fashion. A lot of fashion designers are expectant that our exposure will give them a structure that will create a fashion hall that will engage over 5,000 fashion designers across the state. Since Ogun West believe that it would produce the next governor of the state, a good number of aspirants have emerged from there as well as others from other zones. Do you think you have all it takes to come top during the primary? With God all things are possible. I have interfaced with some of the aspirants. My interest to serve Ogun people is an inspiration. I want to make a difference, take Ogun people to the next level. I want to achieve a benchmark which will be acceptable to Ogun people. I understand the creative industry. I understand agriculture, my mother was a farmer. I understand the economy that will drive Ogun. The voice of the people is the voice of God. The assessment of each of the aspirants depends on what each one will offer. I have what it takes to take Ogun to the next level. I am not losing any sleep about the primaries. People have demonstrated a lot of interest in my aspiration. In Ogun East, Ogun Central and Ogun West where I come from, people have shown love and interest in my aspirations and have promised not to disappoint. What is your agenda for the people of Ogun State? My political agenda has three main economic drivers, creative industry, agriculture and technical education. We are talking about the type of technical education that interface with the economy, propel direct output in terms of ideas to back up the economy. We will have a branded technical education that will involve all stakeholders and a coordinating body that will drive technical education. There will be jobs and start-off capital. We will pursue technical education in tertiary level hence we will involve the National Board of Technical Education (NBTE) and the National Universities Commission (NUC) to give graduated of our technical education qualifications that will qualify them for direct entry to universities. You said you said the incumbent Governor Ibikunle Amosun has done excellently well. What are the challenges you will be confronting if elected the Ogun State governor? I have gone around. His Excellency Governor Ibikunle Amosun is God sent. We are not surprised because he is home grown and he has proven so. Everything he has done, he did with love. You will wonder if some of his projects were those of the Federal Government. The Ojodu Berger-Alagbole-Akute-Lambe-Oke Aro-Ijoku-Sango Ota road and bridges, is a testimony my claim. Now, what I see is not a problem. I see opportunities that will usher in a brand new experience for the people with the right man for the job, a personality like the incumbent governor, ready and determined to follow the master plan as conceived by the Change Initiator, Ibikunle Amosun, to bring smiles in the lives of the people. You cannot re-invent the wheel. You can only embellish it. Even the opposition cannot fault the fact that Ogun State today is well positioned economically on infrastructure. it is an understatement to say that Mr Governor (Amosun) has done well in this regard. What is the state of the APC in Ogun State presently? Do you think it would retain the state? The APC at national and state levels is well positioned. Its chances are better and brighter now than before. The rate at which people identify with the party is better now than before. The APC’s chances are better now than in 2015. We will retain the state and the Federal Government without much sweat. In Ogun State, we have civilised politicians. Ogun electorate knows their onion. From my experience on the field, APC s the party everybody loves to identify with. How do you see the recent defections of politicians from APC to PDP? Politics is about people. The Ogun people and Nigerian people we know understand better why APC should be in power beyond 2019. Nigeria has witnessed the APC leadership in states and the Federal Government and its loyalty to the Nigerian people. That is why I say that our chances are better because they understand the benefit of derivable from voting the APC in 2019. You said the chances of APC are better and brighter in 2019 than 2015. Is it with crises that the party experienced at ward, local government and state congresses, as well as the National Convention which are common knowledge to Nigerians? There is no political party that will not experience one issue or the other during congresses. The experience of APC is not strange. But, a number of issues have been resolved and the party’s leadership is ready to face the bull by the horn by ensuring that APC comes back with full force. APC is waxing stronger. The experience will make several people to join us. I assure you that the electoral value of APC is higher now compared with 2015. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 