CALABAR – For members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Cross River State, the bye-election held on August 11, 2018 to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of the former member representing Obudu State constituency in the state House of Assembly, Late Hon. Steven Ukpukpen was a fore test to the 2019 elections, few months away. The PDP won that bye-election with a convincing margin. The party’s candidate Mrs. Abbey Ukpukpen scored 12,712 votes over her closest opponent, Mr. Adah Ishamali of All Progressives Congress (APC) who polled 4,345 votes. The late member was also of the PDP but the APC which is the major opposition party in the state did not take the election lying low. They wielded a lot of political weight as well and were hopeful for victory. APC among other things, counted on “native sentiments” as they noted that the PDP’s candidate; wife of the late former lawmaker, being a native of Abi local government area, would not be accepted by the people of Obudu being that she is just their in-law and did not allegedly “cherish or promote cordial relationship with her Obudu in-laws”. According to them, stories abound where she refused staying in the hometown of her husband, as such if the state governor of the PDP wants to compensate her, he should have been giving appointment into any executive position. The PDP thought differently. They stood by the governor and the party’s candidate. The governor, Prof. Ben Ayade is from the same state constituency and even with a candidate considered by the opposition as the weakest; he had to prove a point as well. The import and influence of the election were beyond the state because on the same day, three other states across the country had different bye-elections. In Bauchi and Katsina States, it was senatorial elections that were conducted. In Kogi state it was a Federal House of Representative election but in Cross River it was State Assembly election. Results of the four bye-elections showed APC winning in three other states and PDP maintaining her stronghold in Cross River State. It was not an easy victory to pull through because APC is a stronger opposition in the state now than it was in 2015; so the opposition saw it as an opportunity to prove a point that come 2019 elections, they would not only win the state but defeat the governor in his home town of Obudu. Ayade rather got a resounding victory that may have deemed the projections of the opposition and leaving them to rethink their claim of a possible victory in the 2019 polls. The APC will certainly re-strategize for the 2019 polls but PDP victory in the bye-election shows that the party may maintain her stronghold in Cross River with Governor Ayade as a candidate to reckon with. According to governor Ayade, “The election was more of a referendum on my acceptability and my stewardship to my people. There couldn’t be any more resounding affirmation than this from my people. “Basically it is more or less like a referendum because my state house member representing Obudu State Constituency in the Cross River House of Assembly died suddenly and so, the bye election held. Yes, it is a validation of my own service.” Buoyed by the bye-election victory, the governor has shown that he was not a push over and despite potent threat from the opposition APC which is the government in the Federal level, the governor’s re-election bid may take a similar pattern whereby last minute sentiments shared with the voters will mold their final opinion on the ballot. It’s a huge statement for Ayade to the hierarchy of the PDP at the national level, a political analyst noted. In a congratulatory letter signed by the state chairman of the PDP, Ntufam Edim Inok, the party noted that “the outcome of the election was indicative of the commitment, dedication and loyalty the governor has brought to bear on the party.” Inok stated that “the PDP as a party is proud to state that the entire process was a clear validation of Ayade’s acceptability and stewardship to the people of Cross River. It was also an affirmation of his presence and the mass following he enjoys back home.” He said, “The only way to show appreciation to the governor for his rapid industrialization across the state is to ensure that we equip ourselves with our Personal Voters Cards (PVCs) to vote massively to ensure his reelection in 2019.” A PDP chieftain and the Special Repertoire on Bakassi Militancy to the State Government, Chief Bassey Ndem said with the signature and quick-win projects, Governor Ben Ayade has commenced an industrial revolution in Cross River state. He said the government is doing the right thing by carefully selecting the right value added industries and taking the plunge by building them. “It will encourage other entrepreneurs and industrialists to come in either to buy or build new factories in the purpose built industrial parks that will employ Cross Riverians”. To him, the bye-election is a fresh impetus because a second term for Ayade is just proper and there after the gentleman understanding in the political circle whereby governorship seat has so far rotated from the south to the central and to the north, it will simply return to the southern senatorial district by 2023. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 