ABUJA – If the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, and the Director General of Department of State Services (DSS), Lawal Daura, could undermine the directive and power of the President, other agencies will have no choice than to follow suit. Recall that when President Muhammadu Buhari ordered the IGP to relocate to Benue to address the security challenges in the state, it was reported that he only spent few hours in the state and went to Nasarawa State against the directive. The same could be said of the sacked DSS boss, who carried out a siege in the National Assembly, without the directive of the President, as also reported. Even though the DSS boss was eventually sacked, it was gathered that other factors associated with the siege and his disobedience of the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, who was then in acting capacity as President, played a major role in his sack. The IGP on the other hand was not queried and was not penalised even when the President got to know about his flagrant disobedience to his order. This same phenomenon is currently playing out in the National Assembly, where the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is telling the lawmakers to pass a budget of N189 billion for him against the directive by President Buhari, in a letter to the Senate, where he requested for N143 billion for the conduct of the 2019 general elections. The contradiction in the figures and the controversy this development has generated in the past few weeks, is all over the public space and the presidency had not come out to correct the issue, making some political watchers to ask, whose interest or side is the government. Passing the budget, especially the way Mr. President demanded in his letter is not a rocket science issue and can’t be approached in a fire brigade manner because some pulling out need to be done by various committees responsible for all the sections mentioned in the letter. While INEC committees is presently doing their own, Security committees, Appropriation Committees and others have not started and the budget will eventually go through the Committee of the whole by both chambers before final approval. While President Buhari had in a letter to the National Assembly requested for N143 billion for the conduct of the elections and the balance of N45.6bn to be appropriated for in the 2019 budget, the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu wants the total money of N189 billion to be approved for him for the elections. Even though the summary of the total sum may be the same, but the requests are different, and this development has put the National Assembly joint committees on INEC in a fix. The argument on which of the budget to approve during debate had took party lines with lawmakers on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) called for approval of the entire sum of N189billion, while those belonging to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), insisted that the N143 billion requested by President Buhari in his virement letter should be approved, since the balance of N45.6bn will be appropriated for in the 2019 budget. On the few times the lawmakers have sat to debate the budget, it has always been one argument or the other as there is disparity between what the President presented before the National Assembly and the request of the INEC boss. The Senate Committee Chairman on INEC, Suleiman Nazif, had, however, rescued the situation the last sitting before the Sallah break, insisting that “we are not here to play politics with the 2019 election budget. No confusion, no ambiguity on submissions made and requests before us. It is our prerogative as a committee to critically look into all the details and recommend either of the two requests for approval by committee of the whole at both chambers.” When the INEC boss and the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, appeared before the lawmakers before the Sallah break, they told the committees to pass the total budget of N189 billion, but they could not summon the courage to say that they have the authorization of the President. Some political analysts have pointed out that with the way appointees of the President are contravening the directive of the President, anything is possible in this administration. The question some concern Nigerians are asking is, whose directive the appointees of the President obey and who are these strong elements in the presidency that give contrary directives? The disregard to the President’s directive, a school of thought said may not be unconnected to the way President Buhari is approaching or addressing the issue of fraud allegations against his appointees, who were either accused of embezzling money or accused of forgery. jWhile it was noted that the President has not for once, except the case of former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Babachir Lawal, which was done after much pressure, no other person, accused of fraud has been sacked under this government. This lack of firm action by the President is fuelling speculations that Buhari is not in charge, but the cabal, who are controlling the affairs of this government, hence subversion of directives. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 