AKURE – Idowu Benson, a 42-year-old man who pretended to be an hired assassin and attacked his wife, Kemi, has been arrested by the police in Ondo State. It was learnt that the suspect invaded his own home on August 3 this year at about 7.30pm and attacked his wife, cutting off her two fingers for money ritual. He was said to have put on a mask and armed with cutlass posing as an hired assassin. The attack was said to have taken place at Kardors College Street, off Akure/Owo expressway, Oba-Ile in Akure North Local Government Area of the state. Sources said Benson informed his wife when he entered the house that he was sent to kill her and hit her on the head with cutlass. One of the sources said the woman’s fingers were chopped of while she was trying to protect her head. He said the suspect even asked his wife the whereabouts of her husband during the attack and later went away with her two fingers. “The woman bled profusely until help came from neighbours who heard her distress call. She reported the case at the police station. The police detectives discovered it was an insider job. “The telephone of the suspect dropped inside the room from his pocket while he attacked his wife. After the attack and having fled with the fingers of his wife, he later returned to the house and was searching for his telephone. “The suspect was invited by the police and their investigation revealed that he masterminded the attack. He later confessed to the police,” the source said. Femi Joseph, the State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) confirmed the incident, saying the suspect confessed that he was the one who attacked his wife and blamed the devil for it. Joseph, who said the suspect denied using the fingers of his wife for money ritual, however, said the man was yet to confess where he kept the two fingers. According to the police spokesperson, the suspect attacked his wife with cutlass and attempted to kill her. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 