Hon. Adaora Onyechere, ace broadcaster cum politician, is running for the Okigwe State Constituency seat under the Action Alliance (AA). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, she unfolded her vision for her constituency, among other issues. Excerpt: What motivated you to run for the House of Assembly seat of Okigwe State Constituency? I have understudied our leadership model for a long time. When we were operating true federalism, regional development was more devoted to rural expansion and development. Over the years, the centre and states capitalise on top to bottom approach which has left little or no dividends at the bottom, thereby recycling poverty at the lowest level. In my area, Okigwe, I also have been involved in issues concerning baby factories, dilapidated schools, lack in quality teaching, loss of morals and a poor state of our public health system. I would like to be of service to my people, starting from the grassroots. Understanding the peculiarities of our challenges, being accessible and engaging them one-on-one is the first step to enhancing our lives in Okigwe and developing policies that will be sustainable over time. Okigwe needs those who are ready to serve for the sake of the people, those who will put the needs of the communities first and bring to bare policies that will enhance our lives. Why did you choose Action Alliance (AA) as a platform to actualise your dream? Whenever I tell people that I am running under Action Alliance, people see it as a political suicide. They want me to defect to any of the big, popular parties.  Those popular parties have been in power over the years, yet, our people have been remained poor. Every party started from somewhere. But most importantly, what are the ideals of the governments run by these parties? What sort of space have they created for women and youth in particular? People within the party build the structures. Their values are the symbols of sustainability. Action Alliance is committed strongly to women empowerment, development and mainstreaming women with a bottom up approach. They are devoted to mentoring and building youths with leadership from the scratch and are less particular about money politics. It is a party to watch out for and one you can consider a force to reckon with. Why do you think that Action Alliance can defeat the PDP, APC and APGA in Imo State? Every party is a major party. The PDP was in the majority for over 16 years. It took a lot of consolidation, efforts and compromise by the members to get to where they are, the strong mechanisms built at the grassroots, the alliance and uniformity at the centre, equity in interest among party members and party patriotism has been tested since then. But, it is in opposition now. Same as the APC, the current ruling party. Action Alliance has been trying to make itself strong at the grassroots and at the centre. It takes a lot of work, breaking of ties and building synergy. It has made a strong inroad into Imo State. What are your plans for your constituency? I have always believed that every act of leadership begins from where you are, how you treat people, even those who will not expect any act of kindness. I have always believed that choosing to be responsible for something is the first sign of discipline and that equates to leadership. I am deliberate about reaching out to people. The same energy and love is the drive that urges me. In specifics, Education, Women and Youth Empowerment, Social Orientation will be the areas in focus for me. How do you see Imo State under Governor Rochas Okorocha administration of? We all had a lot of expectations when APC emerged in the state under Governor Rochas Okorocha. I believe that over the years, that has become a novelty for some people, based on what they consider the shortcomings of his administration. The consideration of good leadership is when its people have been averagely lifted out of poverty, the youths thoroughly engaged, and at least 75 percent engaged actively and unemployment is reduced. It is when new policies make the lives of the people easier instead of driving them further into poverty, it is when all stakeholders are considered and everyone is carried along. These are some of the issues you will hear Imolites discuss among themselves as the key issues. Imo State is a unique state to govern. The head needs to get it right through engaging the needs and the attention of its stakeholders, the elites, the youths, women enabled with experience, those with capacity and passion to serve to bring to bear the productivity of Imo State. What is your view on the recent impeachment of the Imo Deputy Governor, Emeka Madumere, who many believe is a better option for APC instead of Uche Nwosu, Okorocha’s son-inlaw? I believe in the rule of law. I also believe that the peculiarities happening politically in Imo State is expected. It is not only peculiar to Imo State. It happened in Kano State where the deputy resigned. It happened in Benue State where the governor defected. It is happening everywhere. There is a political tsunami already towards the 2019. However, in terms of preference, I believe that young people have what it takes, the freshness of ideas, the tenacity to resist implosions, the energy to be inexhaustible. I would rather work with a young person like me who has the temerity to accommodate ideas and build a formidable team, than older people who sometimes do not look outside the recycled gathering of their cohorts, will rather be in allegiance to gratification, rather than be of service. On the better option for Imo State, I strongly believe that both men are yet to streamline their aspirations on the issues. What are they going to do to make Imo State better than they met it? What is their vision and how are they going to achieve it? What is their work plan and what sort of team do they already have in place? These are the questions they should be able to answer before even considering who is a better option. However, I know that Action Alliance has a better option in whoever emerges our candidate, which I hope the Imo people should consider. How do you see the gale of impeachments that has hit APC? It is expected. Elections are around the corner. Politicians will align where their interests are better represented. The APC is not going through an alien moment. PDP went through the same gale of defections at some point. Other parties have had stories of defections. However, how the APC re-strategises internally will speak for it at the polls come 2019. The mechanism of silence is golden for me works absolutely, because your preparations and your considerations are done discretely without so much as giving off any cues or predictable stance. APC should unite more at the state level. When the states fall apart, the centre cannot hold, not for very long. How do you see the three years of President Muhammadu Buhari administration? First, Nigeria belongs to all of us. It will take a collective effort from us all, both from those in leadership and the led. It will take the political class to sheath their egos and focus on issues and needs of their people.  The President is one man. The administration is made up of many other institutions, which include the legislature. Under the circumstances of the emergence of this administration, considering experience and capacity, they have done as much as they could. Yet, that which has been done, how much of it is considered appropriate for where Nigeria was and where it needs some to be? How much of it is considered a people’s agenda and collective effort of every region admissibly? Yes, they are in the right direction. But, does it embrace a collective objective? The President is yet to see the capacity and the essence of mainstreaming women, not just by appointments, but by including them in decision making positions and policy development. The 35 percent Affirmative Action should be a goal across all sectors. There are young women who have capacity and drive to take this nation in partnership with the men where it is supposed to be. Look at countries like Rwanda, Malawi, even Zambia and our neighbouring Ghana have continued to upscale their inclusion of women, not just into political participation, but policy development and research.  The President is yet to finish his tenure. A lot can change within the time left. Yet, he needs to be more introspective and less reactionary, focus on the needs of some of the people, rather than just been politically correct. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 