Chief Sunny Onuesoke, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said it will be a mission impossible for  the ruling  All Progressives Congress (APC) led by its National Chairman,  Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to impeach Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki. Oshiomhole  had said that APC was resolved to explore every legal means to ensure that Saraki  is impeached and replaced with a loyal party member. However,  Onuesoke, a former PDP governorship aspirant in the 2007 general election in Delta state , told newsmen in Warri that even if all the 36 states in the country are controlled by APC, they will still not have what it takes to impeach Saraki. He therefore, advised Oshiomhole to stop meddling with what goes on the National Assembly and concentrate on how to run his party affairs, stressing that it was only the lawmakers in the National Assembly that have the constitutional right to impeach Saraki. He said, “Let me give you a shocker. Among the 52 APC Senators in the House, there are 22 APC members who are yet to defect to PDP. You can quote me anywhere. Saraki still has 22 APC members who will vote for him in any impeachment move. So what are we saying?. Even if Saraki decides to go and sleep till 2019, there is no figure in the House that can be used to impeach him”. “What Oshiomhole is doing today can be likened to someone who is suffering from drug overdose. He needs to do a background check on himself. He is being carried away with  the position. This how he ran the Nigerian Labour Congress aground during his days in the NLC”. The Delta PDP chieftain added that, “For crying out loud, Oshiomhole was part of the APC who promised to take back the price of fuel to N44 per litre. He is not talking about the wrongs he has done. He is busy comparing himself with Saraki. What he is doing is like comparing apples with oranges. Oshiomhole is just a party chairman and a private individual while Saraki is a distinguished member of the national Assembly and a public figure”. “Oshiomhole has no right to speak on behalf of those senators because they were elected by Nigerians. No matter what party they belong to, they are now senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. They are not senators of APC or PDP. So I think Oshiomhole should mind his business. This was what he did when he was the leader of the NLC. Today he is doing it again.” On whether the National Assembly should reconvene and deliberate on the INEC budget, which is considered by many as a matter of urgency, Onuesoke lambasted President Muhammadu Buhari for submitting such a budget, saying the budget is over-inflated and therefore cannot be seen to be of any importance. He said, “I will not call on the Senate to reconvene just to talk about that padded INEC budget. The last election was about N110b, but today you are talking about over N242b. So I will not call on the Senate to reconvene because of that padded budget. That matter is not something we should lose sleep over.” “If you decide to share that money among all Nigerians, every person will get up to N2m. If the National Assembly is going to reconvene, they should reconvene and share two million to all Nigerians and forget about election” he said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 