Lagos – Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) has charged the Federal Government to pay the approved severance packages and entitlements of N45bn for the staff of the defunct national carrier, Nigeria Airways before the commencement of flight operations by the new national carrier, Nigeria Air. ATSSSAN also pointed out that no fewer than 960 of the slightly above 6, 000 staff of the airline at liquidation had died in pitiable circumstances since the carrier was shut in 2004 by the Federal Government. The union in a communiqué issued in Abuja at the end of its National Executive Council (NEC) meeting over the weekend, also pointed out that without the payment of the severance packages to the deserving staff, it could not guarantee a safe haven for the impending national carrier. The communiqué,  which was jointly signed by the Mr. Ahmadu Ilitrus andMr. Frances Akinjole, the President and Deputy General Secretary respectively, decried that since the approval was made by President Muhammadu Buhari over a year ago, the government had not made efforts to ensure the sum was paid to beneficiaries while the x-workers continued to die in droves. The communiqué read in part: “NEC-in-session lamented the failure of the Federal Government to settle the outstanding entitlements of ex-workers of Nigeria Airways several years after the airline was liquidated. The NEC appreciated the selfless efforts of President Mohammadu Buhari, who finally gave approval for the payment of N45bn towards the settlement of the entitlements sometimes last year, yet condemns the non-payment as at date. “The NEC resolved that the issue of payment of the severance benefits of ex-Nigeria Airways workers must be resolved immediately in order to forestall brewing labour issues that could affect, in the negative, the prospects of the recently unveiled ‘Nigeria Air’ by the Federal Government of Nigeria. ATSSSAN NEC warned that if government does not pay Nigeria Airways workers their hard earned entitlements, it will not guarantee any place for the new airline in the industry. “The NEC commiserates with the families of the over 960 Nigeria Airways workers who died in very avoidable health conditions while waiting for their entitlement and wish the souls of the departed workers a peaceful rest and the family they left behind the gratitude to carry on the struggle.” On the brewing concession, the union insisted that concessioning the mainstay of airports in Nigeria would adversely affect the others, which were sustained by the main four and lead to the crippling of FAAN as an agency. Federal government through the Minister of State, Aviation, Hadi Sirika had insisted that there was no going back on the concession of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA Lagos, Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport Abuja, Port Harcourt Airport and Aminu Kano Airport, Kano), operated by FAAN. The union insisted that if government went ahead with the plans without handling all pending labour issues including workers’ entitlements and pension rights, ATSSSAN would not guarantee industry harmony at the nation’s airport airports. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 