It is generally agreed that the government needs to do more on the auction sales so that they could have the vehicles evacuated. “We have warehouses in Owerri, Port Harcourt, Lagos, Abuja, if you enter into some of them, they are filled to the brim. One cannot drive through. These are places where one can drive in the past”, said another source. Customs to an extent started using other facilities such as training schools to store seized goods. This is because the workshops and warehouses such like those in Lagos are filled. However, with the coming in of Ali as customs boss, there had been improvement in the port system even though there were   cases of massive smuggling in the border stations and some form of underpayments by agents and importers. This informed why the arms of the Service called the Federal Operation Units (FOU), do arrest goods and containerized goods on the highways after their exit from the ports and borders. Significantly, many stakeholders believe that government needs to take urgent steps required to change the face of business in the ports. As a matter of urgency the government must review the 70 per cent increase on import duty because it has neither added value to ports business in any form nor has it aided local production. It is a primary reason for the abysmal performance in the Customs revenue for the year. Some people believe that the incessant postings in customs is a way of checking corruption, but analysts believe the postings itself is corruption. ‘Customs Is Behaving Like A Tax Collector’ Speaking on the issue, Dr. Sam Onyemelukwe, president of the International Freight Forwarders Association (IFFA), said that there is too much emphasis on revenue generation; stating that it is not wrong to pay attention to revenue generation but it is wrong to put all energy on it because there are important issues that are left unattended to. In the process He argued that the customs service is behaving as if it is a tax collector and is interested in only revenue generation, adding that the major function of the agency should be trade facilitation and not just revenue generation. He posited that if Nigerian ports are attractive, there will higher flows of cargoes into them; stating that if the customs facilitates trade, more revenue will come on its own. “If Nigerian ports are attractive, many of the cargoes that are discharged in the ports of neighbouring counties would be discharged at Nigerian ports and yielding revenue to the service. Speaking on the revenue generated by the service, Aniebonam said targets set for the customs were high and makes the agency to increase tariffs arbitrarily. He said officers and men of the service work across purposes; “When the resident customs officers release a cargo, the same cargo is also inspected by officers and men of the Federal Operations; after settling them, the importer may also face men and officers of the Comptroller General’s Taskforce. The importer may also face the customs police. All these people are chasing after the same cargo and this is wrong and a duplication of efforts. According to him, the service is not deploying men according to their capacity; adding that they need to put the right personnel in the right positions, according that if this is done, much of the efforts that are being wasted will be saved. He averred that most of the goods that find their ways into the Nigerian economy are discharged at the ports of neighbouring countries; stating that mangers of Nigerian ports should ask themselves why that situation has persisted for a long time. On whether there has been an increase or decrease in corruption at the ports, he said, “All the officers and men that are working across purposes in the ports, why are they doing that? What does that tell you about the service? All the units the comptroller general’s strike force, federal operations, post-clearance unit, customs police, resident officers, enforcement officers, TIU. What are these units for?” He submitted that the units are doing the same thing and prefer to continue to do so because of personal interest. “ “Is this not a form of corruption,” the president the International Freight Forwarders Association asked. If corruption is on the decrease at the ports, what are these units doing at the ports. Also speaking on the issue, Rev. Jonathan Nicol, president, Shippers Association, Lagos, said it is better and in the interest of the Nigerian economy for the customs to focus attention on trade facilitation and not revenue maximization, as is currently the case in the country. He stated that the comptroller- general of the Nigerian Custom Service is not a customs officer and does not understand what it takes to be one. He said the comptroller- general was sent there to restructure the service because the government noticed that certain things were not in place. The president, Shippers Association, Lagos, posited that the current managers of the service have setting high revenue target, adding, “the problem we have now with this system .is that the custom is just there towards hitting the very high target that has been set for it and they abandoned trade facilitation. They have also abandoned giving adequate training to officers and men of the service. “There’s a factory that paid N24million duty and they asking it to more; and by the time you take all the money that the industry will use, Nigerians will begin to lose their jobs and their losing their jobs all because of the high tariffs the customs is making them to pay. “The customs is using an unprofessional method; they do not care about the wellbeing of the companies; they are just interested in revenue generation. “This very unprofessional because you cannot continue to get water from a stream if you continue to undermine its source; the custom is always pressing companies for revenues and this showed that trade facilitation could have helped more to bring in more of goods because if the tariffs are high, the quantity of goods that will come in will be smaller.” Nicol argued that if the tariffs were friendly, more people would come to Nigeria to do business the customs will generate more revenue, stating that the tariffs are extremely high, thus forcing many importers to use ports in neighboring. The shipping council boss said that the situation was not sustainable, adding that if the trend were not reversed, many Nigerian companies would go out of business lead to more unemployed people in the county. He stressed the need for government to use professionals not only in the customs service but all its agencies. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 