Chibuike Chukwu Lagos – Plaudits have continued to come the way of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) following its resolve to not only train retired goalkeeper, Carl Ikeme, as a coach but to also absorb him into the Super Eagles technical crew. Recall that the former Wolverhampton Wanderers goalie call time on his career as a football after his doctor advised him to quit the game following sustained chemotherapy on his body due to leukemia he suffered. NFF’s decision has received the blessings of majority of Nigerians, who see it as one in the right direction. Speaking to DAILY INDEPENDENT, the stakeholders, who are made up of former coaches and players, applauded the decision, saying that it would motivate players to put in their best. Henry Nwosu, former captain of the Super Eagles said: “It is one thing everybody, especially former players, will be happy about. This is a good one from the NFF,” he said. Enyimba’s Yinka Onaolapo said: “It is good that NFF has come to the aid of the former goalkeeper; it will motivate us whenever we are invited to the national team.” Adegboye Onigbinde also spoke. “This is what we have been calling on them (NFF) to be doing. It is not good to play for the country and be neglected. NFF has done well,” he said. Dele Ajiboye, the goalkeeper of Plateau United, thanked the NFF for giving Ikeme another chance. He said that the gesture is encouraging. “I am a goalkeeper and a player so I know what it feels like. This is why I will thank the NFF for this on Ikeme. It is a big encouragement to all of us and upcoming ones.” Green Eagles’ veteran goalkeeper, Emmanuel Okala also commended the decision. “I thank them and encourage them to be sincere in everything. As for Ikeme’s retirement it is a minus for Nigerian football because this is a young man with so much potential,” he said. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 