 President Muhammadu Buhari will not reverse the sack of Lawal Daura, former Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Jiti Ogunye, constitutional lawyer and public analyst, has said. Following the unauthorised invasion of the National Assembly, by masked DSS operatives, Daura was relieved of his job by Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo who was in charge during President Buhari’s 10 day vacation in the UK. However, speaking in an interview with Daily Independent, Ogunye who said he believed Osinbajo has the blessing of his principal before carrying out the action, argued that reversing the sack of Daura will have lots of implications for the unity of the country especially giving the fact that a replacement in the person of Matthew Seiyefa who is from another geo-political zone of the country has been announced. ” I don’ t think the President Buhari will want to reverse the decision. Even if the president were to wish to do that, being a wise president, he will not do that in this circumstances because Nigeria also has its geo-politics. “Many decisions were taken by the Vice- President in your absence, so why will the President upon his return now reverse that particular one? Moreso, when the most senior officer at the DSS as at that time who had taken over from Daura is from another geo- political zone of the country. ” So, it is not something that the president will want to do because it has a lot of implication for the unity of the country, inter-ethnic solidarity, for cohesion in his government and for national survival. “So i think that decision must have earned the blessing of the president. In any case, it’s a great decision. The appointment of DSS DG is as important as appointment of Ministers ” So, it’s like the Acting President removing Ministers in the absence of the president. So, if they weren’t on the same page, i doubt of Osinbajo could have taken that decision regardless of the President,” he said. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 