Samuel Ortom, Benue State governor, spoke to newsmen on reasons for his recent defection from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the plot by the Economic and Financial Crimes omission (EFCC) to investigate his security vote and the unfolding drama in his state. TOR VANDE-ACKA brings an excepts: Sir, during your broadcast to the people of the state, you said there was a grand design to destabilise the state. How sure are you on this? It is my duty to alert Benue people and Nigerians that this is a deliberate plan to destabilise the state. What we saw in the Assembly is the first phase of trying to do away with the legitimate leadership of the Assembly, and the illegality that followed it by getting eight members under the cover of the Nigeria Police on instruction of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and Director General (DG) Department of State Security (DSS). I believe President Muhammadu Buhari is not aware of this, going by the statement on the Benue matter. He exonerated himself. So, I think what is remaining is for him (Buhari) to call the IGP and DG, SS who are his appointees to order and direct them to do the needful because all of us are on oath to protect the Constitution of the Federal  Republic of Nigeria. I expect nothing more than that. I am not asking for too much. I am not asking for any extraordinary measure to be taken in Benue State. But, let the right thing be done. So, my duty is to alert those who are charged with the responsibility of ensuring there is peace. If they derail, it is my duty to point out to them (security agencies) and also to point it out to Mr President. I am concerned about this because of what happened in the Assembly. I have summoned an emergency Security Council meeting and all these issues will be tabled. Thereafter, I will make a security report to Mr. President, pointing out all these to him. So, we are being proactive because this is the plan of the Senator (Akume) to collaborate with some people to ensure that Benue does not know peace. We were told from my local government, Guma, LG, however that the Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) is doing well and we must commend Mr. President for the operation. They are doing well. They succeeded in chasing away all the herdsmen and their militia. But, as at yesterday (last Tuesday), when this plan B (the impeachment) failed, the herdsmen have started returning to the state. The report I got from the chairman of my LG, more than 10,000 herds of cattle and strange faces were seen in Guma. This is a proof and I hope that security agencies will take up the matter. I have already communicated the matter to the Commander of OPWS and I think that they will continue to do the good job that they are doing You said the EFCC may have instituted a probe against you over security votes paid to your administration in the last three years. Can you shed more light on this? As for me, I am being investigated. That is why I am asking: How can you single me out and begin to investigate me? If you are talking about investigating security votes, I am not afraid of that. I have not committed any crime. The records are there, but the investigation should start from 1999 when Akume was here (as governor of the state). And now after leaving office, he should also be prosecuted. I am aware that he has an EFCC file in which he was accused of certain issues and should have been investigated. So, if you talk about security votes, it should start from 1999. Let them investigate and bring that out too, continue from 2007 to 2015 when I took over. When you leave 1999 and take on me in 2015 to 2018, that is what is strange. I want the whole world to know, it is about persecution. EFCC should not be used as a tool of the APC (All Progressives Congress) to intimidate us. Another question is: Why did this not come out all the three years I have been in government? Why did they wait until I defected to PDP? This is a clear case of witch-hunt. They should do justice to all and investigate all. But, I can say again: What of the 36 states? How about the Presidency itself? The presidential spokesman came out and clearly said there is no way you investigate security votes and that nobody can disclosed his security votes because the life of one persons means a lot. On the security challenges we have, we have always been proactive and I challenge EFCC to brings the records of other governors in Nigeria, including those in the APC so that we can prove whether I have done anything wrong and let them prove whether I have taken one naira, diverted it for my personal gains. That is the point we are making. Nobody should be a sacred cow. They should come out clean. I am just being blackmailed, intimidated and persecuted for two reasons; one, we enacted the Prohibition of Open Grazing Law, which to Benue State is the panacea to herdsmen/farmers crisis. It is a Benue State law and a popular demand of the people of Benue people that it should be law. And for me, democracy is about the majority of the people and I have no regrets. So, let them go ahead and do whatever they want to do. But, the day of reckoning will surely come. The second is that I have defected to the PDP. I am a free citizen of this country and I have contributed immensely to the political development and building of the political dispensation of this country. I have served in various political parties from National Centre Party of Nigeria (NCPN) to All Peoples Party (APP), to PDP and then to APC, at the local, state and national levels. So, I should be free to express myself. I know it is not a crime for anyone to defect to another political party. We have freedom of operation, freedom of speech and of expression. That includes freedom of association with any political association. As you know, there is no permanent enemy in politics, but permanent interests. But, once our interest is not protected in a particular political party, you find where your interest can be protected. At this time, the interest of Benue people is not being protected by the APC. So, that is why I decided to join the PDP that has been rebranded, has been reformed, that has been restructured to meet the yearnings and aspirations of the Nigerian people. And I think Benue and myself are safer in PDP today and they will protect our interest. But, if by tomorrow, PDP begins the kind of impunity that they have in APC now, I will still tell them I cannot continue with them and that is my position. On what happened in the state House of Assembly in the last two weeks, how do you think the crisis will be brought to an end? You know, this is a political time even my people ask me what proof I have that the senator is involved. In the Assembly, you are aware that an injunction was issued by the Chief Judge of the State. But, you saw what happened. It was disregarded by the Police, the DSS (Directorate of State Security), they went on to enforce illegality in the Assembly. And the Assembly has returned to the court because we are law abiding citizens. I have told them that there is need to find a legal means of pressing on with our case. That is ongoing. I believe that the impeached Speaker and other members who flouted the court order are on the run. I understand there are contempt proceedings against them. But, on our own side too, we are taking every necessary legal step against whoever is trying to destabilise the state. Do you think the Police may have a hand in the plot to destabilise the state? Of course, there is no doubt that the Police are collaborating with our enemies to destabilise the state. As you can see, the state Assembly is sealed. When I spoke to the Commissioner of Police, he told me it was ‘order from above’ and that he could not reverse it until he goes to Abuja. The Police are not elected members of the House of Assembly. Legitimate people were elected by Benue State and there is no crisis in the Assembly; 22 against eight members. It is very clear that the 22 have taken leadership. As at today, the Assembly members who are legitimately elected by the people to conduct the affairs of the Assembly are stopped from performing their rightful duties. They have gone to court. The Attorney-General has already petitioned the Police Service Commission (PSC) in Abuja. I expect that they will respond and ensure that they remove these security men and this illegality that is going on and is being enforces by the Police. We are waiting, but meanwhile, the state government is already in court to try and secure an injunction. I want to say that the sealing of the Assembly by the Police is illegal. They have no right to do that. But, they intend to cause disaffection in the state and perpetuate anarchy, which is wrong. The duty of the police is to enforce the law and to ensure peace for the people. That is their work. There work is not to preside over the Assembly. So, it is condemnable. They are trying to take over the Assembly and this will not be accepted. Arising from what Mr. President said, I believe that he will definitely call them to order because I am sure the President is not aware of the illegality that is being perpetrated by the police and the DG, Department of State Security (DSS). comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 