LAGOS – Indications emerged yesterday that the crisis rocking the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) may deepen as the Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEAC), said it would soon expel its members in the employ of the company from the union. Comrade Chris Okonkwo, President of the Association, who conveyed the expulsion notice in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the development was necessary in view of their blatant violations of the rules and collusion with the Managing Director of the company to foul the laws of the union. Okonkwo, who maintained that the association’s members in TCN had been suspended since April 30,this year due to anti-union activities, which they could not hitherto clear themselves, wondered why they were up in arms against the national body of the union in its current moves to check the excesses of the helmsman of the transmission company. Expressing regret that it was only the TCN’s chapter out of 16 that was crying foul over the activities of the national union in the power union, Okonkwo accused the former of being induced by the company’s boss to launch the onslaught against it. Okonkwo, who described the suspended members as “sell-outs,” said the union would not rest on its oars in ensuring principles were not compromised and labour laws not blatantly violated at TCN by its current boss. Employees at the headquarters of TCN, who are members of SSAEAC, had last week in Abuja said the association’s national body was currently plotting to disrupt improvement witnessed in power transmission across the country for personal interests. The national body of SSAEAC had recently threatened to shut down the power sector over alleged breakdown of law and order by Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of TCN, Usman Gur Mohammed. But the TCN branch of the association, headed by Dairo Abidemi dissociated itself from the national body over what he described as “unjustifiable rumours peddled by the national union”. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 