ABUJA – Amidst speculations that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has earmarked N700 million to cater for election observers in 2019, Chairman of the Commission, Mahmood Yakubu, has ruled out any financial provisions for observers. He insisted that all the Commission would provide for them would be just kits, ranging from face caps, vests and car stickers as a means of identification on the election days. He said, “I have had this question that we have prepared budget for international observers, there is no such thing. There is no line in the budget for international observers. What we are providing for are the kits, you know the jackets, caps, publication, that we give to international observers, the stickers that are fixed on their cars to be identified on Election Day. “This is the standard practice. Each country that organises elections provides these facilities for those who monitor elections. But their accommodation, transportation will be borne by various election monitoring groups and not by the Nigerian government”. Mahmood who was spotted at the Presidential Villa on Friday, shortly after a meeting with the Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Foreign Affairs, said irrespective of the delays in passing the virement before the National Assembly, the dates outlined for the elections to take place next year remains sacrosanct. According to him, over 80 million Nigerians have so far registered to vote in next year’s polls, even though the continuous voters’ registration exercise was extended till August 31st. On reasons behind his visit to the State House, he explained that it had nothing to do with politicking, rather plans to aid Guinea Bissau conduct voters registration exercise informed the visit. According to the INEC boss, there are no discrepancies in the virement presented by the executive for the conduct of the 2019 elections, the actual funds requested for is N189.2 billion. “I have said this over and over again, there are no conditions under which elections should be postponed, under section 26 of the Electoral Act, the date is formed and fixed, February 16, 2019. We issued the timetable way in advance for the very first time in the history of our nation; citizens of Nigeria know when elections will take place one year in advance. It has never happen before. “Secondly, also for the very first time in the history of our country, that citizens know the budget of the electoral commission, that budget has never been defended before the National Assembly, as citizens know line by line how much the commission proposed, what the money is going to be spent on, I think I am very happy with this process,” he told State House correspondents. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 