GOMBE – Hon. Ahmed Usman Haruna (APC), the Minority Leader, Gombe State House of Assembly, has formally declared his defection to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ahmed made the declaration during the House plenary where he said the decision followed the injustice that characterised the APC in the state. He said after the APC’s faulty congresses, the party slammed an unjustified suspension to him on  May 30 through blackmail because of his stand for justice. He explained that after seeking justice through a letter he wrote to the national office of the APC, he was denied justice for the undemocratic suspension which led him to take the decision to defect to PDP. He said he had come to the realisation that the APC has no respect for its constitution and the country’s Constitution and that its manifesto was merely for campaign purposes. Hon. Ahmed said, “I will not allow myself to be ridiculed or rubbished. I therefore announce my defection to the PDP.” Hon. Abubakar Nasiru Nono, the Speaker, and the Hon. Amos Fabulous, Majority Leader, while welcoming him, assured him that he and his constituency would never regret such a decision. Hon. Fabulous particularly described him as a material that the PDP would love to have in its fold. He thereafter invited Ahmed to the State PDP Secretariat for his ‘baptism’ of fire into the PDP. However, reacting to the development, Hon. Naomi Joel Awak, the Gombe State APC Public Relations Officer (PRO), described the defection as not having any negative effect on the APC. She said the likes of Hon. Ahmed were only used by the opposition to destroy the APC, but having realised their failure, Hon. Ahmed has now returned to where he belonged. She said, “His likes are not truly APC members and I can boldly tell you that with or without Hon. Ahmed in our party, we will win elections in Gombe State and Nigeria in 2019.” 4 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 