What was supposed to be one of the worst days for democracy in Nigeria turned out to be one of the best with the actions of Acting President Yemi Osinbajo and Boma Goodhead. While Osinbajo fired the Director General of the Department of State Security Services (DSS), Lawal Daura, who mobilised officers to invade the National Assembly, Boma was the bold and courageous woman who challenged men of the DSS to shoot her. The invasion of Nigeria’s National Assembly/Legislative arm of government was carried out on Tuesday, August 7 by operatives of the Department of State Security Services. Of all the lawmakers that partook in the struggle in ensuring that the siege was lifted, Boma stood out for her uncommon bravery to confront the DSS officials. What many people do not know is that this is not the first time the lawmaker would look DSS and police personnel in their faces. Records have it that when Asari Dokubo was arraigned in Abuja during his incarceration, Boma had confronted DSS operatives who brought him to court. Also, during Goodluck Jonathan’s regime, Boma challenged the men of the Nigerian Police Force and refused to give up despite being rumpled. Boma is said to be Asari Dokubo’s sister. Dokubo is the leader of the fearless Ijaw Youth Council. Boma, who hails from Buguma city in Asari Toru Local Government Area of Rivers State, was born in 1970. It was gathered that her father, Melford Dokubo Goodhead, who is now a retired Justice, is one of the fearless Justices that Nigeria has produced. Thus, Boma who graduated from the University of Port Harcourt is a product of the Niger Delta struggle. She had on three occasions contested and lost in a bid to represent her constituency in the Rivers State House of Assembly. But now, she is a member of the House of Representatives under the Peoples Democratic Party. It was gathered that she eventually emerged in 2015 due to the influence of her brother, Asari Dokubo. Her audacity to challenge the DSS operatives received commendation from prominent Nigerians and social media users. Senate President Bukola Saraki specifically described Boma’s action as a pointer that women were ripe enough to lead Nigeria. He said: “Among the many that come up for special mention, I believe that Hon. Boma Goodhead, a member of the House of Representatives, stands out. “She looked a masked security operative in the eye and dared him to shoot. She let it be known that Nigerians would not stand for the barricade at the National Assembly and that we would not be cowed.” A hero is born! Welcoming the hero of democracy Hon. Boma Goodhead to our home.” Agbo Emmanuel, MFR @DrAgboEmmanuel said: “While President Buhari on an international stage relegated his own wife to the kitchen, living room and the other room, Hon. Boma Goodhead of @OfficialPDPNig displayed why our party will never underestimate the role of Nigerian women in building our nation.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 