Lagos – Emmanuel Amuneke unveiled as Tanzania’s Taifa Stars Chief Coach on Monday will kick off his appointment with the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Uganda away on September 07, 2018. Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), while unveiling him said that apart from the Taifa Stars job, Amuneke will also oversee their U-17 team. TFF President, Wallace Karia, who said that they chose Amuneke because “he is a legend of African football”, disclosed that Amuneke’s first job will be the Taifa Stars Africa Cup of Nations qualifier in September. However, Amuneke, on Tuesday said that he accepted the job because he shared the same ideas with the country`s football philosophy. He told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the telephone from Dar- es-Salam, that he was grateful to the Tanzanian FA for choosing him. “We are happy that the ideas that they have is the same with what I have in mind. Hopefully and collectively, we will be able to see how Tanzanian football can grow and develop,’’ he said. Amuneke said that there was need to develop young players. “African football is laying emphasis on developing young players and that is the direction the Tanzanian football has taken to develop. “They have good players. Some are playing in Europe and others are playing at home. “We have our first game against Uganda in September and we will look at our team to improve on it. Work has already started and we will do our best,’’ he said. It would be recalled that Amuneke was a member of FIFA’s study group at the recent World Cup in Russia, where he joined other renowned names in the game to analyse matches and present technical reports. During the assignment in Russia the player-turned-coach, whose first coaching jobs were in Nigeria’s domestic league with Boys of Lagos and Ocean Boys of Brass, worked with the likes of Marco van Basten and Carlos Alberto Parreira. The former Nigerian and Barcelona winger assured that through hard work, discipline and collective efforts, he would move Tanzanian football forward. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 