Prof. Simon Irtwange, Chairman, Technical Committee of the Nigerian Yam Export Programme, said on Thursday that that the business was a continuous exercise but was being done quietly because it was private sector-driven. Irtwange made the remark in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. According to him, the entire initiative for the Nigerian yam export is private sector-driven and those in the export business have not relented. “The export of yam from Nigeria is still going on. “It has not stopped because of the challenges faced with the flag-off consignment and the time the committee is taking to fine-tune the processes to overcome those challenges. “Yam export is private sector-driven and the few people involved are trying to fulfil their obligations to yam consumers abroad. “When the challenges we are working on are taken care of and the government angle is tidied up, many people will come on board and there will be exportation of yam on a large scale,’’ he said. Irtwange said that for yam export to happen in the magnitude envisaged, the government needed to play a major role in facilitating a policy on the exportation of agricultural produce. He said that yam exporters were not waiting for the committee to complete their work and facilitate the nine million seedlings that would be given to farmers under the Anchor Borrowers Programmme (ABP) in 2019. Irtwange said that exporting yam on smaller scale was not the same as doing it on a large scale. He said that the seedlings, which would be sold to the farmers under the ABP, would go first to satisfy local consumption. The chairman said that the harvest from the seedlings would be processed into different yam value chains that would extend its storage live and make it available and cheaper, before the next yam planting season. Irtwange said that the committee was looking at the general view of how yam for local consumption and export would be handled corporately to benefit farmers, processors, local and foreign consumers. He said the committee was also working to ensure yam export earned the nation the desired foreign exchange. The chairman said that as the committee’s work progressed, yam farmers, marketers, consumers, processors, aggregators and the government would all be better off. He said that the committee also expected the contribution of yam export in agriculture GDP figures to rise. NAN reports that the Technical Committee on Nigerian Yam Export Programme will make available nine million improved yam seedlings to farmers in the first quarter of 2019. The yam seedlings will be facilitated by the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 