Lagos – Some Nigerian coaches have applauded the appointment of Emmanuel Amuneke as the Coach of Tanzania national team, the Taifa Stars. The coaches in separate interviews believe that the former Nigerian international would make a success of his new assignment and his appointment confirms the inherent talennts abound in the country. Amuneke was unveiled as Tanzanian manager on Monday and was handed a two-year contract with an option for extension. Coach Ike Shorunmu, former goalkeeper coach of the Super Eagles, noted that Amuneke’s appointment had further lifted the country’s image in the continent, noting that the former player would succeed. “It is a good one and it has boosted our profile in Africa. We have done it before through Keshi and Chukwu and we can still do it again. I think he has what it takes to succeed,” Shorunmu said. Speaking similarly, Coach Zachary applauded the appointment as a good one and said that Tanzanians had shown the kind of coaching talents available in Nigeria, advising the NFF to always look within whenever the need arises. “You know we don’t normally value what we have in this part of the world. The Tanzanians and indeed all other African countries have been showing us what we are not seen and we should always look within. I congratulate him and wish him success.” Adegboye Onigbinde noted that the NFF does not make use of what they have, questioning rather rhetorically what had become of his 25 –year experience to the country. “I have congratulated him already and will only say that Nigeria is a different country when it comes to utilising opportunities. I served in CAF and also coached for 25 years; what are all the experiences for? Amuneke has shown that we can do better than we are doing. I know he will succeed.” Also Daniel Amokachi has congratulated him on being named Tanzania head coach, after initial reports suggested that the former had been appointed. The Tanzania Football Federation unveiled Amunike in Dar es Salaam, with the 47-year-old being handed a two-year deal to replace out-of-contract Salum Mayanga. However, preceding Amunike’s revelation, the Tanzanian media had been abuzz with rumours that another Nigerian great – Amokachi – has been appointed. The speculation prompted the KweséESPN pundit to dismiss the rumours, and to congratulate Amunike. “What’s up guys, [it’s] not me,” he wrote on his @FrenzziiiBull Twitter handle. “It’s my bro Emmanuel Amunike, had the discussion with him a week ago about him taking over as head coach of the Tanzanian national team. “Congratulations bro, you have all it takes to succeed.” Amokachi and Amunike were teammates together as Nigeria clinched the 1994 African Cup of Nations and the Olympic gold medal in 1996. Both have also been involved in the coaching set-up for the Super Eagles national sides at various age levels. Amunike won the U-17 World Cup with Nigeria in 2015, and was recently head coach of Sudan’s Al Khartoum SC. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 