Lagos – Festus Keyamo has denied the existence of a Supreme Court order or any other order restraining Amaju Pinnick from acting as president of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). He also denied the existence of any order of the Supreme Court or any order of any court in the country installing Chris Giwa as president of the NFF. Chris Giwa, with the support of Solomon Dalung, Sports Minister, has been laying claim to the leadership position of the NFF on the premise of August 26, 2014 election. In fact, Giwa has usurped the the NFF office in Abuja on the premise of a Supreme court order installing him as president of the NFF. Keyamo, who is Pinnick’s lawyer, while denying the existence of any order of the court restraining Pinnick from acting as president of the NFF, challenge anyone with any such order to publish same. He stated on Sunday that the Supreme Court only relisted the case by remitting it to the Federal High Court for expeditious determination on its merits, adding that the court declined the motion brought by the plaintiffs in the matter to invoke its general powers under section 22 of the Supreme Court Act to deal with the substantive suit. According to Keyamo, the Supreme Court, while delivering judgement, restored all orders made in the proceedings in the suit, irrespective of the fact that the matter may be heard de novo (afresh) before another Judge. “What is important to note is that, as at the time the CJN made the pronouncement, there were five‘previous’ orders existing at the Federal High Court,” stated Keyamo, giving the orders as,“The Order dated 19th day of September, 2014, restraining the defendants from proceeding with the Congress. “The order dated 23rd day of October, 2014 nullifying or setting aside the elections conducted into the Executive Committee/Board of the NFF. “The order dated 30th day of October, 2014, setting aside all the previous orders made above. “The order dated 8th day of April, 2016, relisting the case and restoring all orders made by the court when the case was withdrawn on 30th day of October, 2014. “The order dated 14th day of April, 2016 giving leave for NFF to appeal the order made on 8th day of April, 2016 and affirming unequivocally that the orders restored when relisting the case by the court order of 8th day of April 2016 were the orders made by the court when the case was withdrawn on 30th day October 2014 which stated that, order 50 Rule 2 of the Federal High Court Rules 2009’ the Plaintiff having withdrawn the suit, all orders  made previously including the dissolution of the Executive Committee (Board of) Nigeria Football Federation vide order of this honourable court dated 23rd October, 2014 seizes to have life and this matter stands struck out.” Keyamo stated that going by the Supreme Court relisting order, the order that should subsist is the fifth one which quashed all previous orders dissolving the board of the NFF. Keyamo asked that if Giwa had a Supreme Court order installing him as NFF president, why would he go back to the “Federal High Court to surreptitiously procure a fresh Ex Parte Order dated June 5, 2018 for the same purpose and containing reliefs totally different from the “previous” orders of 19th day of September 2014? Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 