Abuja – The Incorporated Trustees of Dynamic Patriotic Citizens Foundation has approached the Federal High Court, Abuja, seeking an order declaring the seat of former Minority Leader of the Senate, Godswill Akpabio, vacant. The suit was filed barely 24 hours after Justice Othman Musa of High Court of the Federal Capital Territory restrained Senate President Bukola Saraki from declaring Akpabio’s seat vacant. Be that as it may, the instant suit is further praying for a declaration that Akpabio had lost his seat as a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by virtue of his defection from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC) on August 8, 2018. The suit, marked FHC/ABJ/CS/887/2018, was filed on behalf of the group by Tolu Babalaye. Joined in the suit as defendants are the Senate; the Senate President; the Deputy Senate President; the Clerk of the National Assembly; Senator Godswill Akpabio, and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Specifically, the plaintiff wants the court to declare the seat of Akpabio vacant, and for an order directing INEC to conduct a by-election within 90 days into the vacant seat. A 12-paragraph affidavit in support of the suit, deposed to by one Akinola Apanisile, averred that Akpabio, being a legal practitioner, was aware of the consequences of his defection and also the fact that he ought not to have defected from the party that sponsored him into the Senate. The deponent claimed that Akpabio did not state or show that his defection from the PDP to the APC was as a result of division, crisis, or faction in his former party, which did not allow him to function properly as a member of the party and as a senator. It was stated that Akpabio’s reason for cross carpeting was that “President Muhammadu Buhari is a man of integrity and a nationalist”. Apanisile contended that the former Minority Leader defected from the PDP to the APC without any division, crisis or faction in the PDP as envisaged by the proviso to section 68(1) (g) of the 1999 constitution. The group formulated a single issue for determination by the court, to wit: “Whether or not by virtue of the provisions of section 68(1) (g) of Nigerian constitution (as altered), and in view of the decision of the Supreme Court in the case law of Hon. Ifedayo Sunday Abegunde V Ondo State House of Assembly and 12 others (2015) LPELR -24588, which sufficiently interpreted the said section 68(1) (g), Akpabio who defected from the PDP to the APC, on August 8, 2018,  without any division, crisis or faction in the PDP as envisaged by the proviso to section 68(1) (g) of the 1999 constitution and interpreted in Hon. Ifedayo Abegunde’s case, has not lost his seat as a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and, therefore, liable to be kicked out by the Nigerian Senate. No date has been fixed for the hearing of the case. However, at the High Court of FCT, Justice Musa, on Wednesday, had ordered Saraki not to impede Senator Akpabio’s access to the Senate building or take any action aimed at “overreaching his privileges and rights as a senator pending the determination of the originating summons of the applicant.” Akpabio secured the ex parte order through his lawyers, Chikaosolu Ojukwu and Ebere Ahanonu. Consequently, Justice Musa ordered that the originating summons and other processes be served on Saraki through either the Clerk of the National Assembly, Clerk of the Senate or any other Clerk or reasonable staff of the National Assembly at the assembly complex. The suit was adjourned to August 29 for further hearing. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 