Ilorin – Speaker of the Kwara State House of Assembly, Ali Ahmad has stated that the invasion of the National Assembly by masked security agents on Tuesday has put democracy in the country in danger. Ahmad,  in an interview with newsmen in Ilorin,  said the invasion was nasty and threatens future of the nation’s democracy. He said the development gave a signal that the next year general elections may be fraught with desperate illegal actions that would render the elections incredible, less free and unfair The Speaker who said what happened at the National should be a concern of every Nigerians urged the people to rise in defence of democracy, saying no foreign government could do it better as they could. He commended the Vice President, Yemi  Osinbajo, for action taken to sack the Director-General of the Department of State Security (DSS)  but asked him to ensure that all other culprits are brought to book. He stated: “It’s good the Acting President has risen to the occasion to clear his name.  This is the time for every Nigerian to start talking about the political situation in the country in the interest of the nation’s democracy. It is not until the nation’s democracy crumble that groups and individuals will start condemning the situation.  We should stop this gradual desecration of the nation’s democracy. “I am from Kwara state and I am the Speaker of the Kwara state House of Assembly and I love Bukola Saraki,  the Senate President. But I will still talk if it is another person that is involved. If you want to sack Saraki go and get the number required by law or you reconvene the Senate properly. If not that it should not be by force. “I have seen so many lawmakers even APC members in the  National Assembly and they have condemned the disgrace and embarrassment that presented itself in the National Assembly today. “Every Nigerian should stand up, silence is no longer golden. We can solve these issues by ourselves,  you don’t need a foreign government to solve it for us. We should reject it in its entirety. “The Acting President should take disciplinary action against everyone that had knowledge of the issue. He can use the Inspector-General of Police to unravel everyone involved. This is not about Saraki. The proper thing to do is to follow the due process and abide by the rules. “My fear is for 2019; will credible and fair election hold? These are questions I cannot answer too; we should not fool ourselves.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 