Sudan’s ruling party said on Friday it would back its leader President Omar al-Bashir as a candidate in the 2020 election, state news agency SUNA reported, a move that would require a constitutional amendment. Bashir, who has been in power for nearly 30 years and is wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) for war crimes, has previously said he will step down in 2020 and has not explicitly stated his intention to run again. “The Shura Council (of the National Congress party) recognized Field Marshal Omar al-Bashir as candidate for president in the 2020 election and has directed the relevant bodies to carry out the necessary measures for this,” SUNA reported. Sudan’s constitution, amended in 2005, limits a president to two terms. Another change to the constitution would be required to allow Bashir to serve another term. The Islamist and former army officer came to power via a military coup in 1989. He won elections in 2010 and 2015 after the constitution was changed following a peace agreement with southern rebels. The ICC indicted Bashir in 2008 over killings and persecution in Sudan’s Darfur province between 2003 and 2008. The U. S. lifted 20 years of economic sanctions against Sudan in October, but the country remains on the U.S. list of state sponsors of terrorism, which means a ban on weapons sales and restrictions on U.S. aid. The country is in economic crisis, with the Sudanese pound’s value plummeting. Protests broke out over rising prices throughout the country in January. Sudan has struggled economically since the oil-rich south seceded in 2011. On Friday, Sudan’s Central Bureau of Statistics said inflation had risen in July to an annual 63.94 percent. Sudan’s opposition says Bashir must go to improve the country’s image abroad and attract crucial investment and aid. NAN reports that Al-Bashir was elected president (with a five-year term) in the 1996 national election and Hassan al-Turabi was elected to a seat in the National Assembly where he served as speaker of the National Assembly “during the 1990s.” In 1998, al-Bashir and the Presidential Committee put into effect a new constitution, allowing limited political associations in opposition to al-Bashir’s National Congress Party and his supporters to be formed. On Dec. 12, 1999, al-Bashir sent troops and tanks against parliament and ousted Hassan al-Turabi, the speaker of parliament, in a palace coup. He was reelected by popular vote for a five-year term in presidential elections held on Dec. 13 and Dec. 23, 2000. From 2005 to 2010 a transitional government was set up under a 2005 peace accord that ended more than two decades of north–south civil war and saw the formation of a power-sharing agreement between Salva Kiir’s SPLM and Al Bashir’s National Congress Party (NCP). In the first multi-party election, Al Bashir was reelected president in the 2010 presidential election;while Salva Kiir, the leader of the former rebel Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM), won re-election in the presidential poll in what was Sudan’s semi-autonomous southern region. These elections were agreed on earlier in the 2005 peace accord that ended more than two decades of north-south civil war. Bashir won 68 per cent of the popular vote in the 2010 election. However, the election was marked by corruption, intimidation, and inequality. Western observers, from the EU and the Carter Centre, criticised the polls as “not meeting international standards. ” Candidates opposed to the SPLM said they were often detained, or stopped from campaigning. Sudan Democracy First, an umbrella organisation in the north, put forward what it called strong evidence of rigging by al-Bashir’s National Congress Party. The Sudanese Network for Democracy and Elections (Sunde) spoke of harassment and intimidation in the south, by the security forces of the SPLM. Al-Bashir has achieved economic growth in Sudan. This was pushed further by the drilling and extraction of oil. However, economic growth has not been shared by all. Headline inflation in 2012 approached the threshold of chronic inflation (period average 36 per cent), about 11 percentage points up from the budget projection of 2012 reflecting the combined effects of inflationary financing, the depreciation of the exchange rate, and the continued removal of subsidies, as well as high food and energy prices. This economic downturn prompted cost of living riots that erupted into Arab Spring-style anti-government demonstrations; also it aroused the discontent of the Sudanese Worker’s Trade Union Federation , which threatened to hold nationwide strikes in support of higher wages. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 