Lagos – According to DAILY INDEPENDENT research, clubs in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) spend an average of N2 million monthly, on the minimum, to feed players. This is besides spending on medical conditions that could intermittently come as a result of the rigours of training. It was further gathered that but for a period a club is observing break, the players and officials are always in camp preparatory to their next engagement. For instance, since the end of the World Cup in France, players and officials of the NPFL sides have been in camp in anticipation of their week 25 round of matches. The players and officials have remained hopeful for the restart since then following a hitherto indefinite suspension of affairs due to the ongoing leadership issues at the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) between President Amaju Pinnick and Chris Giwa. Spanning over a month since the players and officials of the clubs regrouped, the players have been in camp with attendant costs to the already lean purses of the clubs, whose major financials are the various state governments, except the few ones owned privately. Speaking on the delayed resumption of the league, Ngozi Elechi, the coach of Go Round of Omoku in Rivers State, said that the players and officials had been hoping that the league resumes this weekend to enable players go back to the field. “We are ready and are hoping that the league starts this weekend. And we also hope that when we restart the league at home to Katsina United, we will win.” Speaking to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, a player of Akwa United Football Club said that they have been in camp for over a month. He noted that the players and officials were uncomfortable with the situation, saying that the players were not contented with trainings without action. “It is not as if we did not observe break during the World Cup; we did but we resumed very early to prepare for the remaining matches because you know that we are fighting for the league. We have been feeding and what can we do. The players are hungry to start playing once again and we hope it will start very soon,” he noted. Apart from the costs of keeping the players without matches, it is obviously right to say that the same challenges threatening Nigerian clubs in the continent will most certainly rear their heads again, as the league will be starting and ending at the time most other leagues in Africa will be on. For instance, with 14 rounds of matches to go for the season, it is obvious that the league will be ending beyond even January of 2019, meaning that it will end and observe break in the thick of continental action. Nigerian club sides have complained that the hitherto irregular league calendar has accounted for why they struggle in the continent. Enyimba, for example, are Nigeria’s sole remainder in the continental campaign and they have said that their not-too-impressive performance in the CAF Confederation Cup could not be unconnected to their domestic inactivity. The club has depended solely on their training regimes to confront other clubs. They recently lost 0-2 to Williamsville AC (WAC) of Cote d’Ivoire in Abidjan with the players lamenting that the continued postponement of the league affected their performances, more so as their conquerors are not doing well in their league. WAC are eighth in their domestic league after having won only five matches in the 26-week-old 14-team league. In the Kenya Premier League, for example, they have played 23 rounds of matches in the 18-team league. They are left with 11 rounds of matches and are speculating that the league will end before the end of November in order to give room for a restart in January. The scenario means that the clubs from the country will enjoy a huge match-fitness going into the continent. Similarly, the Professional Soccer League (PSL) of South Africa is in its match-day two. By the time the CAF Champions League and the CAF Confederation Cup hostilities will begin, the league would have hit up and give the players’ competitive edge over others like those from the Nigerian League. Also, DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that organisers of Ghana Premier League have pegged November as the end time for the current season and scheduled December as the start of their new season. That will also mean that the players of their clubs in continental competitions will be boosted. But with the NPFL hitherto hoping to start this weekend, stakeholders have risen to condemn the continued postponement and its effects on the overall development of football in the country and the players generally. Edema Fuludu, one of the league’s veterans and former BCC Lions of Gboko star, was quoted as saying that the organisers of the league should have had the interest of the players at heart and called off the postponement earlier. He said that the players were at the receiving end of the whole development, urging the authorities to prioritise their careers. “If we say that we are running a league, we must make sure that we have continues pool of players and quality ones for that matter. With the way things are going, how can we have such quality players? The players are the ones suffering and their careers are at risk. “Despite whatever that might be the problem, these players should be considered unless we have another league apart from this one,” Fuludu was quoted as saying. Now with wait for the league to start, some observers have feared the financial implication on the part of the management of the club. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered from club sources that some management are fearing that state governments, the owners of the clubs, might starve them of funds due to the escalating political situation in the country. It has been gathered from a source from one of the clubs in the South East that the state government had refused all overtures from the club management for funds in the period spanning the postponement, leading to some of the players seeking fresh challenges outside. Our source said that the management of the club, which recently won the league title, has remained in limbo over the government’s refusal to guarantee funds for proper training ahead of resumption. Similarly, the problem of logistics will further be heightened with the late resumption of the league after the long break. It is likely that there will be more midweek matches if the league will end at a record time. Now for a club to finish Sunday matches in Uyo, for example, and the next fixture on Wednesday is scheduled for Maiduguri, it means that they must leave the following day in order to fight off jetlag and other inconveniences. The consequence is that the dreaded night travels might surface in the teams’ bid to reach on time and rest before their matches, with attendant risks. Recall that players of Kano Pillars, Sunshine Stars and a couple of other clubs have fallen victims to armed robbery attacks in the course of travelling long distances to honour their matches. This risk could have been averted if players were to fly or board train for their away matches. It will also be recalled that a couple of seasons ago, Sani Keita agreed to play for FC IfeanyiUbah, as part of the League Management Company (LMC)’s agreement with retiring ex-players to come in and light up the league. But the romance with Anambra Warriors ended on a rather unsatisfactory note when the club’s owner, Chief Ifeanyi Ubah, insisted that the players must return to Nnewi the same evening they played their match against Dolphins FC in Port Harcourt. Keita stood his ground that he would not take the risk and the decision irked his boss, who frowned at the player’s effrontery. That led to his sack or (as alleged by the player) his decision to quit the club. In all areas, the late resumption of the league has multiplier effects on the overall development of Nigerian football. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 