Lagos – The Nigeria society of engineers, Ikeja branch, at the weekend organised a job fair for graduate applicants and especially those in the engineering industry. The event which took place at the secretariat complex of the Ikeja branch of the NSE had over five hundred applicants in attendance and quite a number of blue chip companies sent in their Human Resource managers to scout for potential employees. The fair was organised in partnership with ‘Getjobs.com’ a recruitment agency with large followership on the social media.  Speaking exclusively with DAILY INDEPENDENT at the fair, Engr. Bamidele Idris, the coordinator of the recruitment agency, said the fair was borne out of the need to interface the teeming applicants on his platform, who are more than 4200 in number with potential employers who set very high entry requirement and standards for employments into their organisations because of the large volume of application often received by them. According to him, the fair was supposed to acquaint the applicants with some of the salient pitfalls and common mistakes often made by applicants which rob them of employment opportunities. Engineer Akintola who is the chairman of the Ikeja branch of the NSE while speaking on the partnership with the recruiting agency, said it is part of the cardinal objective of the society and particularly his tenure as the current chairman of the Ikeja branch to ensure that young graduates in the industry are assisted to get employed or engaged as soon as possible. He further said, it is not surprising to see the large turnout of applicants and potential employers given the elaborate preparation and publicity that went into organising the fair, Akintola said. Monike Binitie from Friesland Campina, makers of Peak milk said, every applicant should exhibit a little bit more seriousness when scouting or hunting for jobs, stating that every opportunity should be maximised especially contacts made through the social media should be nurtured intelligently. In her remark, Temitayo Odusi, from Coca Cola, said that expanding your knowledge base is critical to being in the right frame of mind to take up any potential job opportunity. A rich knowledge base could give an applicant a job and position he or she did not originally study or train for, she added. Speaking further, Ayoajinde Sowemimo, from Troyka Holdings, said some people apply for roles they are not properly cut out for or ill prepared for, pointing out, that today’s job description especially in the advert industry where she belongs is all about being highly creative, artistic and having a deft of excellence in whatever you do. She encouraged the applicants therefore, to demonstrate their creativity in the preparation and presentation of their curriculum vitae when applying for jobs. This ordinarily will stand them out in a highly competitive job market that is currently the case in the country. The fair was rounded up with some of the applicants getting information about existing vacancies in the various organizations present and some were interviewed to fill them. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 