Hazeez Balogun and Ifeoma Ononye Lagos – It is not new for sitting governments to intensify and amplify their people driven projects when an election year approaches. In fact, it is a norm in this part of the world. Just recently, Ekiti workers got stipends from monies owed them just days before the gubernatorial election. Months to the general elections, the Federal Government is now doling out monies to traders and young Nigerians in form of a loan. The scheme is called ‘Trader Moni’ and it is part of the numerous schemes created by the government to distribute the recovered ‘Abacha loot’ to needy Nigerians. However, instead of going out as free money, it is going out as a loan, which will be repayable in six months. “I have registered and I am waiting to get an alert. I like this money that government is giving us. This is the first time I am benefiting from government since I was born. Though it is not free, they said we would pay back in six months, which is better than many loans I have collected before. I would have liked if the money was more like N20,000 and they give us like one year to pay back. It is small but all good things start small.” Those were the words of a petty trader, Iya Olumide who sells fresh pepper for a living in Lagos. Her excitement knew no bounds when she learned that Federal Government was giving out soft loans to support small businesses. When she saw that some people were getting credit alerts and it was genuine, she quickly dialled the phone number of her friend whom she said was in the same predicament to come benefit from the scheme. At first, the middle-aged woman thought it was a scam, but when she confirmed it was genuine, she decided to register. Compared to other loans the mother of four has collected in the past to help boost her business, she said that Trader Moni will make her heave a sigh of relief. The Federal Government has, in collaboration with the Bank of Industry (BOI), partnered GDM Group Africa, a marketing solutions company on the project. Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who is the champion of the project, had earlier disclosed that the Federal Government that Trader Moni is meant to help very small scale traders fund their businesses. Osinbajo noted that apart from the existing Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP) MarketMoni scheme, which targets market women, traders, artisans and enterprising youths, the TraderMoni is a micro-credit scheme to cater for ultra-micro enterprises. The Vice President stated; “The policy of the Federal Government is to support businesses, not just big business but particularly small, medium-sized businesses and micro businesses. The whole idea is that we want to ensure that we give whatever support whether it is cash, advice or even registration to all of our small and medium enterprises. “The TraderMoni is for the smaller traders, those who are doing small, little things, where in many cases, their inventory isn’t more than N5000 – N10,000. We want to give those types of people some credit as well, and once they pay back, we will give them some more money as well. “We want to make sure that the very poor trader, no matter how poor you are, so long as you are trading or working, the Federal Government will support you by giving you some extra money to do whatever you are doing. So that every Nigerian who wants to work, who wants to do something, can get the opportunity to do some work.” One of the agents who were registering traders along Agbado area of Lagos, Pascal Omoh, described the scheme as a no security, no collateral, no guarantor loan for small-scale businesses. The scheme, which is said to be in its second phase, kicked off the first phase in Oyo and Edo States, now the second phase is happening in Abia, Kano and Lagos States. The N10,000 loan is to be paid back within six months. The payback can be made daily or weekly depending on the participant’s preference. If the applicant decides to pay daily, he or she is required to pay a sum of N85 every day, which brings the interest at N320. If the applicant pays back, he has established trust and can be given another sum of up to N15,000 whenever he wants. The amount borrowable will increase every time the applicant completes payment of previous loan. As noble as it sounds and as beneficial as it seems, many do not see the loans as a viable one, and believe that it is designed to fail. According to Mr. Saka Mojeed, a business analyst, the scheme “makes no economic sense.” According to him, the monies being doled out are too small to achieve any meaningful thing and “they will end up being used to buy food.” He said, “let’s be factual, what business can someone do with N5,000 or even N10,000? It is like the government does not know how devalued the Naira is and they don’t know the purchasing power it has. If it was five years ago, the scheme would have been laudable, but today, N5,000 can’t even buy the stall that you will put your goods on. “Do they even know that permits to trade alone is more that N5,000? Some states and local government charges more than that. So, where does their N10,000 come in? “Let me tell you what will happen with the money they are giving out; Nigerians will collect it and spend it on their most immediate problem, hunger.” Another analyst, Anayo Gabriel said the scheme has nothing to do with helping people grow their businesses; instead, it is just a form of vote buying. “What else do you expect when an election is coming. They give out monies that they know will not be returned just a few months to elections. It is easy to see through all these schemes. We have seen them before and we will continue to see them. Nigerians are not fools; they will take the money and spend it. It is all part of politics.” Saturday INDEPENDENT also went out to find out how the dispensing process works and if it can actually help traders. One of the agents, Omoh said, “The money is being paid through e-wallet and not cash. Before the payment will be made, the registered applicant will receive a text message from the agency. The message will have a code and a process which the applicant can follow to access the money.” Speaking on some of the challenges he faced while trying to meet his target of registering 100 applicants, Omoh explained that many are scared of being duped of the little they have. “Many Nigerians do not trust the government at all. Some believe their names and picture would be used later for greater gain for the politicians and so do not want to be part of it,” he said. To witness the exercises first hand, our reporter visited Oja Oba market, in Lagos where registration and payment exercise was going on. The exercise was eventually suspended because of an argument between the Iyaloja (head of market) and the team supervisors. Apparently, the Iyaloja thought the team would be paying cash to the market women and had demanded that it is paid to her instead while she will distribute the money herself to the traders. When she was told that the payment was only electronically, talks broke down and they were asked to leave the market. Agents explain that they face such confrontation on a daily basis. Market leaders have been trying to get payment made to them for onward distribution to the traders. Our reporter, in order to understand the inner workings of the scheme, also registered as well. To get registered, the name of applicant, location, type of business, and phone number is required and then, the agent takes a picture and sends to the agency through their phones which already has the specified App for the registration. The atmosphere was filled with excitement, disbelief and uncertainty. Excitement was in the air because for the first time in the lives of many of the small business merchants, there is something for them from federal government. Many in the crowd could not believe it was real but just want to see how far it goes and many were uncertain if they can meet up with the payment. There are other speculations that the soft loan scheme is laced with political intentions to get voters for the ruling party in 2019. Others were of the opinion that Nigerians deserve more than N10,000 which, according to them is not enough to give many small businesses meaningful push. A few people in the crowd wondered why the money is not free. Will such scheme really help? From a quick survey, it was clear that the analysts we spoke with were right. The scheme will actually do little to nothing for the businesses in the markets. We visited various markets sampling the thoughts of traders. We found out that many of them just saw the money as free money for spending. We visited 20 stalls of traders selling different wares asking them how much it takes to restock their stalls. Almost all of them gave figures above N30,000. Rashida, a catfish seller says that she buys the fish in 50 kilograms and that costs more than N40,000. A vegetable and tomatoes seller, simply known as Mama Ruth says, “Do you know what a basket of tomatoes cost these days. To restock I have to spend over N25,000. But it is not the price of the tomatoes that is the problem, it is the transport. I spend over N8,000 three times a week just to get my market.” The same story was repeated by many of the other traders we spoke with. Many confessed to Saturday INDEPENDENT that the Trader Moni cannot do much to their businesses. “As school will soon resume, I will use the money to pay my daughter’s school fees,” one of the recipients confessed to our reporter. When we approached traders who sell very cheap products, like sugarcane and cigarettes in kiosks, it was surprising that these set were not interested in the scheme. All those we spoke with said they were not interested. We later found out that most of them don’t have the required documents or are illegal immigrants from Niger and do not want to be documented. Most of those we spoke with took the money not as a business aid, but as their share of the ‘national cake’. “Compared to our livelihood that government has been stealing for years, this is nothing. We shouldn’t be paying back this money. N10,000 is nothing but I will take it, at least I have gained from government,” said a woman in the market who gave her name as Sade. A commercial tricycle (keke NAPEP) operator also said the money is too small compared to the current value of Naira. “Even if I am qualified to register and get the money, what can N10,000 do for me in this present Nigeria? That amount is someone’s breakfast or lunch. I strongly believe that the money they are supposed to give out is far more than that. I will not be surprised the data collected will be used to rig elections. There is nothing that is not possible in present Nigeria so far technology is available,” he said. Speaking with Charles Oputa, popularly known as Charly Boy who is championing the #Ourmumudondo group to get his view about Trader Moni, he stated that the project is just another show booting for government. “All of that is total nonsense. That is not what the people need. The people need a good environment to thrive. They are just capitalising on people’s hunger for their gain. To me it’s just another political stunt. “This is a government which has been insensitive since they were sworn into office. They believe that another election is around the corner and since they have weaponised hunger, they will use it against us. “I don’t believe in what this government does. All I am interested in is the exceptional youths of this country. I am looking at how I can connect the dots because until these crop of leaders are removed, Nigeria will get to know what famine looks like. Let’s create a new order which is what #ourmumudondo movement is all about,” he said. By the time of filling this report, Trader Moni is still ongoing. Our source explained that on Wednesday, August 8, 2018, the crowd at the registration point in Abule-Egba market had tripled. The process of paying the loan back is yet to be announced. Efforts to get a top GDM group official to comment were unsuccessful. Most of those on the field said they are not authorised to speak to press. Our reporter did not finish the registration process, hence did not receive money from the scheme comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 