Uyo – Mr. Charles Udoh, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Akwa Ibom State, has warned that using the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to witch-hunt the opposition would scare investors from the country. Udoh said if the anti-graft agency is continually used by the Federal Government against political opponents, then investors would abandon Nigeria due to a feeling of insecurity. Speaking with newsmen in Uyo on Monday on last week’s freezing of the Akwa Ibom State government account, the state’s image manager said it was the height  of impunity and insensitivity for an agency of Federal Government to have frozen the account of a state government without any prior notice or communication. He said such would nothave occurred if the Federal Government had concern about the people of Akwa Ibom State, especially the public servants whose means of livelihood they shut down. Reacting to recent claims by the agency that N1.4billion was traced to 11 accounts belonging to the Akwa Ibom Government, Udoh declared it false, maintaining that the agency had no valid excuse to have taken such step without any prior notice or communication. He maintained that the Governor Udom Emmanuel-led administration in the state thrives on integrity, transparency and accountability, hence its decision to consistently publish its account reports. “The attention of the Akwa Ibom State Government has been drawn to a publication on the Nation Newspaper of August 12,2018 alleging that N1.4b belonging to Akwa Ibom State Government was traced to 11 accounts by the Economic Financial & Crimes Commission (EFCC). “We wish to state that this is a false allegation and a desperate face saving effort by the EFCC to justify the unlawful freezing of accounts of the Akwa Ibom State Government which attracted widespread public condemnation. “The Akwa Ibom State Government has served notices of contempt to the EFCC and would not be dragged into a public discourse on a matter that is patently sub judice,” his earlier release read While observing that chains of events give reason to suspect the move to be politically connected, he called on relevant agencies and international organizations to rise against the APCs approach to politicking, which he said may impose unwarranted hardship on Nigerians of diverse political leanings. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 