IBADAN – Alhaji Ismael Alli, Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Oyo State has signified his intention to succeed his boss, Governor Abiola Ajimobi, as he joined the 2019 governorship race in the state on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Alli, who made his intention known in a letter dated August 6, 2018, written to stakeholders, maintained that he joined the Oyo guber race after “due and diligent consultations” with party leaders and elders. The Oyo SSG maintained further that he has also informed his principal, governor Ajimobi, of his intention to succeed him in 2019. He said his years of service jointly with other stakeholders in the Ajimobi administration had prepared him well enough to build on the unprecedented terms of the incumbent governor. The letter reads in parts, “For half a decade, I have served, together with you, under the astute and architect-builder of modern Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi. Within this period, we have jointly gained tremendous knowledge about critical governance issues and become highly schooled in service-delivery to the citizenry. We have also actualised plans and projects to promote the socio-economic status of our state and our people. “It is therefore with this sense of responsibility that I humbly convey my aspiration and offer my candidacy for the service of our state as its next governor. This shall be at the expiration of the unprecedented and highly impactful two-term tenure of our distinguished and acclaimed leader. “Taking off from the foundation load by our mentor, we shall ensure the continuous security, safety, welfare wellbeing and prosperity of the citizenry; as we further the engendering of inclusive growth and development of the state. “Consequently, I am seeking your support, prayers and partnership to successfully prosecute the project for the benefit of all, God willing.” “We believe this corporate partnership will not only enhance commercial activities in the town but will increase trade transactions and impacting positively on the economy,” he said. Mr Bayo Onafuwa, Regional Manager, MTN, Nigeria, said that the company was committed to supporting the core traits of the Nigerian people through their arts and rich culture. “We are proud to be supporting the Osun-Osogbo festival as it is a key celebration, especially in Yoruba land. “Thousands of domestic and foreign tourists and Osun devotees gather in the town every year. We are happy to be part of the success story of the festival,” he said. Mr Bojuwade Adebowale, Brand Manager, Seaman Plc, said visitors would be entertained with indigenous games and the winner would be awesomely rewarded by the company during this year’s edition of the festival. “We have lots of activities for visitors and tourists that will be coming for this year’s festival. “We pledge to continually support the festival and ensure its continuity. “We have been partnering with organisers of the festival in the last 29 years and we are still counting,” he said. Earlier, Olumoko had expressed delight at the support of the co-sponsors of the festival inspite of  the current   economic challenges. He urged other corporate sponsors to partner with the organisers on the yearly festival to preserve the state’s rich cultural heritage. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 