Chief Emeh Glory Emeh, ex-aide to former Governor Peter Odili of Rivers, at different times served as Commissioner for Special Duties, Commerce and Industry and later Transport and Aviation before becoming Chief of Staff to the governor. Emeh, now a Political Adviser and Strategy to Governor Nyesom Wike, in this interview with DANIEL ABIA, spoke on critical issues in the state. Excerpt: What is your view on the ongoing defections hitting the All Progressives Congress (APC) few months to the 2019 general elections? I saw it coming two months ago when I said that the party was going through a big problem. Let us use Rivers State as a microcosm of the country. We are not unaware of what is happening in the party (APC) elsewhere. The level of mistrust, envy, inordinate ambition, disorganisation in the APC was evidence that not many people will remain for a long time. If you will recall, in our state when people like me returned to the PDP, with over 8,000 supporters, Governor Nyesom Wike asked: If this number of people are walking out of a political party, who is still there? So, what we are seeing at the national level now is not strange to me because it is expected that sooner, people will start appreciating the fact that APC is made up of persons of strange bed-fellows who rally round for same purpose and they took advantage of the circumstance at that time and got into power at the national level and some states in the federation. But, three years down the line, the people of this country have come to realise that there was no preparation for actual governance. They just wanted to grab power. They got the power. But, they can’t give governance. In Rivers State, Wike has shown an exemplary leadership. He has shown capacity. He has shown ability and has rearranged the fortunes of our people. The difference is that Wike was prepared before getting into governance. He has what it takes to make a difference in the state. So, as soon as he was sworn into office, he hit the ground running and has no dull moment up to when he commenced the third anniversary celebration of his administration, especially when he had to commission that number of projects that we have lost count of. When you said the gale of defection in the country, I don’t think you should think otherwise. So, worse than that is the type of leadership that APC is providing both at the party level and the executive level. The fact that people are leaving the party in droves is not surprising to some of us who had seen the hand writing on the wall a long time ago. We are expecting that in the next couple of weeks and months to come, we are not likely to see or hear anything called APC in Nigeria. APC in Rivers State said nobody died in Ekiti election, that there would have been a massive death in Rivers and that the Ekiti election was a precursor of what would happen in the South-South in 2019? Anybody who said that is a fool because the atmosphere is not the same. The parameters are not the same and the people are not the same. Here, the people of Rivers State are united in spirit and in one accord. They all know that there is no alternative to Governor Wike come 2019 in the state. If there is anybody who thinks otherwise, such persons are blind and will continue to remain blind if they cannot see what Wike is doing here (projects). The governor had shown that the ability to perform should be the precondition to voting anybody into an elective office and not where he comes from. I have said severally that this is one governor that had rearranged the psyche of our people on the issue of tribal sentiment. In the past three years, Governor Nyesom Wike has come to know that what we need is the person who can give the people what they need; good roads, water, electricity, education, health, security, and the people are happy. We are saying that Nyesom Wike has cemented the bond of fraternal coexistence and has broken all the barriers of riverine/upline dichotomy experienced in the past. Our people no longer bother about where their leader comes from. If you see Wike anywhere in the midst of five persons, those people you see represent five tribes in the state. When he is eating, he doesn’t eat alone. Because of that, the people of Rivers State have come to realised that God is wonderful to them. If anybody from APC made that statement you are talking about, the person is ignorant of the fact that Ekiti and Rivers States are not the same. In Rivers State, people, including the opposition, have stopped criticising Wike. Since after the third anniversary celebration, most of them do not know how much has been done in the state because they work and live in Abuja. Wike has shown that he is a very good product that does not require too much marketing. He has shown that the young can do more, the energy is there. If Buhari is doing well in Abuja, you would have seen that the enthusiasm to nurse presidential ambition would be so low. But, because the performance is zero, that is why many people are eager to come out and seek for presidential ticket, even in his own party. If we remain the way we are for a long time, it will get to a level where we are not likely to have food to eat and people will start dying of starvation. Buhari has to give chance to enable those who have ideas to rule the country. He should give way to those who have strength and are healthy enough to preside over the affairs of the country to take over. Our problems are enormous. We are struggling to build a strong and virile economy. So, you need to have a leader who will work hard to provide the enabling environment for the people to work out what they will eat the day if they must live type of lifestyle that they want to live in their country. But, here in Rivers State, there is no alternative to Governor Nyesom Wike in 2019. Our people are united and will continue to support him for what he has done and stand by him to take up his constitutional right to run for his second tenure in 2019. What is your view on 2019 presidential election in view of the ongoing defection across the nation? Politics is a game of a number and when people move from one party to the other, they reduce the strength of the party where they are moving from and increase the strength of the one they are moving to. If you look at the faces of ministers in the last Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting, the guy who spoke on their behalf thereafter started by saying that what had happened was a pity. There is no doubt that the APC is sufficiently depleted and there is no doubt that in a free and fair election, PDP will regain what was erroneously and fraudulently taken away from them by way of oratory and rhetoric. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 