Lagos – The September 20, 2018 elective congress of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) may not hold if Chris Giwa has his way. This is because Giwa, who has been involved in leadership battle with Amaju pinnick as the authentic presisdent of the NFF is surreptiously shopping for another ex-parte orders to stop the elections. Festus Keyamo, lawyer to Pinnick, who raised the alarm at the weekend, noted in a statement that, “We are, however, aware that Chris Giwa and his team, who have become experts in securing only ex-parte orders, are currently shopping for ex-parte orders in different court divisions to, once again, pretend to take the leadership of the NFF and/or frustrate the upcoming elections of the NFF. “However, we are confident that with the renewed commitment of the judiciary to stamp out corruption, no judicial officer will allow his court to be used to perpetuate such fraud and bring the judicial system of our country into disrepute,” he stated. According to Keyamo, “In the circumstances, football lovers, stakeholders and the general public are advised to ignore the ill-informed, ill-natured, insubordinate and cantankerous rantings of these individuals and their collaborators. Keyamo accused Giwa and his friends of just parroting the phrase rule of law never. “While they publicly parrot the phrase ‘Rule of Law’ they are at the same time determined to foist upon Nigeria and rest of the football world a deception of the worst order by means of subterfuge and brigandage. “For their information, the Rule of Law binds Nigeria to International obligations. The Rule of Law says you cannot remove a person from office without hearing from him. The Rule of Law says an interim order against such a person cannot last more than 14 days. These individuals who have actively and openly invited the ban of FIFA in the last few days are totally against the development of football and they are mere irritants who are on a mission of vendetta, self-aggrandisement and fraud.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 