OSOGBO – There was jubilation in Ede, the country home of Adeleke dynasty when the state High Court sitting in Osogbo cleared Senator Ademola Adeleke to contest the September 22, 2018 governorship election. The court presided over by Justice David Oladimeji dismissed the suit challenging the eligibility of Senator Adeleke as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the September 22 governorship election in the state. The plaintiffs, Rasheed Olabayo and Oluwaseun Idowu, who are members of the PDP in Osun had alleged that Adeleke did not possess secondary school certificate and urged the court to restrain PDP from presenting him to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the candidate of the party. They also urged the court to restrain INEC from accepting Adeleke from PDP as its candidate on the basis that the Senator was not qualified, quoting Section 177 (d) of the 1999 Constitution. In his ruling Wednesday the court said that the claims of the plaintiffs that Adeleke does not possess school certificate could not disqualify him from contesting the election because the constitution does not state that a candidate for the office of the governor must possess a certificate. Justice Oladimeji said that the constitution only stipulated that the candidate must be educated up to secondary school level and that with the acknowledgement of the plaintiffs that the Senator attended Ede Grammar School, the senator was deemed to be educated up to the stipulated level. The court added that even though the documents submitted by Adeleke’s counsel as prove of the Senator’s education up to the required level “contains serious and damaging irregularities,” the documents are enough since the originating summon bothered strictly on non-possession of the certificate, and not a forgery. He further noted that since the issue of forgery was a criminal matter, the signatory to the documents, the Principal of Muslim Grammar School had to be summoned to give evidence. “It is a settled law, that the signatory has to be called to disown them (the documents) before they can be regarded as forged documents. “When a person alleges forgery, he must prove the ingredients of forgery with the particulars he relied upon. In any case, the allegation of a criminal matter in a civil case must be proved beyond reasonable doubt. This case was not pleaded nor proved,” Justice Oladimeji declared. The judge struck out the case saying that whether Adeleke obtained a certificate or not could not be used to disqualify him and that the fact that he attended the school was enough for him to contest the governorship election. However, a fresh case bothering on allegations of certificate forgery was on Monday been filed by two state PDP delegates in the July 21 primary election against Senator Adeleke before the same court. Hundreds of the party faithful had thronged the home of Senator Ademola Adeleke jubilating and celebrating the court victory over his certificate. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 