MINNA – Bishop Isaac Idahosa, Founder and Presiding Bishop of God First Ministries Incorporated, has warned of the consequences of Federal Governments’ silence over the killings in Benue, Taraba, Plateau and other states by suspected Fulani herdsmen, describing the trend as direct invitation to anarchy. Idahosa, who spoke during an interview in Minna, Niger State capital, as part of activities to mark the church’s 29th anniversary, said it was worrisome that after series of unprovoked killings affecting mostly Christians, no one had been arrested or prosecuted for unlawfully taking the lives of other Nigerians. Adding his voice to those of other Nigerians, including Gen. Yakubu Gowon, the former Military Head of State, in calling for the prosecution of those behind the dastardly act, Idahosa said it was unfortunate that the Federal Government’s body language had proved that the group was being shielded from justice. He stated: “We must get to a level whereby every Nigerian has equal rights, equal access to the common wealth of this nation. Life is sacred and should be treated to hence killings under whatsoever guise should not be tolerated by any government that meant well for her citizenry. “Federal Government shouldn’t just be singing ‘Equity and justice for all’, but should be seen to be acting and doing same for all. People should learn to live what they preach. “Nobody has the monopoly of violence. Killing of Rev. Fathers recently in Kaduna is not only sacrilege, but the highest of impunity against Christianity.” Idahosa called on the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to bring to book all those behind the killings. He stressed that the killers had been creating more problems for Nigeria, adding, “Unfortunately, while the killings lasted everyone suffers the consequences because the affected states are mostly the food basket of the nation. The perpetrators are creating more hunger and joblessness for Nigeria.” As part of activities lined up to mark the church’s 29th anniversary and thanksgiving, God First Ministries Inc empowered 700 Nigerians cutting across religious and tribal divides through various skills acquisition and financial incentives. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 