Premium Times, an online newspaper, on Tuesday, July 10, 2018, broke the news that Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, the Minister of Finance, has been using a fake National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Exemption Certificate. However, she claimed that she engaged someone to procure it for her, having applied for same from the agency, saying that she did not know that what was given to her was fake. Since the discovery, a cross section of the Nigerians has been calling on her to resign from the President Muhammadu Buhari’s cabinet, or be sacked. Till date, she is still holding on to her position, while the Federal Government seems not to bother. This is against the backdrop of President Buhari’s anti-corruption stance. Thus, the question on the lips of Nigerians is: Should Adeosun resign over the NYSC certificate scandal? Nigeria Politicians Lacks Honour – Politician Hon. Frank Okiye, former Majority Leader, Edo State House of Assembly and former Deputy Chief of Staff, is currently the Special Adviser to Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo State on Legislative Matters. He said: “If it is investigated and discovered that she did not know anything about the forgery and there have never been an attempt to suppress the fact, then she can remain honourably a minister. “But, if there was any element that she tried to subvert this fact, she tried to collaborate in the forgery, then, she needs to go in for it. “However, whether she will resign in honour or not, is a different matter. But, what is important is: How do you extract the criminal element in this case and then make her to face the law? That is what will concern Nigerians. The issue of resignation is a matter of morality and here in Nigeria politics, there is none.” Buhari Should Do The Needful – Political Scientist Dr. Tayo Oladejo, a political scientist, said that security agencies must make report of their investigation on the matter public. He said that if investigation has been concluded and she is found wanting, she should be asked to resign her appointment, subject to the outcome of the investigation carried out on the matter. He called on President Buhari to do the needful on the matter by ensuring that members of his cabinet with one or two issues relating to crime, corruption and scandals be removed to give credibility and sanity to his administration anti-corruption crusade, which it is pursuing. NYSC’s Response Should Indicate Next Line Of Action – SDP Chief Chief Supo Sonibare, Social Democratic Party (SDP) chieftain, said: “I think she has responded when she said that she applied for an exemption to the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). I don’t know what the response of NYSC has been. If NYSC should give a reply, then the matter can be taken from there.” CACOL Demands Adeosun’s Sack The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has asked that Mrs. Adeosun should be sacked and also stopped from being the Board Chairman, African Export-Import Bank. Mr. Debo Adeniran, CACOL Executive Chairman, in athe petition dated Tuesday July 17, 2018, asked President Buhari not only to sack the minister, but also to stop her recent appointment as Board Chairman, African Export-Import Bank. Adeniran said: “We recall an unfolding media report on the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, about forgery of her National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) discharge certificate. “Few days earlier, the same online newspaper had published a report of how huge sums of cash were disbursed by the Finance Minister to the National Assembly without the approval of your office in what looked like an attempt by a victim of blackmail to pacify her predators.” The CACOL boss stated that although the leadership of the Senate denied any allegation of blackmail against Adeosun, he insisted that such unauthorised releases of public funds smack of underhand practices that clearly undermined the present administration’s fight against corruption and openness in governance. He said: “Sir, the continued presence of such questionable figures in your administration sends wrong signals to a skeptical public and inevitably blunts your government’s frontal attack on corruption and its perpetrators in our country. “We hereby make the following demands: That those facing serious allegations of forgery in your government should be temporarily suspended from their offices, pending the outcome of thorough investigations into their cases. “Alternatively, they could be asked to resign while their cases are being looked into. This is more important, especially in the case of Mrs Adeosun, who must not only be relieved of her current appointment as the country’s Finance Minister, but also needs to be replaced with a qualified Nigerian of integrity as Board Chairman of the African Export-Import Bank.” He also demanded that thorough security checks should henceforth be carried out by relevant bodies, before individuals were offered public appointments to forestall embarrassing incidents. He called on the Federal Government to redouble its commendable efforts in consigning corruption to the dustbin of history and implement people-oriented programmes and projects. “We wish to reiterate our belief in the Nigerian Project that should birth a new nation, where squalor, ethnic strife and all kinds of inhumanity of man to man would be a thing of the past and in which our diversity could actually become an advantage. “To this end, we shall continue to support your current administration’s war against corruption and demonstrable commitment towards a stronger and more prosperous nation.” PDP Wants Adeosun Sacked, Arrested, Prosecuted The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on its own, asked President Buhari to immediately order the sack, arrest and arraignment of Mrs. Adeosun over the alleged forgery of her NYSC certificate. The party said on no circumstance should President Buhari shield her from the wrath of the law, adding that Nigerians were becoming tired of the kid’s glove treatment meted out to indicted officials of the government in the past. Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP’s National Publicity Secretary, said in a statement, that the scandal was a vindication of its position that the Buhari government is not as upright as it wants Nigerians and other citizens of the world to believe. He added: “The world can now see how the Buhari Presidency has been concealing sharp practices under it. We can now see why there is humongous corruption under President Buhari’s watch and why Mr. President has refused to take any concrete steps to check the sleazes in his administrations. “Perhaps, such ‘artful dodgers’ were deliberately hired and placed in revenue related agencies to perfect the pilfering of our common patrimony for interests in the Buhari Presidency. “The PDP challenges President Buhari to prove himself a man of integrity by allowing an open system-wide and independent inquest into all alleged corrupt practices in his presidency. We challenge President Buhari to be bold to allow an open independent inquest into the exact figures amounting to the trillions of naira oil revenue earned by the nation in the last three years and how he had spent same with Mrs. Adeosun as minister of finance. “Mr. President should also allow an open inquest into his handling, with Mrs Adeosun, of all our depleted foreign financial instruments, including the Excess Crude Account (ECA), from which funds were taken without recourse to the National Assembly. “President Buhari should also allow an inquest into his administration’s borrowing of over N10 trillion in 30 months, with Mrs. Adeosun as minister of finance and the purposes for which the money was used. “We challenge President Buhari to allow an inquest into the leaked memo at the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) showing N9 trillion corrupt oil contracts as well as the alleged stealing of N1.1 trillion worth of crude oil, all in a sector under his direct purview as Minister of Petroleum.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 