The Director-General Designate of the Nigerian Employers Consultative Association (NECA), Mr. Timothy Olawale, yesterday stated that the establishment of NECA Global Certification Limited (NGCL) is a milestone that would enhance business competitiveness, impact the Quality Infrastructure landscape in Nigeria and break barriers to global trade Explaining the build up to the establishment of the conformity assessment body, and its certification, Olawale said:”Over the years, businesses in Nigeria have had limited access to quality infrastructure which has hindered the ability of their products and services to compete globally. The European Union (EU), having identified this lacuna and working with the Federal Government of Nigeria, approved the National Quality Infrastructure Project (NQIP) for Nigeria in 2014. The NQIP was implemented to establish internationally recognized quality infrastructure in the country, with capacity to ensure safety, integrity and marketability of goods and services and the removal of technical barriers to local, regional and international trade. The Project was funded by the EU and implemented by the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO). “the NQI Project has been a most timely intervention and indeed a giant stride for Nigeria in synergising with other nations of the world to promote and build sustainable quality infrastructure. He added that through the NQIP, capacity of the Organised Private Sector (OPS) and the Public Sector has been built on Quality Standards, Quality Management Systems, Metrology and Certification”.. According to him, the NQI Project in the last 4 years of its implementation has brought progress and achievements attained in metrology, accreditation and conformity assessment services. “The Project has created awareness of quality culture, built capacity of Nigerians and strengthened both the Public and Private Sectors of the Nigerian economy. “As a key stakeholder in the Organised Private Sector of Nigeria, NECA has supported the establishment of NGCL (NECA’s Global Certification Limited) as an indigenous Certification Body. In line with the NQIP objectives and with technical support from UNIDO, NGCL has successfully gone through the process for International Accreditation. The objective of the Project to support the development of missing Standards, quality control bodies and encourage improvement of quality of products and services exchanged in the Nigerian markets has been achieved.” The conference was graced by NECA’s partners in the National Quality Infrastructure Project (NQIP) such as the European Union (EU), represented by the Head of Section, Economic Corporation and Energy; The United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) represented by the Chief Technical Advisor, Dr. Shaukat Hussain and the President of NECA’s Network of Entrepreneurial Women (NNEW) and also by members of the press. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 