MAKURDI – No fewer than nine persons were feared dead in a rivalry clash that occurred between two militia gangs in Benue State on Friday morning. Many others sustained gunshot wounds just as many houses were razed during the attack. The attack, Saturday Independent gathered was allegedly carried out by gang members of a wanted fugitive, Terwase Akwaza aka Gana on Tse-Ujoh in Ikyurav-Tiev, Katsina-Ala Local Government Area (LGA) of the state. Katsina-Ala is noted for increased gang rivalry and attacks in the last few years. The militia group led by Gana we further learnt had a misunderstanding with a rival group led by a man simply identified as “Coach.” The Benue command of the Nigeria police has confirmed the incident even as the state governor, Samuel Ortom condemned that attack. Locals in the area also told Saturday Independent that two persons were abducted, while three others were still missing when Gana took the fight to the home town of ‘Coach’ in Ikyurav-Tiev. The gunmen stormed the area around 8am morning when most of the villagers were in their farms on Friday. Moses Yamu, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Benue State command, confirmed that nine persons were killed during the attack. According to him, eight of the corpses were discovered on at the scene of the incident, while another died on the way to the hospital, adding that policemen have been dispatched to the area. In a swift response, state governor, Samuel Ortom disclosed that three persons have been arrested in connection with the incident. He described as unacceptable, the latest attack which left nine persons dead, advising troops deployed to the area to bring the situation under control. While he assured the people of Katsina-Ala of steps taken to prevent further attacks on them, governor Ortom said “Three persons have been arrested in connection with the attack.” Governor Ortom reassured the people of the state that his administration would not allow armed militia to continue to terrorise communities. The governor encouraged anyone with useful information that can lead to the apprehension of the gang members to contact the police, Department of State Services or the military. Ortom advised communities in the Sankera axis to assist security operatives with information that would bring an end to the unwarranted attacks on innocent people by armed militia. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 