From this Columnist point of view, emphatic YES! Though, you cannot shave a man’s hair in his absence. Though, he is London for medications here are some elements of Coach Salisu Yusuf’s admittance in the scandal. Hear him: “The money I received was a gift (graft), the sum of $750 dollars and not $1,000 dollars as speculated”. For me, every other discussion he had with the controversial Ghanaian under cover Journalist, Anas Aremeyaw Anas, in the entire filmed expose is immaterial, given the fact that football officials, coaches and stake holders are not distant from bribery in football business. This entire event surrounding this graft matter on coach Salisu brewed up in Morocco for fielding some Eagles player of choice for personal satisfaction of monetary benefit, and commercial projection! In this piece, yours truly will not go further to exhume the names of culprits in the past as far as Nigerian football is concerned. Ordinarily, Nigerians know what is obtainable with football destruction, which is secretly discussed and hatched amongst players, referees, coaches, football federations and other relevant stakeholders of the round leather object! Confederation of African Football (CAF) and Federation of International Football Association (FIFA) are aware of this destructive monster eating deep into the fabrics of the beautiful game. However, most FIFA and CAF officials have been caught severally in the act and have been punished accordingly or perhaps spared with kid gloves in some cases. Having said this, the destructive monster had continued to romance the game unabated. A scourge that will continue to hunt the game and its handlers in various department and stages! It was a show of shame seeing coach Yusuf   the way he was responding in that video of the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) News Africa; how he conducted himself in a very low self esteem chat of negotiation with the undercover agent having sailed through over the affected player deal on a mere $750 or $1,000 graft patty sum. What a shame! This bribery scandal is not a joke or tales by moonlight concocted by any fifth columnist to pull down the Super Eagles coach for whatever reason; therefore, every eye privy to this anomaly must view it from an objective perception of one of those major setbacks affecting football administration in progressive terms. No federation or association survives progressive projection of the game, yielding to immoral practice of bribery. It doesn’t work well with coaches, players or teams. It destroys the prospects of the game and brings shame and isolation to whoever is caught in the act. Nevertheless, football will continue to exist as far as the world remains; hence, it is better to avoid characters of shame in the global lucrative business of football. It is on records that the affected coach is still in London, not for fun but on health ground. Therefore, he must be allowed ample time to recover and as soon as he is back to the country, he should be made to answer to the scandal. It should not be like any of those past unhealthy incidents in the nation’s football history that had sailed underground for pertinent reasons, ranging from nepotism and tribalism, as the case with ethnicity, political, sentiments and religious affiliations of highly placed personalities in the society. Football is not a respecter of tribe or ethnicity; hence, it abhors racism and undue influence which is practically the “demon” in our football governance. The minister of sports, Solomon Dalung and the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) President, Melvin Amaju Pinnick, must not throw away, once again, a “confirmed” case of irregularity in the game of football. This is because, in no time, it will become an issue of tribal balance or imbalance in whichever prism you want to view the thrash. Coach Yusuf is a good one on the field of play. I had followed him up with the Eagles; how he had fared so far with the team, even before the arrival of German Gernot Rohr. I will say I was fifty percent comfortable with his performance. And until now, he has never given me any cause to doubt his credibility; hence, what the coach got himself entangled with came as a surprise, even through, no man is perfect; but on this ground, I must confess that coach Salisu Yusuf derailed!  Good morning comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 