JULIET OYOYO KADUNA – Senator Shehu Sani, representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District of Kaduna State in the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly, in playing his part of trying to unite the populace, has urged the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) to be guided by conscience and convictions about what is humanly judged on a candidate and not political party. While meeting with CAN officials from Kaduna Central at his Kaduna residence, Sen. Sani pointed out that partisan politics has divided Nigeria more than religious differences. Sani said, “There is a duty for all leaders of Faith, whether Muslim Faith or Christian Faith, to work for the peace, justice and unity of the country and there is a moral burden for all leaders irrespective of their political parties.” He said the bloodshed and mass killings going on in the areas of Birnin Gwari, Chikun, Kajuru, Igabi and other parts of the country, weres worrisome and condemnable. He added, “Nigeria’s sovereignty and stability is under a serious threat. In the North-East, there are lots of violence and threats by the insurgents that have continued to unleash terror and attacks on the innocent citizens. “In the North-Central part of Nigeria, herdsmen and militia groups have become agents of the devils, killing and unleashing terror on innocent citizens.” Senator Sani noted that thousands of Zamfara residents and several communities were under siege. “We tell ourselves the truth by healing our wounds and we also heal our wounds by impressing on those who tell us the truth. “We the elected politicians must be accountable and it is for the interest of all to continue to tell people in the position of power, the bitter truth and not people who are sycophants that tell you lies,” he stated. Sani also said that it is for the interest of the common man on the street that all work for the continuity of this country. “When you say the truth, it does not mean that if you say the truth you will not go to prison and you will not be killed, but it means that when you tell the truth, as a human being you’re free, because there is a moral burden to all men of conscience and conviction to unburden their hearts and speak to the people in position of power what they need to hear to heal them and remove cataracts in their eyes. “It is only when the country remains in peace that our nation will make meaning to citizens. National flags, National Anthem and National pledges do not unite a nation, but justice, sense of belonging, fairness and objectivity for people of different backgrounds,” he said. He urged the CAN officials to summon all political leaders and aspirants who want to occupy offices to come and address them as 2019 approaches. “Those in office should tell you what they have done to deserve the renewal of their mandates and those aspiring to be there should tell you what they want to do for you,”, he stated. The lawmaker reminded CAN officials to lead their adherents to the right path by the kind of choices they make. “You must know the people who want to be your leaders because you cannot marry your daughter to somebody you don’t know. “CAN is indispensable in the political history and dynamics of Nigeria. It is an association that has established itself in the minds of the people. So, it is imperative for the CAN to choose good leaders they desire. He donated empowerment materials for both women and Youths within his constituency at the conclusion of the meeting. Responding, Rev. Shokolo Kasuwa, the CAN Chairman Kaduna Central, eulogised Comrade Shehu Sani for his outstanding contributions in the Senate and in the social media. “We are proud to say you’re our leader. Your doggedness and fairness in saying the truth irrespective of the challenges is commendable. “For the past two years, in the areas of Chikun, Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Kajuru, the people cannot access their farmlands which is a serious threat to their existence as a people. “We call on you to use your influence to help us curtail the myriad of challenges bedevilling our region. We assure you of our maximum cooperation to succeed in your political endeavours,” he stated. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 