Senator Barnabas Gemade represents Benue North-East Senatorial District in the Red Chambers of the National Assembly. He spoke with TOR VANDE-ACKA on the recent siege on the Benue State House of Assembly and the National Assembly, freezing of the state’s accounts and those of Akwa Ibom State, among other issues. Excerpt: Sir, you and a host of others recently returned to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). What is the position of things among the returnees and how has the reception been? Our reception in PDP so far has been very good. We have no problem whatsoever. We have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with provision for every single item that was brought up for discussion. That document spells out everything in great details. So, there is no problem. And I think the individual differences from one state to the other were also reflected in the agreement. So, what is left now is the implementation. And implementation means bringing leaders from both sides together and agreeing how they want the implementation to be done. That is the stage where we are and so far everything is going on fine. In 2015, you left the PDP because your interest wasn’t protected. Now, you are back. How do you intend to build the confidence in your supporters, particularly those in Benue, to return to the PDP? When I left the PDP, I contested an election as Senator on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and I won. That means that the people never lost confidence in me. They still have that confidence in me. So, I don’t need to rebuild any confidence. What I need to do is to tell them that what used to happen in the party (PDP) is no longer happening there. Where we went was worse and therefore we have come back and together we need to join hands to do what is good for the people and that is what we have come back to do. At the NASS, we have been hearing of moves to remove the Senate President, Bukola Saraki.  Do you think the APC will succeed in this fight? That process ought not to be a fight. It’s a constitutional process. Therefore, you must follow the rules. They have no chance whatsoever. That is why they started through illegal means of barricading the National and State House of Assemblies to cause things to be done. All of those things have failed and those perpetrating them have been sacked from office. If you feel you can carry something through constitutionally, you will not first go to illegality. The simple fact that they went to use force and illegal meant that they had no chance and I don’t think they will ever to do it. As far as we are concerned, every Senator, every House of Representatives member represents his own people. He does not represent the Federal Government. Therefore, we will not carry out what the Federal Government wants. We will carry out what our people want. Our people want a free country where there is liberty, where there is security for everybody, where there is fairness and if the Federal Government cannot guarantee safety of lives and property, does not guarantee freedom, does not guarantee liberty and is not even helping on the economy. Poverty has become so pervasive so that today, we have about 87 million Nigerians that are very, very, poor. During the PDP era, the people used to be poor, but the population of the very poor people never went beyond 50 million. Today, we have overtaken India. India has only 78 million people that are very, very, poor and that is out of a population of 950 million people. We (Nigeria) are only 160 million and 87 million very poor Nigerians and these are statistics of the World Bank; statistics of UN (United Nations). You cannot fault these statistics. This is what this government has done. So, we in the National Assembly are not there to defend this kind of thing. We are there to defend the interest of our people and we will always do what our people want. Even if the greatest intimidation was brought to bear on National Assembly, we will do only those things that will promote the unity of this nation and promote the welfare of the people that elected us to go to the National Assembly. Recently, you were in Benue State to support and give solidarity to the government and people of the state over the siege by security men at the state House of Assembly. Shortly after, the same took place at the National Assembly. What implication do you think this has on the democratic process? Well, my answer to that question will not be a new answer because so much has been said already. The whole nation, the international community has condemned this activity. Very old and solid democracies in the world like the United States and Great Britain have condemned this action. You already know what this exactly means to democracy in Nigeria. It’s the destruction of the democracy of this country and the whole world has cried out against it and I am happy that the Acting President, Yemi Osinbajo, saw this and quickly took steps to halt it. The DSS (Directorate of State Services) that was behind the whole of this business is now undergoing overhaul. A new DG (Director General) is there, and we don’t expect such things to continue. What is your view on the recent freezing and unfreezing of the Benue and Akwa states accounts by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)? I have already spoken on that matter before. But, it makes no sense if you say that government money is being stolen and you go and freeze the account that contains government money. I believe the account you need to freeze is that which government money has been taken to, so, you can bring it back. The only common denominator I can see in this matter of freezing government accounts is a governor, the head of the government of Benue leaving the ruling party and a godfather of a government of Akwa Ibom leaving his party to go to the ruling party. So, it is all about defection. This is the only common denominator with these two. But, the action itself does not meet any reasonable imagination of any human being. Just like I said, if you are looking for stolen money, you go to where it was taken to, not where it was stolen from. I am not speaking about the facts of what EFCC is claiming because I know nothing about it. In your senatorial district, particularly Katsina-Ala, armed bandits have continued to wreak havoc. Only recently, some persons were killed by criminal gangs in Katsina-Ala. What’s your reaction to that? I have always condemned these killings and the atrocities committed by the armed bandits, whatever and whoever they are. During the electioneering of 2015, I wrote three letters to the then Inspector General of Police (IGP), a complaint that arm build-up was taking place in the Katsina-Ala area and it was very dangerous for elections. And close to the election date, there was so much disturbance and upheaval that I again wrote to INEC and demanded that the Senatorial and House of Representatives elections be collated in Makurdi, instead of Katsina-Ala because it was a lawless situation and they heeded this advice and brought those elections to be collated here in Makurdi. But, the situation has continued because you cannot disarm an area overnight, just as the build-up took a long time, even with the amnesty offered by government of Benue State and extension of that amnesty everybody who needed to come forward, including some people they used to call field commanders in that area. This thing has not been totally eliminated. We heard, one day that  soldiers went there and even bombarded the area suspected to be hideouts of these people. A current serving Major General was attacked by a group of bandits at his home in Katsina-Ala LG. So, this is a very serious matter and I believe that anybody who has something to do or to say about this matter should put hands together with the government to ensure that this is eliminated. As far as I know, we need to ensure that these people are apprehended in whatever way and are dealt with according to law to ensure that we make that place safe again. For now, Katsina-Ala remains unsafe and those who were accused of arming those bandits in those areas, if they want to be true citizens of Benue and of Nigeria and these people (bandits) listen to them, they should dissuade them from doing the things they are doing. Every day, massive killing of innocent people in market places, in the streets and so on, is not proper. I condemn this in its entirety. With the forth-coming elections, I am again worried that if that situation persists, we may be back to square one, as we were in 2015. God forbid! There are speculations that you may have entered into negotiations with the immediate-past governor of the state, Gabriel Suswam, to concede the Benue North-West senatorial seat to him in 2015 to pave way for your son who may be contesting the governorship in 2023. How true is this? How can my son’s governorship come into a matter like that? My son is not a politician. He is a very close friend of Suswam. They’ve always been together for a very long time. Suswam became governor and he is a civil servant. He is not considering becoming a politician. That I know very well. And as far as stepping down is concerned, I am not surprised about all these postings in the social media about my stepping down, even in the print media, sponsored articles about my stepping down. If you recall in 2015 starting from 2014, there were several publications here, some of even which gave result of mock primaries putting me at less than two percent of the votes and my opponent at 90 something percent of the votes. So many things have been posted before. They mean nothing. Those postings don’t materialise to realities. I have not stepped down and I am not stepping down. Incumbents are the people who are regarded as owners of the position. Those who seek those positions came behind them. So, whosoever wants this Senate seat is only canvassing for it and he should therefore do all that is required to canvass for it and for the people to support him, if they want to; not to come and say I have stepped down. I don’t have a Senate seat to give to anybody. The one I have belongs to the people. When the people want it, they will ask me to hand it over to someone. But, it is not young boys posting such things on social media in English language that cannot even pass school certificate that I have stepped down.  If they had managed to get a phone and know how to text, they should first learn to text in correct English before they can begin to write things they do not know. Also, we gathered you may have attracted a federal polytechnic to be cited in your senatorial district and we got news that land is also being processed for the eventual take off. At what stage are you now? Well, I have written to ask the people of the local government, through their local government administration, to provide land. As soon as they make the provision and reach me, I’ll transmit it to Abuja for the job to start. Beyond that, there is really nothing I can do more than the fact that this has already been achieved. All we are waiting for now is the land for the siting of the polytechnic. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 