In his view, a refinery expert who craves anonymity told our correspondent that building a modular refinery is not easy, apart from citing your refinery beside the sea, one can as well cite it near a marginal oil field. He ask several questions on how prepared is the Federal Government as to:  “The first question is where will the crude oil come from? We hear that it is coming from Niger Republic. The question is, how much reserve do we have there? Has it being growing? Has it been studied? Has production started from that field, and if the crude oil there is producible?  First of all, it is like you want to establish cocoa industry in London and they say it’s alright you plant cocoa In Scotland or somewhere. “So, that is the very first thing that needs to be done. There is no priority as regards to that. Concerning the agreement between Nigeria and Niger Republic, I don’t know of any investor who will begin to put things on the table when some of the key things and some fundamental questions about liability of such a project are not well articulated. They ought to have been identified and resolved many years ago. But unfortunately, many of us in the industry have not seen them yet. In his view, Alhaji Debo Ahmed, Chairman, Western zone of Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), said the move by the Federal Government is very laudable. According to him, “It is just very laudable in the sense that at least, it will reduce those traffic from all over the North to the south. The problem we are having is the vandalisation of pipelines. If the government can curb vandalisation of pipelines, there won’t be any need for building a new refinery. But the vandalisation has taken a very big dimension. So, the government cannot curb it and as such, they cannot just allow the vandals to just be destroying the pipelines like that. The best thing is that they should  build the refineries in the North, at least they will take care of some part of the north instead of everybody running to the deport in the south. “Because the refinery is sited in Katsina, that is why people are making some noise; it can be anywhere. If it will boost our foreign direct investment (FDI), it is a very good thing for the country. Iraq is not up to Nigeria, they have over fifteen refineries; Saudi  Arabia has a lot of refineries; India has major refineries- the largest refineries in the whole  world. So they have a lot of refineries, no matter where it’s located in as much as it is going to meet our needs. “Those vandals are terrible like Boko Haram.  But the government cannot be spending money importing products and at the same time passing through the pipelines while some people will be going to pipelines, destroying and siphoning the oil.  Though securities are there, but Nigeria is a very complex country where everybody will join the queue. Those that are meant to guide the place join them. That has been our major problem. Minister Defends Action Although stakeholders picked holes in the refinery project, Minister of state for Petroleum Resources, Dr.Ibe Kachikwu, said the decision is to do a pipeline from Niger Republic into a Nigerian border town and construct a refinery with capacity probably between 100,000 and 150,000 barrels a day, but it is all dependent on the Nigerien crude volumes. “It depends on what they find, currently their number is enough to support about 60 to 70,000 barrels per day but lots of field that have been capped will be opened. We hope that as the project goes over the next two years, we will probably have more feed-stock to power a much bigger refinery,” the minister said. He added: “It is Katsina and there is a potential for extension to Kaduna. Bear in mind this started first from wanting to build a pipeline from Niger to Kaduna refinery. At the board of NNPC we shut that down because the asset quality of the crude from Niger was not the same as our own quality crude. Kachikwu said the government had put in place a strategy of ‘Seven Big-Wins’ launched by the President in 2016. He said the refinery project would allow the export of stranded Nigerien surplus crude to Nigeria for the sole purpose of processing the crude oil in a new refinery in Nigeria for improved economic activities and the benefit of the two neighbouring countries. He allayed fears that concerns about insecurity, he said: “If we bother about insecurity we are not going to make progress. The security issues are there, we will deal with them. Niger hasn’t faced much of a security issue in terms of finding its crude, the distance in the pipeline corridor is going to be short and hopefully technology will bury it sufficiently not to be an issue Kachikwu, however, stated at a recent meeting at the State House in Abuja, where Nigeria and Niger Republic penned agreements to build a 150,000 barrels a day refinery in Katsina, that with crude supplies from Niger, as well as other refineries coming up, there would be little for exports. He specifically predicted Nigeria could have challenges providing crude oil for the refineries when they all become operational. His predictions were, however, supported by industry experts who suggested an immediate passage of the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) currently with President Muhammadu Buhari for assent, and other associate bills would pave the way for investments into more oil production and reserves increase. “First you have the Agip refinery that studies are ongoing in Bayelsa that should cover the South-south corridor. You have the Port Harcourt refinery which when they finish refurbishing covers South-south and South-east. “The Warri and Kaduna are all there including the Dangote in Lagos. About three marginal refineries with two coming on stream,  and seven with a potential of coming on stream over the next two years. Very soon our problem would be finding sufficient crude to match the requirements of a lot of these refineries,” said Kachikwu, in response to a question on refineries’ projects in the country. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 