Ibadan – Mr. Ibrahim Magu, Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), on Monday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, declared that the anti – graft agency was not working for any political party or politician. Magu, who made this declaration while speaking at a stakeholder’s meeting held at the zonal headquarters of the agency in Ibadan, also said that EFCC was not being used to witch-hunt members of any political party. The EFCC boss declared that the activities of the anti-graft agency were in line with the international best practices, saying that the agency under his leadership was not partisan. Stakeholders at the meeting, which included Comrade Waheed Oloyede, Chairman of the Oyo State chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC); Mrs. Dolapo Dosumu, Oyo State Coordinator of the National Orientation Agency (NOA); Pastor Benjamin Aremu of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), among others. They commended Magu and the EFCC for the initiative, and also the efforts in the fight against corruption in Nigeria. Some of the stakeholders urged the EFCC to extend the sensitization of the Nigerian masses on the fight against corruption to the grassroots for effectiveness. Speaking further at the meeting, Magu maintained, ”In all we do, we are indeed guided first by the fear of God and patriotism to our fatherland and rule of law”. His words: ”For us at the EFCC, we are driven by courage, integrity and professionalism and our commitment to the common task of improving the lot of out people at the grassroots as we promote working partnership with all stakeholders need not to be over emphasized. “The havoc that corrupt practices have wreaked on Nigeria economy is no doubt endless, and I do not intend to bore you with them. This is why fighting it to a standstill is not only a must but also the only lifesaver for our country as to save the next generation. “It is pertinent for us to see ourselves as stakeholders in this fight .We must collectively strive to achieve the Nigeria of our dream, one which our children, indeed even generations unborn will be proud of.” The EFFC boss, however, disclosed that over 150 corruption cases been prosecuted by the anti – graft agency will be followed to logical conclusions. While charging the media on effective coverage and support in the fight against corruption , Magu urged journalists not to relent in their effort to expose corruption and promote sanity in the society. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 