Idongesit Ashameri Uyo – Akwa Ibom government has accused the Federal Government of deducting over N6.8 billion from the state’s allocation for some months. The government also said the Federal Government had withheld its derivation funds. Governor Udom Emmanuel disclosed this on Wednesday and attributed the unwarranted deductions to politics, especially as a strategy to put the state into financial difficulties. Emmanuel made the revelation when he played host to Alhaji Kabiru Tanimu Turaki (SAN), presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who led his campaign team on a courtesy visit to the governor at the Government House, Uyo. “As at today, they’ve withheld all our derivation funds, we have not gotten anything out of the derivation for last month. “Within two months, they have dropped the allocation of Akwa Ibom State by N6.8 billion, so you can imagine how much I was able to get, all in the name of politics. I’m still trying to pay salaries for July. “That is what is going on now, but I want to believe that if you come into power, you would never do that to the opposition. “You need opposition to govern well because if you don’t have constructive criticisms on what you are doing, you are heading towards destruction.” The governor assured the presidential hopeful of fairness and sincerity in the process that would produce the candidate to fly the PDP flag in the 2019 presidential race. He explained that the PDP had deliberately refused to identify the PDP candidate at the moment in order to ensure a level playing field for all aspirants. “People keep asking, ‘PDP, who is your candidate?’ It is a pure deliberate act to allow democracy to thrive. “You would never see any governor openly identifying with any presidential aspirant. All of us want to leave it on a free, fair and level playing ground,” he said. He expressed delight at the quality of individuals from the umbrella party vying for the party’s presidential ticket. He expressed hope that Nigerians would appreciate the seriousness of the party when the aspirants are eventually presented to them. He said an avenue would be created for aspirants to address the nation on a live programme to convince Nigerians on what the PDP was actually bringing to the table. While applauding the oratorical prowess of Alhaji Turaki and his eloquent analysis of the country’s problems, the state chief executive noted that such understanding would make it easier to correct the anomaly. The governor wished the aspirant success in his ambition and stated that “power belongs to God, and if you are destined to get there, nothing can stop that from happening”. In his address, the presidential aspirant, Alhaji Turaki, eulogised Governor Emmanuel, describing him as the best performing governor in Nigeria and the pride of the nation, while applauding his dynamism in governing the state and attributed it to his pedigree in the private sector. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 