ASABA – Determined to instill party discipline, end the trend of imposition and allow the popular candidate to fly the flag of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the 2019 elections, Former Governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori on Saturday August 11th 2018 shocked his admirers when he stated that he is not ready to impose any aspirant on the people. The occasion was the 70th birthday celebration of Senator Patrick Osakwe and the grand reception in his honour at Ugiliamai, Ndokwa West Local Government Area of Delta State. Former Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan and the incumbent, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, met together publicly for the first time, since the rumour of Uduaghan’s purported plan to defect to the All Progressives Congress, APC, rocked the state and reconciliation of the duo by Ibori and other PDP, leaders in the state. Party faithful, who were worried by what the wrangling between Okowa and Uduaghan almost degenerated to were happy to see the role played by Ibori, head of the political dynasty facilitating the duo were sitting together again, drinking and eating at the occasion which sent a signal that there was no crack anywhere. Ibori who used the opportunity to advise aspirants to look for their delegates to get their support, not relying on leaders or godfathers to impose them on popular candidates after bypassing the delegates decried the situation whereby politicians and aspirants abandon their people for long only to come back when election is close and begin to look for leaders who will write their names and impose them on the other aspirants. ‘’We must understand that Delta is a complex place. We should learn to subdue our personal ambition for the overall good of the state and the people of the state. That is paramount, as at the end of the day, if I become Governor 12 times or above I will still go to Oghara afterwards, one would still have to go home. Since that time you have always supported everything this family agrees on’’. ‘’In politics sometimes, it is difficult to swallow the pill, when they administer the pill to you it can be very bitter but we must all do it no matter how high you are. Most importantly, you must do what your people say, if you go to Abuja and you stay there and when it is time for election you come back home, do not tell Ibori. As it is today I have so many children, so many and I may not be able to help all of you. Go and look for your delegate, go to your people and beg them to support you. Ibori cannot help all of you, it is your people that would vote you. I have said it in private, now I say it in public, the Governor cannot help you, I cannot help you’’ On the reception for him, he emphasized that his politics with Senator Osakwe dates back to their University days in University of Benin, his 12 years sojourn in the Senate and since then has continued to be a loyal, reliable and dependable politician. He commended Senator Osakwe for not allowing the lure of the National Assembly to carry him away, just as he praised him for agreeing to step down from his fourth term ambition to the Senate when he advised him to step down for Senator lfeanyi Okowa. ‘’Let me thank you for including me in this your day, and I accept the honour. The only thing I want to say is to emphasize that you have been a very loyal and committed member of this party and the family. You funded very heavily the establishment of this party’’ comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 