Chief Bola Tinubu, APC National Leader; Mr. Babatunde Fashola, the Minister of Works, Power and Housing and former governor of Lagos State; and Dr. Idiat Adebule, the Lagos State Deputy Governor, were  among dignitaries who observed the Eid prayers at Dodan Barracks Prayer Ground in Ikoyi, Lagos, on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Adebule who urged Nigerians to eschew all forms of violence ahead of the 2019 general elections, said a violence-free election would demonstrate to the world that democracy has come to stay in Nigeria. She said, “As another election year approaches, I urge Nigerians to conduct themselves peacefully. I also urge us to pray for a peaceful coexistence, enhanced national security and continued development of our dear state, Lagos, and the country. “As we celebrate Sallah, we pray to God for wisdom to choose love instead of hatred, peace instead of violence and progress instead of stagnation.” The Lagos deputy governor also admonished Nigerians to pray for good governance and also sustain their support for Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s administration. Also, Mr. Mudashiru Obasa, the Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, expressed regrets that rather than engage youths meaningfully, politicians had turned them into political thugs. Obasa urged Nigerian youths to aspire for political positions rather than allowing themselves to be used as thugs to cause violence during and after the elections. “If anybody wants to use you, tell such politicians to bring his or her child. Do not allow yourself to be used. “My advice to the youths is that you should show interest in politics because you are not too young to run,” he said. Obasa promised to continue to promote the business of legislature in the interest of the people. In his message, Senator Gbenga Ashafa (Lagos East), urged political office holders to keep to their electoral promises for the good of the people. In his sermon,  Alhaji Sulaimon Abou-Nolla, the Chief Imam of Lagos, who led the prayer, said that participation in the election was a civic duty of every adult citizen in a democratic government. Abou-Nolla urged every Muslim to get Permanent Voter Card to enable him or her to participate in the forthcoming general elections. He said, “You must ensure that you vote. It is a duty and vote for a righteous and just leader that will bring a positive change, not corruption for the people. “We must also embrace peace and love for one another rather than kill.  Life is sacred; do not kill for it is an unjust act.” The cleric enjoined Muslims to imbibe the spirit of sacrifice in their daily activities as exemplified by Prophet Mohammed. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 