Emma Nzomiwu, Christian Nwokocha Enugu / Owerri – Benjamin Onwuka, the leader of Biafra Zionist Federation, was on Monday morning arrested again in Enugu. Daily Independent gathered that Onwuka was arrested alongside 50 of his members as they were moving to take over Enugu State Government House. The Enugu State Police Command had on Sunday vowed to deal decisively with anybody trying to breach the peace or cause panic in Enugu under the guise of the Biafran struggle. An attempt by Onwuka to hoist the Biafran flag at Enugu Government House on Monday was foiled by a combined team of security operatives made up of the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Nigeria police. A source hinted that they had marched from the Presidential Road, through Rangers Avenue, but were stopped at the Bissala Road entry to the Government House by security operatives. They were arrested after another failed attempt to enter the Enugu Government House for the inauguration of Biafra. Deputy Leader of the group, Mazi Ambrose Ugwu, who confirmed the arrest to journalists, said the whereabouts of their members remained unknown. “Our people left this morning (Monday) for the Enugu Government House to hoist the Biafran flag, but they were stopped on getting close to the road leading to the place. “DSS operatives stopped them from entering the Government House. They told them to stay within the Bissala Road axis and do whatever they wanted to do. “However, our leader refused, insisting that he must be allowed to enter the Government House. After a while, they brought vehicles and told them to enter, claiming that they were taking them to a place for a dialogue. “As we speak, we have not heard from them. As far as we are concerned, this is abduction, because they were taken to an unknown place. We have gone to the state CID but they are not being detained there. “We are, therefore, calling on the international community, especially the US President Donald Trump and the Prime Minister of Israel to intervene for their immediate release. “From the information I have, over 50 of them were arrested; they were not armed; they are just freedom fighters. Should anything happen to them, we will hold the South-East governors responsible,” Ugwu said. When our correspondent contacted Ebere Amaraizu, the Spokesman of Enugu State Police Command, he said the arrest of Onwuka or any other Biafran agitator had not been brought to his notice. Onwuka was earlier arrested in 2014 for the same offence and was released after spending three years in detention. He was re-arrested last year and later freed. Court Remands 114 IPOB Protesting Women Meanwhile, S. K. Kadurumba of a Magistrate Court in Owerri has refused to grant bail to 114 IPOB protesting women who were charged by the police on a count charge of conspiracy to commit felony in Imo State. Kadurumba said the charge against the women were beyond her powers and out of her jurisdiction to handle, and therefore referred their case to the DPP in the state for advice. The women, who protested at the weekend and were all arrested by the police, accused the Federal Government of holding the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu. They demanded his immediate release and also sought to know the whereabouts of Kanu’s family members. In the court premises, the police were in their hundreds, apparently waiting to crush anybody willing to protest within the court premises or prevent them from discharging their constitutional responsibilities. The presence of these police officers, who were armed to the teeth, could not stop daring IPOB members, including women, who blocked the police truck ready to convey the women to prison as ordered by the court. IPOB lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, said all efforts to get them released on Monday failed since the magistrate could not exercise her bail granting discretion. However, Ejiofor was sure that all the women would be granted bail on Thursday since he was working with a team of lawyers with a view to applying for bail in a higher court. “We were unable to secure their release today but we are sure that on or before Thursday, this week, they will all be released. “You can see I have been addressing IPOB members, telling them to calm down, that all the women would be released. “The offence is a bailable offence, and I have no doubt that the bail granting would be in their favour.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 