Yola – A gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the leadership of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in country as more sufferings for Nigerians as the APC is beret of ideas to move the nation forward. Speaking while launching his gubernatorial campaign at the Adamawa State PDP office Ambassador Jameel Abubakar Waziri said if Nigerians give another four years to the APC their suffering will continue unabated as the APC has nothing to offer Nigerians again. Amb. Waziri noted that Nigeria under APC has been drawn back 20 years economically and the country may not survive if additional four years is given to APC. He called on Nigerians to wise up by rejecting APC at all levels so that the country can recover from the economic hardship the people are made to go through while the leaders are corruptly enriching themselves with the spoils of government. The frontrunner for the PDP gubernatorial ticket in Adamawa State, said the economic hardship and the deplorable security situation in the country is as a result of failed leadership and lack of good governance in the country. Amb. Waziri, who was the Chief of Protocol to former President Goodluck Jonathan, slammed the decaying state of education, economy and infrastructural development in Nigeria on APC bad leadership. He noted that this was caused by poor leadership in the country, stressing that his party PDP would correct the leadership gap by ensuring all-inclusiveness, justice and equity and fairness to all citizens of the country Nigeria. He said, “Democracy is a means for improving the social, economic, health and welfare of all humans. “Democracy by all intents and purposes was designed to deliver good and better things to every Nigerian.” He also lamented that unscrupulous politicians in Adamawa State and the country had scuttled the good intentions of democracy. “PDP and my candidacy are on a mission to restore the neighbourliness and humanity of the people of the state.” The former Chief of Protocol in Aso Rock said, “It’s time for Adamawa to have a leader with the capacity to respond to crisis and ensure peaceful coexistence, harmony and cooperation between neighbours.” He noted that the security challenges and unrests experienced in the state are strange to the usually welcoming people of the state and it is exacerbated by the absence of visionary and meaningful leadership. He called on the Adamawa State chapter of PDP to give him the needed cooperation to rid the state of inappropriate and inapt leadership under the APC. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 