The 2018/19 English Premier League season begins this weekend with a new feature from the usual expectation signing razzmatazz; in same way the teams are being rated and ranked for the games according to interest and intrigue by The Telegragh. But as the season progresses the significance of each game will become more important, but other factors such as styles, potential individual battles and entertainment value will be considered. Some of the clubs made big and small buys, just as some did not and this weekend openers will provide a hind sight of how the clubs may progress with all eyes on the Big Six if they can win out of every single week. Watford vs Brighton (Saturday, 3pm) Watford: Javi Gracia is a good coach, but no better than Quique Sánchez Flores or Walter Mazzarri so expect another anonymous season that catches the attention of nobody outside their corner of Hertfordshire. Ben Foster is their most high-profile signing, a proven Premier League goalkeeper, but hardly likely to trigger a stampede outside the club shop. Brighton are slowly building, spending £1 million less than Arsenal, and their task this season is to pick up a few more wins on the road. One hopes Soccer Saturday give Paul Merson this game in the event club-record signing Alireza Jahanbakhsh starts. Southampton vs Burnley (Sunday, 1.30pm) Burnley’s involvement in the Europa League has this game in a untelevised Sunday afternoon slot. Their lack of transfer activity looked concerning given the demands of European competition, but Ben Gibson and Matej Vyrdra a fine Championship acquisitions that add depth. Not to mention Joe Hart, who will bring vocal gee-ups in the tunnel. You may have forgotten that Southampton’s manager is Mark Hughes after a sluggish summer that saw them finally add a forward of repute in Danny Ings. Midfield remains their strong suit but it is difficult to feel too enthused by them. Bournemouth vs Cardiff City (Saturday 3pm) Cardiff are building a squad for next season’s promotion tilt and look cast-iron certainties to finish bottom. Not only are talent, finances and squad depth stacked firmly against them, Neil Warnock’s agricultural style appears utterly unsuitable to the speed and fluidity of top-flight football. Bournemouth should be in for more of the same, but must avoid leaving themselves in perilous positions – they cannot expect to repeat the glut of late comebacks they pulled off at the Vitality Stadium last season. Huddersfield Town vs Chelsea (Saturday 3pm) Now Huddersfield are in their second season in the Premier League it is easy to forget that they are still battling against the odds. The smallest club in the division with the smallest budget, Huddersfield will be in a season-long battle for survival. As long as they stick to their principles and do not stray too far from David Wagner’s ideas they should have a puncher’s chance. As for Chelsea, Maurizio Sarri is handed a gentle start as he tries to ingrain an intricate and intensive new style. Midfield looks very tasty indeed with N’Golo Kante, Jorginho, Mateo Kovacic and Cesc Fabregas to choose from. Marcos Alonso at left-back in a flat back four, the lack of an established centre-back pairing and a shortage of goals from the wingers could be Chelsea’s problems this season. Liverpool vs West Ham (Sunday, 1.30pm) Plenty of new signings on show, but likely to be a comfortable home victory. Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool have dropped too many points at Anfield against bottom-half opposition, but West Ham and Manuel Pellegrini do not look the type of team to stifle them. West Ham have recruited some good players – Felipe Anderson, Jack Wilshere, Andriy Yarmolenko – but their incomings still resemble a random list of names lacking a clear identity. Liverpool might need to be patient, but these are exactly the type of games Naby Keita was bought for – his dribbling ability in central areas could open the door. Should be a comfortable debut for Alisson. Newcastle vs Tottenham Hotspur (Saturday, 12.30pm) A repeat fixture from last season’s opening weekend, and both sets of fans will welcome the return of actual football after frustrating transfer windows. Tottenham claimed they could not find the players who could improve their squad, forgetting that Eric Dier starts regularly in central midfield. Newcastle fans and Mike Ashley are still trapped in a loveless marriage, and last season’s 10th-place finish was flattering. Rafael Benitez will set a team up to avoid a drubbing, but they will again struggle to create chances and score goals. Spurs will also be below-par, without some of their World Cup returnees. The ‘will Harry Kane score in August’ sub-plot begins in earnest. After Saturday, Kane faces Fulham at Wembley and Manchester United at Old Trafford as he tries to break his duck. Fulham vs Crystal Palace (Saturday, 3pm) Who cares what the game itself is like? It’s Craven Cottage-upon Thames-near-the-river-by-the-water’s-edge in August and Crystal Palace are the first set of away fans to enjoy the popular pre-Fulham booze cruise. We should also take the opportunity to welcome back Craven Cottage’s immaculate pitch, an essential component of watchable games. Fulham parade high-profile summer signings Jean Michel-Seri, Andre Schurrle and Aleksandar Mitrovic in a London derby, while Crystal Palace celebrate keeping Wilfried Zaha for at least five more months. Plus, Roy Hodgson is back at the club he led to the Europa League final. Two forward-thinking, progressive teams – you will not be skipping through this when shown on Match of the Day. Wolves vs Everton (Saturday, 5.30pm) Much-tipped Wolves begin their Premier League adventure against one of the established names they might fancy finishing above. Nuno Espírito Santo’s team know they can play – what they are about to find out is where they stand relative to the competition. Everton have been flaky on the road for far too long, and their new manager Marco Silva must add speed and vitality to a team that was allowed to grow old together. Lucas Digne and Richarlison are positive arrivals, but central midfield still looks in need of a new broom through it. Promoted teams at home on the first day of the season are always worth keeping an eye – one usually starts with a convincing win. This might be it. Arsenal vs Manchester City (Sunday, 4pm) The obvious selection, but with good reason. This was supposed to be a good time for Arsenal to play Manchester City. The champions had key players in the latter stages of the World Cup and many thought City would return under-cooked and rusty. Pep Guardiola’s side’s performance in the Community Shield dispelled that illusion and exposed the paper-thin logic it was built on. City were slick and incisive in a 2-0 win over Chelsea that could have been 6-0 – with Ederson, Vincent Kompany, David Silva, Kevin De Bruyne, Gabriel Jesus and Raheem Sterling absent from their starting XI. Nevertheless, it is fair to assume that City will be in better shape by October than by Sunday so that is in Arsenal’s favour. How Unai Emery approaches the game will be fascinating. Arsenal have been playing out from the back dogmatically in their pre-season friendlies, while Emery desires ‘intensive pressing’. That combination is risky against City: who are brilliant at regaining possession in dangerous areas and playing through opposition pressure. Nick the ball off City high up and you are in business, but if they one-two their way out you risk being absolutely shredded. A more pragmatic approach would be understandable in his first game at the Emirates – City beat Arsenal 9-1 on aggregate last season in their three meetings. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 