Damaturu – As part of constituency projects, Senator Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan and his Youth Empowerment Foundation has commissioned the dredging of the River Yobe Komadugu Basin in Wachakal, Karasuwa Local Government Area of Yobe State. The commissioning ceremony was attended by Minister of Water Resources, Emir of Bade, Alhaji Abubakar Umar Suleiman, Emir of Nguru, among other All Progressives Congress (APC) party leaders and faithful, religious and community leaders, across the zone and some part of Jigawa State, local governments and ward levels. In his speech, Senator Lawan who is also the Senate Leader expressed overwhelming joy for the successful implementation of the people oriented project, showered encomium on President Muhammadu Buhari for his visionary leadership as well as Governor Ibrahim Gaidam of Yobe State towards the realisation of the project. He observed that realisation of the project was made possible by the APC government being at the federal and state levels, adding that several achievements and dividends of democracy being enjoyed by our people and Nigerians over the past three years, in terms of massive employment, road infrastructure, among others are unprecedented. He maintained that these achievements can be sustained by continued support for Mr. President and the APC-led government at all levels, just as he solicited for continued prayers for our political leaders. During the commissioning of the project, members of the host communities expressed appreciation to Mr. President and Senator Lawan for boosting sources of livelihood such as fishing and farming through the dredging of the River. They also solicited for the extension of the dredging from Joliyo up to Marwaji in Jigawa State, just as they recall with excitement the relentless effort of Senator Lawan towards the stoppage of proposed construction of Kafin Zaki Dam, which would have impacted negatively on the livelihood of the communities across the State and beyond. In response to the request, Senator Lawan called for the intervention of the Minister of Water Resources to use his good office to approve the extension of the dredging to Marwaji. In his remarks, the Minister who showered encomium on Senator Lawan, mandated the Managing Director of Hadejia-Jama’are to give necessary consideration to the request, as well as Managing Director of Lake Chad River Basin. In a related development, Senator Lawan commissioned High capacity Generators, 21 number of transformers, medical laboratory, water treatment plan and state of the art medical equipment funded by himself as well as the Kidney Centre and dialysis machines at Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Nguru. While addressing the dignitaries and the people who attended the ceremony, Senator Lawan disclosed that a team of medical experts constituted by the Minister of Health will soon arrive FMC and Yobe North Senatorial District to conduct investigation into the immediate and remote cause of the kidney disease ravaging the area. Lawan also unveiled plans of over 160m projects for 2018, in addition to their regular projects, we have the construction of General Out-Patient Department (GOPD) and Specialist Clinics (65m) at FMC Nguru, Supply of Laboratory Materials at School of Midwifery (65m) and Medical Equipment and Halo Wires (51). The stakeholders who attended the ceremony appreciated in no mean way, the efforts of Senator Lawan towards bringing the project to fruition, just as they renew commitment towards supporting President Buhari, Governor Gaidam and Senator Lawan. However, Senator Lawan also commissioned the 1 kilometre township road constructed by MotherCat at Nguru. He used the opportunity to inspect the 6 kilometre drainage under construction which has reached advance stage. In addition, Senator Lawan also used the occasion to announce to the people of the plans underway to replicate the construction of the drainage in Gashua as soon as the company completes the Nguru drainage project. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 