Dr. Elishama Ideh, a presidential aspirant in the 2019 general elections in this interview with journalists in Lagos speaks on why she wants to become the first female president in the country. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: We understand that you are calling it quit with your party, Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), what is the reason for this? As things stand at the moment, the party structure has been hijacked by a certain character. Interestingly, up till now, this character has not declared his interest in running. It is evident that there is no level playing field for aspirants on the platform of the party and we are being sidelined in the agreed processes. What motivated you to join the 2019 presidential race? I am passionate about the state of our nation, especially why we should have people at extreme poverty level, when we have a nation that is so richly blessed and most significantly, when we have a government in place. We all know that the essence of government is the welfare and security of the people. When you talk about poverty, it refers to people not having the basic needs for life. An average Nigerian does not have access to the basic needs of life and generally from research, we know that our problem has been bad leadership over the years. That is what has caused abject poverty in the land. That is why someone like me, a mother, a wife, a clergy and a concerned citizen with experience on community engagement is offering myself for service. When you talk about leadership, it is all about understanding the peoples’ problems and proffering solutions. For you to understand the peoples’ problems, you have to engage them, inquire about their basic needs before you can proffer solutions. That is one of the reasons why I am in the presidential race. For Nigeria to have transformational leadership there should be change at the top. Is it only when you occupy an executive position that you can implement some these interventions that you talked about? The problem we have in Nigeria right now is too deep for me to tackle from the state level. For impact of change to be felt in Nigeria, we need it at the highest level. That is the office of the president, which can empower me to cause a major shift. Nigeria needs a transformational leader right now to cause a shift from the norm that put us in the present situation that we are in. We need somebody with a vision that is totally different from what we have been having; the vision for a new Nigeria backed up by executive power as provided for in our constitution to cause a radical change at the top. That is why I am running for presidency. What will you do differently if you are elected as president? The promises I have outlined in my 7 Point Agenda are achievable. I am not making bogus promises that I cannot fulfill. Having said this, I will appeal to Nigerians to reject the same people who have been giving us problems over the years. They should stop supporting the same people and political parties because it is now a cultural thing. If we must experience something new in our nation, we must shift from what we used to know to something new. The people you want to vote for, what have they done before; how have they impacted on their communities? I am a woman, who has impacted on so many people with my meager resources in the last 20 years. I have been taking care of thousands of lives with my personal resources. I was not elected into public office; I have been doing that out of my love for humanity. It gives me concern that a nation that is so blessed and richly endowed cannot provide basic amenities for its people. We have gotten to a point, where Nigerians should say enough is enough. They should look beyond big names and parties. Even the new generation of leaders, who are coming out don’t have experience; we should pay attention to what their visions are. The known political parties have structures, but with all their big names and structures, what have they done for our people? Have our lives been changed, are we doing better now? These are things we should look at as Nigerians and say enough is enough. Can we try something new and have a major shift from what use to be? What we had before now was propaganda machinery put together to grab power. Why can’t we give the young generation of leaders coming out for 2019 the opportunity to impact positively on the lives of Nigerians and get the country out of the present darkness that we are in as a people?. Do you think that a female president is feasible in 2019? Nigeria needs a female president right now because it has been proven that women can resolve crises situations as we have in Nigeria at the moment. We have history with Liberia. That country was totally disintegrated some years ago, but a woman, Mrs. Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, came into the system and ensured socio-political stability. Also, just a couple of years ago, Rwanda was totally disintegrated, but they injected over 68 per cent of women into their system, the highest number in global statistics and before our very eyes, Rwanda bounced back. There is a reason why God created male and female, it is a natural phenomenon, but when you don’t have equal representation of both species in an environment, you are opening that environment up to natural death. A death-like situation occurs and there is decay in that environment. We are supposed to have 35 per cent representation of women in government, but how many of them do we have in the system right now. There has to be a balance for us to have a healthy nation because the emotional intelligence that women have, men cannot easily pick up on that. Nigerians are going through pains and tears at the moment, so we need a woman as president in 2019. People are not happy with the present situation, so we need a voice of hope and comfort; a voice that will bring healing and restoration; the comfort that only the presence of a woman can bring. Let us shift from what we have always known; let us try something different; let us change the change. Do you have the financial war chest to compete with entrenched forces? If you talking about me as an individual, I don’t have, but what people like us and those who believe in us are trying to do is to push the narrative for people to understand the state of our nation. This thing is not about anybody again; it is about you and I because the nation is about to collapse. If a nation that is so richly blessed has about 70 per cent of its population living in abject poverty, we should all be worried. If Nigerians don’t wake up to reality of the situation; that we have been voting out of sentiment, names, big party and settlement, we will all go down by the time the country collapses. So, we must think about the situation that we are in now and make a change. To answer your question directly, so many Nigerians are ready to put their resources to fund us and this is a prophecy: Money politics will fail in 2019; godfatherism will fail and we will be delivered from the hands of wicked people, who don’t want anything good for the country. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 