Lagos – Yoruba Self-Determination Advancement Forum (YOSEDAF) on Monday condemned former President Olusegun Obasanjo on his disapproving comments on the aspiration of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, describing it as appalling. Kola Are, Secretary of YOSEDAF, in an exclusive interview with INDEPENDENT, stated that it is appalling when the group heard about the comments of Chief Obasanjo, stressing that such a statement was not expected from somebody of his calibre. “It is appalling when we hear about the comment of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and we don’t expect such a statement from somebody of his calibre. He is supposed to be a father for all; he is a former military head of state and a civilian president in Nigeria. “The situation we are in today in Nigeria we need all hands on deck to remove this Egypt that is facing the whole of the country. The country has been so much polarized since the advent of this APC government of General Muhammadu Buhari. I call him General Muhammadu Buhari because he still acts much like a military Head of State. He is not acting in a manner and state that befits a civilian President,” he said. Are, also stated all Nigerians must work together to make sure that the country look for a capable hand that can take over and turn around the fortunes of the country. “As at today it is only Alhaji Atiku Abubakar that has made it clear that he believes strongly in restructuring of the nation; which can lead us to every other region and every other state having their own identity politically, economically and in all ramifications. “We as YOSEDAF never agreed with his (Obasanjo’s) position.  We can never agree with his position. Although I don’t know what brought both of them together but they worked together in 1999 till 2007. “Until the issue of Third Term Agenda, they were working together then and everybody saw it as a very good synergy. Whatever happened along the line is supposed to be for the sake of Nigeria not an individual thing. If we know we are coming together to free Nigeria from the shackles of this government we should be able to work together and bring the best so that the best can be for us,” he added. Speaking further he said that “peradventure if Atiku is the person giving us the best positions that is going to liberate Nigeria from the current problem that we are in, is he saying because of his own personal problem with Atiku our collective problem must continue? That is not right,” he said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 