Abuja – There were indications on Monday that President Muhammadu Buhari may not be too pleased with the operations of security agencies in the country. This much came to the fore after the president had a closed-door meeting with the security chiefs, comprising the Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali; Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris; Acting Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Matthew Seiyefa; National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno; Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai; Chief of Naval Staff, Ibok Ekwe Ibas, among others, at the Presidential Villa. The meeting, which lasted for two and half hours ended with a marching order from the presidency to the security chiefs to step up their game. Seiyefa, the Acting Director General of the DSS, who replaced Lawal Daura, featured prominently in the meeting but declined to speak to reporters when he emerged from the meeting. Unfortunately, another terrorist attack on Sunday night, in Maiduguri, Borno State, preceded the Security Council meeting. No fewer than 19 persons are believed to have been killed in that attack. The bloody incident reportedly took place in the village of Mailari in the Guzamala region of the state. The identity of the attackers was not yet clear by Monday. The Boko Haram and the Islamic State of West Africa terrorist groups are most suspected. A survivor, simply identified as Umar, was said to have counted 19 dead people, including his younger brother, at the scene of the attack. The report, however, quoted another aid worker at a camp who received some survivors putting the death toll at 63. General Gabriel Olonisakin, Chief of Defence Staff, told State House correspondents that the meeting centred on reviewing ongoing operations in the entire geopolitical zones, particularly Benue, Zamfara, and Taraba states. He said: “We just had a two and half hours meeting with the president and commander-in-chief. “We reviewed the security situation across the country in all the geo-political zones and, of course, we made all our comments, especially the new operations in Benue, Zamfara, Taraba, ‘Operation Whirl Stroke’ and ‘Operation Sara Daji’. “We gave the extent of successes in these operations and we are to continue in this line of action in these operations. “All the operations were reviewed and all the issues concerning the operations were dealt with, and he directed that we should continue to step up our game to ensure that the nation is safe and people go about their daily activities in a very safe manner.” Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali, while corroborating Olonisakin’s, said some appreciable progress was being reported. He, however, admitted that ensuring full security in the North-East was still posing challenges to them. He said: “This is a normal routine security briefing with Mr. President, he just came back, so we briefed him on all the activities we had while he was away. It’s an update of the August 2nd meeting. “The decision that has been taken is that we have seen that there is a lot of improvement in the security situation in the country, more especially in Zamfara and Benue states, and in the Niger Delta. “In the North-East, we are having worrisome reports; we have looked into it critically and we have taken absolute decisions.” Says Selfishness, Greed Fuelling Corruption President Muhammadu Buhari has identified selfishness and greed as factors fuelling corruption in the country. He said the development had made Nigerians abandon their religious beliefs in the pursuit of their greed. “It’s regrettable that selfishness, greed, and corruption have overwhelmed human souls to the extent that people abandon their religious beliefs in pursuit of their greed,” he stated. He used the opportunity to reiterate his conviction that fighting corruption was a task that must be done in order to protect the larger interests of the ordinary Nigerians who are the worst victims of diseases, poverty, malnutrition, and other afflictions. Buhari expressed this on Monday as part of his Eid-el-Kabir message to Nigerians. He said surrendering to corruption was not an option because it destroyed society and the progress of nation. According to President Buhari, “Even if some people hate you for fighting corruption, you should not chicken out of the task as a leader because doing so is a betrayal of public trust.” On the current economic challenges facing Nigerians, the president said they were temporary because the welfare of the people was the main thrust of the change agenda of his administration. The president, who has since arrived his hometown, Daura, Katsina State, to celebrate the Sallah festivities, also admonished Nigerians to rise above personal, group, sectarian and other narrow interests to promote harmony and tolerance in dealing with one another at all times. He urged all Muslims to use the occasion for sober reflection and self-examination and strive to be good ambassadors of their religion by upholding high moral values. The president said Muslims must be reminded that this felicitous occasion of Eid-ul-Adha should be a remembrance of the submission of Prophet Ibrahim Allaihis-Salam to Allah, his Creator, by which he taught the world the value of sacrifice in relating with one another and in nation-building. “We must sacrifice for others and remember always those who are less fortunate than ourselves,” the president declared. He explained that religion was a major factor in influencing human behaviour towards good conduct and actions. To buttress this point, President Buhari cited the many initiatives unfolded by his administration under the Social Investment Programme (SIP), among which was the recent decision to distribute recovered stolen funds to the poor against the past practices of re-looting such funds by some people in authority. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 