YOLA – Mallam Salihu Garba, an aspirant for the Central Senatorial District of Adamawa State under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for decimating Boko Haram insurgency in the North East in the past three years. While commending the Federal Government for salvaging the North East region from the effect of Boko Haram, he said the terror agency had been largely decimated as only pockets of attacks were being experienced in the area. Mallam Garba, an Information Technology (IT) expert, gave the commendation in an interview with journalists in Yola. He said that it was only a leader with experience like President Buhari would have achieved such feat in fighting the insurgents. He said that taking steps to ameliorate the devastating effects of the insurgency in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states as the Federal Government has done was a feat worthy of emulation. Garba who reviewed the fight within the past three years poured encomiums on President Buhari’s Government for dismantling Boko Haram and called for urgent rebuilding the devastating impact within the North East region as people were undergoing serious trauma and hardship in the region. He recalled that in the past six to seven years, Boko Haram had unleashed a reign of terror on the defenseless people of the North East, killings and decapitating the resources of the region with reckless abandon and destroying the entire region. He said if elected as a senator to represent Adamawa Central zone, he would put necessary machinery that would make it possible for the youths in his constituency to be more productive to their various communities. He said that empowering the youths to embark on ventures was one of the important functions that have to be tackled as youths constitute an important factor in the social economic development of the area.ve Garba said that already 45 youths had been on training as part of his social responsibility in the North East while others had been trained on the use of social media reportage so that they would bring an end to fake social media reports that had been a menace creating disunity within the society. He said that as soon as he is elected, some of the youths  would be trained in various vocational jobs to acquire relevant professional skills while others would be given opportunity to continue with their academics activities through scholarship arrangement to be given to them. Garba also said that his campaign team has established a viable unit in the seven local government areas that make up of his constituency to coordinate all activities related to youth development. He said that when the youths are fully trained to became business entrepreneurs it would surely reduce the over- dependence on the little subvention that the state government gets from the federal allocation which is only for salary’s and no more. He also commended Governor Mohammadu Unaru Jibrilah Bindow, for developing the state, especially in the area of road constructions. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 