Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State was in Lagos recently during which he spoke to select journalists on governance of the state, among other issues. EMEKA OKOROANYANWU brings an excerpt: How has it been governing Abia State since the last three years? Every government at any point in time has its peculiar challenges and constraints, which can only be understood or appreciated on empirical understanding of what the issues are and the circumstances. Having said, that except in circumstances where blame game is intended to achieve political ends, every person that aspires to assume leadership in a political environment should naturally anticipate that there are problems to be solved. Even in developed economies that have strong institutions and have had uninterrupted years of infrastructure update, successive governments still have unattended infrastructure challenges to deal with. We in Abia State have our own challenges, which by the grace of God, are being systematically dismantled.  Government is a continuum and within four or eight years, each governor or president continues from where the predecessor stops. However, in circumstances where a predecessor tries to undermine the integrity of the successor by engaging in unnecessary shadow boxing as is evident in some states, the consequences are usually unsavoury. In Abia State, we understand that governance is a relay race and on taking the baton, we hit the ground and started running.  To the glory of God and the support of the good people of Abia State, we have not looked back in service delivery. We are far from where we want to be, but the determination to create an enabling environment to strengthen the economic base of Abia State, defines our development trajectory and agenda. The state government has a deliberate policy of deploying available resources to development programmes and projects that would open up the economy of the state through private sector investment, improve access to quality social services, ensure security of lives and property and generally improve the condition of living of the people. You took up the promotion of Made-in-Aba products.  What informed this and how far has your efforts paid off? Long before I became the governor of Abia State, I had always sourced my shoes and wears from Aba and their creative ingenuity has been astounding. Their greatest challenge was how to break into the market to enjoy volume sales for value. Besides, for unexplainable reasons, Made-in-Aba products have not had the opportunity or privilege to shake off the stigma of poor quality which definitely is not a statement of fact, rather, a tag that diminishes literarily every made in Nigeria goods even beyond Aba. Most of the people that parody that sentiment have not even given these products a trial as to subject them to objective products evaluation as to quality assurance and aesthetic value. Naturally, on assumption of office, it was clear to me that for the state to leverage the economic possibilities inherent in tapping the abundant potentials of businesses in Aba, government must play critical role in widening the platform of opportunities for them to excel. Beyond advocacy in promotion of patronage for Made-in Aba products, the government is incrementally addressing the infrastructure challenges of the city to strengthen the productive capacity of the business in Aba and ease movement of goods and persons within and out of the burgeoning market that is an obvious green field. Our effort is paying off tremendously and by the time we finish reshaping the city, Abia would join the league of states with high Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), create job opportunities through private sector initiative and generally put the economy of the state on the path of real growth. Embedded in the economic value chain is an improved capacity to attract investments from outside the state through inter businesses collaboration, potentials to be key players in the export market and a corresponding improvement in the standard of living of the people. Aba remains the Abia State trump card in our small and medium-scale industrial revolution projection. The message of buy Made-in-Nigeria with Made-in-Aba as the point of contact is well received and resonates with a large number of people and the benefits so far have been very encouraging.  We will surely not back down as long as Nigerians have realised that a key issue in driving economic diversification which is a raving development mantra in the country today can only be achieved when the non-oil productive sector enjoys maximum support from government and the people. What critical sectors in your administration’s development agenda can change the governance narratives in Abia State? This administration appreciates the place of infrastructure update and capacity building in putting Abia State on the path of real development. The big picture is to get Abia State to assume a commanding height in entrepreneurial exploits founded on production of goods. Luckily, we have self-mobilised entrepreneurs ready to explode and excel. We have a history in creative enterprises and the government in its wisdom has prioritised its infrastructure development programmes and projects to address those critical infrastructure needs supportive of investment.  The special attention Aba is receiving under this government confirms our resolve to turn the city into an irresistible business hub in Nigeria. We are in a hurry to support the private sector operators to fully express themselves and realise their productive capacity, provide the necessary enablement’s for value building, invest heavily in human capital development, which is a veritable factor of production, strengthen our educational system to make the products not only employable but competitive, improve the ease of accessing quality healthcare services, opening up the rural areas through improved road infrastructure, ensure that government supports the security agencies to make our state secure and peaceful. Added to the above, the government has within the limits of the resources available ensured a progressive location of projects to promote inclusion of all the zones in the state.  Before long, we will clear all the outstanding entitlements to pensioners and workers in some MDAs where government is in arrears. I feel pained that we have not fully cleared some of the arrears, but with the appreciable gains we have recorded in critical infrastructure development, government would be in a position to deal with issues of outstanding arrears fully.  Going forward, with what we have put in place to shore up the state’s revenue base, the issue of entitlements would be a thing of the past. I thank the affected workers for their patience and assure them that the pain they passed through was unintended and that the government under my watch would always uphold the tenets of responsibility, sensitivity and accountability in the management of the resources of the state. I took an oath of office to stand for and with the people, to work for the good of the state and promote the wellbeing of the citizens and I am bound on conscience not to break faith. The future of our dear state is assured and as we lay the blocks of a self-reliant and sustaining Abia, we will all reap the gains of the collective sacrifices of today.  My confidence flows from the foundation of strong economic base we are laying.  The future holds gold for our dear state. Unlike some states in Nigeria, Abia seems to enjoy peace in political engagement. What accounts for this, is it in your person, style in managing opposition, or the quality of opposition in the state. Constructive criticism puts every thinking person or government on toes.  It assists government to do intrinsic evaluation of its character, style, programme, policies and projections. The moment a criticism is devoid of mischief, misinformation, lack of understanding or knowledge of the issues and a deliberate attempt to undermine the government just to score some political mileage, I find it useful and would even be grateful to the critic no matter the political divide.  Seldom do I join issue with political opponents because the business of governance could be derailed when one falls prey to distractive antics of opponents. Even when the urge might be there and pressures mounting to get into the trench or draw up sleeves, I resist same.  May be it has to do with personal discipline or with character formation or both but suffice it to state that it take two for a fight to break out. I have had cause to personally reach out to political opponents that criticise me out of ignorance or a possible poor grasp about what the facts and the issues are to explain things and clear their doubts.  In most number of those people realised their error of judgement and deduction and apologised. Granted that the struggle for power between incumbents and opposition naturally attracts muscle flexing and related antics to weaken the good will a sitting government enjoys, I have refrained from saying or doing things that would unsettle the peace in the state. When an opposition realises, that you are engaging with a sense of the finest element of civility, decency and respect for differing views, it would not be long before your attitude robs on the one. As young people would say, ‘it does not look cool boxing at an unseen foe or Opponent’.  Any boxer that throws punches while in a ring alone may be sending a terrible signal about his state of mind. My attitude might read cowardice to some but my strength and staying power lies in that.  Naturally, I encourage harmonious co-existence and would stop at nothing to promote peace. No meaningful development can be achieved in the midst of crises, avoidable personality clashes and unnecessary tension.  As the governor of Abia State, I consider it a sacred responsibility to be the flag bearer of solution and not problem, a harbinger of peace and not crisis and confusion.  Above all, Abia is ‘God’s own state’ and that should define our world outlook. Critics are of the opinion that the endorsements you have received across the state for a second term are underserved.  How do react to that? Your question should actually be directed to the citizens of the state, who are the mandate givers that endorsed me for a second term. The people are the repositories of power and the elected emerge by the grace of God and the votes of the people. Every elected person in a political environment is like a student in the school and the electorate are the teachers.  Elections can be likened to a promotional exam, the teacher marks your script and the result determines if the person deserves a promotion to the next class or not. Whatever the mandate givers’ judgement, the critic who is in opposition definitely cannot be a better judge. Having said that, it is important to state that before the elections, we made campaign promises that defined choices. In the last three years and counting, we have recorded commendable success in delivering on our promises.  If there are milestones that are likely not to be met within the four years, we have been sincere and humble enough to explain the constraints and challenges which the citizens are aware are not peculiar to Abia State and cannot be blamed on lack of gravitas on the part of the governor and his team. In the light of the above, armed with requisite information freely released to the people in recognition of their position as stakeholders and convinced that we are leading the state through the right path to an assuring paradigm shift, the people in their wisdom feel that the momentum should be sustained, thus, the endorsements. The concept of continuity enjoys buy-in when the people understand the plans, policies, programme, how realistic they are (not flowery ideas best for classroom lectures) and the short, medium and long term value content. Beyond these, the discipline and transparency you bring in driving government business, becomes the icing on the cake.  Convinced that these endorsements are not products of inducement, arm twisting or devious manipulations, I feel humbled by the confidence reposed on me by the people and promise to do more. Many believe that you lack the courage to break away from the shadows of your predecessor.  What is your take on that? Public office comes with a lot of burden beyond dealing with governance challenges that borders on service delivery.  Many people would expect you to live their lives, view the world from their prisms, engage with others on templates defined by their idiosyncrasies and let their enemies be yours. Such variant of validation is inconsistent with my upbringing and character. I don’t need to be exchanging punches with my predecessor for such people to feel encouraged enough to accord me a deserved honour of realising that I am independent-minded and takes no dictation from anyone except to work and satisfy the yearnings and aspirations of the people of Abia State. Further to that, check out states where successors are in trenches with their predecessors, the bad blood are usually instigated and stoked by individuals, intent on drawing you into their fight to settle scores. If we must sanitise the leadership evolution process, all hands must be on deck to discourage this attitude of enlisting the support of incumbents to disparage and demonise their predecessors. That way, leadership succession processes would be seamless, less rancorous and devoid of bad blood. When exiting political office holders are forced by the fear of the unknown to shop for successors that would be trusted enough to watch their back, then, merit would be sacrificed on the altar of mediocrity. Many have claimed that T.A. (former Governor Theodore Orji) backed your ticket based on absolute trust that you can watch his back… (Cuts in) If the former governor was looking for somebody that can watch his back, Okezie Ikpeazu wouldn’t have been a ready choice. Even within the Ukwa Ngwa axis where I come from, I am not the toughest, the most politically savvy or the closest person to him.  So, the choice wouldn’t have been predicated on any of these mundane considerations. Those that discount the hand of God in defining their destinies and trajectory in life may have a lesson or two to learn about cosmic influences. As a good practising Christian, I strongly believe that God used Ochendo (Ex- governor Orji) and the good people of Abia State to make me the governor. Mind you, in all these, Ochendo had only one vote. Most regrettably is the failure of critics to show why Ochendo should exit Government House without a successor, or show proof of their allegations. Most unfortunately, most of these critics struggled to succeed him along side me If you ask me, I was the least of the number whose quest to govern Abia State became a contentious issue. As a team player, I was willing to support anyone chosen to fly the flag of the party in the election. I have never stretched my ambition with such desperation as to ruffle consensus and group interest.  That perhaps gave me competitive edge and earned the party’s choice the massive support received from colleagues and the people of Abia State. So, I was not chosen to watch the back of Ochendo neither would I be a pawn on the chessboard of few individuals that revel in stoking embers of hate and confusion.  Ochendo has never asked me to watch his back and he cannot do so because Interpol, EFCC, ICPC are not after him. Why would I be the one after him? If anyone has anything against Ochendo, he or she knows what to do. If they bring it to my notice, I will be fair to all. Luckily, there is no sacred cow in Nigeria. Going forward, what is the Abia State of your dream at the end of eight years if the people renew your mandate? I look forward to creating an enabling environment through provision of support infrastructure for private sector businesses to grow and be sustainable.  We would challenge the entrepreneurial spirit of our people who are willing to excel, but held down by constraints that lie with government to dismantle.  We must bring back the middle class that remains the engine room of economic growth and provides reliable indices to measure the performance of economic projections. The people ought to feel the impact of governance through the provision of social services that would promote the humanity in them, create a sense of ownership and stakeholder, make the promotion of the welfare and interest of people, the material basis for the existence of government in practical and verifiable terms. We would ensure that our youths are gainfully employed not through government fiat or basal empowerment programmes, but properly structured programmes that would encourage self employment and job opportunities created in a thriving private sector that would effortlessly pay living wages to the workers. The Abia State of my dream, which I have set my mind on achieving, is that which will promote transparency in running government business, guarantee security of lives and property, uphold the rule of law, ensure harmonious coexistence irrespective of political inclination, differing views or zone of birth, an Abia where fairness, equity, inclusiveness and good consciences would define our orientation and world outlook. The Abia State which I hope to hand over after eight years is that where challenges of having the resources to drive development would never be an issue given the multiplier effect of our economic development paradigm.  We are committed to achieving these having developed the blue prints, identified the critical pathways, deliverables and attached timelines in order to be properly guided. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 