Lagos – In Nigeria people are not usually honoured and given recognition during their time for their contributions to the development of society and economy. However, the revers was the case for Chief Mike Umeh, a former acting chairman of the Nigeria Football Association (NFA), who was honoured at the weekend by the Lagos chapter of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Umeh was conferred with the title of “Ozo di nobi” by Chief Solomon Ogbonna, the president of Ohana Eze Ndigbo, Lagos State. Speaking at the event, which was attended by who is who in Igboland in Lagos, Ogbonna said that Umeh was honoured because of his contributions to the development of sports and humanity in general. The president of Lagos State Ohana Eze Igbo praised the honouree for reaching to Ndigbo who were in need. He thanked Umeh for being a good elder who has set good examples for the youth to follow. Ogbonna urged Umeh to continue to do good, adding that God and man will reward for his good works. Responding, Umeh the Ohana Eze Ndigbo Lagos and members of his executive committee for honouring him, and pledged his support for the organization. He called on Igbo people in Lagos to help one another and their brother’s keeper. Umeh commend Ogbonna for acquiring a befitting secretariat for the organization and promised to use his connections and resources to galvanise support for Ohana Eze Ndigbo in Lagos. Also speaking at the event, Chief Tony Nwakaeze, who contested for the presidency of the organization with Ogbonna, commended the leadership qualities of the president. He pledged his support to the leadership of the organization, and promised to mobilise men and materiel for the organization. Nwakaeze called on all Igbo resident in Lagos rally round Ogbonna and support him in order to realize its objectives, which according to him, is the promotion and protection of Igbo interest in Lagos State. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 