Abba Yola, who retired as Chief Sports Officer in the Sports Ministry recently, in this article, chronicled the achievements of Mr. Melvin Amaju Pinnick, NFF President, since September 30, 2014 when he was elected.   In so short a time, Pinnick is now not only CAF Executive Committee member, but the body’s first Vice President. He is also a member of CAF Emergency Committee, President of the Organising Committee for the Africa Cup of Nations. He is also a member of the powerful FIFA Organising Committee for Competitions.  Pinnick ensured the appointment of several Nigerians into various committees of both FIFA and CAF. Barrister Seyi Akinwumi, the NFF 1st Vice President, is a member of the CAF Committee for Youth Competitions. Malam Shehu Dikko, NFF 2nd Vice President, is a member of the FIFA Football Stakeholders Committee, a member of CAF Committee for Inter-Clubs Competition and Club Licensing System with Justice Ayotunde Phillips being a member of the FIFA Independent Ethics Committee. He also ensured that A U Mustapha (SAN) is President, CAF Appeal Board. This is aside  17 Other Nigerians  occupying various positions in CAF Committees. Technically speaking, Nigeria is now in a position whereby no decision can be taken in Continental and Global Football without inputs of a Nigerian due to the strategic positions Mr Amaju Pinnick has placed Nigerians in both CAF and FIFA committees. Penultimate Wednesday in Warri, His Excellency, Governor of Delta State, Senator (Dr.) Ifeanyi Authur Okowa, made my day just one week after Mr. President’s intervention in the crisis rocking the administration of Nigerian football. Here goes Okowa, “I insist that Nigeria as a country and those in important positions, as individuals, must make it a duty to constantly promote, project and encourage our own shining stars, our best materials. The President of NFF, Mr. Amaju Melvin Pinnick, is a shining star of this country who has attained a position (1st Vice President of CAF) that no other Nigerian before him has attained. We have a responsibility to project and promote him to reach even higher heights. “I am saying this not just because Pinnick is a worthy son of Delta State; I am saying this because he is now a global citizen deserving of our encouragement and love. As a nation, we should project our best in every field so that they can reach the zenith of their careers. I am looking forward to Pinnick becoming the President of CAF in a few years.” Gov Okowa, I say big Amen to this prayer, Your Excellency. Now let us look at this: The people and government of Nigeria celebrated the ascension of Hajiya Amina Gombe to the enviable position of Deputy Secretary General, United Nations, likewise the leadership of African Development Bank. But regrettably the unprecedented feat achieved by this Nigerian (Pinnick) in the world of football is seen by those who should celebrate him as a ‘crime’ against the Nigerian nation. There were two attempts to reach the pinnacle of African Football before the emergence of Mr Pinnick but they all ended in if I can say disaster. It still pains me when I remember the efforts of the government in sponsoring Alhaji Ibrahim Galadima to contest for the vacant seat of CAF Executive Committee. I was the Secretary of the Presidential Committee set up to ensureNigeria secures the seat. Unfortunately Nigerians who should for all intents and purposes work with the committee to realise our mandate became moles and worked within to scuttle the move and got an Ivorian to fill the post. The rest is history. The second failed attempt was the re-election of Dr. Amos Adamu as CAF/ FIFA Executive Committee member. The then government did a lot to get him re-elected but then it was not going to last long. Dr. Amos Adamu was found wanting and the centre could no longer hold. Even before Amos Adamu’s misadventure, President Olusegun Obasanjo congratulated him when he was re-elected into CAF and FIFA. In fact the president directed that he should be given a diplomatic passport with immediate effect. These two instances were fully supported by the then government, so sad that the present scenario had no government input, yet Mr. Pinnick doesn’t deserve even recognition for working his way to become what he is today which also by extension has placed several Nigerians in key positions in both CAF and FIFA. And the sad aspect of all this is that there is an orchestrated script to derail this Journey. The question is; If Nigerians are denied by their government to become part of a global trend, should we be happy if those positions are occupied by Ghanaians, South Africans and or Egyptians? Since Gov Okowa has spoken, I want to sincerely advise him that as soon as the President returns from his vacation, he should intimate him of Mr. Amaju Melvin Pinnick’s unprecedented incursion and exploits in the World of Football Politics. He has achieved in three years what we could not as a government and  people achieve in 30 years or so. He deserves to be celebrated and not castigated. The President must know. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 