Prince Abimbola Sunday Abimbola is the Chairman Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Epe Branch. In this interview with Lukmon Akintola, he talks about the Lagos judiciary system, abuse of lawyers by law enforcement agents and life as a farmer. What does it take to be the branch Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association? Under the constitution and bye law of the NBA 2015, before you can be Chairman you must have spent at least 10 years at the bar, you must have paid your dues, as at when due and you must be of good standing. How long have you been Chairman of your branch? I have been chairman for two years, but by providence our people decided that I should stay in pending a waiver from the national body. Two tenures in office is not a regular occurrence with the chairman of any NBA, what motivated your people’s decision? Good performance and the ability to execute the projects that we planned. I think those were the things that led to the decision. Our branch is very new and for the purpose of continuity they wanted our executive to continue, so that we can finish the projects we started. Can you tell us some of your achievements as NBA chairman? It is important that we first establish the fact that it is not myself alone taking credit for the achievement of the branch. It is something that has to do with all of us. We run an all-inclusive executive. We have been able to send away the quacks who pretend to be lawyers. There are many of them around us there in Epe. Three other persons are being investigated, one has been found not to be a lawyer. We are expecting that he would be charged to court anytime from now. Two more are under investigation. That is a plus for all of us. We have been able to maintain a good relationship between the bar and the bench in our area of jurisdiction, and we have attended most of the activities of the judiciary and the Lagos state government. Our invitation comes from the office of the attorney general. We have also attended all National Executive Council (NEC), meetings and that is a plus for us. We have also been able to secure a small space as office through the magnanimity of the Chief Justice. We are hoping that before the end of the year the office of the state government will be magnanimous to allocate land for us to build our bar center. The Epe High Court appears small for the lawyers coming there, what are you doing about this? We are hoping that the synergy between us and the Chief Justice of Lagos State will bring about a new High Court complex in Epe. We have just two High Courts in Epe and I am sure that we should have over two thousand cases in the same court. We have three Magistrate courts in the same complex, while the other Magistrate court is in the other side of Epe. We are hoping that a new court complex would be built. Where we are is congested and soon we will start having issues between Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA), and litigants if they start towing their vehicles. Presently, lawyers and people who come to court pack their cars on the road because there is no space to pack. So we are hoping that they will allocate land for us to build a new complex. How has the office of the Attorney General been responding to your proposal on the complex? I told you we have a synergy with the office of the Attorney General and the Chief Justice. In the year under review, we have been talking to the two offices to build residence for the judges too because they come from very far places. If they have accommodation, of course, it will make their work easier. If they build a new complex, we can have a library, a robing room and a place where we can have a little indoor game. In the past, it was normal to see judges sitting in Epe courts without light, is it still the same? All those are things of the past. Since the Chief Justice took over things have changed. She has a listening ear and even via ordinary text message she responds to things like that. The era of diesel not being supplied has not been witnessed since she came to office. Unlike in the past when diesel might not be available for one week. Since the Chief Justice came into office and with the support of the office of the Attorney General, we have been having regular supply. We now even have a response team which takes charge of repairs of damages in courts. Some judicial staffs can be very unruly, how have you been handling them in your branch? We used to have one in our branch, we reported that she was not fit to work in a court room and the judiciary investigated and we were vindicated. She was subsequently removed from where she was to another place. The complaints about her kept coming from several lawyers and the need to correct the situation was inevitable. Other courts can adopt the same approach. The Law Week is synonymous with lawyers, Epe NBA recently held theirs, tell us about it. Hitherto, the Law Week was a week to bring lawyers together to discuss, listen to lectures and find a better way of doing things. I had an idea of bringing the Law Week closer to the people. The last one we had was for the lawyers, why not change things a little by bringing it to the people because we serve them. Why not bring the chiefs, the traditional rulers, people in the government and educate them on several issues including the acquisition of land which is the major problem we have in Ibeju-Lekki Local Government. So, we brought a director from the ministry of Lands to discuss the topic to the teaming population. At the end of the first day of the week, some of the guests were so impressed that they were heard saying that this was the first time they were seeing government. Others were even heard saying that they know government is in Alausa, but they had never felt them. The interesting thing is that the people from the government even gave out their numbers and encouraged people to feel free to come to their offices if need be. Why don’t lawyers advocate for out of court settlement? Going to court is the traditional way of arbitration, but issues can be sorted out of court too. We thank the Lagos State government and the state judiciary for putting the Lagos multi-door court and the Civil Mediation Center in place. Other states are now adopting the Lagos style and we have to key into it as Lawyers. It is not like we like litigation all the time. We are looking at a situation where we can find a better way to bridging the gap when there is a dispute. You can go to the Kabiyesi, the Bale of a community or the Community Development Area (CDA) chairman. During our Law Week, we thought of this and we brought the acting Director of the Lagos state Multi Door Court Mrs. Adeyinka Aroyewun and it was fantastic. She explained mediation, how you go about it, how not to be partial and at the end of the day, everybody was satisfied and happy. Are you aware that some other branches of the NBA criticized yours for being docile during the Land Use Charge issue? The governor is from Epe and you cannot expect us to be fighting a man who God has used to bless our region. Yes, we felt the pain, but the attorney general called all of us together for a meeting and we discussed. The commissioner of Finance was even at the meeting and we even got to know a lot of shocking developments there. For instance, during our discussion with the attorney general and his team, they made us know that it wasn’t the government that is charging 500,000 per plot for survey. We are still investigating that and we might have to go to the Lagos Multi Door Court to call the institution of Estate Surveyors because it is a rip-off as far as we are concerned. Charging 500,000 and considering what they pay to the government, it is very unfortunate. Let us go back to the issue of law enforcement officer abusing lawyers, can’t they be sued or even jailed to serve as deterrent? That enforcement office are sued everyday doesn’t mean it will stop the attack. If enforcement officers are sued continuously, damages will accumulate on the government, as long as it’s a vicarious liability it won’t solve the problem. However, what I think they can do is for the institution that regulates them to form a body that will make sure that if a court awards damages for a police assaulting a lawyer, a suspect or anybody, then the defendant should use his salary to pay for it. Something like that has to be worked out. When the police pays when a court awards damages, it does not affect the police officer directly and so he can continue to do it. The issue of a lawyer not being called to bar because she wore an hijab was a topical one recently, what is your take on it? Well, I think the issue has been overtaken by events. She has been called to bar. Both parties seems to have been right, but of course you have to be sensitive to your environment to be able to handle such a situation. There is a regulation in place stating what you should wear, a wig and a gown. But you are aware that sharia has been institutionalized in Nigeria. You have to be sensitive to your environment to be able to handle a situation like that. You can just call out other members of the council of legal education for two or three minute and take a decision on it. You can also send messages via WhatsApp and without anyone knowing deal with the issue. She shouldn’t have been embarrassed like that. Good enough the issue has been resolved. Do you still keep count of the lawyers you have trained? I have trained about 58 to 60 lawyers presently. Two weeks ago, I saw one of my juniors who just left my chambers in court, and he was challenging me. He was asking for cost from me, but by the time I finished with him he was supposed to pay cost to me, but I told the judge that I was not going to ask for cost against him and everybody laughed about it. However, what is important is that I am happy. I have heard you say that you are not interested in the Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), appellation, why is this? I don’t believe in the appellation. If you call it distinguish advocate of Nigeria, then I am gratified. If you look at your dictionary you will see the difference between seniority and distinguished. Some of us have principles, so I am not going to apply for it. On a light note, what was growing up like for you? Actually, I am from Opada in Egbe land, but I grew up in Mopa. I grew up there with my brother who was a boxer in secondary school. From there, I went to Ilorin in Kwara State. So, I didn’t really stay home. I was actually born in Lagos state, but my father loved education, so he took us to Kogi state and then Kwara state. What else do you do besides practicing law? I am a farmer. When we were young, we did a lot of farming. During the long vacation we will go to the village and farm, so today I am a farmer. I have a farm in Osun state, I am thinking of having one in Lago state, but I have one at home where I plant Cashew.  The cows grazed on my Cassava and Maize farm, so I am not going to venture into those crops again. I am just going to plant Cashew and Moringa. Asides being a farmer you are also royalty, tell us about that aspect of your life I am a prince. My father was a prince of Opada, my mother was a princess in Aike town, my grandmother was a princess in Okedisi in Aike town, while my father’s mother was a princess in Idi Ogun in Isaba town. So you are likely to be a King someday? I was offered the opportunity to become the king of my own town, Opada, but I rejected it based on the advice of my father before he died. My father saw it coming, but I am not interested. I will rather venture into other interests where I can influence lives and have more money than to go home and sit at this age. The age of retirement is very near. By the grace of God I will soon be 60 and I think by then I should call it a day. Are you satisfied with your achievement as a lawyer? I am satisfied. I told God that once any of my children becomes a lawyer I will be satisfied. Almost eight years ago my daughter was called to the bar. I am satisfied and fulfilled. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 