President Muhammadu Buhari, who recently joined millions of Muslim faithful to celebrate the Eid-El-Fitri, reportedly trekked 800 metres on his way from the Islamic Praying Ground at his Daura home town, Katsina State. The next day, the media was awash with Presidency’s statement that President Buhari’s long trek depicted his fitness for the 2019 Presidential elections. A cross section of Nigerians since then has been feeling that the Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) are taking the people for a ride, when they know that President Buhari had been having a tough time grappling with ill-health, a situation which at a time slowed down governance. Nigerians recall that President Buhari had been going to United Kingdom for health check and treatment, one of which took him away from his seat for over 100 hundred day. Recently, the president returned from a 10-day vacation in UK, which many believe was another health trip. Thus, many have been wondering how an 800 metre walk could be a yardstick to determine the President’s fitness for re-election. President Buhari Should Retire – Lawyer Mr. Collins Abdul Eseigbe, a Benin-based lawyer, said: “I was ashamed to read the story in almost all the national dailies that the President walked 800 metres and it became a lead story in all the newspapers. We should be ashamed of ourselves as a nation. “How does the President walking 800 metres improve our economy? How does it solve the security challenges facing the country? President’s 800 metres walk is an indirect way by those behind the story of telling Nigerians that the President is not fit to contest the 2019 election. “This is because for that story to have been given such prominence in all the national dailies shows that it was sponsored by the media crew of the power house to tell Nigerians that the President is kicking and fit for the 2019 election. If I may ask: Who is asking them whether the President is fit or not for the election? I believe their conscience is worrying them because, ‘conscience is an open wound, only truth can heal it’.  I am not a politician. I have only one vote. Let President Buhari retire to Daura after his four-year tenure and take a rest.” Buhari’s Trek Cannot Not Translate To His Medical, Mental Fitness – Official Prof. Wilfred Uji, Executive Secretary, Benue State Teaching Service Board (TSB), has said the trek embarked upon by President Buhari is no mean feat, adding that it is expected of world leaders to participate in regular exercises to ascertain their fitness. According to him, physical fitness guarantees the mental alertness, stamina and strength of a leader. He said: “It is expected of world leaders, Presidents, governors and those in positions of authority to participate on regular basis in physical exercises, either on the level of trekking and sometimes on the level of jogging and Presidents in the west do that a lot. They take their early morning to jog, sometime one or three kilometers. “It keeps the officer in shape and the physical alertness, stamina and strength of the public officer intact. This is a man who is over 70 years. At that age, it is good that sometimes you take a walk; exercise your legs as well as your hands to keep yourself mentally alert.” He, however, wondered whether the trek is an assurance of the medical fitness of the President, adding that it does not mean that the President’s action translates into being medically fit for public office. He said: “But, does that (trek) qualify for some kind of medical fitness? That is an entirely different question altogether. Medically, trekking almost a kilometre cannot qualify for being medically fit, neither trekking two or three kilometres can ascertain one to be medically fit. “Being fit depends on several biological variables located within the body system. Sometimes people are very healthy, but will collapse suddenly and die. “So, we cannot use that as a yard stick to measure his medical fitness. But, all we can say is that it is a step in the right direction that he is taking a walk. That will help him to improve his health (condition). “But, I will add that it would be better that he should work on several health variables. There are many of them, but very critical and important to the overall medical fitness. Even in the hospital, when you are given a certificate of medical fitness, it covers a variety of human areas, both physical, mental, as well as the emotional. “So, it is wrong for us to access him based on 800 meters walk. He needs to do a little more to ascertain the medical fitness. We have to put that into perspective of President Buhari.” It Is All Politics – APP Scribe Nze Michael Nwakolam Ohiaku, former councillor and Secretary, Action Peoples Party (APP), Owerri North, stated: “Till date, the health challenges of the president is still being kept secret by the powers-that-be. “The Presidency has refused to inform Nigerians what the President has been passing through, which compels him to jet out often for medical attention. “By saying that walking 800 metres is a yardstick to determine his fitness to stand for re-election, is the Federal Government telling us that the problem of the President lies in his legs? “If the President’s problem has to do with his heart, liver, stomach, or any other party of his body other than his legs, how can they now tell us that by trekking 800 metres he is now in a stable condition to go for a second term? “Are the people saying this as medical doctors? I wish the President well. But, I want to observe that everything is politics.” Buhari’s Trek Not His Fitness For Re-Election – NGP Chief Chief Paul Adaberechi Nkwoaku, chieftain of the New Generation Party (NGP), maintained that “walking 800 metres cannot be a veritable yardstick to determine the fitness of the President for re-election. “Do you know that one can be the best athlete on earth, but cannot withstand the challenges inherent in the office of a governor of a state, not to talk of that of a President? “The duties of a country’s President are quite tedious, tasking and time consuming. As a President, you wake up early in the morning and work till late in the night, attend a number of meetings, respond to frequent telephone calls, hold regular discussions with party chieftains, entertain courtesy visits from both within and outside the country. “It is not an easy thing. Yet, somebody is there telling us that by walking 800 metres, the President is now okay for re-election. Does the President walk 800 metres daily?” Buhari No Longer Fit To Continue In Power – Entrepreneur Mrs. Maimuna Sallau, an entrepreneur, stated: “I do not see President Buhari walking 800 metres as a determinant to the fitness for his re-election. Is physical fitness not of less important than mental fitness or soundness for anyone aspiring for the Presidency of this country? “What is the news in President Buhari walking 800 metres? To where and for who is he doing that in the first instance? I think it is high time we Nigerians stopped celebrating mediocrities and be more serious in what we are doing. Anybody can walk more than that distance and if that is all that is required for someone of his age to become President, maybe we should as well go for people of his age who can jog or run because there are many of them in Nigeria today. “I think it is high time our leaders got themselves busy with something more important than measuring physical fitness with the ability if the President to walk for 800 metres. Maybe, they are telling us that President Buhari is not yet on a wheel chair and so he can still manage to continue in power after May 29, 2019. “That is not what people like us are looking out for, which I also believe many other Nigerians share same views with me. It is rather ridiculous and whoever is celebrating President Buhari’s 800-meter walk ended up exposing the bitter truth that the President is no longer fit to continue in power after the end of his tenure next year. “The person is not telling us what is wrong with Buhari. They are not telling us how much of our collective wealth is being spent on his medications abroad and for what ailment, since he came into power. Now all we get is for some people to call for celebrations because our President can walk 800 metres. It is indeed laughable.” Buhari Needs Mental Alertness, Prompt Action – Activist Comrade Amitolu Shittu, a human rights activist,  has said that President Buhari needs good mental alertness and prompt action to deal with issues and happenings in the country as acceptable condition for his re-election. Shittu, National Coordinator, Coalition for the Defence Democracy and Rights of People (CDRP), said President Buhari’s 800 metres walk is not a yardstick to determine his fitness for re-election, but good mental alertness and prompt action to deal with the nation’s challenges. He explained that if President Buhari cannot fit in, or do much as expected because of his age, he has the constitutional power and responsibilities to delegate some of his functions to his deputy, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, who is believed to be more capable and up to the task since they are operating joint ticket. He advised President Buhari against sitting at the Presidential Villa to be fed by sycophants and aides that surround him. He should allow the Vice President more functions along with him for better performances since he, Vice President, has been tested, loyal and upright while holding forth as Acting President. Shittu maintained that the Buhari administration has performed better than past administrations, adding that he deserves re-election. According to him, “The achievements of the present administration no doubt outweigh its weaknesses and challenges. The present administration deserves re-election inspite of the challenges bedeviling the country. “The performance of President Buhari and what the administration has done for the good of the country are far more than the challenges he has to deal with.” While describing President Buhari as a symbol of integrity, whose transparency and achievements outweigh his weaknesses and challenges in politics, he noted that President Buhari has summoned courage to fight corruption and corrupt officials, improved on the economy and the country’s image. He added that activities of insurgents have been reduced to the barest minimum and there is relative peace in the land, especially during the just-concluded Sallah celebration. The administration has also completed many projects and initiated new ones, he added. 800 Metres Trek Does Not Make Buhari Fit For Second Term – Activist Kindness Jonah, the Convener, Voice of the East (VEAST) believes that the 800 metres trek does not make Buhari fit for second term in 2019. He said the trek has no traceable global trajectory, adding that the President obviously wanted to exercise himself and not to convince Nigerians on his fitness to continue in office beyond May 29, 2019. “Nigeria is theatre of absurdities, where physical fitness is juxtaposed with mental alertness, to wit, fitness in governance. It has no traceable trajectory globally. So, it is a Nigerian origination. That is the bane of Nigerian untowardness in democratic setting. It is a bores hole on our democracy. It does not give any historically antecedents. “What should have been is physical fitness quite alright, tilting towards body rest to build a mental alertness and not the other way round, which is mere abuse of power. Posterity cannot forgive Nigerians for this blunder in the 21st century,” Jonah said. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 