Special Adviser to the President on National Social Investment Programme (NSIP), Maryam Uwais, announced recently that more than nine million individuals have benefitted from the Cash Transfer Programme (CTP) of the Federal Government. She made the disclosure at a day-long Sensitisation Meeting Of Stakeholders on Activities of the National Social Safety-Nets Co-ordinating Office (NASSCO) in Abuja. The programme, which according to her, is being co-ordinated by NASSCO, is meant to enable a number of Nigerians obtain funds provided by government through cash transfer for them to survive the current economic difficulties. We commend government for introducing the programme which we recall was one of the campaign promises of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration in 2014.  It is unfortunate that successive administrations never deemed it fit to introduce meaningful Social Welfare Programme in Nigeria as it obtains in some countries to alleviate hardships of the poor and vulnerable. CTP, if handled with fairness and transparency, would help empower many poor Nigerians to enable them actively engage in gainful businesses that would keep them away from crime. This, ultimately, will not only reduce level of unemployment, the ravaging poverty terrorising millions of Nigerians, will be drastically minimised. Although CTP is less than two years old, the number of beneficiaries put at nine million, is  low compared with the huge population of poor citizens in dire need of funds to establish businesses for them to live above poverty line. Consequently, we urge government to intensify its efforts by expanding the NSIP net to accommodate more potential beneficiaries from other parts of the country. Due process must be followed to ensure proper screening of applicants to prevent the programme from being hijacked by politicians, thereby defeating objectives for which NSIP was established. Approved banks, in conjunction with co-ordinators of the programme, should ensure only successful applicants with Bank Verification Numbers (BVNs) access cash. NASSCO officials should dutifully monitor application of the funds by beneficiaries to avert possible diversion. This is to ensure the Cash Transfer Programme does not become another avenue for unscrupulous individuals to corruptly enrich themselves while the beneficiaries are left to suffer. As for other leg of the NSIP aimed at feeding pupils, Uwais reportedly noted that more than 8.5 million pupils across 24 of the 36 states in the country have benefitted. The school feeding programme has multiplier effects. Apart from encouraging indigent parents in educationally disadvantaged parts of the country to send their children to school, it would also enable such children have access to free meals rich in qualitative nutrients for sustainable growth and survival. This will ultimately stem tide of high mortality among Nigerian children. Since the programme is funded by government, it will boost food production as part of efforts to diversify the economy, as well as provide youths, cooks, contractors, farmers, etc gainful employment. However, as laudable as the feeding programme is, government should learn from avoidable mistakes of some state governments whose school feeding programmes have crashed due to poor planning and implementation. Since Cash Transfer Programme and School Feeding Programme, under the umbrella of NSIP, are programmes aimed at alleviating poverty among Nigerians, government cannot afford to fail as it is its responsibility to provide for welfare of the citizenry whose majority live in abject poverty. We urge government to use the programme to eradicate poverty and hardships in the country. The feeding programme should be fine-tuned to cover the remaining 12 states so that many indigent pupils can benefit. Funds pumped into NSIP must be judiciously expended for the desired results to be achieved. The programme should be implemented to have tremendous impact on lives of the beneficiaries who are generally poor and underprivileged. Co-ordinators of NSIP should periodically, organise enlightenment programmes to educate the citizenry on how they can benefit from the programmes. Government should publish names of beneficiaries as this will enable Nigerians, irrespective of political affiliations, have confidence in the programme. In addition, there should be periodic reports on performances of the National Social Investment Programme for everybody to determine its success or failure. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 