The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria and the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry Mines and Agriculture, have differed over Nigeria’s endorsement of the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement. While NACCIMA is in support of Nigeria signing the pact, MAN has advised against signing unless it is proved beyond doubt that the pact would benefit the country, adding that so far, there was no such proof. Speaking in support of the pact in Lagos during a media briefing recently, the National President, NACCIMA, Chief Alaba Lawson, noted that AfCFTA would create a common market of 1.2bn people with estimated GDP of $2.5trillion. She said, “We therefore cannot afford to be excluded from a common African market because it is a veritable strategy to raise the competitiveness of African economies in the global economy. Clearly, NACCIMA’s position is that our dear country should sign the AfCFTA. We as a nation have been closely and long involved with the vision of an African Free Trade Area right from the establishment of the Oragnisation of African Unity. “Nigeria must be part of the AfCFTA as it is a platform for our Small and Medium Enterprises to be integrated into the regional economy and a means of accelerating women’s trade and economic empowerment.” She counselled that in order to take full advantage of the AfCFTA, the government needed to intensify current efforts to eradicate non-tariff and regulatory barriers to international trade such as border delays, burdensome Customs and inspection procedures, as well as ensure that multiple licensing and taxes were eliminated. She warned that a situation where it was easier to import than to export would defeat the purpose of signing the AfCFTA. She said: “NACCIMA also notes that the immediate impact of the AfCFTA could be the loss of revenue from import duties and taxes which may impede the Federal Government’s current agenda to invest heavily in infrastructure and affect other spending activities. “The government should step up efforts with policies that will ensure that Nigerian products and services are market ready for the African continent in the shortest possible time. “While we continue to address the issues around the AfCFTA, and work on a strategy for implementation to tackle the problems, we should sign the agreement now and set up an all-embracing implementation committee in readiness for when it will finally take off.” He noted that in the various meetings stakeholders had with the Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations, there were concerns raised concerning the pact yet to be addressed. “Even the recently conducted and launched study by the NOTN has still not addressed the glaring lapses,” he said. Key among the lapses, according to Jacobs, is the lack of country-specific study on the potential impact of the AfCFTA and how Nigeria could benefit. “No specific attention was given to determine the cost and benefit analysis of the agreement; the sectors/sub-sectors that would benefit or be worse off as a result of the agreement are unknown; no clear-cut recommendation on strategies that government would adopt to enhance the capacity of the manufacturing sector to compete effectively,” he said. He said if anything, concerns of stakeholders had at various times been swept under the carpet while promoters of the trade deal continued to push for Nigeria’s endorsement. “In the light of recent developments, we consider it necessary to intimate you that an insignificant number of non-real sector operators in the private sector are tactfully recommending that Mr. President should sign the agreement under the camouflage that majority of Nigerians and the Organised Private Sector agree with their position. “They are essentially not at home with the technicalities of a trade agreement of this magnitude. The pronouncement of this group of actors is not representative of the views of the OPS,” he noted. The MAN president commended President Muhammadu Buhari for hesitating to append his signature and waiting until he was equally convinced of the benefits accruing to Nigeria from the pact. He disclosed that MAN had commissioned an independent study, which would be ready in a month and whose outcome would determine whether Nigeria can sign the AfCFTA. According to Jacobs, Nigeria may become a big player and key driver of improved volume of intra-African trade in an African Free Trade Area with the right market offer mix, rules of origin, dispute settlement mechanism, non-tariff and technical barriers provisions, among other protocols. Jacobs added that the only way to guarantee this positive proposition was to ensure that its negotiating team was guided by a credible and strategic country-specific study. He pointed out that there was no wisdom in signing on upfront only to end up struggling to find space in the accompanying protocols. He stressed the need to be certain that the agreement was in sync and not constraining the nation’s extant economic policies, including the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan  and the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. Buhari’s U-Turn President Muhammadu Buhari met with visiting President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa in the Presidential Villa, Abuja, where he expressed readiness to sign the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). At a joint press conference after their closed-door meeting, Buhari confirmed that he would soon sign the agreement. He followed his decision by setting up a presidential committee to widen consultation within two weeks towards understanding the economic and security implications of Nigeria signing the deal. He explained that he was always careful when it comes to signing agreements, especially when such would not augur well for the upcoming industries in Nigeria. “I am very careful about what I sign, whether it is my checkbook or agreements, especially when it involves nation, states. “We are so populated and have so many young unemployed citizens and our industries are just coming up. So, in trying to guarantee employment, goods and services in our country, we have to be careful with agreements that will compete maybe successfully against our upcoming industries. “I was presented with the document; I am a very slow reader, maybe because I am an ex- soldier. I didn’t read it fast enough before my officials saw that it was all right for signature. I kept it on my table. I will soon sign it.” President Ramaphosa said they discussed ways of strengthening economic and politics tiers between the two countries. The South African leader used the opportunity to describe the xenophobic attack against Nigerians in his country as criminality by some bad elements in South Africa. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 