ABUJA – International Organisation for Migration (IOM) Nigeria, has so far trained about 1,806 Nigerian returnees on business skills, and cooperative management to enable them to re- integrate into the society. The returnees made up of 1000 males and 806 females drawn from Edo, Lagos, Nasarawa and Kaduna States were trained and counselled on the type of businesses they intend to venture into under the collective re-integration. The returnees’ majorly irregular migrants were assisted by IOM to return from Libya, Niger Republic, Mali, Morocco, Liberia, France, among others, where they were stranded. The programme is focused on training and building the capacity of returnees on starting micro businesses as a strategy for creating decent work in the developing economies and mitigating irregular migration. The training was also designed to enable returnees reach their levels of economic self-sufficiency, social stability within their communities, as well as psychosocial well-being that allows them to cope with migration. IOM Nigeria recently conducted training which took place in Kano where over 50 returned migrants were trained to identify business ventures as well as develop business plan. In a document made available to Daily Independent in Abuja, Mr. Jorge Galindo, IOM Nigeria Public Information Officer, explained that the project was designed “To contribute to strengthening the governance of migration in EU partner countries and the sustainable return and reintegration of returning migrants,” under the EU funded, “The EUTF-IOM Joint Initiative for Migrant Protection and Re-integration in Nigeria.” Galindo said over 310 collective groups have been established and are in the process of reintegration. He stated that community assessment had been carried out in 21 communities in Edo, Delta, Ogun and Imo states, adding that an agro- engineer had been contracted to set up pineapple juice factory, cassava processing plant and palm kernel processing plant in the selected communities. When fully set up, he explained, a handful of returnees from these communities would be trained on the technical skills required to operate and efficiently manage the factories. According to him, during these assessments, group discussions were organised with the involvement of non-governmental organisations, government agencies, returned migrants, community leaders and members of their communities. He said the main objective of the discussions was to ascertain the needs of the migrants as well as their communities with a view to identifying viable projects which would be beneficial to the migrants. Commenting on the business skills training being organised by IOM Nigeria for returnees, Federal Commissioner for National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), Sadiya Umar Farouq, commended IOM for not only training Nigerian returnees on acquisition of business skills and cooperative management but also providing them with start-up capital to enable them to set up their businesses after the training. Farouq represented by Mr. Ali Garba, Assistant Director, Planning, Research and Documentation in NCFRMI, said after the training, the amount of money given to the trainees by IOM is very outstanding. According to her, “IOM budgets about 900Euros per trainee. Some of the participants who were trained in Kaduna State recently told me that they had received over N300, 000each from IOM.” It is also worthy of note that IOM Nigeria has facilitated the return of about 9,495 stranded migrants from Libya and other countries from April 2017 to August 2018. These returnees are part of IOM’s humanitarian voluntary return programme funded by the EU-IOM Joint initiative for the protection and reintegration of migrants and implemented by IOM with the support of the Nigerian government. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 