Akure – Oba Edward Kolawole Adewole, the traditional ruler of Isolo community in Akure South Local Government Area of Ondo State, has been barred from hosting this year’s annual yam festival and performing other traditional rites in the community. The Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, had on June 4, 2018, appointed Adewole the Osolo of Isolo. The appointment was rejected by the kingmakers who said Oba Aladetoyinbo did not have any right to impose anybody on them as the traditional head of the community. The kingmakers on Sunday warned the Akure monarch to steer clear of the throne of Osolo of Isolo. Their Spokesman, High Chief Hezekiah Babatunde, the Olusunla of Isolo, said the appointment of the new Osolo was contrary to the directive of the state government. Babatunde said the state government had in April, 2018, directed traditional rulers across the state to suspend the appointment of minor chiefs within their domains pending the release of the white paper on Justice C.E.F. Ajama Commission of Inquiry into Chieftaincy Matters. He also said there was a matter before the Supreme Court between the Deji of Akure as defendant, and Iralepo of Isinkan and Osolo of Isolo as appellants in respect of the Obaship status of the two community heads. The spokesman said the stool of Osolo remained vacant in the eye of the law until the apex court determined the matter as counsel to the appellants, Wole Olanipekun, told the apex court at the last sitting on July 12, 2018. “In the said suit before the Supreme Court, the regent of Isolo, Princess Adebusola Abisoye Oluwatuyi, is standing in as appellant representing Osolo. “Therefore, we have resolved at today’s council meeting, as representatives of our people, that only our regent, Princess Adebusola Abisoye Oluwatuyi, has the full rights and privileges to be addressed as the traditional head of Isolo community. “And only her reserves the right and the backing of the entire community to enter the palace and perform all traditional rites and festivals, including this year’s annual “Owayoko” Yam Festival. Any contrary move or action will be strongly resisted. “We’re using this medium to call on security agencies to maintain law and order within the Isolo community before, during and after the Owayoko festival in order to avert a communal clash and breach of public peace. “We, therefore, call on our regent, Princess Adebusola Oluwatuyi, to immediately resume and commence further activities at the Osolo palace in preparation to host this year’s Owayoko festival and other traditional rites as the traditional head of the community.” Other High Chiefs at the Sunday council meeting included Chief Sao, Abiola Ogunjemilusi (Sao), Ibukun Adetoyinbo (Elemo), Adeleke Adeniyi (Obaseye), Chief Adidas (Aruwajoye), and Fagite Akosile (Agbaakin). Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 