Lagos A Magistrate court in Ogba has ordered that three suspects be remanded to Kirikiri prison pending perfection of their bail for assaulting and harassing an Eko Electricity Distribution Company’s Linesman under the Mushin Business District of the power company. According to a statement released by Eko Electricity Distribution Company on Monday, the accused; Karimoh Aliu, Halimat Idowu and Bode Olajokun were arraigned in court on August 16, 2018 and pleaded not guilty on a three-count charge of unlawful conspiracy to commit conduct likely to cause breach of peace, felony and  inflict injury. According to the statement, it was revealed that the defendants assaulted one Olayinka Morenikeji while he was going about his lawful duty of revenue collection for the company on July 26 and 27, 2018. The spokesperson, Godwin Idemudia, EKEDC’s Corporate Communications General Manager, stated that the accused were notorious for mobilising the community against the power utility company and were responsible for leading the assault on its staff and unlawfully restricting him from carrying out his activities on those days. Idemudia explained that the management of the Mushin District reported the case at Area D Police Station and provided the police officers with the necessary support needed to make the arrests. The court presided over by the Magistrate Mrs. Tanimola ordered the accused be remanded in Kirikiri pending the perfection of a bail in the sum of N50,000 and provision of a reasonable surety from each defendant. The Eko Electricity Distribution Company’s spokesperson stated that he hopes this serves as a deterrent for those who engage in what he described as barbaric acts and mentioned that the company has a zero-tolerance policy on assault on its staff and will ensure that those involved will face the full wrath of the law. Idemudia expressed his displeasure towards the unlawful act and explained that there are more diplomatic and efficient methods of settling grievances including filing complaints at EKEDC Business Districts Mr. Idemudia also mentioned that the company is currently implementing initiatives to reduce the number of vandalization cases within their network. He encouraged customers to assist the company in its fight against vandalization and other unlawful activities by using its whistle-blowing platforms to reveal or report any form of illegal and unethical activities. He further stated that the whistle blowing platforms are safe, confidential and secure ways of alerting the company of illicit activities and can also be used to report unscrupulous elements of the company that partake in illegal activities such as fraud and extortion of customers. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 