ENUGU – Mr. Oseloka Michael Ekwuno has been elected as the national president of Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka, Alumni Association (NAUAA). Ekwuno was elected at the National Convention of the association held on Saturday in Abakiliki, Ebonyi State capital. He polled 79 votes to defeat his closest rival at the convention, which attracted delegates from all the branches of the association in the country. Others, who were elected with Ekwuno to pilot the affairs of the association for the next three years included Nweke Maurice (vice president North); Nwankwegwu Cyprain Nwonu (vice president East), Abonyi Gerald Ugochukwu (vice president, South West) and Toki Tony (vice president, South South). The newly elected executive also included Ezenwaka Uchenna Rita (general secretary), Okafor Oge Emelda (Assistant General Secretary), Ezikwe Chukwunwendu Chuzzy (Financial Secretary), Odigwe Stanley (Treasurer), Deacon Peters Ikebuaso (Legal Adviser), Obinna Emmanuel Ogbonna (Public Relations Officer) and Nwangwu Christian Chukwuneke (Director of Socials). Making his acceptance speech, Ekwuno, a 1990 Political Science graduate of the university, urged all alumni to focus their energy on how to assist the university to raise the bar of academic excellence, assist under-privileged students to complete their studies and also assist in finding a common solution to sexual harassment and cultism. “Everything enumerated above is achievable, so long as there exists a conducive atmosphere between the institutions and the alumni association. “A conducive atmosphere will give rise to the production of a family lineage of same alumnus. This will ensure high academic standards as all stakeholders are interested in the day to day activities of the institution,” Ekwuno said. On the essence of the alumni, the new president explained that the interaction afforded him the opportunity to make new friends and also connect with old ones, adding that it offered him the opportunity to give back to society. Ekwuno reminded members of the association that their wealth remains in their collective co-operation, as they assist one another with the diverse unique ability bestowed upon them by the Almighty God. He, however, used the opportunity to call on every alumnus, wherever they may be, to eschew bitterness and embrace this NAUAA executive, as they would achieve more in an atmosphere of peace and love. Earlier while making a valedictory speech, Nwafili Okwuosa, the outgoing President, lamented that university vice chancellors were now more corrupt than politicians. Okwuosa warned the incoming National Working Committee to beware of corrupt employees of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University (NAU) and their collaborators amongst them. The outgoing president recalled that about this time in 2015, the said corrupt employees of NAU, on account of the pending court action had signed with them and filed in the court, terms of settlement, and same awaited adoption, but after the 2015 convention, went back to their vomit. “So, why would these employees be this committed to destabilizing the NUAAA? Money and power: Apart from the funds being subject matter of the court action, the alumni body is the only group recognized and empowered by the Nnamdi Azikiwe University Act Cap, N139, L.F.N, 2004, to participate in the administration of the university and whose members are not dependent on NAU for their livelihood,” Okwuosa said. He said in the past three years, against all odds and to the glory of Almighty God, his administration was able to attain a number of milestones, including securing a legal personality for the NAUAA by incorporating the Board of Trustees of the association and setting up new branches at Nsukka, Enugu State, and Amuwo Odofin, Lagos State. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 