Air Vice–Marshall Terry Omatsola Okorodudu (rtd) is seeking to represent Delta South Senatorial District in  the National Assembly come 2019. In this interview with JOHN AMUDO, he spoke on his desire to represent his people and other issues. Exerpts: Why do you want to contest the senatorial seat in 2019, instead of going to the farm like your colleague after their retirement? Well, I decided to come out having observed that our senatorial District has become a laughing stock before Nigerians and indeed within the state. It is a shame that both the state and the South Senatorial District are under developed. Unfortunately, competent hands are not allowed to come on board to develop the state with the huge resources accruing to both the state and our senatorial district. I have decided to offer myself to correct the ills plaguing the state by careless and insensitive leaders who are miss-managing the funds with impunity and charlatan; it is really bad. Opinion poll conducted on your person shows that you are a military man, though retired and that you don’t have the experience to deliver the dividend of democracy to your constituents and that you are not on ground to do the wonders at the senate. How true is this? The issues that borders on being on ground or not is immaterial. For years I have been reaching out to our people in the state. In fact, those making that statement knows quite alright that I am the person to beat in 2019 election, even being in partisan politics or not is not necessary. For instance, Muhammadu Buhari and a lot of others who have veered into politics today were equally military personnel, though retired. I would like to remind them that the military itself is a political organization and they do better than the so called core politicians. However, we should separate the issue of politics from partisan politics. They should remember that most rulers in the world were in the military and military personnel are the best politicians; that is what critics should understand and that the military is always there to regulate and protect the people. In fact, the military understands political issues better than the core politicians. We are normally trained in the military on how to rule and protect the nation’s territorial integrity. My main objective is to change the direction and ways pervading in the District. What are your preparations for the tasks ahead? If they feel that I am not on ground, then they have goofed; what they should ask themselves is that is AVM Okorodudu knowledgeable enough to deliver the dividend of democracy to his constituents? I am from Warri, I am not just Itsekiri man but I have relations spread across the state. Besides, I am from the royal family whose lineage comes from the great Bini kingdom; I have relationship with the Okpe, Ijaws and other ethnic group, even though I may not always be on ground but I know very well that I am a Deltan and Edo man from the royal family. The District you want to represent is majorly coastal area and how do you hope to contend with this issue of difficult riverine terrain. We understand the terrain quite a lot and with a lot of experience from military training, we know what should be done with regards to the development of the area as well as provide security to the people. I do know that with the combined effort of both the state and local government and constituents, the coastal dwellers will have a sense of belonging. Although I may not be part of the state executive council but I do know that as a senator, I am duty bound to be responsive to my constituents. It is said that Delta is PDP state but as a member of APC , how do you hope to outwit the so-called big names in the PDP? If you go round the state you will know that there is already PDP fatigue spread across the state. We cannot continue wallowing in ineptitude, brigandary and insensitive attitude to the people. I am happy that our people are beginning to be aware of the evil the PDP government has plunged the good people of the state into; honestly we cannot continue like this. We are tired of recycling of old politicians. In the state, the politicians looted the treasury with impunity, there are war lords who have turned billionaires and everything is not working. Most unfortunate is that people of the state don’t care to ask question how dubious politicians got their money, but the joy of it all is that majority of the people of the state now know that APC is a political party that is out to take them to the promised land, hence they want a change because they are no longer interested in stagnation or neglect. Sadly, looters of our treasury walk in the street unchallenged; without being prosecuted, but in abroad developed countries, looters are tried and sent to jail. What is your advice to the failed politicians? Well the only option or way out is for them to honourably quit the scene and let honest politicians step in, because we cannot continue like this. In fact, they should bury their heads in shame. Deltans have resolved that there must be a change in all its ramification, the time has come for the change. How would you describe the mass defection of APC members to PDP recently at the National Assembly? Well, the action could be described as a blow-back meaning when we take action there is a counter-reaction. It is a blow back of the action being taken by APC government to effect a change. But some PDP members saw that such action is too stiff and radical, as such, they want to fight back. They are thinking about Mr. President second term. So, they are doing their best to ensure President Buhari is prevented from getting second term in office. The defectors are afraid that the hand of the law will soon catch up with them, hence they took that option. Is President Buhari succeeding in his fight against corruption and insecurity? If you ask me I will say yes; with his arrival the scourge have reduced drastically. President Buhari was prepared to move against the scourge but the judiciary is not helping matters. I plead with the judiciary to amend their ways of sabotaging Mr. President’s efforts of stamping out corruption and tackling insecurity to a standstill. It is a pity that Professor Itse Sagay and his team have not been given a full support and the wherewithal to really do their job firmly as regards to fighting corruption. On security, Mr. President is trying. However, a large portion of our areas were under the dictate of militants and insurgent. It is a pity that we still have the security challenges. Mr. President should do more by providing enough resources and men to really tackle insecurity to a standstill. My take is that we should try as much as possible to improve on our present level of tackling insecurity. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 