Osogbo  – Dr. Olapade Agoro, the National Chairman and former presidential candidate of National Action Council (NAC), has chastised the Federal Government on the manner adopted to secure the release of the Dapchi school girls, describing it as an arranged abduction and arranged release. Agoro, in a statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT in Osogbo, accused the Federal Government of celebrating fraud.
It would be recalled that Agoro had warned President Muhammadu Buhari against negotiating with the insurgents, which he said would worsen the activities of the group in future.
Agoro asked the Federal Government to tell Nigerians those behind the negotiation and how much had exchanged hands, even as he urged the government to disclose how many of the Boko Haram vehicles and their types were involved in the abduction.
He asked: “What route did the Boko Haram vehicles take to abduct the girls and to where were the freed girls brought? Who and who negotiated and were actually involved with the Boko Haram prior to freedom of the Dapchi school girls?
“Who and or what killed five of the abducted girls rumoured to have been buried in the bush? In fact, who buried their remains?”
According to Agoro, “obviously, the best language of a fool is self-delusion. This laughingly summarised the narratives of the arranged abduction and thereafter playing to the global gallery with an arranged freedom of the innocent 105 Daphci innocent school girls.
“Unusual of President Muhammadu Buhari a very good, non liar Muslim, however, simply because of the upcoming 2019 elections, allowed himself to be co-opted to play along with the cabals and scammers in the Presidency whom his wife, Aisha Buhari, sometime not too long ago, made the whole world realise are in the Presidency holding her husband down in chains against himself and against his conscience.
“Truism of this play out of the ‘Con Artistes Celebration of Fraud’ is that somebody, somewhere is fooling somebody somehow with the unexpected dreaded Boko Haram suddenly becoming Father Christmas, freeing the 105 Dapchi abducted 105 school girls with parting gifts.”
Agoro stressed that the nation would need clear-cut answers to these questions for them to know “where we are in this unending pain inflicting on the conscience of us all and as well putting paid to money, materials and human resources consuming Boko Haram insurgency.
“The drawn conclusion one can realistically proffer to the undeniable fact of the whole scenario is that some people so close to President Muhammadu Buhari in the Presidency are themselves Boko Haram members and or are indecently very close to them.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.