Abuja – Liberian President, George Weah, has said Nigeria’s prospect of winning the World Cup in Russia was dependent on early preparation, conducive camping environment and prompt payment of incentives. He said these factors, put together, would spur the Super Eagles, to win the 2018 World Cup in Russia. Weah, the only African player who won the Ballon d’Or in 1995, said this while responding to questions from State House Correspondents after his State visit to Nigeria. The Liberian President noted that qualifying for the World Cup was no mean feat, hence the officials must make sure the players have no excuse to fail. He acknowledged the efforts of President Buhari in sports development, against the backdrop of African governments who complain of lack of funds when it comes to sports. Weah, when asked to give tips that will aid the Nigerian team win the trophy, said, “I must first say,  your excellency, thank you very much because is not an easy task to qualify for World Cup, because every government in Africa complains when it comes to sports. “I was amazed the other day sitting before President Emmanuel Macron, he talked about his sports agenda because he believes you can build capacity through sports, and through sports you can also encourage people to work, to do what they want to do. “I have been fighting for so long for my national team to qualify. Imagine, I am the world best here in Africa, the only world best. And I said to President Macron, that FIFA built one stadium in Liberia and we have one Ballon d’Or, so if you build 10 stadia in Liberia, you will have 10 Ballon d’Or. “I think Nigerian team is a model, we all followed them. I have played with great Nigerian players, I played against them. Now you have a new generation, the fact that they qualified is a good thing for Nigeria. “But I hope that they will prepare very early because they are going to represent Africa and we will be there to watch them, for them to bring the trophy for the first time if it is possible. But I think the seriousness to go to World Cup is not to pay players to go. “I want every African government to know, if you win the World Cup, it is a pride to Africa and not just to Nigeria, so we must do everything to ensure that the players are not stressed, make sure they concentrate, make sure their incentives are given to them to motivate them. “Some of the things you see at the World Cup, you will see an entire team go to represent a whole country and you will hear that one minister took their money, they did not pay these players and the players are causing problems. When players are going to camp it is to relax and focus. And for them to be in camp they must have everything there for them not to worry. “Remember I played in European setting, when we go to camp we have nothing to do. The only thing we have to do is to take a shower and prepare for the game, everything is laid down there and so you have no excuse. “So let the players not have excuses, support them and let them go and bring back that cup.” Weah also spoke on plans to revamp sports in his country, revealing that the World Bank has agreed to give Liberian government $5 million to revamp the sports sector. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.