Awka – Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State recently proposed a 50-year development programme which would serve as foundation upon which a new Anambra would be built should successive administration adopt the aforesaid plan.
The citizenry have described the long-term development plan as visionary and in tandem with the expectations of the people.
Traditional ruler of Umueri in Anambra-East Local Government area of the state His Royal Majesty Igwe Benet Izuchukwu Emeka said the governor was innovative for initiating such long- term development agenda for the state.
Igwe Emeka who bared his mind to journalists in Awka while giving his opinion on the governor’s economic policies, maintained that the development plan was a welcome development and that should other administrations key into it , Anambra State would be better developed pointing out that other developed economies of the world adopted such long term development policies .
On the other hand, Dr. Mike Ogubunike Omenugha, maintained that in modern times, there was need to plan ahead of time. He said the governor has proved his mettle as an economist through the invention of such long-term development programme, adding that it required the cooperation of the citizenry to enable his economic policies come to fruition. Engr. Ofodeme Ikenna, Transition Chairman of Ekwusigo Local Government Area, on his part, noted that Governor Willie Obiano has created enabling environment for investments in Anambra State. Ofodeme said that the governor was visionary and holistic in his approach to development issues in the state. He said the governor’s 50-year development plan was viable as well as workable and serves as a development manual for his successors in the state. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.