When will the Executive and the National Assembly (NASS) come to terms on the 2018 budget? In whose interest is NASS seeking for the justification and valuation of the 2018 appropriation and why are some ministers foot-dragging in appearing before NASS to defend their allocations based on the Zero Based Budgeting (ZBB) approach said to be adopted by the executive arm? Under the ZBB system, each item proposed for inclusion in the budget must be justified in terms of need and evaluation by the executive arm, and in the case the heads of the various heads, particularly the ministers, instead of the previous system where budget items and allocation were done on incremental bases based on the previous budget. These are some of the questions agitating the minds of most Nigerians who are tired of bulk passing, allegations and counter allegations between the two arms with deepening rift. More worrisome is the fact that some analysts say the economy is very fragile despite the said exit from recession, a development that requires the collaborative efforts of all the arms of government toward early passage and effective implementation for improving the lives of Nigerians as well as providing road map for the private sector. However, the lawmakers accused some cabinet ministers of failing to appear before them to defend their ministries’ budgets In fact, the non-passage of the 2018 appropriation bill by the NASS was believed to be one of the top items on the agenda of the meeting the president had with the leadership of the National Assembly led by Senate President Bukola Saraki at the President Villa Thursday night. In what appears as a direct response to the part of the issues raised at the meeting, President Muhammadu Buhari had immediately after the meeting ordered his ministers and heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to appear before the National Assembly to defend their proposed 2018 budget estimates. Specifically, President Buhari presented N8.6trn budget proposal to the joint session of the National Assembly on November 7, 2017, with the hope that it would be given accelerated action by NASS. However, almost five months after the presentation, the NASS is yet to make any headway as to passing the budget. “The issue here is not the content of the 2018 Budget, it is about interest of the law makers in the area of constituency projects and the budget is only being held to ransom, to force the hands of the executive,” says a source at the presidency. However, another source from NASS told Sunday INDEPENDENT at the weekend that “the problem is that some ministers are afraid to come and defend what they put in the budget because they cannot defend it. They are still used to the incremental basis of approach to budgeting; they will find it difficult if not impossible to defend.” But Bolade Agbola, an Investment Banker and  Agribusiness Consultant believes that the deepening rift might be responsible for the impasse, adding that both sides might be harbouring their interests and trying to protect them. According to another analyst, “The law makers see this as an opportunity to exercise their authority since it is obvious that they may have lost out in the constituency projects funds as well as the fact that some of them may have falling out of favour of the executive with their re-election now being shaky.” However, in their chats with Sunday INDEPENDENT, Dr Dele Seteolu, lecturer, Department of Political Science Lagos State University (LASU), Yomi Obadina, legal practitioner, Wale Adeoye, Executive Director, Journalists for Democratic Rights, JODER,  Kayode Otitoju, former Commissioner for Information, Ekiti State, Lekia Christian, national coordinator of the Niger Delta Coalition Against Violence, NDCAV, Biodun Olalere, Social Commentator, Franklin Ntekim, human rights activist, said the executive and legislature must resolve their differences and put the nation first if they are truly patriotic and nationalistic in their actions. Seteolu noted that the Buhari administration has not been able to achieve much as it is expected because of the political differences between the leadership of the National Assembly and the executive. He noted that the situation, which has affected governance, must be addressed if the government wants to make impact before the expiration of its tenure. He said: “We should also know that delay in the passage of budget is a recurring issue in Nigeria. We have got to the point that it might not really matter if there is a budget or not. This is because it does appear that there seems to be a practice in Nigeria that the budget is not passed as at when due and the previous budget will still be implemented into the New Year, and there will be supplementary budget and so on. “So, if you ask me the political class in Nigeria is incompetent and they play politics with peoples’ lives, they play politics with the lives of the Nigerian people. They play politics with the economy, budget process has been politicised and the political class is introducing all sort of vested interest into budget making. It is terrible and it is a signpost of the continuous crisis in the Nigerian state, crisis of governance, political class is showing irresponsibility and lack of competence to govern.” On what should be done, he said, “I leave it to the Nigerian people, except there is alternative to the APC, and of course, PDP is not the alternative Nigerians are disappointed in this government and this government has shown incompetence. I suppose Nigeria will prefer alternative but I doubt if there is alternative.” Christian said the delay in the passing of the budget has grossly affected the economy, which can also affect the forthcoming election in 2019. He noted that though it is public knowledge that both arms of government (Legislature and the Executive) do not have respect for each other, adding, “this is very bad for the country and Nigerians in general.” He said the three arms of government must respect themselves and do the needful. “The budget supposed not to be delayed like that. We are in the month of March now, when will they pass the budget to begin the implementation? Election is early next year and there are a lot of things that need to be done before then. “I want to plead with the three arms of government to have mutual respect for each other so that government can function maximally. Things are very difficult for Nigerians. Enter into the market and you will see how expensive and costly”, he said. The activist said that the delay in the passing of the budget has also hampered the screening of the President Buhari’s nominees for some board appointments, which has also denied some states an equal representation in the government. Ntekim, said the delay in the passage of the budget could spell doom to this government. “It is a very bad precedent and this is not good enough. I see it as a deliberate scheme between the two arms of government.” Olalere lampooned the lawmaker for the delay in the passage of the 2018 budget estimate, describing it as a deliberate action. He said the action of the lawmakers has grave consequences on the economy of the country, stressing that the lawmakers deliberately want to ground this government because of the disagreement between the executive and the legislature. He lamented that the political class under Federal Government are just exposing their weaknesses and demonstrating that they are ill equip for the job of advancing the course of Nigeria to become a great country. “The same tactics were employed in 2017 and when eventually the budget was passed, there is little the government can do in implementing the budget. The delay will affect budget performance and all critical sectors that the government in addressing some fundamental problems of the country.” While calling on the National Assembly to quickly pass the budget bill in the interest of the masses, Olalere noted that the lawmakers must demonstrating patriotism by performing their constitutional roles so that the country can move forward. Adeoye said “I think the action of the National Assembly is deliberate and calculated for political scores. We are already in March and the budget is yet to be passed. “The National Assembly is known for creating hurdles whenever the interest of members are thought to be undermined by the Presidency. It shows clearly the lack of cohesion within the APC.” Otitoju said though the delay in the passage of the budget may hurt the economy, he said the caveat that allows the government to spend certain percentage might mitigate the damage it could do to the economy. He explained that the rivalry between the two arms of government was uncalled for, saying, “It is just the exhibition of the lackadaisical attitude/disposition of the leadership of the two arms of government.” Meanwhile, operators in the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) have also raised alarm that the delay in the passage of the budget would negatively affect the capital market. Malam Garba Kurfi, the Managing Director, APT Securities and Funds Ltd, Lagos, said there was the need for the National Assembly to pass the budget. According to him, “The delay in the passage and implementation of the 2018 Appropriation Bill is not good for the capital market and the economy in general.” He called on the National Assembly and the Executive to settle the budget impasse in the interest of the economy. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.