Popular gangster rapper Snoop Dogg, know to chant about sex and drugs in his secular lyrics has however explained why he’s entered the world of gospel with the release of his new album Bible of Love, it looks like the star has reinvented himself and is turning to God for inspiration. Yes, we’re also confused at this move. But Snoop has confirmed he’s finally found himself and has recently worked with gospel legends Erica Campbell, Marvin Sapp, Tye Tribbett and Charlie Wilson to create an impressive 32-track double album. The 46-year-old has now responded to critics who are ‘offended’ at the singer suddenly finding himself and changing his beliefs. When asked by TV One what he’d say to these people who don’t like the idea of him touring to gospel music, Snoop has the best answer ever. He unleashed his diva mode and said: ‘I thought church was supposed to welcome sinners. If the church was full of saints it wouldn’t be right. ‘What they need to do is be warm and welcoming, open your arms and say “brother we accept you for who you are.”‘ He added: ‘I don’t pay attention to the negativity, because I have yet to get any negativity. The only negativity I get is when a question is asked. ‘But I have never been confronted with anybody in the gospel world.’ He then went on to name the gospel legend Rance Allen, who sung on his track Blessing Me Again, and said if he doesn’t have a problem with him then his fans shouldn’t either. Snoop continued to get very sassy and laid down some real talk as he looked directly into the camera. He directly addressed the views and asked them: ‘What about you? Have you checked your status? Are you going to heaven? Why are you judging me? How much have you done for the lord?’ Before closing his spiel with: ‘Praise God.’ 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.