Asaba – Honourable Leo Ogor Okuweh, the Minority Leader and member representing Isoko federal constituency in the House of Representatives, has declared his intention to re-contest for the seat come 2019. This is as a group, Isoko Nation Renew Okowa’s Mandate, has commenced plans to discourage Isoko people, members of Ogor’s constituency, from supporting his aspiration. Ogor contested and won the election into the House of Representative under the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2003 and was re-elected in 2007 and 2011. The lawmaker, who was reviewing his representation so far, maintained that he had served with transparent humility, depth of vision and selflessness, which he said, had endeared him to the grassroots. Ogor spoke during the enlarged Delta South Senatorial District PDP stakeholders’ meeting which he hosted at his country home in Ozoro, headquarters of Isoko North local government area, Delta State But Mr. Sunday Onyewonsa, Director General of the Isoko Nation Renew Okowa’s Mandate Group, who led other members to a “One Day Sensitisation Workshop” held at James Ekpre Otobo Hall in Isoko South Local Government Council’s Secretariat, said the campaign against Ogor was necessary as he (Ogor) had spent 12 years in the Green Chamber with little or no meaningful development to show for it. According to him, Isoko people deserve more than what Ogor had done, urging the people to ask the Minority Leader to show them the projects he had executed in their land with all the constituency projects he had received so far. Onyewonsa said his group, which is also rooting for the re-election of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for second term, had already aligned with a United States of America (USA) based medical doctor, Nelson Oke Aluya, whom he said would contest for the House of Representatives seat in Isoko Federal Constituency come 2019 and deliver quality service to the people of Isoko in Delta State. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.