The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Dr. Maikanti Baru, at the recent 2018   Oloibiri Lecture Series and Energy Forum,OLEF, lamented that 700million standard cubic feet per gas that oil firms are flaring ,was capable of generating equivalent of 5000 megawatts of electricity per day. This translate to N868million daily being lost to  gas flaring in the country Besides, the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) has said Nigeria, the ninth largest gas producing nation in the world, lost over $850 million to gas flaring in 2015. The Deputy Director, Head of Upstream, DPR, Mrs. Pat Maseli, gave the statistics at the just concluded 10th Annual sub-Saharan Africa Oil and Gas Conference in Houston, Texas, United States of America. According to Mr Sonny Oputa, Chairman, Energy Corporate African, the organiser of the conference, Maseli said  the development led to a loss of 3,500 megawatts of electricity generation and about $400 million carbon credit value emission. She said: “55 million Barrels of Oil Equivalent (BOE) was lost and 25 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emitted.The country is recording decline, but the scale of gas flaring is still worrisome.’’ Maseli said with almost eight billion cubic meters of gas flared annually, according to satellite data, Nigeria had the seventh largest gas flaring in the world. “At the same time, approximately 75 million Nigerians lack access to electricity. In recent years, Nigeria has shown significant progress by reducing gas flaring by about two billion cubic metres from 2012 to 2015,’’ she was quoted as saying. Lost Opportunities In a paper presented by the Group Managing Director Oilserv Ltd, Mr Emeka Okwuosa – “Natural Gas Development in Nigeria” at the Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria’s Forum in Houston Texas 2015, Nigeria flares about 1.2billion cubic feet (bcf/d) of gas a day, which could fuel about; 7000MW of efficient thermal electric power, over 1,400 agro-processing facilities, 350 textile plants, 70 fertilizer plants with opportunities for creating over one million jobs. This amount of gas flare represents 12.5% of all globally flared gas, which is 68% of the associated gas produced or 51% of the total gas production. According to the African Energy Outlook for 2014, as at 2012, Nigeria flared about 17bcm on the average, slightly more than its annual consumption. However, gas flaring in other West African producing countries has remained around 12bcm per year. In 2014, Nigeria lost about $1billion as oil companies operating in the country flared a large proportion of the gas produced from January to September 2014. According to data from the NNPC, about 295 billion standard cubic feet of natural gas was flared in the nine-month period. International oil companies and indigenous players burnt a total of 43.7billion scf in January, 50.1 billion scf in February and 38.3 billion scf in March. In April, 22.3 billion scf of gas was flared; 19.7 billion scf in May and 23 billion scf was wasted in June. In July, 29.1 billion scf was flared; 39.1 billion scf in August; 29.5 billion in September; and 44.37 billion in November. Ofoegbu Donald of the Centre for Social Justice,said  iff 1.2 billion scf flared per day has the potential to generate up to 7000MW of electricity, the aggregate gas flared for 2014; about 376.41billion scf can translate into 21.97GW, in addition to its inputs in agro processing, textile plants, fertiliser plants, and the number of jobs created from the multiplier effect. Government Should be blamed Some stakeholders in the oil sector   have condemned the activities of flaring gas in the country by oil companies, saying it negates the healthy living  of the communities where gas is flared. Ismail Aniemu, an  oil and gas analyst, blamed the government for not taking necessary actions against the culprit oil companies  who flared gas into the air. He lamented that oil companies continued to do that because the government has not been able to fix a permanent deadline for companies to stop flaring gas into the air in the country. “This is one challenge the country is facing that is making life look like nightmare for communities that are affected. I know there are penalties and government have continued to give deadlines and continued to default in honouring its deadlines. Government itself does not uphold its own deadlines. Towards the end of that deadline, it will shift it, the government had been giving deadlines for the past nine years. So when there is no deadline, you cannot penalize anybody. Had it been deadline was fixed and honored, anybody that does that after that deadline will be penalized,” Aniemu said. For Nwokolobia Ifeanyi, the government has not been able to uphold its deadline and take decisive actions against offenders, because the government is playing politics with the lives of  oil producing  communities. Nwokolobia who is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)of Ojeweta 360 Nigeria Limited,  added that the government is taking the International Oil Companies  and Local Oil Companies  serious  more than the communities that owns the oil. “You will be surprised that various environmental issues are not being tackled and the lives and ecology are being damaged. Government has not shown serious commitments, meanwhile, the monies that comes from these oil communities is what they used to develop Abuja. So government has not shown seriousness in the wellbeing of those communities. Not only Federal Government, even their various state governments. There is this attitude of unholy alliance with these oil companies with the various governments. Once a new government comes in, the oil companies quickly becomes their friends.” Nwokolobia said government has not shown will power, interest but have proven to be enemy of the people and the environment. According to him, gas that is flared causes serious damages to the society. It causes damages to the environment to the extent that the trees, the zink, the roofing of various buildings assimilates wastes, saying that after sometime, when it rains, the rain carries the waste down to the soil. “Most of these people in the communities depend on well water for drinking, cooking and bathing. They depend on the water from the streams. Gas flared into the air lands on the tree, on the roof of houses, over the time and settles their and when it rains, its is washed into the soil of the communities affecting the water from the well,” Nwokolobia gave a lay man explanation of the effect of gas flaring. He said that gas flaring has no benefit to the people, but to only the companies flaring it. “They are operating in deviance, it only benefits the companies that does not want to invest in the technologies  that can harness the gas for productive purposes. There is no way you flare the gas that it will not be injurious. But you can harness it for productive use. Flaring in the first place is wrong. It affects the environment negatively. The people who own these oil companies don’t live in the community. They don’t even go on vacation in those places. So it is loss to the community. They are not even ready to extend Corporate Social Responsibility to the communities, expect they are compelled through strikes and other threats.” The Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP), an agency of the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, revealed recently that the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) does not have accurate data on number of gas flaring sites in Niger Delta. It also revealed that the number of sites where gas flaring is taking place on a daily basis now exceeded 178. From the 60 per cent of its work scope so far, it established the existence of 178 gas flare, which is higher than the previous number of 140 sites the country bandied. The balance of 40 percent of its scope would be completed and also going to rely on the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) for more details on the figures it has. NGFCP, the document added, was also working with the Canadian Government and World Bank to conclude its gas flare date gathering and measurement work. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.