Makurdi – General Overseer, Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor E. A Adeboye has said he heard explicitly from God not to go to Benue State until after the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari. He made the declaration when he visited the state to condole with the government and people of the state over the killing of 73 persons in January by Fulani herdsmen at Benue People’s House on Friday. He also told the people of the state that God is prepared to fight their battles. According to him, “I would have been here (Benue) earlier but I was praying at home and was instructed by God not to come before the President (Muhammadu Buhari).” He said, “Even if we are in pain, hallelujah is a victorious sound. I am not here to make any political statement because I’m not a politician. I’m here just to pray. The governor is my son, his wife is my daughter. I can’t hear that my children are in trouble and sit at home. I would have been here earlier but I was praying at home and was instructed by God not to come before the president. “The Bible says the horse is prepared for the day of battle but safety is of the Lord. Men can hide from men but no one can hide from God. Men can be corrupted, they can decide to do what is not 100 percent correct with the assistance of others but there is no way you can compromise the holiness of God. He is a Holy God. He created us all. And I know when we call on Him to intervene, what is impossible for man is possible for God. “We have felt every pain you have felt. We have wept when we saw you weeping. The fact is there is no way a man of God will not feel the pain when he sees mass burial. When somebody is dead, you can’t convert that person. That is why we want these killings to stop. God can stop it. He doesn’t play. We will call on him to fight this battle that we cannot fight. I’m here to pray for the state that the Helper of the helpless will fight our battle.” Adeboye further prayed that the Almighty God bring an end to the continuous bloodshed in the land occasioned by the incessant herdsmen attacks. Earlier, Governor Samuel Ortom who welcomed Pastor Adeboye to the state explained that enemies of the state have turned the state to an Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) home as a result of the attacks. He said, “Your coming is like that of a child who waits for his father to come back and beat whoever is punishing him. I believe the enemies of this state who have turned Benue to IDP camps after displacing people from 16 out of 23 Local Government Areas (LGAs) a word from you will bring healing and salvation to the state.” 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.