Lagos – The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), yesterday shut Al-Ihsan oil and Gas Nigeria Limited, in Ajah, Lagos for operating illegally and dispensing  adulterated   diesel to consumers. But, Alhaji Muhammed Al-Ihsan, the Chairman of the company, said he was operating a legal business as permitted by the management of DPR. Al-Ihsan said that he was surprised the officials of DPR sealed his office because he was engaging in illegal businesses. He said that it was annoying that the officials of DPR told him he did not have permit to store and sell diesel to its customers. He explained that he buys diesel from depot, store it in our storage facility before trans-loading to his peddler that use to distribute our product. “We are not selling adulterated products here, if they have evidence, they should produce it,” he said. Earlier, Mr Wole Akinyosoye, the  Zonal Operations Controller, Lagos, who led the officials of DPR and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC)  to the site in Lagos, said the operator had licence for road haulage and not diesel retailing. ‘’We discovered that the operator of this oil and gas site was doing an illegal business here. He is blending, trans-loading, storing without an authority licence to do it. There are certain parameters for an operator to fulfill before he will be issued such licence. “This will include safety, health and environment and other measures and we discovered that he has not fulfilled these. The owner of this site is operating an illegal business and we are going to seal it,” he said. Akinyosoye said that the licence obtained by the operator of the site was to obtain products from depot and deposit it at filling stations or direct third party. He added that what the owner of the outlet was doing at the site was to get the product from depot, bring it to his facilities, blend it and sell to the public. “What he is doing here is transshipping, storing, blending and selling of diesel product to people. When one is doing this kind of business, there is latitude for adulteration; meanwhile he did not have licence for storage. “The permit issued by DPR to him was for road haulage, petroleum products haulage and not a transshipment licence, storage or blending licence,” he said. The DPR controller said that the operator of the company would be prosecuted. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.