Uyo – Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has insisted that the state government’s  position on the fight against cultism and other related vices is not open to negotiation. He has therefore declared that anyone found guilty of involvement in cult activities, however highly placed the individual may be, must face the full wrath of the law. Governor Udom Emmanuel reiterated this declaration at the 8th matriculation ceremony of the Akwa Ibom State University, AKSU, Ikot Akpaden, Mkpat Enin Local Government Area of the state. He advised the students to take the position to heart and be adequately guided as they face their studies seriously. Daily Independent reports that the state government had recently outlawed 33 cult groups identified by the police to be operating in the state, causing criminal havoc such serial killings, maiming and kidnappings of innocent citizen of the state with Ukanafun and Etim Ekpo local government areas as the flash points. Emmanuel, who was a visitor at the University, assured the students that government was working hard to improve facilities at the University, also advised the Students’ Union Government (SUG) to adopt dialogue in resolving every matter where there is dispute. Represented by the Commissioner for Education, Prof. Victor Inuka, Governor Emmanuel  congratulated the matriculating students for being found worthy to be admitted into the school to realize their dreams of greater tomorrow. He also charged the Staff and Management of the University to their best to improve standard at the university, stressing, “As a young University, you must do the best you can to make it shine and rank among the best Universities in the world.” In his address, the Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof. Eno Ibanga said the school is on right track, stating that its programmes have been accredited by the National Universities Commission and professional bodies where such accreditations are required. According to him, students admitted into AKSU have no reason to perform poorly, stressing that the University on its part has tried within the limited resources put in place facilities for a conducive learning. Prof. Ibanga charged them to work hard and make good use of the opportunities offered them for excellent performance in order to achieve their dreams of being in the University and contribute positively to the development of the school and society at large. He also sounded a warning to the matriculating students that examination malpractices, cultism and any form of anti-social activities have been proscribed; pointing out that the University has no tolerance for such activities and behavours. “I must as a matter of seriousness warn the new students against any form of anti-social activities. Cultism has been proscribed by Akwa Ibom State Government. Examination malpractice/misconduct has been outlawed in Nigeria. Each of them carries a seven-year term. “The joy of matriculation is short-lived because it only marks the beginning of an eventful life. The joy of convocation is more lasting because it launches you into the world of real independent experiences.  Strive to make good grades and be part of this group during convocation in a few years to come. “Don’t allow the distractions of the social media to get the best of you. Discriminate on the information you get from it. Be inspired by good work, good name and the love of God in your life.” the Vice Chancellor stated. A total of two thousand and thirty-five (2035) students drawn from six faculties participated in the 8th matriculation ceremony of the university which took place of the University Main campus, Ikot Akpaden, Mkpat Enin local government area of the state. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.