Osogbo – Osun State Chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) has bemoaned the main opposition, Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) to stop day-dreaming of unseating the ruling party in the state while it is still neck-deep in internal crisis.
APC in a statement made available by its Director of Publicity, Research and Strategy, Barrister Kunle Oyatomi, copy of which was made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT in Osogbo admonished the opposition party first to resolve its internal crisis before dreaming aspiring to challenge the ruling party and of take over mantle of governorship of the state in the September 22nd 2018 governorship election in the state.
It would be recalled that the PDP after its local government congress at the weekend, a chieftain of the party and former Governorship candidate, Senator Olu Alabi had told newsmen that following the successful conduct of the Congress, the party is already on the path to wrestle power from APC in the forthcoming governorship election in the state.
The party said that in the last three years, the PDP has been embroiled in factional leadership crisis, fighting over who should control the party which has degenerated into having two secretariats up until now, adding that such an organisation is an unserious party that the people of the state cannot be entrusted into their hands again after they had been tested and failed.
The APC, therefore, called on PDP leadership to face its internal problem and sort themselves out and stop hallucinating on how to wrestle power from the ruling party.
The statement stated: “We want to tell the People’s Democratic Party to face its crisis and sort out themselves and stop hallucinating on how to ‘wrestle’ power from the ruling party.
‘A party that cannot conduct ordinary ward congresses in unity cannot stand in the way of the progressive APC,” the APC said.
APC said further that “they are unserious and can’t rule over good people of Osun who have been enjoying dividends of democracy over seven years now’.
‘Osun cannot afford to make a wrong decision because that will be inviting the evil that is waiting in the wings to destroy the glorious achievements that Osun has seen since 2010.
‘The state has changed for the better’. Every citizen of the state should look around and ask this vital question: is this Osun I used to know when the PDP was in power?
While noting that PDP is not an alternative to the ruling APC in the state, the party asked the people of the state to jettison the propaganda of the opposition and shun their evil ambition on the state.
‘Can you in good conscience prefer a party that left the state to rot; that allowed the flood to claim lives and properties and that practically squandered the resources of the state to return to power and do worst things?
‘God forbid’, the APC proclaimed’, adding that ‘those who are clamouring for a reversal of the success and progress that Osun has made under the APC government, led by the inimitable Rauf Adesoji Aregbesola are worst than the evil itself.
“The story of progress recorded in Osun has not ended. We have more to deliver on infrastructure and educational transformation that the state has seen in the last seven and half years, the APC stated. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.