Benin – The member representing Esan South East and Esan North East Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Mr. Sergus Ogun has awarded a scholarship to Miss Omontese Ewanfo, whose father was allegedly killed by Fulani herdsmen at Eko- Ibadin village in Esan North East local government area of Edo while working in his farm. A 200 level computer science student at the Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma,  Miss Ewanfo was among the over 600 students in secondary and tertiary school’s students that were awarded scholarships and have their NECO Enrollment fees paid by the lawmaker worth several millions of Naira. Sergus, while announcing the scholarship award to Miss Ewanfo at Uromi during his annual scholarship award to deserving indigent students of his constituency, said his foundation, will immediately pay the sum of N1million to the student to enable her continue with her education. The Federal Lawmaker also announced that another indigent student and daughter of his late friend, Lawrence Oahimire would also receive N2 million to further her education. According to him, “This is the 6th year of my annual scholarship award and payment of WEAC/NECO Enrollment fees for indigent students in my constituency. Over 600 students will be paid their enrollment fees for NECO and they are drawn from public and private secondary schools in Esan South/Esan North East local governments. “While each student will be given N15,000 each, N100,000 will be given as scholarship to 11 university students. My only regret is the poor performance of students at the examinations because of lack of teachers at the rural secondary schools. “I appealed to the Edo State government to send teachers to rural secondary schools because a situation where you have a principal and one teacher in a rural secondary school is not the best for our educational development. “Under such a situation, how do you expect the students to perform well? My prayer to the government is to send teachers to the rural secondary schools in the state.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.