Lagos – Accommodation challenge facing the students of Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, Lagos, may soon be a thing of the past, as the university is set to deliver a 6,000 bed-space accommodation for students. The project that may change the LASU landscape is expected to be delivered in the next 18 months under a public-private partnership (PPP) arrangement. The Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Professor Olanrewaju Fagbohun, disclosed this on Tuesday at the Ojo main campus of the university while playing host to the management of Independent Newspapers Limited (INL). The INL team led by Mr. Ade Ogidan, its Managing Director/Editor-In-Chief, paid the vice chancellor a visit in his office at the main campus. The VC, who said he would not be distracted from his mission to turn the fortunes of the institution around, stated that the proposed model accommodation for the students will change the off-campus policy of the university that was reviewed not too long ago. “We are now going to have our students coming as residents on the campus. The first phase of the project is looking at having 6,000 students having accommodation on the campus and what we did was to advertise that we want to have the building constructed using the PPP arrangement because the university does not have the fund and we don’t want it to be a project that will continue to be in the pipeline,” he stated. He added, “We opted for the PPP arrangement and we have chosen PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) as our financial advisers because we wanted a situation where we will be transparent and insulate ourselves from pressures from the public without ending up with non-performing contractors and eventually dotting the campus with uncompleted building scattered all over the premises. “What we did was to instruct PwC to lead and advise us and they have been very much involved in the processes.” Prof. Fagbohun further disclosed that two companies have already been identified and taken through both technical and financial pre-qualifications in order to ensure the delivery of the 13 model buildings that will house 6,000 students on campus. He stressed that the back-lashes of off-campus challenges faced by students will readily be taken care of as the bed-spaces will be affordable. Speaking further, he hinted that arrangements are on to make students of the institution understudy and be part of the workforce of corporate organisations doing business with the university. This, according to him, will prepare them for career prospects through linkages with relevant professional bodies and organisations, and mentor them through role-modeling and the distinguished lecture series instituted by the university. Dismissing the alleged notion of crisis within the university, Fagbohun lamented that negative news about the university in the media had overshadowed progress and developmental projects at different stages on the campus, saying that two law graduates of the university came tops in the last Bar examination. Earlier, the INL’s MD/EIC commended the wave of the on-going projects on the campus, saying that a renewed partnership with the organisation stands the university in good stead, given the spread and readership of its publications. “We want to establish a more robust relationship with the university, as one of the most widely read and circulated newspapers in Nigeria today. Reason for this is not farfetched because we print simultaneously from Asaba, Lagos and Abuja,” he stressed. He added, “We have logistics to our advantage for nationwide distribution and we are to all intent and purposes independent.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.