Lagos – The sleepy town of Epe in Lagos-east senatorial district came alive last Thursday when leaders and members of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the zone converged on the town to take a crucial decision. Though the meeting could not begin at 10 o’clock in the morning as scheduled, when it started about 11.30 am, the moderator did not minced words in telling the large gathering why they all came to Epe which he said was to endorse Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State for another term in office. Some of the resolutions of the party chieftains at the meeting include; a vote of confidence on the governor and to ask him to contest the 2019 governorship election in the state. They also commended Senator Gbenga Ashafa for his achievement so far as a senator representing the zone. The group also agreed to support the leadership of APC in Lagos State under the leadership of Otunba Henry Ajomale as the chairman, support the ongoing reconciliation committee headed by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, former governor of Lagos State. The leadership of the party in the zone urged the entire party member to support the leadership of the party in the zone under the leadership of Otunba Bushura Alebiosu. Speaking on the necessity of the meeting, Senator Ashafa said that the governor has done well in his first term which necessitated the support from the zone for him to continue for another term. Ashafa stressed that the people of Lagos-East and Epe division where he comes from are proud of his brilliant performance and want him to present himself for another term in office. He said, “The people of Lagos –East and Epe division where both of us comes from are proud of the governor, that is why we are calling on him to present himself for another four years of service as the governor of Lagos State. “Today’s endorsement is a confirmation of our earlier meeting in Ikorodu at the instance of our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu where we passed a vote of confidence on the governor for his excellent performance in the state.” The senator expressed confidence that the second term of Governor Ambode in Lagos would bring further development in the state and  stated Lagosians will  support him when he eventually declare for second term. Ashafa stated that Lagos-East senatorial zone has set a pace for other senatorial districts to follow in endorsing the governor for second term. “As we are endorsing him here today, the Lagos-West is doing the same thing. Next week, the Lagos-Central would carry out their own endorsement. This is to tell you that Ambode has transformed the entire state within the space of less than three years hence the call for continuity.” He further stated that the people of Lagos-east would continue to support the programme and activities of the governor. The senator commended Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the former governor of Lagos State for his effort in uniting the party in the state and the entire country. He further stressed that the success of APC story in Lagos State wouldn’t have been possible without the leadership quality of Tinubu who set a pace for the development of the state. Similarly, the Balogun of Epe Kingdom,Chief Lanre Razak, who is also  a member of the Governor Advisory Council (GAC) from the East District,  cited  Ambode’s brilliant performance as his unique selling point which qualifies him another term. He said, “We cannot but come up again to tell the world that we thank them for voting Ambode in 2015 and asking them to give unanimous support again for Ambode for his brilliant performance this time around. Commenting on the notion that factions exist in the Lagos-east of the party, the former governorship candidate in the state said he is not aware of such thing. “I am not aware that anybody is averse to this gathering today, nobody, and nobody in East senatorial district that is against the nomination and endorsement of Akinwunmi Ambode, they may have issues with themselves not against the issue of Akinwunmi Ambode being endorsed for second term and for the purpose of him running again 2019. “Epe is now comparable to New York courtesy Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s unmatched feats but four years is not enough for him to exhaust all the good works he had in mind for the State. “He is a semblance of what you have onions, as long as you remove a layer you get something new, so he deserves another term”.Balogun asserted. He appealed to all eligible electorates to value the worth of their permanent voters card and voting right. “I appeal to the electorates that the most valuable thing they have today is the PVC they should not sell it, they should ensure they vote the right candidate, who is Akinwunmi Ambode so that he can continue to advance developments. While reiterating the importance of the endorsement, Rt.Adeyemi Ikuforiji, the immediate past Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, said the meeting was a reaffirmation of what the group did at Ikorodu where it endorsed the governor for his sterling performance. Ikuforiji stated that Lagos under Ambode has witnessed a monumental achievement that ultimately qualifies him for another term. He urged the governor to continue with the works he has started if elected for another term in office. The former speaker urged the party to be thorough in carrying out the ongoing reconciliation especially among leaders of the party in the zone. He further stated that while the party in the zone is taking a crucial decision of endorsing the governor, it must ensure that those who are aggrieved and did not show up for the meeting be carried along in the spirit of genuine reconciliation. Some of the leaders of the party that attended the meeting are; Senator Anthony Adefuye, Chief Olorunfunmi Basorun, former Secretary to Lagos State Government and Hon. Akinsola Adebimpe, former acting commissioner for Arts and Culture, Lagos State among others. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.