According to reports, embattled Kogi West Senator, Dino Melaye, has written the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, to intervene in the rough relationship he is having with police officers. Mr. Melaye said he was ready to submit himself to the police on the condition that he is investigated by police officers from Abuja, and not Kogi. In a five-page letter written by his counsel, Rickey Tarfa, the lawmaker alleged that police officers in Kogi state were compromised and were controlled by the governor, Yahaya Bello. Mr. Melaye noted that the attempt by police officers to arrest him at the FCT High Court on March 1 was a manifestation of a compromise to abduct and murder him. “Our client told us that from information made available to him by his supporters, the intention was to abduct him and whisk him to Kogi State where he would be at the complete mercy of the governor and where plans had been perfected and were being implemented to frame him on spurious charges, arrest and detain him, and then murder him in prison while he is awaiting trial,” his lawyer wrote. “It is worthy of note that our client has severally stated in the media that he is aware of this nefarious plan and the involvement of Kogi State Police Command in implementing the same. The sheer number of armed policemen and security personnel deployed from Kogi State on 1st March 2018 to abduct our client from the FCT High Court premises gives credence to our client’s fears. Our client was however lucky not to be noticed by the policemen laying siege, as he left the court premises. “Sir, as the chief law enforcement officer of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, we urge that you intervene in the circumstances. It is obvious to our client that there is no plausible reason for him to believe that his personal safety is guaranteed in the hands of Kogi State Police Command.” The letter explained that the police exchanged correspondences with the National Assembly over an invitation to Mr. Melaye. The police is yet to react to this development. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.