Here are the major headlines for today, 7th March 2018 from Independent Newspapers, one of the leading Nigerian newspapers: Herdsmen Kill 30 In Fresh Attack On Benue Community Lagos APC Rejects Oyegun-Led NWC’s Tenure Elongation There seems to be no end in sight to the furore generated by the elongation of the tenure of the John Odigie-Oyegun led National Working Committee (NWC) by the National… Read More » Finally, DSS Releases Detained INDEPENDENT Abuja Bureau Chief The Department of State Services (DSS) about 10:30p.m on Tuesday released detained Tony Ezimakor, the Abuja Bureau Chief of Independent Newspapers… Read More » FG Detects 130,000 Persons, Firms That Evade Tax The data mining efforts of the Federal Government through the Federal Ministry of Finance has identified a new batch of over 130,000 high net worth individuals and companies that… Read More » Fayose Dumps Presidential Ambition, Eyes VP Slot Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State may have finally dumped his ambition to contest the 2019 presidential election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party… Read More » Police Promote Three CPs, Four DCPs, 12 ACPs, 191 Inspectors, 204 Others The Police Service Commission (PSC) on Tuesday released the promotion of 414 senior police officers to their next ranks… Read More » Oando: SEC Yields To Shareholders’ Demand, Orders Audit In what appeared an apparent response to the aggrieved minority shareholders of Oando Plc, who petitioned the House Committee on Capital Market and other Institutions… Read More » Equities Market Extends Positive Performance, Up By 0.22%… Read More » Industrial, Agricultural Sectors Can Add More Value Than Oil – Baru… Read More » Nigeria Records N4trn Trade Surplus In 2017… Read More » Only Ojudu Can Defeat Fayose’s Candidate – Abdulah… Read More » Ambode’s Efforts In Repositioning LASTMA Yielding Results – Olakpe… Read More » 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.