Awka – Obosi community in Idemili Local Council of Anambra State at the weekend honoured and celebrated the elderly in its Ito Ogbo ceremony for men and women who have hit 80 years and going. In this year’s ceremony, no fewer than 150 men and women belonging to the Iru-Ugo age grade were honoured by the community at the event, which holds every three years. The traditional Ruler of Obosi Town, His Royal Majesty Igwe Chidubem Iweka III, said it was gladdening that Obosi had gathered again after three years to celebrate life and wisdom. Iweka prayed for more celebration and better health for the new members of Octogenarian community adding that they would live even longer. Indeed, Ito-Ogbo festival was a tourist delight with rich cultural displays, including dances, poem renditions to entertain the wide spectrum of guests In an interview, Chief Osita Chidoka, a former Corps-Marshal and minister of Aviation, who is a titled chief in Obosi, said greater attention should be paid to the welfare of the elderly in society by helping them to maintain the quality of life they had in their active days. Chidoka congratulated his community Obosi and Idemili North on the occasion of the 2018 edition of the triennial Ito-Ogbo festival, saying society must appreciate the elderly and help them to maintain their normal status even when they were retired. He described the event as an ancient tradition of which every indigene of Obosi looked forward to and congratulated the new set of octogenarians on the grace to see the day. He said: “Ito-Ogbo is an ancient tradition of Obosi community where the age grade that attain 80 is celebrated and recognised for their contribution to the town. “These elders become Ogbueshi, meaning that they can wear red cap and in this ceremony the men and women alike are celebrated, so all the traditional council and people of Obosi are here to ensure the day is worthwhile. “In Obosi we celebrate the elderly and you can see that the senior citizens are an integral part of the society and we celebrate them when they are alive. “It is important that every facet of the society, government and individuals alike must appreciate the elderly and care for them while they are alive,” he said. Mrs. Ngozi Okongwu, one of the newly inducted octogenarians, said she was full of thanks to God for the gift of life and health. Okongwu said the elderly in society should be celebrated as it kept them going and urged governments to make the aged a priority. “I am happy, I thank God for giving me and other members of the Iru-Ugo age grade the grace to attain the age of 80. It has not been easy because not every one that wished for it was able to make  it. “I have always looked forward to attain this age and I want to commend the leaders of Obosi and pray that God continues to guide them. “Government at all levels should take a cue from good ceremonies like this that some community hold and help others to enjoy it. “Life has been full of lessons but we still pray to God to keep us and make us watch the successes of our children and relations,” he concluded# 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.