Youth unemployment has remained a major issue for decades in Nigeria and it is not abating. On the contrary, it is becoming  a monumental problem both for governments and families. A prominent traditional ruler, Oba  Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, the Ooni of Ife , recently highlighted the potential danger youth unemployment constitutes to the nation when he asserted that  it is “ a time bomb waiting to explode” if  urgent  measures were not taken  to salvage the situation. The traditional ruler’s concern is, according to him, underscored by the increasing resort to violent criminality by the largely unemployed youth.  Violent  extremism, mostly perpetrated by youth, is a nightmare that we live with today. While unemployment is a phenomenon prevalent in virtually all countries, though at low levels in many, the rate of  youth unemployment  in Nigeria,  variously put at between 50 percent and 61 percent , is among  the highest in the world.  This gives cause for grave concern considering  the youth population is the most vibrant, energetic and productive  segment of any national population. The  Nigerian National Youth Policy (2009) document  defines youth as those between the ages 18 and 35 as against the global trend of  age 15 to 34.   According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the Nigerian youth population is put at 61.3 million or 31.7 percent of the total population estimated at 190.6 million as at July 2017. Of this number 61.6 percent  are unemployed while 58.1 percent of  youth who are working  are underemployed.  The NBS data  showed that 7.9 million youths lost their jobs in the fourth quarter of 2016, made up of 2.9 million graduates and 5 million semi-skilled workers.  In just  a three-month period, October to December 2016. Various  programmes to alleviate youth unemployment and reduce poverty include  the National Directorate of Employment (NDE)  National Accelerated Poverty Reduction Programme (NAPEP) to recent projects like Vocational Training Scheme (VTS)  N-Power and Subsidy Reinvestment Empowerment Programme (SURE –P). At the state level, various governments have adopted varying strategies to address youth unemployment including direct cash payment  for those engaged in environmental cleanliness. So far, most of these efforts have been, at best, palliatives which have not  addressed  the core issues involved in youth unemployment. These core issues include the warped value system of the political class  where there are too many grandiose, white elephant projects with limited impact on job creation, and with public funds frittered away. Another issue is lack of proper articulation of the mix of youth training  in terms  of those for academic learning and those for vocational/technical training. The result has been a woeful mismatch where too many youths are trained in tertiary institutions in the social and pure sciences as against  technology-related courses. The absurdity of the education policy is most manifest in cases of Polytechnics   with mandate to train middle level technical personnel which ended up having more students registered in social science courses. The same apply to universities of technology which ape the curricula of  the mainstream, orthodox universities. Admissions to universities and technical colleges should  be aligned to projected national  needs, not  just uncontrolled number.  We have situation of unemployable graduates, which fuels statistical unemployment. This calls for closer collaboration between industry and tertiary institutions such that tertiary institution products are industry-ready at graduation.  We commend government’s new policy thrust that encourages vocational subjects in secondary schools  and vocational training of National Youth Service Corps members. This should be matched with adequate facilities. Also, we call for value reorientation of students and parents on the wrongly held  perception of some courses of study as not being lucrative. We would also like to note that successive governments have not shown adequate understanding of the imperative of steady power supply to propel industrial/economic  output and thereby boost youth employment. For the umpteenth time, we want to urge federal government to encourage decentralisation and diversification  of  electricity supply  to make it more readily available and affordable. Electricity is the oxygen for economic  boom and general good living.  Ultimately, it is  government’s  lead  effort in stemming youth unemployment  that will provide the incentive for private sector collaboration.  0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.