Dr. Christopher Awusa Doghudje, former chairman of Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON), and one time Managing Director of Lowe Lintas, in this discussion with DAVID AUDU, explains the formative years of advertising in Nigeria ,and  how the regulatory body, APCON, came into existence – Excerpts: How would you compare advertising practice in Nigeria in your days and now? Advertising has been here in Nigeria for sometimes now. It was practiced in Nigeria before I joined Lowe Lintas, the agency worked for many years. So, there has always been advertising. If you break the advertising world into the three arms, then, there is a vast difference. The three arms are the advertisers, the agency practitioners and the media owners. This is where you have a vast difference between advertising then and now. Otherwise, the subject matter of advertising was in existence, has been in existence and will continue to be in existence. You may ask, what are the differences? The principal differences are the kinds of advertisers you have then and now; the media owners you have then and now; and the agencies you have then and now. Let us take advertisers then and now. The big advertisers then were the fast moving consumer goods, fmcg. At that time we had the likes of Lever Brothers (as the company was called then, it is now called Unilevers Plc.); we had Cadbury, Nigerian Breweries, UAC and Guinness. There were also Nestle (at one time called Food Specialties), PZ and a few others. These were the principal big advertisers then. Now they are not. The biggest advertisers now are the telecommunication companies. Though the big ones mentioned above are still there, they are not the biggest spenders anymore. Yes, the banking sector tried, but not as much as the telecommunication companies. Then you move to the agencies, the agencies were very few at the beginning, and then they moved to 50, 60 and 70, in that half of the century. Now, if you add media independent agencies, then, the numbers will be around 120 as against 20 or so of advertising agencies in the 60s to 70s. But because the media independent were not there before now they are there. Before, they were all general practitioners. Again, you have specialist agencies now, especially, on the media side, so the numbers certainly have increased. Then, how about the media owners? They were also few – on the radio side, on the newspaper side and on the television side. The outdoor agencies were also relatively few too at that time. If you count Afro Media, plus two or three others; they were not too many, but now have multiplied and should be over 80 by now, even though some were destroyed and driven out of business by LASAA. In those days it was the federal and regional governments that owned most of the media houses. Then we have the Northern, Western, Eastern and Southern regions with capitals in Kaduna, Ibadan, Enugu and Lagos with regional radio and televisions respectively; but now with so many states and their capital cities, we now have many radio and TV stations. On the press side, then we had the Observer Newspaper in Benin, Kaduna had New Nigeria; Ibadan had Triumph and Sketch. Now we have proliferation as well, but more in Lagos. Seventy five per cent of media owner concentration is still in the Lagos and western Nigeria axis. In terms of ad billings, comparing the total billing then and now, if you regard the naira as base with current exchange rates and inflation it will be a little difficult. Even though I started when it was still pound, the total billing in Nigeria has skyrocketed; it is in billions, not less than a hundred billion I suppose, especially, since many advertisers and agencies are willing to disclose ad spend. Also if you look at the advertising practice side, not that it was primitive, but it depended on the media development then and now. Indeed, there has been a lot of advancement when it comes to practice. Colour separation has moved beyond. We didn’t have then, then we had and now we do what they called direct image capturing. Even the recorder you are using compared it to the recorder we used in those days, the difference is quite great.  Then, also we had the short hand writers and so on. Then you look at the films that were used in those days it is different from what we have now. How did your days in Lintas prepare you for the challenges and roles you later played in Nigerian advertising industry? My days in Lintas can only be looked at from the angle of a practitioner. As a practitioner, I have worked on the big accounts. One was happy to have gained lots of experience from the big or the juicy accounts. Yes, I worked on Unilever accounts, Guinness, Nigeria Breweries, UAC, AJ Seaward and so many other accounts. Remember it was at different points in time that I worked on Guinness and Nigerian Breweries accounts, because you cannot work on both accounts at the same time. So, that prepared me to be able to look at the industry as a man practicing where advertising should be practiced. We used to regard Lever Brother’s (Unilevers) as the master of the marketing business, and so working for them gave us a pride of place. Of the 25 active years I spent in advertising, at least 20 of them were spent in Lintas, five I spent in OBM, the second largest agency in the country then. You were the education secretary of the Association of Advertising Practitioner of Nigeria (AAPN), now known as Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN), which exposed you to a lot of going on in the industry. From that perspective how would you describe the formation of Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON) or what actually brought it to be? Let me start from the formation of association of advertising agencies in Nigeria. Interestingly the formation of AAAN itself was forced by circumstances. AAAN at its infancy was found because of the need to indigenise advertising. The old and big agencies did not form AAAN. The old foreign agencies in Nigeria then such as Lowe Lintas, OBM and Graham and Giles were not part of AAAN at the beginning at all. But people who have worked with those big agencies before and had moved on to formed their own agencies and who tried to wrestle accounts from the big ones decided to form AAPN to counter the exploits of the foreign owned agencies. Indeed, the big foreign agencies had cornered the big accounts to themselves, and these local agencies wanted a bite of the big accounts. They thought that if they form an association they would be able to leverage them with the accounts and some of the big agencies would be driven out of business in Nigeria. But that was not to be because even though the agencies were indigenized the juicy account still remained with the big agencies. So, if you looked at the original lists of 23 local agencies that formed AAAN, there was no Lintas. Lintas joined later making it 26th on the original lists of AAAN members. Interestingly, Lowe Lintas joined them later and they handed over the leadership of the association to Lintas, which allowed Mr. Ifanyichukwu Sylvester Moemeka to become the second president of AAPN, and of course, the most famous leader of AAPN, and he was there for over ten years. That was around 1975 to over the 80s. Another circumstance which informed the formation of the association was that then the regulation of the industry was done by the Newspapers Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN). The newspaper association confers recognition on the advertising agencies they worked with, and grade then on their own terms as grade A, B or C, agencies based on their own criteria. AAAN was a child of circumstances because the advertising practitioners were not happy to see newspapers to be the one regulating, recognizing and grading them. So, based on such recognition, grade A papers could get as much as 15 per cent discount, B would get 10 per cent and C papers get only 5 per cent discounts on advertisement, and the agencies didn’t like it, so they had to form their own association to wrestle power from the newspapers. Did they succeed? Yes, to some extent they succeeded, but not on a platter of gold. The matter went to court. Former Governor of Lagos State and a publisher then, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, represented the Newspapers Proprietors Association while the agencies were represented by late Olu Adekoya who had a Press Agency then called Olu Adekoya Press Agency. The then judge of the Lagos High Court, Retired Justice Yaya Jinadu, ruled in favour of the advertising agencies, where it was decided that regulating advertising must be done by the advertising professionals themselves, declaring that newspapers cannot regulate advertising as much as nurses cannot regulate the doctors or the accountants cannot regulate lawyers; that the advertisers should regulate themselves and media owners should also regulate themselves. To that extent, forming AAAN was quite successful; however, it was taking the big accounts from the big foreign agencies that were not successful. They were successful to get themselves to regulate themselves but not on the juicy foreign account side. So, moving to the formation of APCON now, it was the desire of the advertisers to be recognised and be treated as professionals or be treated with respect that led them to approach government for recognition. The desire was high then, and so AAAN more or less midwifed APCON. They believed lawyers are treated with respect, doctors are revered, but advertisers are treated with levity, and they didn’t like that as well. So, they approached government with a request for a Royal Charter for advertisers to be called the Charted Institute of Advertisers, and not for a council. It was the royal charter that members of the AAAN initially wanted. But at the time we were to approach the government for the Royal Charter, we were wisely advised to drop the royal charter request and ask for a council. We were advised that government at that time was not disposed to calling them an institute, if you were not an institute by name from the beginning. If you are an institute by name then you can remain an institute and government will just give you recognition or license. But if it must be a council, then there must be some form of regulation from government itself. Yes, you are recognised as professional but government will have some participation; you must be controlled or have some oversight functions from a minister, and in this case the minister of information, because it was government that will come up with a law that will regulate. The others such as NIM, NIMN, NIPR were not formed by laws but as associations; they were only given recognition by government. While NIM was given a royal charter by government they cannot prevent non practitioners from calling themselves managers because they don’t have the stamp of authority that APCON has. APCON has three broad powers- to register those who practice advertising, as individuals and also to determine the academic qualification that qualifies you to practice advertising; and the third being to regulate the practice of advertising in all aspects and ramifications. Very wide powers indeed, but we ask for it and so we have to swallow it. When you look at the formation of the council, you have AAAN having 10 members; BON having 1, ADVAN 1, Institutions 2, government 7 and the chairman of governing council making 20 in all. Out of the 20 council members AAAN has 10 representations. So, the preponderance of AAAN was not by mistake. AAAN definitely midwifes the formation of APCON. It was what we agitated for that was given to us, slightly changed but more powerful. APCON is like a child becoming more powerful than the parent. That was how Decree N0 55 of 1988 came about and the subsequent amendment in 1992. Overall, APCON is the baby of AAAN. Nobody who was in AAAN at that time would be shy to say it is their baby. Since advertising is practiced in three parts, and so that others would participate in ownership we brought in media people and the advertisers. Since the clamour for the regulatory law was led by practitioners they are more, and if on the other hand it was led by advertisers they would have been more, after all the advertisers are the ones paying the agencies. But the underlining is that the others are there to give representation to the other parts of advertising, media and advertisers. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.