Jalingo – The remains of the late chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Taraba State chapter, Rev. Dr. Ben Ubeh, has been interred in Jalingo on Thursday. Ubeh was involved in a ghastly motor accident along Zing-Yola road on Sunday.
The late chairman, who died on his way to Yola for a church dedication service and dedication of a triplet to the family of Mr. & Mrs. Mijah Dilli Lumsan, who had waited after 25 years of marriage without a child, was in company of the state NLC chairman Rev. Peter Gambo when the accident happened.
According to the report, they had parked their vehicle to buy drugs in a near by pharmaceutical store along the way when a Dangote trailer conveying goods came from behind and crushed him to death.
During the memorial service which took place at the State CAN secretariat in Jalingo, the presiding cleric, who is also the national president of C.R.C.N Rev. Caleb Ahima, urged the congregation to be prepared to meet God the creator. In his speech, the Taraba State Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku, described the deceased as a man of peace, bridge builder and evangelist, maintaining that he accomplished and fulfilled his mandate given to him by his master, hence his death should not discourage the church but to put their trust in God. He thanked the Mbula people in Adamawa State where the deceased hailed from for allowing their son to be buried in Taraba. Speaking earlier the president, CAN Rev. Samson Ayokunle, pleaded with the government of Taraba State to do all it can to assist the children of the deceased. Late Rev. Dr. Ben Ubeh was born on November 12, 1957 in Mbula kuli, Demsa LGA in Adamawa State. He is a trained nurse who specialises as a psychiatric nurse. He holds a bachelor of Arts degree in Bible Studies and a PhD. He was married to Mrs. Pauline Elshaddai Ben Ubeh, who also died in a motor accident along Zing road in 2012 and is blessed with three Children. Until his death, he was the founder and general overseer of Christ Glorious Army, Jalingo. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.