Lagos – Gbenga Ashafa, Senator representing Lagos East, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for taking swift action in response to the series of near mishaps that have engulfed the aviation industry in the recent past. Ashafa who last week sponsored a motion on the need to minimise possibility of air mishaps in the country said he was impressed with the swift response given to the issue by the president and members of his cabinet. He said, “On Tuesday, 6th March, 2018, I sponsored a motion on the floor of the Senate on the “The need to minimise the possibility of Air Mishaps and near Fatalities in Nigeria.” This motion was borne out of my genuine concern for the safety of the lives of the millions of Nigerians who make use of our aviation facilities on a daily basis. “Pursuant to the prayers of the said motion, the Senate decided to invite the Honourable Minister of State for Transportation (Aviation) Senator Hadi Sirika, to appear before the Senate to give a full briefing on the steps being taken to minimise human errors and avoid preventable air crashes in the aviation industry and further urged the Honourable Minister of State for Transportation (Aviation) to immediately direct all relevant agencies in the aviation industry to conduct a maintenance and airworthiness audit on all commercial aircraft operating within the Nigerian Airspace.” Ashafa states further that “while the Senate is yet to receive the Minister, I must commend the swift attention that the President Muhammadu Buhari and the entire Federal Executive Council gave to the issue of Safety in our aviation sector at the Federal Executive Council Meeting of Wednesday 7th March, 2018.” He noted, “The steps already taken by the Hon. Minister and his team, including ordering the complete audit of Dana airlines in terms of personnel, operations and technical capacity should be extended to other operators as well in order to have a holistic overview of the sector.” The senator seized the opportunity to call for continued synergy between all arms of Government, saying, “It is important that all arms of government continues to work together and complement each other as it relates to every issue that affects the life of the unit Nigerian. We must continue to adopt this collaborative approach in order to ensure that the premium placed on the life of each Nigerian is felt by every Nigerian.” He concluded by urging the Minister of State for Transport, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, the Accident Investigation Bureau and all relevant authorities to continue to take the issue of aviation safety serious as the nation cannot afford to have any loose ends in the aviation sector. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.