Lagos – The Managing Director of Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Engr. Saleh Dunoma, has given an insight into why most African airports are unviable. Speaking yesterday with aviation journalists in Lagos at the pre-Airport Council International (ACI) Africa meeting, which is slated for April 14 to 19, 2018, Dunoma said that most African airports are unviable because they are treated as government entities. According to him, most African airports lacked drive for profitable management but noted that once they are regarded as business entities, the airports would make more revenues for the government and operate profitably. He noted that with less than 20 percent of commercial revenue, airports in Africa must transform themselves from being not just public service providers, but commercial enterprises that generate profits. He said: “Over the years, African airports have been run mainly as government entities without the drive for profitable management. This has resulted in many airports being classified as non-viable and unable to meet their operational costs. “This has posed a major problem in the efficient running of nonviable airports who are unable to cater for their maintenance and operational needs thereby leading to stakeholder and customer service dissatisfaction’’. Speaking on the forthcoming ACI conference, Dunoma explained that over the years, ACI Africa had focused on safety as a priority leading to the initiation of the world wide acknowledged Airport Excellence (APEX) in safety programme. He noted that this had recorded great achievements as there had been a drastic decrease in the number of incidents and accidents in Africa. He declared that in Nigeria, ACI had been of tremendous assistance in the certification process of the Lagos and Abuja airports through the APEX in safety programme, which he said helped the country to identify safety gaps in the aerodromes. He emphasised that in recognition of the role played by ACI and in FAAN’s bid to ensure safety at all the nation’s airports,the agency had commenced the APEX in safety programme in other of the country’s international airports like Port Harcourt, Kano, Enugu and Kaduna airports. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.