Bola Tinubu’s impressive credentials derive from a rough path strewn with political battles. From his fencing with former President, Olusegun Obasanjo, to his judicial struggles in reclaiming the gubernatorial mandates in Ekiti, Osun and Ondo States, earlier stolen by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the 2007 general elections to his chaperonage of the coalition that birthed the All Progressive Congress (APC), Tinubu established himself as a gung ho politician. He stole the show after the victory of the APC and was cast in the mould of the lone hero who single-handedly wrested power from the PDP. He was hailed as the Jagaban! But was Tinubu the sole propeller of the political fortune of the APC in 2015? There was Rotimi Amaechi. So was Atiku Abubakar. There was Bukola Saraki. So was Rabiu Kwankwaso. There were many others. As Governor of Rivers State, Amaechi suffered harassment and humiliation in the hands of Patience, the wife of the then President, Goodluck Jonathan. Amaechi found solace in the APC and committed resources, time and energy to the routing of the PDP. He knew that he was fighting the political battle of his life and that should Jonathan win, he would have to choose between imprisonment and exile. That was the case with many who pitched tents with the APC. It was a battle for survival. It is doubtful if Tinubu did more than Amaechi who confessed that he knelt down to beg so that the coalition could work. The political gladiators who formed the APC fought the political battle of their lives to collectively defeat Jonathan. Tinubu’s influence as at 2014 did not really count for much in Ekiti, Ondo, Ogun and Oyo. If these states swung to APC, it was largely in protest against the horrendous moral and political heist committed by Obasanjo’s PDP between 2003 and 2007. So why and how did Tinubu emerge as the face of APC’s victory? Tinubu understands the power of intellectual engagement as well as the influence of media and propaganda more than any other Nigerian politician today. He also knows his way around the law courts courtesy of the battery of senior lawyers at his beck and call. He is imbued with an uncanny capacity to rein in the Nigerian media to his side through patronage. He is also known to court the intelligentsia who provide him with a large reservoir of ideas and schemes. Tinubu’s honey moon didn’t last after President Buhari was sworn in. First, was Bukola Saraki outmanoeuvring him to emerge as senate president. Buhari’s sidekicks who weren’t there when Tinubu and others took to the trenches evolved into a cabal in the new power game and pushed Tinubu to the margin. Tinubu, the hard fighter sulked. There were talks of him leaving the party. Then sometime in 2017, Buhari remembered him and a rapprochement followed. Buhari has saddled Tinubu with the Sisyphean task of reconciling a highly fractured APC. Buhari’s spin doctors must have pulled a fast one on Tinubu by thrusting that assignment at him. Tinubu is programmed to fail in this assignment because the APC is not a political party, but a conspiratorial contraption engendered by an exigency of the most desperate kind. Whatever held the conspiracy together snapped the moment Jonathan was defeated. Tinubu is central to the crisis rupturing the APC. Used to having his way as the Lord of Lagos politics, he tried to assume a domineering role in the APC, but he was resisted. The candidates he supported lost out in Kogi and Ondo. He became bellicose and took on the party chairman, Chief John Oyegun, asking him to resign. Tinubu cannot deny his silent war with the likes of Raji Fashola, Kayode Fayemi and co. How will Tinubu sit and talk with Saraki or even Dino Melaye who once threatened to beat up his wife, Oluremi? Surely, Tinubu will have to meet with them. They will shake hands and smile before the cameras, but those smiles are the unseen daggers piercing the soul of the APC. How will Tinubu resolve the APC crises in states like Kaduna, Kogi, Adamawa, Kano, etc? Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has told Tinubu to stay away. When Tinubu got his new assignment he met with Oyegun and came out saying the meeting went well. A few days later, Tinubu went to town accusing Oyegun of sabotaging his troubleshooting efforts and asked him to resign immediately. Tinubu also demanded that the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) should be dissolved so that a caretaker committee can be set up claiming that only then can he do his work. Tinubu wanted to stretch his luck and the APC is laughing him out of court. As I write, the party has extended the tenure of the Oyegun-led executive committee as well as the NWC for one full year to Tinubu’s chagrin! The assignment of uniting the APC is Tinubu’s crown of thorns. Will it bring him glory or agony? 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.