Borrowing a leaf from several countries that have implemented ease of doing business reforms within a very short time (Kenya for example undertook five reforms, which moved her ranking upwards by 21 places to rank amongst the top 100 countries in 2017), Kagbare urged the Nigerian government to take more steps to re-gig the nation’s port system for the Ports to become more friendly and more business-like. “Only enabling environment would trigger business opportunities in ports”, he said. For Orok, he said: “Firstly, the port that was concession is due for a review. It is over 11 years since the ports were concessioned. And the agreement provided for a review, of the agreement by the Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Commission (ICRC)”. He also recalled that the Nigeria Shippers’ Council was also by presidential fiat asked to regulate the commercial activities in the maritime sector, “as we speak now, there is no law from National Assembly backing that programme, asking the Nigeria Shippers’ Council to regulate. Looking at the Customs Service, Orok said that it took the Comptroller General of Nigeria Customs Service, Hammed Ali 17 months to do postings when he assumed office. “To me, that is too slow if you want the economy to grow. You don’t come and do talk-talk, you want to reorganise, you want to reform, and the process of doing it is very slow as if you have the whole time in the world. 17 good months to do the postings of Deputy Controller (DCs), they have not touched the Assistant Controllers (ACs), these are very serious unresolved issues in the maritime sector of the economy.” Speaking on the ease of doing business initiative of the federal government, Igwe Nwabueze Ohazulike, the Eze Ndi Igbo of Lagos State, the impact of the initiative was yet to be felt by the business community. Igwe Ohazuluke, who plays in the import subsector, said that most of the bottlenecks that importers face in the course of doing their business are still there. Although he said that revenue generated by the NCS last year increased tremendously, but argued that poor infrastructural development and absence of scanners have subjected the service to manual examination of cargo, which is not friendly with Ease of Doing Business. According to Mrs. Mary James, a businesswoman, who is also into shipping activities, “It is something that was conceptualised by President Muhammadu Buhari administration”. She, however, lamented that the country is still far from realising the dreams of these objectives. But Mrs. James noted that the most important thing was that the country has started it. “It is better we have started. The next thing is addressing the challenges impeding it from achieving the objectives. Chief Adeyemi Akande, a maritime expert, said the objective has failed woefully in the maritime sector. According to him, Apapa port, which is the most viable port in the Western Zone could not be easily accessed by road. This was also corroborated by Mrs. James who said that the most viable port in Eastern Zone, which is Onne Port, can equally not be easily accessed by roads. “And you are talking about the ease of doing business. Where you spend five to six days on Apapa Oshodi Expressway before a truck will assess Apapa Port”, said Adeyemi. “It causes more damages to already bad roads or spend another two days moving from Apapa to Mile 2. This is very abnormal”, the freight forwarding expert further lamented. To Mrs. James: “I think the failure is very woeful because the government is talking too much and doing less. They worsened the matter by saying that the strategic and sensitive road infrastructure is given to Messrs Dangote Plc. to handle. Where and when did Dangote become an expert in road construction? That the Federal Government will now hand over the roads of the busiest port in West Africa to Messrs Dangote to handle? I don’t know when Dangote became jack of all trades that he wants to do road construction.” She maintained that the government is paying lip service to its Ease of Doing Business mantra. She argued that the government is very unserious in the maritime industry. “This is because where road transportation, rail transportation is not seamless; whatever you see going in transport, affects the business generally. This is because transport is the life wire in commerce. If the goods and services are moving slowly, that is how the profits will be coming in slowly. That is how sales, distribution and supply are achieved slowly. If a good is supposed to be delivered to a particular warehouse and it is taking so many days, the people who will have to buy it will wait. You are slowing down the process.” She averred that in the maritime sector, it is too many rhetoric, so many wrong policies that set the economy backward. “These are policies that are plunging the system into more penury and more dependent of capitalists. How can you tell a capitalist to take over your critical infrastructure that will ease doing business in your number one port. It means you are not even ready to succeed. You are joking with your economy. I strongly advocate that the government should reverse itself, and hand over the Apapa road construction infrastructure to a well-known and organized construction company to do. Whatever they are doing now is dillydallying because on daily basis, Customs alone make nothing less than N3billion”. Also, adding weight to the argument, Mrs. James, Adeyemi said that equally, what customs in Apapa, Customs in Tin Can, Customs in Lillypond, Customs in PTML “generates is averaged of three billion naira daily. And you are paying lip service to road infrastructure”. “The government is joking and killing businesses. They all sit down in Abuja and shared all the money we make from Apapa. They sit down to share it, they sit down to buy big cars from it, and allocate monies to states. They don’t even want to come down and see what is happening in where all these monies are coming from.    Maritime is Nigeria’s largest income earner after oil. If oil dries up now, the maritime industry will still be there to sustain this economy.  The maritime industry drives import and export.  If you toys with it, you have thrown away the future of the country”, he said. Mrs. James also lamented poor power supply, saying that Ease of Doing Business would never succeed in the country with the kind of epileptic power supply. Enumerating other setbacks to the ease of doing business generally, she said that up till now, the Corporate Affairs Commission that boasted it could register businesses under 24 hours has not been able to achieve it. “So many failures, instant failures. They have been giving excuses of how their Internet and servers have been giving them problems. Which serious investor will come to the country where under one week, two weeks, three weeks and one month you cannot register business to invest?” Also, she argued that multiple-taxation was one of the banes of the Ease of Doing Business agenda. “You are paying several monies, Federal Inland Revenue money, you are paying state revenue money, the local government is chasing you, they are pursing you from one point to the other, they say you put sticker on your vehicle. There is multiple taxation and you want business to be done seamlessly in this type of economy? It is all a joke”, she said, adding that the process of Corporate Affairs Commission is very slow. Anefi Mohammed, Vice Chairman, International Freight Forwarders Association (IFFA) Ports and Terminal Multi-Purpose Services Limited (PTML) chapter, said that the Executive Order worked in the NCS saying that Customs was able to meet and surpass their target in revenue generation last year. He, however, lamented the dilapidated infrastructure in the sector saying it was bane of the Executive Order as the shippers, importers, freight forwarders are losing greatly. He said what the NPA was doing was to ensure the Ease of Doing Business agenda is achieved, saying that the issue bordering on the port access roads should not be blamed on the NPA but on Federal Ministry of Works and Infrastructure. He said that the Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, as an Agency of the government has not made much impact on the Executive Order. Simeon Nwonu, Deputy National President, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarder (NAGAFF) gave kudos to the Nigerian Shippers’ Council in terms of working towards the goals of achieving Ease of Doing business in the sector. He however said that corruption is high in them maritime sector adding that it was the bottom line while the Executive Order may not be achieved. “Those at the helms of affairs in various government agencies should ensure they take a critical look into the operations of their subordinates like I said before. Corruption is a problem. Until we begin to tackle it headlong, the same thing will continue to manifest. A situation where containers lined up for 10 to 15 days on the road to the port and not accessing the ports and when you ask those at the gates to the port, they tell you they are working based on instructions given to them. Who gave the order?” For Mr. Lucky Eyis Amiwero, National President, National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents, bad government policies killed the Ease of Doing Business initiative in the sector. He said that these policies have resulted to loss of jobs, retrenchment in the sector, saying that a lot of people are closing shop. “Everything is cumbersome, Ease of Doing Business is zero, nothing is working in the maritime sector, and all the monies being collected by the Federal Government Agencies are not used for the core functions. Nigeria Shippers’ Council, Nigerian Ports Authority, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency are busy going from one seminar to the other and leaving their functions that would have added value to the Executive Order”, Amiwero averred. The NCMDLC president lamented that most of the people appointed to man the government agencies in the sector were people who are learners adding that most of them were only coming to learn. He lamented that a lot of people have closed down shops completely, saying that   most of them have relocated to the villages. “This is not the kind of thing we expected in a sector that is supposed to generate wealth and create employment. For now, more than 70 per cent of the people who were disengaged in the industry between 2016 and now have lost their jobs. “The procedures and reforms in the ports have gone 200 per cent bad to what it used to be. The system is manual, no scanners, roads are bad, it takes almost one month to go to the port and come out, so when you look at our cost of doing business it is the highest in the world. “For 40-footer container, you pay almost N20,000 per day to the  shipping companies that have no forklifts. They have no business in the ports and they are exploiting the situation. Then you pay N20,000 to terminal operators  that  are duplicating functions, they are duplicating charges. Ghana, for instance, has dropped their terminal handling charges.  Nothing is being done by the ministries, nothing is being done by the government, the ease of doing business is just political; it has no positive effect on the economy, there is no saving grace. It is so terrible  that a lot of people have lost fate  in the system and the government. We are praying that God will intervene to bring about changes in the whole thing.  That is the glooming picture of the state of the sector we faced in 2017”, Amiwero averred. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.