The Plateau State wing of the National Association of Women Journalist (NAWOJ) has extended a hand of fellowship as it donated food items and toiletries to the 120 displaced person at the IDP camp in Jos over the weekend. Making the donation, the Plateau State NAWOJ Chairperson, Mrs Jennifer Yarima, explained that the gesture was to reduce the hardship being experienced by the inmates at the camp, saying it would enable them to enjoy good nutrition and healthy lives. “We are giving them rice, noodles, condiments and toiletries to reduce their hardship,’’ she said. Yarima said the outreach, which was in partnership with other NGOs was to reiterate the need to ensure the well being of vulnerable groups in the society. “It is also part of the association’s humanitarian service and to mark the International Women’s Day celebrated annually on March 8th. “This year’s international women’s day theme is “Press for Progress”, we are collaborating with NGOs like the International Federation of Female Lawyers (FIDA), Victims of Violence Charity Organisation and many others to campaign against the insurgency and gender-based violence. “We want an end to the insurgency that displaces women and children from their homes and disconnects them from their sources of livelihood, preventing them from accessing education and good nutrition,” she said. The NAWOJ official who seized the opportunity of the special day to advocate for an end to domestic violence prevalent in the society such as child rape added, “And we advocate for gender equity in accessing basic necessities and privileges.’’ She called on stakeholders to donate start-up packs for those who were trained on skills empowerment to facilitate their reintegration into the society, Mrs Tongnaan Bawa, the NAWOJ, North Central Zone D, Secretary called on individuals to assist the IDPs with shelter as government and NGOs could not do it alone. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.