Egyptian striker Amr Gamal has completed his move to Finnish outfit HJK Helsinki. The lanky marksman was recently on the books of Bidvest Wits on loan from Al Ahly, but coach Gavin Hunt confirmed just a few days ago that Gamal would be joining a team in Finland. HJK Helsinki unveiled the 26-year-old forward as their player on Thursday, revealing that the deal will last until August 2018. The agreement was reached between HJK Helsinki and parent club Al Ahly, and the Students had no say in the Egyptian giants’ decison to take Gamal away from them. Gamal struggled to adapt to his new surroundings, although he contributed a few important goals for the Clever Boys soon after his arrival from Al Ahly at the beginning of the season. He was linked with a possible move to Tshwane during the January transfer window as reports emerged that both Mamelodi Sundowns and SuperSport United were eager to landd his signature. However, nothing came out of the reports, and Gamal remained at the Braamfontein-based club for the second half of the season. Gamal made 15 appearances in all competitions for Wits and found the back of the net twice in the process. He was part of the team that won the Telkom Knockout Cup title in 2017. Helsinki football director ‏Juho Rantala expressed his delight at securing the services ofGamal for the next five months. “Our division is now very hard and coaching has a diverse mix of different players. Amr Gamal is a prettiest and clever punch, Pelvas is a top-quality finisher, Klauss is a strong and clever target and in Club 04, he has the chance to use Rony Huhtala, who has an extraordinary ability to run from his opponent’s footstool,” Rantala told the club website. Gamal will consider his move to Helsinki as his last chance to play regularly and possibly make the final squad for 2018 Fifa World Cup which gets underway in June 2018. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.