The Department of State Services (DSS) recently arrested Tony Ezimakor, INDEPENDENT Newspapers’ Abuja Bureau Chief and detained him for seven years. Ezimakor had walked into DSS headquarters in Abuja about 10.30a.m on Wednesday February 28, 2018 to honour an invitation from the security agency. The journalist was arrested and detained, despite efforts made by the company’s management, through his lawyer, Douglas Ekhator, to have him released. That he had some medical issues could not touch the agency to release him until after a week. The detention of the journalist has raised fresh questions about the human rights posture of the Federal Government, even as many recalled the obnoxious Decree 4 of 1984 of the then Military junta under President Muhammadu Buhari, then a Military General. Thus, analysts have been wondering what the implications of the detention have on press freedom. It Is A Gross Violation Of Human Rights – Rights Activist Comrade Kindness Jonah, a human rights activist, described the arrest and seven day’s detention of Ezimakor as a gross violation of human rights, adding that it was also a clampdown on press freedom and ought to be condemned by all lovers of democracy in the country. He said: “It is a clampdown on press freedom. It shows that Nigeria is not anywhere near democracy. It is a clampdown of freedom of press and clampdown on human rights. It is an evil omen. If the president is anti-human rights, he should be voted out of office in 2019. It Was wrong, unconstitutional – Danladi, Ex-Commissioner Alhaji Abdulhamid Danladi, a former commissioner, maintrained thatDSS action was wrong, unconstitutional and a violation of the journalist’s rights as a Nigerian. Danladi stated: “I believe security of life and properties of Nigerians and the rule of law. There must be rules and regulations guiding speeches and on no account must such rules and regulations be violated. “Constitutionally, every Nigerian has rights to freedom of speech, association and self expression. Fundamental human rights have provided a platform for the freedom of Nigerian citizens which must not be violated. “Detention of Ezimakor or detention of any kind has time frame within which you are expected to release the person to avoid violating the person’s rights which is also an offence. Seven days in detention is too much because it has become an encroachment on the freedom of a citizen or Ezimakor, which is the latest in the series of violation of citizen’s rights by this government. Such cases should be referred to the judiciary and to accelerate hearing to avoid provocations of the ‘like minds”. “Besides, Ezimakor is a professional who knows what governance is about, the legality, illegality and all what not about the workings of government and leadership. Personally I feel that seven days was too much. “If he was not found wanting by the SSS, then they should tender public apology as acknowledgement of the fact that their actions was a mistake because it is only God who does not make mistakes. This is because the word, ‘Sorry’ heals a lot of wound.” Decree No 4 Of 1984 Is Once Again Here – Journalist Cum Politician Dr. Zebulum Adike Okafor, veteran journalist, communication expert and former State Publicity Secretary of the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), maintained that the case of Ezimakor is a clear indication that the infamous Decree No 4 of 1984 has once again returned in Nigeria. H asked: “Why should the men of the DSS invade his house, arrest and clamp him in detention for over a week without telling the world the offence he committed despite public outcry. “This is part of the symptoms of our underdevelopment as a nation. I have always said it that the much touted freedom of expression and fundamental human rights in our constitution is a sham. If a journalist, whose duty is to inform, educate and enlighten the public can be treated like this for no other reason other than discharging his duties, then none of us is safe.” It Is A Remainder Of Dark Days Of The Military  – ADP Chief Benaiah Mbadike Duruohaike, a chieftain of Action Democratic Party (ADP), said the travail of Ezimakor is an ugly remainder of the dark days of the military junta. He added: “Well, I am not surprised at what the young man passed through because, as the saying goes, a chameleon does not change its colour. But, I know that the young man will surely surmount this problem. ‘Boko Haram Issue Which Ezimakor wrote on May Be A Security Matter’ Jonathan Enegide, a Benin-based legal practitioner, said: “The constitutional right of every Nigerian entails freedom of movement and where there is reasonable suspicion or the commission of an offence and investigation is being undertaken for that process, then the constitution prescribed 24 hours detention and such a person should be brought to court within a reasonable time, which is also interpreted to mean 48 hours, but certainly not more than 72 hours. “But, that is the theoretical aspect of it all and we know that in the cause of investigation, so many intricacies are involved.  Certain facts may not be in the public glare, then certain persons may also need to be consulted, certain evidence may also need to be gotten. “So, it will be rash or too preemptive to release or charge people to court when the law enforcement officers have not concluded the investigation. But, the constitution creates that leeway that when the investigations are not concluded, they should release the person on bail. “But, I do not know whether the issue of security is one of the exceptions that we have. I do not know exactly what offence Ezimakor is being held or charged with. It was only yesterday I read in the newspapers papers that he was detained on the ground that he wrote that Federal Government released some money to Boko Haram and the Swiss government was involved in the negotiation of the release of the funds of Chibok girls, that the Swiss government now saw that as an embarrassment to them. “In my personal opinion, the allegations tend to be related to state security and perhaps international relations between countries. So, that is a little bit farfetched from the normal situation of mere allegations or some other crimes. Now for issues relating to security, the law gives the security operatives some latitude to do a thorough job on such issues. “If you look at the issue of the security votes for instance, because of the classified nature of the disbursement and certain other related issues, it is not brought before the public domain, although people begin to cry foul, why is so much money being spent on security and all that because of the secrecy surrounding the budgetary allocation and disbursements. It is in tandem with the idea of keeping secret, secret. This is because anything that is no more secret in a nutshell puts the nation’s security in jeopardy. “On what the arrest portends to Press Freedom, I will say the Press Freedom is not at large. Press freedom is restricted and qualified. it is not absolute. There is no right that is absolute. All rights have certain limitations, they have checks, they have certain dos and don’ts. “That there is Press Freedom is not a guarantee for the abuse of such freedom to the extent that it will jeopardise the security of the state. The security of the state is paramount. So, any other freedom that tends to jeopardise security of the state or International Relations to my mind is an exception that could be invoked to limit or curtail the freedom that is associating the Press.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.