Ado-Ekiti with Agency Report – The U.S. says Nigeria’s 2019 general election and a peaceful transition remained its major priority in view of the country’s strategic position in the region. The U.S. Department of State said this during a background briefing on the first trip of Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson, to Africa, monitored by the News Agency of Nigeria in New York. Tillerson would meet with President Muhammadu Buhari and other top government functionaries, and also leaders of Chad, Djibouti, Ethiopia and Kenya during his travels from today, March 6 to 13. The department said over two decades ago, the number of countries in Africa with really democratically elected government were really very few – only three or four. It said, however, “Now we have over two dozen African countries with democratically elected governments and which are hopefully not going to have transitions in government through coup d’etats and other illegal methods. “As we look at the 20 elections, obviously Nigeria, though it’s not this year – it’s going to be next year – that really is a major priority focus, because that’s going to be the third most populous country in the world by 2050. “It has really very complex political issues and ethnic and tribal issues and security issues. “And that’s an area that we really are focusing on how to do a peaceful transition, a democratic transition, but more important is how to hold governments accountable to the people,” the state department said. The department explained that obviously, a lot of those African countries were still fragile democracies and the U.S. was trying to strengthen them. The U.S. also said Nigeria is critical to the stability of West Africa and the future engagement of the U.S. in the sub-region, pledging continued U.S. commitment in the fight against the Boko Haram terrorists. Tillerson said “on Nigeria, this – fight against Boko Haram – is really a really important issue. “And I know that in the last administrations, even the last three, we have always said going to Nigeria is critical to stability and the future for the U.S. relationship in West Africa”. The U.S. said “we are following the recent kidnappings of 110 school girls, which really kind of follows up on several years ago of the Chibok girls. “And those are horrendous, they’re unacceptable and terrible. “But the issue that comes in, it’s not only a security issue – and it is a terrible security challenge – but it’s also political issue and really building those institutions and political dialogue between north and south, and also with the region. “And so those are some of the things that we need to look at. It’s a comprehensive approach. The other issue, too, is on economic development and education”. The U.S. noted recent UN reports about some of the extremist operations in the G-5 countries and the Trans-Sahel. The department, however, regretted that the operations of some of these criminal groups were “about getting jobs” and “about looking at getting an income for families”. “And if terrorism or trafficking of persons, if that’s going to get them the jobs, then that’s unacceptable and we really need to find alternative ways to help the economic development in these regions. “And so those are some of the issues and challenges that we’ll be working on – political institutions, political dialogue, reconciliation, supporting community-based development, helping growth, education.” It said another issue was enhancing the security, particularly in the north, saying “it just can’t be constantly a kinetic strike operation or bring in U.S. military”. “That’s not the answer. The answer has to be developing institutions and also providing good police training, military training, and having governments accountable to the people and having people really have faith in their institutions, and also having opportunities for job creation. “And what happens in Nigeria is going to affect the Lake Chad region, and that includes Cameroon as well as the G-5 countries. “So those are some of the things that we’re looking at, much more broad-based, comprehensive, and really interrelated with security”. The U.S. also expressed worry about the heavy indebtedness by Nigeria and other African countries a few years after they were relieved of their debts by international financial institutions. To date, debt reduction packages under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative have been approved for 36 countries, 30 of them in Africa, providing $76 billion in debt-service relief over time. In 2005, to help accelerate progress toward the UN Millennium Development Goals, the HIPC Initiative was supplemented by the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). MDRI allowed for 100 percent relief on eligible debts by three multilateral institutions – the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and the African Development Fund – for countries completing the HIPC Initiative process. The department said: “In the Africa region, we are going to have a heart-to-heart discussion with the Chinese. We’ve invited the Chinese to come to Washington to talk about their programmes in Africa. Buhari’s Visit To Troubled States Re-Election Gimmick, Says Fayose Meanwhile, Ekiti State governor, Ayodele Fayose, has described President Muhammadu Buhari’s visit to Taraba and planned visit to Benue, Zamfara, Yobe, and Rivers states, which have recorded different forms of killings this year, as an afterthought. Governor Fayose said the president was embarking on a tour to shore up his battered popularity in the troubled states ahead of the 2019 general election. He expressed these views on Monday in a statement by his Special Assistant on Public Communications and New Media, Lere Olayinka. He said: “Obviously, the president is more concerned about his reelection in 2019, and his visit to those states that he abandoned during their times of trouble is to seek votes, not to sympathise with the people of the states on their losses.” Governor Fayose likened President Buhari to a selfish king who went on making merry while his people were in agony only to show up when the people had already buried their loved ones that were gruesomely murdered, gotten over their anguish, and moved on with their lives. Fayose said it was the height of cruelty that the same President Buhari who promised to lead from the front in the fight against Boko Haram could not visit Dapchi, Yobe State, where 110 schoolgirls were abducted by the Boko Haram insurgents, but instead elected to go on merry-making in Kano. “On January 9 and 12, this year, 88 victims of herdsmen attacks were given mass burial in Taraba State. “Also on January 11, 2018, another 73 persons killed by suspected Fulani herdsmen in Benue State were buried in a mass grave in Makurdi, the state capital. “Meaning that in Taraba and Benue states alone, 161 Nigerians were given mass burial within three days! This never caught the attention of our president. “Rather, it was a visit to Nasarawa, a neighbouring state to Benue that was important to him.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.