On his part, John Adewoye, a building developer, blamed the hardship Nigerians go through in securing decent accommodation on the government because the country has no people-friendly housing policy. Adewoye said many of the homeownership programmes introduced by successive governments have proven to be elitist and out of the reach of the masses. “Look at the Lagos State home ownership scheme by successive administrations; if you take a census of the social standing of the occupiers, they are all senior civil servants and private entrepreneurs who can afford the houses. “In the area of land acquisition, many less privileged people have lost properties to land grabbers and when such crime and daylight robbery is reported at the police station, the complainant soon becomes the accused.” Continuing, he said: “Many who could not withstand the pressure of loosing valuables often die of high blood pressure when all entreaties for return of the land fail”. Independent set out to interview some of these one room landlords, to get their views on why they had to undertake such actions and what their experiences have been like ever since. Hear them: A school teacher in Area 1, Abuja, Patrick Deji, said the economic hardship has helped some people to make quality decision they never thought of initially. He said: “I have been living in the outskirts of Abuja and working in Area 1 in Abuja. For some years, I have been paying the rent for my accommodation with stress. Last two years, I decided to buy a plot of land in Ado area in Nasarawa State. My plan was to save about two million naira (N2,000,000) before I could start the building structure. When I realized that it could take me about 10 years to save such amount, I made a rethink. “With about three hundred thousand naira naira (N300,000), I did the foundation because it is not an expensive area.Before I knew what was happening, the building was at the lintel level. But with the pressure being mounted on me by my landlady to pay my rent immediately it expires every year, I decided to roof two rooms out of six rooms. “I packed into the house without proper windows, the walls and floors were not plastered and there was no normal septic tank. But few months after I packed in with my family, I had a certain sense of fulfillment living in my own house, even though it was uncompleted.It was for me, more economically rewarding, not being harassed by any landlady or landlord. “In fact, the moment I packed to the house, I was surprised that the other landlords in the area started inviting me to their community development meetings. As I am talking to you, today my house is completed. Those who were not aware when I first started living there would not know that it was an uncompleted building.” Another ‘new landlord’, Chris Adams, said he never thought he would have been a landlord in about 10 years to come. He narrated that a miracle happened through some embarrassing situations to him and his family. Three years ago, Adams, who then was a tenant, took the bold decision to relocate from Gbagada area of Lagos State to Mowe in Ogun State. “I was occupying a self-contain apartment when the unexpected happened in 2011. The surprising thing was that I owed just a month rent when one particular morning; a group of people accompanied by policemen stormed our premises. The next thing I saw was the demolition of the whole house, including my apartment just within minutes with nobody allowed to salvage most of his or her property. “I later learnt that the owner of the land won a case against the house owner. After the ugly incident, my family and I started living in one of my two shops which I use for my tailoring business. “The rents of the shops which were located on different streets in the area were increased by 50 percent. Through providence, I had purchased a half plot of land around Mowe area in Ogun State. In 2016, I borrowed some money to do the foundation of the land so as to secure the land from the ‘Omooniles’ grapping style. My intention was to save a substantial sum of money to raise the building to a significant stage. “However, that was no to be, as my shops’ rents were raised again, this time around, by 75 percent. From then on, I resolved to forgo one of the shops to raise one or two rooms from the building foundation to completion instead of paying so much for the shop. I thank God that today, I have four rooms with one of them now rented out. I think this economic situation in the country is pushing many people to think harder on what to do and what is not necessary to do. The experience of Jacob Okon is no differentas he also joined the train of tenant-to-homeownership. In his case, He lost his job and sought for another for almost a year. In the late 1990s, he bought half a plot of land at the Ogolonto area of Ikorodu. 12 years ago, he completed the block work while waiting for the roofing. But the stern economy in the country posed to be an albatross on his desire to being a landlord. Having owed about seven months, his landlord was not taking things easy with him, as two quite notices were issued him within the period. While contemplating on what to do, Okon resolved to sell the uncompleted building and relocate to his hometown. But an advice by one of his friends and a financial assistance from another saved him from an embarrassing situation. Late last year, he utilized the money given him by his friend to roof the sitting room, fix window burglary. In late February this year, he became an emergency landlord. For Mrs. Deborah Porbeni, a land lady of a two bedroom apartment at the Itele area of Ogun State, it was a shout of Hosanna when Independent interviewed her. According to her, the harassment and humiliation she suffered in the hands of her landlord in Mushin area of Lagos State forced her to become one of the new generation of the two bedroom home owners in Ogun state. While pouring out her mind, she revealed that she was indebted to her former landlord in Mushin to the tune of three months. This she said led to the removal of her door and windows and eventually, she was forcefully ejected. This made her resolute to also save to build a room on a parcel of land she acquired several years ago in her new settlement. Recounting the methods she adopted, Porbeni, who is also a widow, said after the forceful ejection she moved into a smaller room apartment with a church member in Yaba and commenced what she termed a life savings towards the construction of the building. I obtained a loan from my office to supplement the assistance for house rent I got from my in-laws and went straight to start the foundation. “It was tough and really tough, I must confess. My two children were denied some luxuries and I also cutoff spending on social engagements among other unnecessary expenses. “I was fortunate the bricklayer called Moses, a Togolese was honest and encouraged me to purchase sand and cement for block molding and that marked the beginning of the building process. The now landlady, who could not recall the exact cost of putting up one room at the initial stage, stated that she was further encouraged when she rubbed mind with other men in the area who are also struggling to put up a shelter for their families. “They were contributors to a cooperativeand credit thrift society in the area. In fact they were God sent because they were always there to lend a helping hand when the project hit a brick wall due to paucity of funds.” According toPorbeni, she resorted to borrowing of blocks, granites and sharp sand to keep the project going;adding that it was a thing ofjoy and pride for her as her co-tenants from herformer place of abode at Mushin were invited to come and celebrate the first Christmas with her family at her now new house. The story was not too different with MusibauBamgbopa, a trained panel beater turned taxi driver. Bamgbopa, who narrated that a two room building project took him about nine years to complete, expressed appreciation that today, his four bedroom apartment is now standing, five years after he moved in. Relating his ordeal in the hands of his former landlord, he recounted that an untimely disclosure of his plans and purchase of building materials by a fellow neighour marked the beginning of his travails and determination to provide a personal home to shelter his family of five. He said:“After the purchase of my first parcel of land that was grabbed by land speculators, I felt so bad and it was as if the dream may not come through. Some years after the ordeal, the same person that grabbed the land ran into me while driving a taxi and enquired after my wellbeing. I told him his theft of the land had shattered my dream because effort to raise a fresh N40,000 to secure another parcel of a half plot is unrealizable. He offered another one from a new location with additional N20, 000. Amidst his confusion to raise money to begin construction, he said he and his family were evicted by his landlord, forcing them to hurriedly move into a house that was almost falling off. Speaking on the menace of the ‘Omooniles’, a respondent who will not want his name on print, stated that some years ago, a particular tout in the Ogijo area of Lagos state in the Ikorodu axis seized about 50 plots of land with fully developed and underdeveloped houses on it with impunity. He stated that the touts seized the land and houses that were resold to fresh buyers and an iron smelting company in the area. “What do you think would have happened to the owners of the land and houses that were seized by the man who defied pleas of the traditional ruler of Ogijoland and called the bluff of the divisional police officer in the area? A few of them died in the process. He added: “Many of the homeowners that went to court were equally frustrated by the continued absence of the trial judge as well as the unbridled police and touts harassments”. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.