Fondly called OJ by his friends and admirers, Orlando Julius Aremu Olusanya Ekemode, is, indeed, the last of Nigeria’s titans in the highlife music genre, which he has modernised to Afro-soul. An indigene of Ijebu-Jesha in Osun State, Ekemode was born in Ikole-Ekiti to a family of merchants. He cherishes most of those early days with the Action Group Band. He was not only impressed with the band’s organisation but reckoned it to be the best equipped (musical instrument) band in the country and it provided a great opportunity for up and coming musicians to practice their skills and become professionals. Hazeez Balogun met him and he spoke about his whistle-stop trips around the world. How would you describe your music? I started with Highlife and then modernized it into Afrobeat in the early 60s. I also play Afro-soul and Super Afro-soul. How did you come about playing music? I started my music career at the elementary school in Ikole-Ekiti where I was born. My father’s sudden death at the beginning of my high school informed my movement to Ibadan in the 50s where I started to learn music. During that period, Chief Obafemi Awolowo was the premier of Western Region and due to unavailability of a school of music in the region he caused his party, Action Group to establish one at the party’s secretariat at Oke-Ado, Ibadan where I and some other big names in the music industry were given the opportunity to learn music. In 1960, I was able to record my first single, titled, “Igbehin Adara” through the Nigerian Broadcasting Corporation (NBC). Thereafter, I went to Ilesha where I joined the late Dr. I.K. Dairo’s band. I was leading the outfit, I.K’s Dance Band. In those days, I was able to arrange some songs for the band, which included Salome, Mo F’ara Mi Fun E, and many others. Moving up, I later established my 10-piece band, Orlando Julius & His Modern Aces and we performed regularly at Independence Hotel, Oke-Bola, Ibadan. With the band, I was able to release my first 45 single, titled: Jaguar Nana and it was released by Phillips Records. Lots of singles and extended albums were also recorded by Phillips Records. Thereafter, I traveled to Western Germany through Polydor Records, on recording deals. After the assignment in Germany, I returned to Nigeria to meet another assignment waiting for me and I made a quick visit to the United States of America. It was after I returned to Nigeria that I met Late James Brown whose band performed with my band at Paradise Hotel, Ibadan. When did you move finally to the U.S? In 1974, I finally moved to the U.S where I was able to produce an album with Hughes Masekela, titled: The Boy is Doing It. My song, Asiko Lo Laye was a hit in the album. After that, I did another album with Lamont Dozier during FESTAC ‘77 where I co-wrote an album with the American musicians. My track, Ka Ma Ranti Isedale Baba Awa in the album was also a hit, and it won a Grammy Award. Who were you doing music with in Ibadan? You see, Ibadan was the Mecca of entertainment in Nigeria, and the big names in the music, and other spheres of life emerged. Ibadan is where everything that is first in Africa started. Those star musicians we were together then included Eddy Okonta, Bola Johnson, St. Augustine, Chris Ajilo, Tunde Nightingale, Ojoge Daniel, Dele Ojo, Eric Ekaeze and a host of them I could not remember again. We all made the scene rollicking. How would you compare the past and present Nigerian entertainment industry? Honestly, the standard of entertainment has dropped astronomically, compared to what obtained in the past. Many highlife-cum-Afro beat stars have passed to the great beyond. The military regime in the country then also affected the entertainment scene. Many clubs and hotels had to close down in the wake of arbitrary curfews imposed. Many highlife musicians also moved to Army Band and this added to the dearth of highlife and Afrobeat music. Fela Anikulapo-Kuti did his best to sustain the tempo while it lasted. But the scene is no longer entertaining again. It seems the present day Hip-Hop musicians have redeemed the scene. It is a plus to these guys, I give it to them. But, I want them to start having their own live bands with African rhythm. It is only late Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, King Sunny Ade, Sikiru Ayinde Barrister and few others that are watched by Oyinbo people whenever they come to the United States or Europe. Their rhythm is thoroughly real African instruments that Oyinbo want to hear. You see, I have lived in every part of the U.S, and I have taught many Africans and Americans how to play African instruments. Today in America or Europe, you will see many Afrobeat and Highlife bands that feature purely African rhythm and they have a lot of audiences. Generally, ladies mill around musicians. How do you handle your female fans? Yeah, it is true girls always stay around where the music is sweet. But, I want to say this without being immodest that I was much more involved in my music then. Not that I shunned them; I’m friends with them, but not in any relationship. It is true that if you play good music, women will flock around you. I could remember those days, I used to play lots of love songs and students attended my shows, but I never took them as wives or girlfriends. I love them and they love my music. If you were not a musician, what would you have been? Well, other things I loved to do when I was young included playing football. I was also a good artist, doing paintings like Dr. Victor Uwaifo. Having traveled all over the world, I’ve also learned many trades. I’m a percussionist, singer, instrumentalist, producer, songwriter etc. But, back to your question, Glory be to God for what I am doing today, and I have no regrets being a musician. What do you do when you are off stage? I’m on stage 24-7 by listening to music, producing music, teaching music, talking music and dreaming music when I’m asleep. That has been part of my relaxation. I also have some time with my wife, though, I have a very tight schedule, but I still try to stay with her. How would you describe your life as a musician? My life as a musician is very interesting and memorable. You know, when I look back to all the songs that I wrote through the Grace of God, including gospel, my oldies are there to testify. I feel grateful to God and my fans who appreciated my talent. I thank God for the talent he gave me in music and His guidance for being able to use it well. A lot of people now demand for my oldies, and for this reason, we are trying to compile some of my oldies into compact disc. Honestly, I thank God for making people happy through my music. How many wives do you have? Sorry, I don’t have wives, but I have one wife and she is Latoya Aduke Ekemode, an American-born amazon. Before I married her, I’d had children from other women who were not ready to marry me as a musician. Glory to God, I have four children, three boys, and a girl. What would you say about your wife Latoya? Well, firstly, I’m happy and grateful to God that I met Latoya through Ambrose Campbell in Los Angeles, USA, when I needed a good singer and dancer. She has been with me since the early 90s as a good companion, lover, daughter and a mother to behold. Candidly, she’s been very supportive. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.