Lagos – Fela  Durotoye, leadership coach and a presidential aspirant on the platform of the  Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) has identified selectocracy as the major problem affecting  Nigeria in all aspects of national life saying the electorates must ensure they put an end to it in the forthcoming general elections. Speaking in a chat with newsmen in Lagos, Durotoye said it is time for Nigerians to build a country they desire by voting in exceptional candidates in a free, fair and transparent election. According to him “To build the Nigeria of our dreams would require exceptional candidates who would emerge from a pool of excellent and credible aspirants chosen by the people to represent them at the general elections”. “This would require a free, fair and transparent internal democratic process which even the prominent members of the established parties claim to be missing within their political party structure as they cross carpet from party to party seeking more favorable outcomes from the same flawed system that I have called selectocracy”. “In my opinion, selectocracy is the root-cause of all the ills of our society from the erratic power supply after spending billions of investment to our pot-hole ridden roads that have become death trap to several members of our families and friends”. “Selectocracy is at the root of our hospitals without healthcare and schools without education. It is because of selectocracy that we have teachers that cannot pass the examinations they set for the children”. “Selectocracy is responsible for the lawmakers who throw chairs at each other  and  wield maces but insist on being called honourable. Selectocracy is the reason why one of the largest producing nation is also one of the largest importers of refined petroleum products. Selectocracy is the reason why millions of nairas disappear into the bellies of snakes and monkeys”. “Therefore it is clear to me that whatever political structure would deliver the promise of a new Nigeria must have a contrary internal democratic culture to those that the existing political structure values” he said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.