Here are the major headlines for today, 9th March 20 from Independent Newspapers, one of the leading Nigerian newspapers: UK Plans £700,000 Prison For Lagos Adamu Faces Probe Over Plot To Destabilise Senate The last may not have been heard of the face-off between Senator Abdullahi Adamu (APC, Nasarawa Central) and the leadership of the upper legislative chamber… Read More » FG Dares Reps, Says No Going Back On Ajaokuta Plant’s Concession The Federal Government on Thursday dared the House of Representatives, saying it will go ahead with plans to concession Ajaokuta Steel Company… Read More » Your Visit To Rivers Can’t Revive Ailing APC, Wike Tells Buhari The planned visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to Rivers State partly to revive the dwindling fortunes of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state may end up an effort in futility… Read More » CCT Adjourns Saraki’s Trial Indefinitely The Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) in Abuja has adjourned the trial of Senate President Bukola Saraki indefinitely. Danladi Umar, Chairman of the CCT, ordered suspension of the trial… Read More » Senate Summons Buratai, Idris Over Dapchi Girls’ Abduction The Senate on Thursday summoned the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris and the Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai, over the kidnap of secondary school girls in Yobe and Borno States, respectively… Read More » Train Crushes Earpiece-Wearing Corps Member To Death A member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) serving in Lagos State was on Thursday crushed to death by a train along the Ikeja-Along bus stop railway level crossing at about noon… Read More » Senseless Killings, Violence Will Be Tamed – Buhari President Muhammadu Buhari has restated his commitment to ending the cycle of violence that has engulfed some parts of the country in recent times… Read More » Nigerian Equities Market Rebounds, Up 0.33%… Read More » Customs Nets N7.26bn At PTML Command In February… Read More » NCAA Saves N180m From Use Of In-House Personnel To Prosecute FAA Audit… Read More » Lagos East Stakeholders Back Ambode’s Re-Election… Read More » 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.