Lagos – After almost one year of the leadership crisis rocking the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), there seems to be light at the end of the tunnel. This is after a three-man panel appointed by the International Federation of Basketball Associations (FIBA) to look into the crisis, the world governing body finally took the bull by the horns. The three-man panel led by Dr. Alphonse Bile, FIBA Executive Director, Africa, also has Mr. Lubomir Kotleba, Special Advisor to FIBA Secretary General and Mr. Fode Amara Conde, FIBA Competitions Commission member, were in the country on a four-day fact-finding mission; discussed with the basketball stakeholders and also met with leaders of the two factions. And so, Saturday, March 10, 2018 marks another historic day in the history of the NBBF. It was day FIBA decided on the crisis that has engulfed the NBBF since the elections into board of sports federations in the country. Although, to some school of thoughts, FIBA long silence on its decisions was somewhat harmful to the game in the country, it was however gladden that at least a decision was finally taken. In its decisions, FIBA called for fresh elections as the only way to resolve the ongoing crisis in the body. FIBA made the call in a letter on the way forward by its Secretary-General, Patrick Bauma, to the NBBF Secretary, Chimezie Asiegbu, the leaders of the two factions in NBBF, Musa Kida and Tijjani Umar, a former NBBF President. It also sent the same letter to the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC), maintaining that its initial stance of July 2017, requesting for fresh elections to resolve the crisis rocking the federation stood. FIBA said this decision became necessary as the June 12 and June 13 elections held in Kano and Abuja respectively, failed to meet its statutes. The statement added that communication between the international organisations with Nigeria would still be maintained between Kida and FIBA. “Communication will still be maintained with Engineer Musa Kida, Babatunde Ogunade and Chimezie Asiegbu until such time the new elections are held as per our letter of July 26, 2017. “This is arising from FIBA’s March 10 meeting held at FIBA secretariat in Switzerland, the body noted. “In the absence of an amicable solution between the parties, FIBA Executive Committee has decided that new elections shall be held. “FIBA will determine when the NBBF statutes are compliant per the above and reserve the right to oversee parts or the entirety of the new elections process,’’ the statement quoted the FIBA letter as saying. However, the decisions have shown that our system of sports administrations is very bad and needs reviewing. It further showed that the Ministry of Sports under Solomon Dalung needs to wake up to its responsibilities.  Things should be done in the right directions if we must really get it right. It is a shame that it took FIBA to come down to the country for fact-finding exercise before decisions can be taken. It is also a shame that the leadership of the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) also failed to take the right and good decisions and as such misled the country. There is no hiding the fact that both the NOC and the Ministry of Sports failed the country and disappointed us in the settlement of this crisis.  But thank God that, FIBA has finally acted. Responding to the decisions, the Musa Kida led faction of the NBBF, said that the decisions have been taken in good faith and in the interest of the game in the country. “We’ve received the decisions in good faith and we are going to abide with the directives. “For us, we are interested in the development and growth of the game and nothing else. “We will however await further directives from FIBA as to what should be the next stage of action,” said Col. Sam Ahmedu (rtd). In the same vein, the Tijani Umar-led faction welcomed the decisions. Patrick Omorodion, the Media Adviser of the Umar-led NBBF, said in a statement in Lagos: “However, as a body that respects the reconciliation effort of FIBA and having consistently identified a new election as the only way for a fair and equitable settlement of the dispute, we accept FIBA’s directive. “FIBA has ordered a fresh election based on the NBBF Statutes and overseen by FIBA without interference from any third party.” “Let me assure that we would continue with our activities in view of the FIBA decision for now. He said: “Since FIBA has not recognised either of the elections held last June and pending the fresh election, we shall continue with our home leagues and other local activities, including concluding the National Divisions 1 and 2 Championships currently going on in Ilorin, Kwara State.” The Umar group said after the conclusion of the championships, the board would begin preparations for the commencement of its elite leagues — the Kwese Premier League and the Zenith Women’s League. He said: “We commend FIBA for accepting to oversee parts or the entirety of the new election process as this will forestall interference by any third party and ensure the independence of the NBBF as enshrined in the FIBA Statutes. “We sincerely appreciate the advice, assistance and support of all stakeholders and appeal to them to remain vigilant.” Former national team coach and board member, Ayodele Bakare in his views the decisions said: “Now that FIBA has spoken, we eagerly await the next communication about the new election processes and schedule. “Of course, there are those who will attempt to propagate that FIBA’s decision to continue communicating with the three previously nominated people as contained in FIBA’s letter of July 26, 2017, must be interpreted as a covert approval of the Musa Kida faction, or a willingness on FIBA’s part to let that Board continue. “Those wishing to distort the FIBA position will claim that FIBA has tacitly given the Musa Kida faction authority to delay any new elections for as long as they like, and even possibly delay it for their entire tenure of four years. “Nothing could be further from the truth, and the propagators of that theory know better. “FIBA should come out with further clarification shortly which will spell out the modalities for the new election. “This first letter is probably just to communicate FIBA’s decision. It is ridiculous and an insult to our intelligence for anyone to suggest that FIBA would tie one faction’s hands, while they give unfettered authority over new elections to the other faction. FIBA is not stupid,” he said. Former D’Tigers captain, Olumide Oyedeji had early hinged the crisis in the NBBF to some set of people that want power by all means and yet have little or nothing to offer the game. “It is high time we kept growing instead of dragging ourselves backward. We shouldn’t be celebrating failure; rather we should be celebrating success. We shouldn’t be celebrating egos, personal interest, and selfish interest. “What is causing the crisis is what I can call selfishness, power-drunk, ego, self-centred. Everybody wants to be in charge but we can only have one leader. “You don’t have to be a board member; you don’t have to be anything to contribute your own quota,” he said. One of the national teams’ coaches in his views on the decisions praised FIBA’s boldness in taking such decisions and called on all stakeholders to abide with the decisions in the interest of the sport in the country. “Well, I don’t think I my voice should be heard on this issue but if I can contribute as a stakeholder, I will say it was a good step towards repositioning the game of basketball in the country. “Now that FIBA has spoken, we all must come together and join hands to move the game forward. “For me, it is no victor, no vanquish. We are all winners in the interest of the game,” he said. There is no doubt that Nigeria basketball has got to a level where it needs a good federation to move the game forward in the country. Nigeria won the Afrobasket for men in 2015 and also finished second at last year edition with new sets of players with Ike Diogu the only member of the winning team to return to the 2017 team. The female team also won the Afrobasket last year and will play at the World in Spain later this year. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.