Abuja – Justice Walter Onnoghen, Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), observed on Monday that corrupt judges were a disgrace and disaster to the country’s judiciary. Justice Onnoghen vowed to tackle corruption head-on in order to weed out “questionable characters” from the Bench. The CJN spoke at the opening ceremony of the 2018 Refresher Course for Judges and Kadis held at the National Judicial Institute (NJI) in Abuja. “My lords, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, you will all agree with me that a corrupt Judge is not only a disgrace to the Bench and the noble profession, but also a disaster to the course of justice and the nation,” Justice Onnoghen said. He emphasised that corruption was not limited to bribe-taking, but that it included the giving of judgements or orders based on any consideration other than legal merit. The prestige of the judiciary according to the CJN “is indeed essential in a system of government such as ours in which the judiciary functions independently.” Onnoghen stated that the behaviour of Judges was, in the circumstances, closely scrutinised to guarantee continued confidence in the integrity of the courts. “The combination of power, responsibility, and humanity accounts for both the most exemplary and, sometimes, the most regrettable judicial conduct. To this end, Judges must exercise decorum in all their undertakings,” Onnoghen said. He expressed confidence in the effort being made by the National Judicial Council to weed out corrupt judicial officers from the judiciary. “Consequently, the NJC under my watch has constituted the Corruption and Financial Crimes Cases Trial Monitoring Committee (COTRIMCO), which has hit the ground running, to serve as a check on the excesses of some bad eggs amongst us,” he stated. He expressed optimism in the fact that, in a short time, efforts to rid the judiciary of questionable characters would yield results. According to the CJN, the NJC would continually ensure, through rigorous screening and painstaking appointment procedures, that the best materials, in terms of learning and character, were appointed to the Bench. He said: “It will no longer be business as usual. I must state categorically, however, lest I am accused of the fallacy of hasty generalisation, that the judiciary in Nigeria is not inefficient. “It is an established fact that the judiciary in Nigeria is as good as the best anywhere in the world. Only few Judges are found wanting.” In her address, the Administrator of the NJI, Justice Rosaline Bozimo (rtd), said the theme of this year’s course, ‘Enhancing the Quality of Judicial Services’, was imperative and relevant. She explained that the aim of the course was to reposition the Nigerian judiciary to effectively perform its statutory role and improve the services rendered to litigants and the public at large. “My lords, in order to remain relevant in this ever-evolving judicial landscape, the courts must not only be seen to be just, but must provide quality judicial services. “In this regard, we must not fail in ensuring that the common man can approach the court with confidence, knowing that access to justice is for all citizens. “To this end, the speedy and expeditious resolution of cases before our courts is highly encouraged”, she said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.