Morocco 2026 has claimed it is the safer option in the race for the FIFA World Cup owing to a “very low gun circulation” as the joint North American effort maintained its position as the certainty candidate for world football’s governing body.
The claims came in their respective bid books, published by FIFA on Tuesday.
FIFA President Gianni Infantino again insisted the process will be free of the corruption which has plagued previous votes for their showpiece tournament.
Infantino challenged anyone to “point out an organisation that conducts a bidding process as fair, objective and transparent” as the one FIFA is carrying out for the 2026 World Cup.
This has already been questioned, however, after African members attempted to weaken the power given to a five-member Committee which will evaluate both bids during a FIFA Council meeting in Bogotá earlier this month.
The Committee, due to grade and score each of the two efforts can potentially rule out either candidate before the vote at the FIFA Congress in Moscow on June 13 takes place if they find their bid does not meet the required criteria.
Reports have suggested a vote on the Committee’s remit took place in the Colombian capital, with all six African members – including continental President Ahmad – going against Infantino’s wishes.
The evaluation panel was initially set to make a recommendation to FIFA’s ruling Council before any decision on whether or not the bids can proceed was made.
It has now been suggested the Council will merely rubber-stamp the verdict of the Committee, which includes FIFA deputy secretary generals Zvonimir Boban of Croatia and Marco Villiger of Switzerland. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.