The National Pension Commission (PenCom) is said not to be in a hurry to open the much-awaited Transfer Window platform that will enable pension contributors and retirees change their Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) when they feel dissatisfied with service rendered. This means that the Commission has failed to implement its own law; precisely Section 13 and Section 106 subsection 1 to 4 of the Pension Reform Act 2004 as repealed by PRA 2014. The Pension Reform Act 2004 as repealed by PRA 2014 stipulates that a contributor will be allowed to move his or her RSA account from one PFA to another in not more than once in a year. But the law is yet to be implemented by PenCom 14 years after the enactment of the PRA 2004. Section 13 states that subject to the guideline issued by the Commission, a holder of an RSA maintained under the Act may not more than once in a year transfer his account from one PFA to another. Section 106 stipulates that an employee or beneficiary of a Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holder who is dissatisfied with a decision of the PFA or employer respect of pension matters under this Bill, may request, in writing, that such decisions be reviewed by PenCom with a view to ensuring that such decision is made in accordance with the provisions of this Bill or any regulations made. It further stated that a copy of any request under subsection (1) shall be served on the relevant PFA or employee. The Commission shall in reviewing a request of a PFA or employer conduct its proceedings in such a manner as to avoid delay. Where either party is dissatisfied with the decision of the Commission on any matter referred to it, such party may refer the matter to arbitration in accordance with the Arbitration and Conciliation Act or to the National Industrial Court. Insider sources who spoke with journalists under the condition of anonymity revealed that the Pension Application System (PASS) that is meant to digitalise the pension industry and allow the transfer window to be opened has been put aside by the new administration of PenCom. One of the sources said the transfer window was billed to commence on June 1, this year but all the processes put in place to ensure that the window is opened has been put away. He said the new management is considering starting the process all over again rather than continue with the processes that were on the ground. A source close to PenCom, a former compliance officer with a PFA who did not want her name mentioned, had told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the Transfer Window would never be opened especially under the present administration at PenCom. According to her, there has been too much egotism in the entire process. Meanwhile, contributors and retirees have cried out to the Federal Government to intervene and relieve them of what they describe being in bondage to PFAs. A contributor, Mr Amadi lamented that his PFA, name withheld has continued to serve him poorly. He said he wants to change but he is trapped with the PFA as they told him that he neither collect his contributions nor change to another PFA. Similarly, a retiree, Mrs Oladipo said her PFA refuse to send her statement account with them, failed to transfer her on time to her chosen insurer for the annuity plan she opted for after every retirement. She believes that if retirees and contributors are allowed to change their PFA to another, the PFAs will improve on their services, bearing in mind that they can be dumped at any time. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.