Abuja – The National Judicial Council (NJC) has recommended the compulsory retirement of Justice Theresa Uzokwe, Chief Judge of Abia State, and Justice Obisike Oji of Abia State High Court to Okezie Ikpeazu, the state governor. NJC made the recommendation at its 85th meeting held on March 14, 2018, which was chaired by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. Similarly, the NJC has set up a committee to investigate a Supreme Court justice and two State Chief Judges for official misconduct. In addition, the apex judicial body issued stern warnings to Justices S. E. Aladetoyinbo and Olusola Ajibike Williams of the FCT and Lagos High Courts. A statement by Soji Oye, Director of Information (NJC), on Thursday, stated that Justice Uzokwe was recommended for compulsory retirement following the findings of two investigative committees set up by the Council. “The committees investigated petitions against her by Umeh Kalu, SAN, Attorney-General/Commissioner for Justice of Abia State, alleging illegal constitution and working with a parallel Judicial Service Commission instead of the one constituted by the state governor and confirmed by the House of Assembly,” the NJC said. Justice Uzokwe was also found to have conducted herself improperly in Suit No. HU/131/2005, wherein he delivered judgement in the sum of N825, 000 only in favour of a litigant, but subsequently signed a garnishee order of N109, 612, 500 only. “In the case of Justice Obisike Oji, the NJC said he was earlier queried for allowing himself to be sworn in as Acting Chief Judge, and thereby colluding in, and aiding, an unconstitutional process.” His reply, according to NJC, “was unsatisfactory and the Council recommended his compulsory retirement”. Furthermore, the NJC seriously warned and placed on the watch list, Justice S. E. Aladetoyinbo of the FCT High Court for impropriety in a case between U.L.O. Consultants Ltd vs BIL Construction Nigeria Ltd, sequel to a petition by one Uche Luke Okpuno. “Council would have sanctioned the judge more severely but had to take into account the fact that aspects of the case are appealable,” the NJC stated. More so, the council reprimanded Justice Olusola Ajibike Williams of the Lagos State High Court for grave errors of judgment in her level of involvement in a family business. Council found out that the judge, as a judicial officer, should have been more circumspect and conscious of her office. She was sanctioned as a result of a petition by Chief Ladi Rotimi-Williams (SAN). Council at the meeting also considered various petitions written against 31 judicial officers and resolved to set up three investigative committees against one Justice of Supreme Court and two State Chief Judges. The NJC stated that various petitions against other justices were dismissed either for lack of merit, lack of evidence of misconduct, being sub judice, or that the subject of such petitions were matters for appeal. The dismissed petitions were against Justices Abdu Aboki, Theresa Abadua, and Ahmed Belgore, all of the Court of Appeal; Justices J. T. Tsoho, Ayo Emmanuel, Sabiu Yahusa, Zainab B. Abubakar, B. O. Quadri of the Federal High Court; Justices A. N. Ubaka, and B. B. Kanyip of National Industrial Court. Others were those of Justices Bello Kawu, S. C. Orji, A. N. Talba of the FCT High Court; Justice K. C. Nwankpa of High Court, Abia State; Justice D. A. Onyefulu of High Court, Anambra State; Justice W. I. A. Effiong of High Court, Akwa-Ibom State; A. M. Ikpambese, High Court of Benue State; Justice G. E. Gbemre, High Court of Delta State, and Justice A. O. Onovo of High Court, Enugu State. Also dismissed were those against Justice Idi Apollos, High Court of Gombe State; Justice G. O. Ogunsanya of High Court, Ogun State; Justice A. B. Abdulkarim, High Court of Osun State; Justice K. A. Ojiako, High Court of Imo State, and Justices A. M. Lawal, L. A. Okunnu, and L. B. Lawal Akapo, High Court of Lagos State. Meanwhile, the NJC said it decided to advise Justice J. E. Ikede of Delta State High Court and Justice Yusuf Halilu of FCT High Court to be more careful in the course of their judicial duties. On the petition by Prince Adesina Okuneye against Justice Mwada Balami of the FCT High Court, the NJC referred it to the police to investigate the allegation of N5, 000,000 bribe to the judge for granting bail to an accused person. “Council decided that the petition should be put in abeyance until the outcome of the investigation by the police,” according to the NJC. At the meeting, the NJC also recommended 60 judicial officers to governors of 24 states for appointment as High Court Judges, Sharia Court Kadis, and Customary Court of Appeal Judges. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.