Benin – The Management of PRESCO Oil Palm Plc and the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) Sickle Cell Awareness Golf Tournament Fund Management Committee have donated medical equipment worth millions of Naira to the Edo State Sickle Cell Board as part of effort to alleviate the suffering of Sickle Cell challenged persons in the State. The medical equipment were received on behalf of the State Government by Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. David Osifo commended the management of PRESCO and UBTH Sickle Cell Awareness Golf Tournament Fund Management Committee for complimenting the efforts of the State Government in providing succor for the Sickle Cell challenged persons in the State. He appreciated the Board Chairman, Prof. Mrs. Omoti for her foresight in improving the State of the Centre from what he described as “a shamble” until she took over on the 30th, July, 2015. Osifo while commissioning the medical equipment at the centre, said the State Government has earmarked the sum of N35 million to revamp the Edo State Sickle Cell Centre with a view to improving infrastructure and boost the state of facility at the centre. Osifo added that despite the limited resources, “the sickle cell board has been able to move the centre forward in trying to alleviate the suffering of the sickle cell challenged persons in the State. Very soon the sickle centre will be a centre of excellence. When we came here earlier, the centre was in shambles but since the board under the leadership of Prof. (Mrs.) Omoti, we can see the improvement in terms of facilities in the centre and there is peace. In an atmosphere of rancor there cannot be development, Edo State urge you to keep the pace of development and improvement at the centre”, Osifo said. Chairman Edo State Sickle Cell Board, Prof. (Mrs) Caroline Omoti sued for more support from well-meaning Nigerians, cooperate organisations, stakeholders to intervene at the Sickle Cell Centre as it is faced with several challenges such as lack of functional pharmacy and medical unit. Omoti listed some of the achievement of the centre to include purchase twenty (20) 3 seater chair for patients conformability through financial donations, purchase of fifty (50) plastic chairs for the Centre’s Conference Hall through financial donations, purchase of basic equipment to help good service delivery, standard weighing scale, complete diagnostic set and purchase of Micro Haematocrit Centrifuge and Microscope with ability to take photomicrographs for the laboratory unit to hasten medical attention to patients. Chairman PRESCO/UBTH Sickle Awareness Golf Tournament Fund Management Committee, Dr. Dominic Oseghae said the gesture is to reduce the plight of sickle cell sufferers in the state and to compliment government effort in providing aid to the centre. Tony Uwajeh, Head of Administration Presco Plc and Chairman PRESCO/UBTH Sickle Awareness Golf Tournament Fund Management Committee, Dr. Dominic Oseghae made the donation of haematology analyser for full blood count while the Edo State Government purchased Reflon Chemistry Analyser and Trinocular Microscope with a Computer Display for cellular and other blood fluid visualization. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.