Lagos – Stakeholders in Nigeria, comprising of consumer rights advocacy groups, consumer protection and government regulatory agencies, media rights group and advertising agencies, recently raised concern over the increasing abuse and neglect of consumer rights and complaints by online store and digital market operators as part of awareness creation to mark the 2018 world consumer rights day While the global theme for this year is ‘Making Digital Marketplaces Fairer’, each country was expected to domesticate the theme to suit peculiarities in their e-commerce, online stores and digital retail experiences. Retail e-commerce sales worldwide in 2017 were valued at $2.829 trillion while e-retail revenues are projected to grow to $4.48 trillion by 2021. Here in Nigeria, the e-commerce sector has an estimated worth of over $13billion which is approximately N4.01trillion, and could rise to over $50 billion by 2027. A London based Economist Intelligence Unit, EIU, released a report early this year identifying three Nigeria based online retail platforms- Jumia, Konga and Jij- as leading the African e-commerce space to compete among world technology based retail businesses, thus raising the concern that with such growth expectations, yet research show that about 70 per cent of Nigerian consumers are worried about the safety of their online transactions. Whereas the online has been described as the quickest and fastest way of shopping, many Nigerian online shoppers have one sour experience or the other to relate. Common complaints range from poor customer service, inferior products to late delivery; delay in refund for council order, hidden charges, fear of scamming and many more. With these in mind while addressing stakeholders in an event to mark this year’s consumer day in Abuja last week, Mr. Babatunde Irukera, Director General of Consumer Protection Council (CPC), stressed the need for stakeholders to agree on certain fundamental principles to safeguard consumers and protect online commerce. These principles, he said, must include the need for online marketers to recognise that a dedicated customer service apparatus is required to ensure engagement, and to put in place a complaint resolution process which is not burdensome to the customer. “Online market platforms must also recognise the importance of frank and complete disclosures of any terms, conditions, exceptions or restrictions on products marketed on their platforms.” Irukera disclosed that in view of the dramatic rise in e-Commerce in Nigeria the CPC, and Senior Management of some Online Marketing Companies have come to understand the nature and scope of complaints and have agreed to address them for the safety of consumer money and growth of the industry. According to him, these principles are considered vital to the protection of consumers in the industry and relevant to Business Guidance and a Regulatory framework. Also as part of activities marking the 2018 World Consumer Rights Day, the Lagos State Consumers Protection Agency, LASCOPA, the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria, AAAN and the Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria, BJAN also staged a walk in Ikeja, Lagos. Addressing consumers and rights groups at the headquarters of Lagos State Consumers Protection Agency, LASCOPA, Mrs Funmi Falana, Chairman of the Board said consumers’ protection is paramount to the state government. “Our business here is to protect the right of consumers for the products and services they buy. We want to make sure that the standard of goods and services brought into this country or produced in this country commensurate with the standard they can get all over the world, which is, meeting international standards. She also explained that complaints are received free of charge. “People who feel aggrieved by products and services received are free contact us by submitting hard copy or send mails to us online or call us on phone. We are here for the consumers of Lagos state and consumers in Nigeria in general”. Also speaking at the event, Mr. Kayode Oluwasona, President of Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN), who also joined the walk alongside some of his executives, said the AAAN decided to be part of the walk because they believe in the cause and consumer plights in Nigeria. “Our presence here, which represents all the advertising agencies in Nigeria, is to show solidarity with consumers because we believe in the cause that they are pushing.” To Mrs Sola Salako Ajulo, a consumer protection activist and founder of Consumer Advocacy Foundation of Nigeria, (CAFON,) said every consumer has the right to complain and to be heard. “You have right to complain. You have the right to be heard. You have the right to consumer information so that you know how to purchase whatever you need. While thanking Mrs Ajulo for her support and standing with Nigerian consumers over the years, Mr. Goddie Ofose, BJAN chairman said journalists covering the brands and marketing communications also see it as a duty to make sure that consumer rights are protected and given value for their money. “We see it that as a body of journalists covering brands and marketing, it is our duty to also help consumers apart from reporting news and the analysis that we do, in our newspapers, radio and television as well as blogs. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.