Stakeholders and operators in the nation’s production, supply, demand and consumption value chain have unanimously given a thumbs-up to the amended Act of Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), stating that its provisions would fast-track business and industrial growth across the country. At an extended stakeholders meeting in Lagos, meant to sensitise Nigerians on the provisions of the Act, the stakeholders clearly stated that the proper implementation of the Act would ensure rapid industrial growth and development for the country. Mr. Muda Yusuf, the Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI),  in his presentation tagged, ‘SON Act 2015; Driving Industrial Growth in Nigeria’, commended the organisation for the promulgation of the Law while making a strong case for public-private partnership for government policies to get positive outcomes. “Issues of non-compliance with existing standard and quality stipulations remain an ethical problem. Unfortunately, those operators who comply are increasingly finding it difficult to survive in the operating environment; SON should create an enabling environment where operators could engage in fair competition. We commend SON for a comprehensive Act that can help us check the activities of counterfeiters and brand-cloning agents. Continuous dialogue and collaborations with stakeholders would produce positive outcomes”, he said According to Yusuf, public- private partnership brings much benefits such as feedbacks from end-users, operators and consumers, hence the sensitization programme. “We need to bring sanity and order in the business environment. The new SON Act 2015 covers all the critical areas which the previous Act did not have. We therefore support regulatory agencies like SON to do the right thing for the benefit of stakeholders in the manufacturing sector as well as the government”, he said. Earlier in his opening remarks, Osita Aboloma, Director General, SON, declared that the agency’s reinvigorated SON Act 2015 is aimed at revamping the nation’s ailing industries while also creating an enabling environment to attract both local and foreign direct investments into the country. Aboloma, explained that with the proper implementation of the SON Act 2015, the business community and industries would grow, bringing about massive job creation and employment, while also creating emerging market for certified Made-in Nigeria products globally. The SON boss stated that concerted efforts are being made to bring back the industries that hitherto dotted the landscape of Lagos, Aba, Port-Harcourt, Ibadan, Benin City, Kano, Kaduna and other cities in Nigeria, stressing that the standards body is currently deploying the use of standardisation and quality assurance to boost Nigeria’s industrialisation drive. Aboloma who was represented by the Director, Compliance, SON, Engr. Bede Obayi, at stakeholders’ sensitisation programme on SON Act 2015 in Lagos, said the essence of Ease of Doing Business initiative by federal government is to drive business and industrial growth across the country, stating that creating an enabling environment would promote steady growth and development. “With standardisation, we want to ensure industrial growth; we need to make Nigeria emerge as an investment destination and hub in sub-Saharan Africa. With solid industrial base, Nigeria could become the next global economic powerhouse, following the footsteps of the Asian tigers. We want to attain economic diversification from oil to non-oil economy via rapid industrial growth.  We, at SON, want to empower and strengthen the growth of MSMEs. We have already started doing this, we are granting waivers to over one million SMEs on their products registration and certifications. We must endeavour to put in place structures and policies that would enable us to be exporting finished goods than raw materials,” he said. In his words: “Industrialisation would create enough jobs for our teeming population and guarantee development. In achieving these, the federal government is paying due attention to the manufacturing sector. The national clinics for MSMEs operators, EODB, PEBEC, ERGP, among others are geared towards industrial growth.” According to him, the Act sets out to sanitize the nation’s industrial, commercial, business and market space of sub-standard products, stating that it is in tandem with the economic diversification, economic growth and recovery, industrial and agricultural revolution programme of the present federal government. “Therefore, using the instrumentality of the Act, Nigeria should be able to attain industrial development via standardisation, quality assurance and control as well as monitoring and compliance. The Act stresses the need for all stakeholders to be involved and carried along in its implementation hence the need for sensitisation workshops which we have embarked upon. Therefore it is a clear proof of our determination to engage in robust public-private partnership that works,” he said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.