Asaba – Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State says public procurement plays important role in determining the extent to which government’s social and economic targets will be attained. Okowa, who declared open a two-day sensitisation workshop for top public servants on ‘The New Public Procurement Regime In Delta State’ in Asaba on Tuesday, said “good and accountable governance thrives when public procurement processes are governed by rules and effective institutions”. Represented by Basil Ganagana, his Special Adviser on Urban Renewal, the governor said he had to open competitive bidding to instil the principle of accountability, prudence and transparency in curbing unnecessary expenditure and adhering to due process in the conduct of government business. Lamenting that those entrusted with power have shortchanged the people, Okowa said “the public deserves honest services to take millions of Nigerians out of poverty.” He insists that ethical behaviour must be the keystone of public services. Okowa warned members of the commission and other top government functionaries at the event against conflict of interests, disrespect for confidentiality and unethical procurement plans, maintaining that the state’s procurement law of 2016 was enacted to guide Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), including local governments, to ensure judicious spending of public funds. He said: “My vision is to restore prompt service delivery, transparency, competition, integrity and value for money in the award and execution of public contracts and procurements. We are determined to ensure that the public gets better services and that the value of all public expenditure meets the expectations of members of the public.” While urging them to restore openness, budgetary discipline, optimal cost-saving devices, efficient project implementation and improvement in service delivery, the governor listed clear knowledge of what is right or wrong, and respect for laid down rules and regulations, as compliance ingredients. Joseph Okeze, the director-general, Delta State Public Procurement Commission, in his address, said the workshop was designed to entrench prudence in the management of the state resources with the introduction of open competitive bidding to achieve long-term socio-economic stability and add value for money spent to social infrastructure. He said Okowa has, as foundation for his SMART Agenda, embarked on far-reaching institutional, legal and regulatory reforms since he assumed office in 2015, saying to achieve this, procurement laws are usually enacted and procurement oversight institutions established to regulate the practice of public procurement within government and private sector actors such as contractors and consultants. The paper, ‘Implementing Public Procurement’ was delivered by Henry Idogun, while Eze Onyekpere took ‘Overview of the Delta State Public Procurement Law’. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.