Comrade Jamaine Amen Imhontuniye, from Igueben in Etsako Central of Edo State and former Student Union Leader, is a presidential aspirant on the platform of the National Conscience Party (NCP) for the 2019 election. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on his programmes for the nation and why Nigerians should reject both the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). Excerpt: To what extent are you conversant with NCP’s manifesto? I am very much conversant with our party’s constitution and manifesto. One of my advantages is the ability to absorb and understand quickly. The motto of our party, which is ‘Abolition of Poverty’, is well known to me. This is well expatiated in the party’s 10-CARE Programme, which centres on Education, Power, Provision of Water and Healthcare among others. Do you think you have all it takes to win your party’s presidential primaries which may feature as many as six or seven aspirants, including the party’s National Chairman, Dr. Yunusa Tanko, and Chief Martin Onovo, the party’s presidential candidate in the 2015 elections? One thing that is well known in the NCP is that everyone can aspire and express their ambitions. In NCP, everybody stands a chance and has the freedom to run for any position. Even if the National Chairman or some others are running for the same position, that will not stop others from aspiring. I am confident that I can do well in the primaries and will not intimidate anybody. We are all like a family. The primary will be free and fair in the party’s tradition. Whoever emerges, will receive the support of the others and will be for the betterment of the party. As a young man, people would have expected you to contest other positions like the House of Representatives, but you choose the presidency. What informed your choice? For one to make an impact, one has to aim at the top when you are on top, you can impact on the grassroots. The masses of this country are yearning for change. They need a new leader who can bring forth what Nigerians want, like quality education, and healthcare. The NCP is a good platform for me to carry out my dream for Nigeria. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) will present very formidable candidates for the 2019 election. Don’t you think it would be a near impossibility to defeat candidates of the two parties? I am very confident that at the point we are, the Nigeria people are yearning for a real change, real democracy. This is not the time money will determine who will rule. These people have been around. They have been recycling themselves. They sell poverty to the people. This is not the time for people for people to sell their votes. In 2019, people will vote for their future. They will be voting according to their conscience. Nigerians will not sell-out. These people you have in APC and PDP ruined the nation and brought us to where we are now. They have nothing to offer. Both PDP and APC have been recycling old people who have been corrupt and have no agenda, except looting and putting the nation into debt. This is what NCP, through my leadership, will eradicate. What is your agenda for Nigerians if you are given the mandate to rule the country? My agenda is to deal with corruption, get rid of corruption as quickly as possible. There should be penalty for all offenders. Corrupt people will be penalised. Under my administration, the masses will enjoy the fruits of their citizenship, especially in the area of power, education, and healthcare, among others. I will bring real change, unlike the promises of the past administrations which were without fulfillment. Under the NCP administration with me as the President, we will bring real change in Nigeria and Nigerians will be happier. Nigeria is blessed with several resources, which past leaders personalised due to selfish reasons. We shall change all these. Those things that have been privatised will be returned to the masses. We will look at the unemployment situation and provide jobs through the revitalisation of industries. Under healthcare, we shall open up the hospitals and make healthcare available to the people. We shall also focus on primary healthcare to ensure that the masses have affordable healthcare. We shall remove unemployed youths from the streets and engage them in such a way that they will be useful to society. Having said that, could you give us an insight to your manifesto? Under Privatisation, all privatized industries will be cancelled and brought back to the public. These include the power sector. We shall abolish the current structure of GENCOs and DISCOs and restructure them to be functional to serve the people better. Under Education, we have to restructure the present system from the federal to state level to bring quality education. Many educated Nigerians, especially professors are overseas. They do not want to come to Nigeria because the system here is very bad. Teachers and lecturers are not paid. There are no provisions for research. All structures are crumbling. Now, Nigerian children are going to Ghana for higher education. This is appalling. We are going to restore the past glory of education in Nigeria to attract out intellectuals abroad to return home and contribute their quota in the field of education. Under Healthcare, it is a common knowledge that the health sector is poor. There is no proper maintenance. Health funding is poor. There are no drugs in public hospitals. Doctors in public hospitals refer patients to their private hospitals. I will revamp the health sector. There will be affordable healthcare. I will focus on primary healthcare to take care of the masses. I will also pay attention to the tertiary health institutions, the teaching hospitals, nursing schools, the standard of training for the medical personnel and health workers. Under Education, we shall look at our universities, polytechnics and colleges of education as well as the curriculum of education to make it more relevant to the modern time as we are in the 20th century. In the area of Infrastructure, there is still no good road network in Nigeria despite all the yearly budgets. I will address the road infrastructure to ensure that farmers get their produce easily to the markets and to the cities. I will look at the Rail system and Aviation sector. We shall adopt the world standard rail specification and ensure that we have a workable rail system in parts of the country. Under aviation, our national carrier is gone and we lost a lot of privileges we ought to get from the world aviation. The airports are poor and the runways are bad. We shall take a look at all these. We will bring back Nigeria Airways and have functional airports with good runways. We shall restructure the aviation industry and make it comparable with what obtains in other parts of the world. What do you see as major challenges of the country and how would you tackle hem? That is corruption. The major challenge we have in this country today is corruption. Corruption is deep rooted in the country’s life. That is why nothing is working in the country. I will ensure that only trustworthy people are in government. The NCP administration will ensure that we eradicate corruption right from the top. We shall drain the swamp of corruption in the country. There will be a thorough shake-up of all the agencies to filter out the bag eggs and sanitise the system. These include the EFCC, ICPC, DSS, Police, NIA, and all other agencies, like the Customs and Immigration. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.