Owerri – Emeka Ihedioha, the former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, has attributed Nigeria’s slow pace to growth and development to deficient institutions, which, he said, have made it difficult to grapple challenges confronting the country. According to him, Nigeria would be on the right path to nation building when “we address the challenges of failed and failing institutions,” stressing that the growth of every nation had a bearing with its strong and virile institutions, which would be responsive to issues and challenges of government.
The former deputy speaker stated this in a keynote address entitled, “The Role of Intellectuals in Nation Building, the Youths in Focus’, which he delivered at the inauguration of the Zone B of National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS)’ coordinator held at the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO).
Ihedioha identified some of the institutions that had been greatly weakened to include, the state legislature and the local government councils, lamenting that Houses of Assembly have been turned into appendages of the executive across many states, thereby impacting too adversely on good governance and national development.
“Sadly, we have succeeded in building strong personalities and weak institutions, hence poor leadership,” he lamented. Ihedioha, who was the 2015 governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State, observed that the nation’s unhealthy environment had continued to frustrate the dreams and ideas of millions of youths, stating that the indices of success recorded by youths in other climes would be terribly less had they been confronted with similar Nigerian environmental realities. This, he said, ranges from insecurity to epileptic power supply to high inflation, devalued naira, bitter bank interest rates, poor economic policies and deficient infrastructural base. As a way forward, the PDP chieftain advised that governments at all levels and arms must wake up to their responsibilities of providing necessities for business and economic relations to strive, adding that the legislature should enact laws that would improve the lives of the people. “The executive must stand up to its huge role in the daily running and management of the state resources, and the judiciary must be seen to be the beacon of hope for the common man as it painstakingly administers justice without fear or favour.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.