Abuja – Yakubu Dogara, Speaker of the House of Representatives, has lamented the loss of many lawmakers in recent time at the National Assembly. Dogara, who spoke with newsmen after the burial of Rep. Buba Jibril, (APC/Lokoja/Kogi) who died on Friday in Abuja, in Lokoja, prayed God to halt the tide. He said “I don’t think it has happened before; not to my recollection. We have lost about three senators and five members of the House of Representatives in the past few weeks.” Jibril, 58, a three-term member of the House of Representatives, was buried amidst tears from families, friends and colleagues that thronged Lokoja for the burial. The burial was also attended by the Kogi Deputy Governor, Mr Simon Achuba, Kogi House of Assembly Speaker, Mr Matthew Kolawole, members of the house, among others. Dogara, who spoke with newsmen after the burial, described Jibril as a fine colleague and brilliant law maker. Mr Matthew Kolawole, the Speaker, Kogi House of Assembly, told newsmen that the state government, the Kogi House of Assembly, and the entire Kogi would miss him a lot. “Don’t forget that he was a former speaker of Kogi House of Assembly, we will miss him a lot. “I pray that God almighty will give all of us the heart to bear the irreparable loss. “What happened today is a big lesson to all of us who are still living. “No matter how rich you are, just remember that sometime, someday, you will drop dead, and when you do, you are going to give account of your life to God. “It is a debt we will all pay sometime, someday,” Kolawole said. The late lawmaker represented Lokoja/Kogi Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) where he rose to the rank of deputy house leader in 2015. The deceased was said to have taken ill around April, 2017 and was flown abroad for treatment of an undisclosed illness, during which he spent close to eight months away from the House. Hon. Buba only showed up in the green chamber once, sometime late December, 2017 and was never seen again after that. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.