The MTN Foundation has put a smile on the faces of about 1,500 kids in 36 institutions across the country as the foundation gave foodstuff and baby care products to each of the centers. Dennis Okoro, Director, MTN Foundation, said the provision of basic living amenities and consumable to the less privileged is critical to the growth and development of our country. “We are passionate about this and that is what these initiatives are about, making life better for the children of this great nation”. The management of the homes visited expressed their gratitude for MTN Foundation’s care, which they described as timely and uplifting. Mrs Mosun Bello-Olusoga, MTN Foundation Director, noted that “Children’s homes such as these typically have a hard time sourcing funds. We all need to do our part; we all need to do more. Moments like these give us the opportunity to step out, reach out and show love.” During each visit, MTN staff and representatives of the Foundation spent time with the children, talking about life, interests and inspirations as well as playing with the kids. “These are very special places with very special children. Bursting with ideas, kids are such great dreamers not bound by perceived limitations. They are so full of love; children are an inspiration to us all! I am grateful and honoured to have been part of this,” said Adekemi Adisa, a General Manager in MTN’s Human Resources Division. Places visited include Kids with a vision Foundation, Jos; Katsina children’s home; Al Ansar home, Abuja; Bethesda Home for the Blind, Lagos; Grace Orphan Rescue Foundation, Rivers; Eruobodo Centre for Special needs children Ogun; Ancilla motherless babies home, Imo and Save the child motherless and abandoned babies home, Owerri, Imo state. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.