Many people know Rochas Okorocha as a model of a governor. Little wonder, many old women in the rural areas are in love with him. For them, he exudes humility. Or how would you describe a governor who would meet an old woman coming back from the farm and decides to help her carry her load? Even Okorocha and his family members know that the governor is a humble man. When recently I attended the Rochas Foundation Old Students Association (ROFOSA) convention in Lagos, I learnt from his daughter that the man decided to help the downtrodden because of his pact with God to educate others if he got the opportunity eventually to be educated. All his children at the function painted their father in humility. According to his Wikipedia page, Okorocha was not born with a silver spoon in his mouth. “I found out that I was born into a home that is relatively poor from all the definitions of poverty. So, I understand from the onset that I have a task ahead of me, and the name of the game is survival.” He had to work extra hard to make ends meet by combining education with street trading. He didn’t have a straight school experience while growing up. When democracy was restored in 1999, Okorocha competed in the primaries to be Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for governor of Imo State, but lost to Achike Udenwa. He moved to the All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP), and failed to pick its presidential ticket in 2003. He returned to the PDP, and then President Olusegun Obasanjo appointed him as Special Adviser on Inter-Party Affairs. I admired his courage of daring the powers-that-be in 2003. His packaging to that ANPP convention at Eagle Square tripped me real good. His oratory nailed it. But this humility was rebranded later. It started from when he told Imo people that he was doing them a favour by “descending” to accept the governorship slot – after all, he was and still is a presidential material. Well, everybody, including me, seemed to agree with him. If you pan to 2003, you would understand what I mean. The man exudes classes, royalty, glamour, name it. Okorocha courted the commercial tricycle riders (known as ‘Keke operators’ in Lagos) when he was contesting the governorship in 2011 and sometime after. In his first four years as governor, you only talk bad of him to the Keke operators at your own peril. Even one that was ferrying me then said the governor used to give them gallons of kerosene every week. But the relationship has gone sour for some reasons I don’t know yet. Last year, the ‘Owelle’ went on a sculpting spree when he could not pay workers despite a bail-out from the Federal Government. He reportedly moulded seven effigies, including that of President Jacob Zuma of South Africa (now deposed), President Ellen Sirleaf-Johnson of Liberia (now defeated) and former Vice President Alex Ekwueme of Nigeria (now deceased). Reports had it that one of those statues cost a whopping N500 million – I still refuse to believe. His rebranded humility made him to call the bluff of anybody opposed to his statues, as he even said if moulding statues would give him what he wants, he would mould more. Okorocha’s humility seems to have transmuted to arrogance. “Power tends to corrupt,” said Lord Acton, the 19th century British historian, and “absolute power corrupts absolutely.” Is that Okorocha’s case? A recent issue that points to the philanthropist’s undoing is his attempt to make Imo his father’s estate, with him as the only benefactor. When, in 2015, he went to mock himself at the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos, he put the Imo APC governorship primaries on pause mode, knowing that he would come back to contest. Now, he is planning to instal Uche Nwosu, his son in-law, as his successor. See guts! To actualise this, he is pulling Eze Madumere, his deputy to follow him to the Senate, which governors use as retirement benefit. But the Mbaitoli prince insists on having a taste of the governorship. As a spice on a sore, loyalists of Nwosu, the Imo Chief of Staff, recently attacked Archbishop Valentine Obinna for speaking in a way that did not pull supporters to their camp. The incident was said to have taken place at St. Michaels Catholic Church, Ngwoma, Owerri North Local Government Area of Imo State, during the burial of Mrs. Mbata, mother of the Pro-Chancellor of Imo State University, Owerri, Alex Mbata. The cleric, who said some persons suspected to be APC members had assaulted him during the burial service, however, noted that no action would be taken against his assailants. Archbishop Obinna speaking to newsmen through Rev Fr. George Nwachukwu, the Director of Media and Communications of the Owerri Catholic Archdiocese, said: “We have left it in the hands of God (note that). The assault to the church and the archbishop was very painful, provocative and highly unwarranted; but we have resolved to press no charges but to leave it in the hands of God.” Chikezie Nwadike, the media aide to Nwosu, who said he was at the church service, told newsmen that the rampaging APC members were not to blame. He rather blamed the PDP member who reportedly “campaigned” in the church, and denied that the archbishop was assaulted by APC members. The only advice I have for Okorocha and his men is to go and study Ikedi Ohakim’s political adventure in the Eastern Heartland. Ohakim took Imo electorate for granted and claimed that he was ‘Ikiri aka mpa’ that never leaves anything he grabs, even at the point of death. Tagging along, the wife reportedly boasted that she had swallowed the key to Douglas House; that whoever needed that key would have to cut through her. Ohakim sealed the arrogance with the assaulting of a Catholic priest. We know what happened to his re-election bid. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.