Lagos – Fidelis Ilechukwu, the Chief Coach of the MFM Football Club of Lagos, is lamenting the club’s inability to register some key players for the 2018 CAF Confederation Cup. Ilechukwu said that MFM had been playing their continental competition matches without their star players and this has been the team’s biggest challenge. He said on Friday in an interview with NAN that there was an urgent need to register the star players in order to do better in the upcoming matches, especially against Djoliba of Mali. “We will do very well if our star players are registered with CAF for the competition. “It is unfortunate that many of the clubs in the competition can afford to register new players and we cannot. This situation will affect our competitiveness, and that is why we are where we are,” Ilechukwu said. The coach, who expressed optimism in their ability to qualify for the league stage of the competition called for financial support for the club to excel. He however assured that his team was in high spirit in spite of the challenges. NAN reports that MFM FC will be facing Djoliba of Mali in their second 1/16th round fixture in the CAF Confederation Cup competition. However, Ilechukwu has said that the club do not fear Djoliba FC of Mali, because they’ve learn’t from their CAF Champions League ouster. Coach Fidelis Ilechkuwu said his side after their ouster from the CAF League are now experienced and matured to play any side in the continent. “We welcome them even though we quite understand that the challenge will not be an easy one. “I think we have learnt something helpful from the CAF League. Right now we fear no foe including the North African sides as we are now experienced and matured, too. “Any other challenge in the course of the competition will not be like the one we had against the Algerian side, MC Alger. “Experience in the CAF CL will help us greatly to forge ahead in the CAF CC,” he said. MFM FC host Djoliba on April 7 or 8, while the return leg comes up in two weeks time. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.