Lagos – At Italia 90, the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon caused a major FIFA World Cup upset when they defeated the then cup holders, Argentina 1-0 in the tournament’s opener. François Omam-Biyik’s goal and an unheralded team of journeymen defeated Diego Maradona’s world champions. In 2002 and making their debut at World Cup, the Teranga Lions of Senegal stunned the football world after defeating yet another cup holders, France 1-0. Midfielder, Pape Bouba Diop, upstaged France’s cast of star names to score the decisive first goal of the tournament after 30 minutes.
Now going beyond the African continent, in 2004, Greece, with only a handful of their players plying their trade outside their domestic league, stunned the host of the Euro 2004, Portugal, with fiery Luis Figo and Cristiano Ronaldo, 1-0 in the final. The Greeks had earlier defeated the Portuguese 2-1 in the tournament’s opener.
In all these examples above and many more that may not be cited, the winning teams were bereft of star players. What they lacked in individual talents, they had collectively as a team. They entered the competitions as underdogs, but had one thing going for them. They played as a team and there was cohesion and understanding. The players played for one another and ensured there were no loopholes.
Now the Super Eagles qualified for the World Cup with ease and had since then gone on an unbeaten run dating back to June 10, 2017, when the Bafana Bafana of South Africa defeated them 2-0 in Uyo, but the two tune-up matches against Poland and Serbia have shown that it is not yet uhuru heading to the summer World Cup in Russia.
While not taking anything away from Coach Gernot Rohr, who has done greatly well with the Super Eagles, the two friendly matches played in the space of five days have exposed some lapses in the team. The earlier 1-0 win over the number four-ranked team in the world, Poland, actually overshadowed the noticeable deficiencies in the Super Eagles, as most analysis centred on the unexpected win at the expense of the needed surgical demand urgently needed in the team. The perceptions of Nigerians were more on the result and less on what the players failed to do right on the field.
For instance, Zachary Baraje, one of the experience coaches in Nigeria, while speaking to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, berated the team’s attack in the match against Poland and Serbia, saying that Ighalo and others failed to stamp their feet on ground. He noted that Eagles were flat-footed in Wroclaw and England, urging Rohr to look for a clinical forward with urgency.
“The attack was not very consistent against Poland, even against Serbia. Ighalo played as if he has lost form. Nigerian players cannot count how many times they shot at goal or break the defence of Poland and Serbia. I think the coach is doing great in the team but he must do something along that line,” he said.
In all honesty, the China- based striker, Ighalo, was not at his best, he failed to give the Polish and Serbia defence any problems and posed no threat at all. He was duly and rightly subbed off for Moses Simon late in the game in Wroclaw.
In the first match, players like Victor Moses were culpable in a number of ways. Baraje noted further that the Chelsea player was dragging the ball for too long without releasing it to his team mates – a situation that led to the Polish players dispossessing him too often.
“Moses must improve in his dragging of opponents,” Baraje said. In so many occasions, he was caught in-between opposing defenders, even after a barrage of chances to release the ball. One of such instances, though, led to the penalty he converted in the 61st minute.
Another noticeable fault in the match against Poland was their rate of return after losing the ball. On several occasions the Polish dispossessed them, the players were lethargic in returning. This was pointed out by Kadiri Ikhana, former CAF Coach of the Year, who also spoke to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT on the match. Ikhana also pointed to the attacking lull of the team, saying further that the coach was yet to find a suitable alternative for his captain, John Mikel Obi, in the middle.
“They did not perform well in attack and midfield during the Poland match and they were not recovering well when they lose balls. We can tolerate them because a player like Mikel was missing.”
In the match against Serbia, there was no difference in terms of performance. As a matter of fact, it was worse. Serbia exposed what was left of the team. In the defence, for example, the Serbia match showed that there was no better defensive combo outside Balogun and Ekong. Due to illness, Balogun was rested and in his place, Rohr preferred Chidozie Awaziem as a pair to Troost-Ekong. It was one wrong decision too many, as the central defence showed so much vulnerability and misunderstanding, leading to questions being asked whether Kenneth Omeruo would not have been a better choice. The Serbian goals were scored from Awaziem’s side, who could not effectively play with Ekong. Recall that when Nigeria lost 0-2 to South Africa in Uyo, Mikel, Victor Moses and Balogun were absent. Of the three, only Moses played on Tuesday and similar defeat was inflicted. Is it a coincidence?
According to Ikhana, Rohr should use the remaining friendly matches to unearth another central defensive combo in cases of injuries to either of the ‘Oyinbo Wall’ defenders.
In the middle, it is obvious that the Ogenyi Onazi and Wilfred Ndidi combination has not worked. Both players as well as Oghenekaro Etebo manned the middle when we lost to South Africa, and except Etebo, whose position was taking over by Joel Obi, the two played again against Serbia and the middle cracked once again, allowing the Serbs to run freely. If Mikel was there, the hole in the middle would have become less obvious and would have been plugged.
Modern football will thrive with a midfielder, who will keep possession, dictate the pace and look for a hole in the opponent’s side. These are hallmarks of Mikel. The two matches exposed the team to the present indispensability of Mikel in the team. But then, as part of what friendly matches are, and still having three friendly matches before the World Cup, Rohr can as well look at an Onazi-John Ogu combination or Ogu-Ndidi combination, or even Etebo-Ogu combination for a possible solution to the problems in the middle because Mikel may be unavailable in some matches in Russia for varied reasons.
In the attack against Serbia, the bluntness was summed up after the Super Eagles could not boast of five shots on target, while Serbia had more. Ahmed Musa was hardly in control as he started upfront. Just like Ighalo, who substituted him, there was no threat to Serbian goalkeeper. If Nigerian forward could be that lull in a friendly affair, what becomes of the team when they are faced with tested defenders at the World Cup?
In the goalpost, Francis Uzoho showed that the search for a quality goalkeeper will not end soon. His flaps and reflexes at crosses were a huge suspect; he was found wanting in organising his defence very well and initially showed jitters.
The games against Poland and Serbia exposed his lack of quality depth. Goalkeepers are better as they age and nothing stops Rohr from extending invitations to the duo of Dele Aiyenugba and Austin Ejide, who are still very much active in Israel for Hapoel Ashkelon and Hapoel Hadera respectively.
The team, in the two matches played, conceded dead balls at will and showed lack of cover when the balls were played, especially free kicks. Not only that the Super Eagles conceded such opportunities to their opponents, they were severally caught napping when such balls were played.
According to Austin Eguaveon, who praised the team for their defensive discipline, especially in the Poland match, the Super Eagles did not perform badly, but admitted that they must up their game and play more as a team because they would get stiffer opponents at the World Cup.
“We should give it to them, especially looking at the manner they defended against Poland after leading. But if we are to judge them on the two matches, you will see that there are errors that need to be corrected because at the World Cup, it is not going to be friendly any longer; even Poland will play better.”
On his comment, Samson Siasia averred that the two matches had exposed the team’s grey areas, admonishing the coach to start narrowing down instead of continued experimenting.
“It was good that we played those matches instead of living in illusion that we have assembled the best. The two matches exposed our lapses and I think the coach should now start forming a team instead of continuing to try out players,” he said.
Meanwhile, it was not all bad for the team. For example, one good positive that could be deduced from the Poland match was the team’s defensive approach, which ensured that Robert Lewandowski was restricted to only two chances. The central defensive discipline of Leon Balogun and Troost-Ekong showed great understanding and ward off any threat from the ever-versatile attackers, led by the Bayern Munich forward. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.