Lagos – The International Football Association Board (IFAB) is expected to approve Video Assistant Referees (VAR) when it meets in Zurich, in time for this summer’s World Cup in Russia. IFAB, founded in 1886, is the body that determines the Laws of the Game of association football. The VAR is an association football assistant referee that reviews decisions made by the head referee with the use of video footage and a headset for communication. VARs are not currently part of the Laws of the Game, but their use is currently being trialled by the IFAB in a number of competitions. For the VAR to become part of the laws of the game, IFAB must approve it’s use when it meets in Zurich today. IFAB approved the use of video referees in trials during its June 2016 meeting, and a live trial of the VAR system began in August 2016.s If given the nod, four types of calls that can be reviewed and they are, goals whether there was a violation during the buildup; Penalty decisions;Red card decisions (second yellow cards are not reviewable); and mistaken identity in awarding a red or yellow card. The standard for overturning the referee’s original decision is that there has been a “clear error”, sometimes expanded to “clear and obvious error”. The possibility that IFAB will give its nod to its use is high with FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, expressing optimism that the VAR system will be used at the summer World Cup in Russia. Infantino defended the time taken by the VAR to review decisions. “Let’s look at the facts,” he said. “We’ve analysed almost 1,000 games and the reality is you lose an average of 90 seconds per game. Is that too long? Perhaps. “But we lose an average of seven minutes per game due to throw-ins. If we lose seven minutes on throw-ins, we can lose 90 seconds to get decisions right.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.