It is no longer news that President Muhammadu Buhari refused to give assent to a bill amending the Electoral Act as it concerns the ordering of elections. Also, it is no longer news that a political party took the matter to court, which ordered the National Assembly to stop further action on the bill till it has disposed of the case before it. However, what some observers see as  a clear test of powers between the Executive and the Legislature, is still gathering momentum as Nigerians await further action of the lawmakers, who by the provisions of the 1999 Constitution, has the power to override the President’s veto by mustering a two-third majority in both chambers of the National Assembly. It would be recalled that the federal lawmakers few a weeks ago amended the nation’s Electoral Act, reversing the order of the general elections as released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The amendments proposed by the National Assembly sought to make some changes in Nigeria’s Electoral Act, including changing the sequence of the 2019 elections. According to the amendment, the lawmakers want their election to come up first, followed by that of state lawmakers and governors, and lastly the presidential election. But, in a letter addressed to the Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, and the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, President Buhari stated, among other reasons, that the amendments infringed on the rights of INEC. The President’s letter reads: “Pursuant to Section 58(4) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), I hereby convey to the Senate, my decision, on 3rd March 2018, to decline Presidential Assent to the Electoral Amendment Bill 2018 recently passed by the National Assembly. Some of my reasons include the following: “The amendment to the sequence of elections in Section 25 of the principal act, may infringe upon the constitutionally guaranteed discretion of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to organise, undertake and supervise elections provided in Section 15(A) of the third statue to the Constitution; “The amendment to Section 138 of the principal act to delete two crucial grounds upon which an election may be challenged by candidates, unduly limits the rights of candidates in elections to a free and fair electoral review process; “The amendment to Section 152 Subsection 325 of the Principal Act may raise Constitutional issues over the competence of the National Assembly to legislate over local government elections. “Please accept Distinguished Senators, the assurances of my highest consideration.” Since President Buhari has refused to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into an Act, Nigerians have been wondering what should be the next action of the National Assembly, and whether they will invoke their constitutional powers and override President Buhari’s veto, thereby making the amendment legal. Overriding Buhari’s Veto Depends On NASS Leadership – Ogun Hon. Sergius Ogun, a member of the House of Representatives, has said that the process overriding President Buhari’s veto on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, 2017, can only go be determined by the disposition of the leadership of the National Assembly. Explaining the situation and why it is necessary for the National Assembly to take a second look at the bill with a view to of representing it to the President or override his veto Hon. Ogun, said that a lot of efforts go into passing a bill, making it difficult for the lawmakers to accept it if the President withholds his assent. He said: “Now, you draft a bill, send it to the Speaker for signing, then it is listed for first reading by the Committee on Rules and Business, where the long title is read. “It now comes back for second reading, where the general principles of the Bill are thoroughly debated. From there, it goes to the committee for public hearing, which is advertised and consultants are engaged to provide expert opinions. “Views are collated and a report is produced. Same are considered and adopted by the House and then sent to the Senate for concurrence. And when there are disagreements, a conference committee is set up to harmonise grey areas after which a clean copy would be produced. “It is that clean copy that is transmitted to the President for assent, and considering the layers of work and resources put into it, no lawmaker would be happy to see it rejected. “It can be painful to hear that the President would not sign a bill into law, which so much efforts have gone into. But the President also has advisers who also constitute his legal team and all. So, it shouldn’t be a matter of fight,” Ogun said. He added: “Overriding of presidential veto is part of legislative process and that is  what we are going to do if it comes to it. “The president has the power to sign the bills into law, and in the event that he declines to assent the bills, we also have the power to override his decision and make the bill become law, and I think it’s for good Nigeria’s democracy,” he added. On if the National Assembly can succeed in the process of overriding the President’s veto, given the difficulties posed by constitutional provision that says 2/3 majority of lawmakers, as constituted, must vote against the decision, Ogun said: “It should. It depends on the House leadership. If they are determined for it to happen, it will happen.”  ‘The Lawmakers Can Override The President’s Veto’ Dr. Isaac Ideh Imudia, a Sociology lecturer, wondered why there should be controversy over the issue. He said: “I don’t see any reason why the issue of election reordering bill should cause any friction between the National Assembly and the President because the President is well aware that the duty of the National Assembly is to make laws and amend laws they made, if the need arises. “The President is also aware that his refusal to assent to any bill does not render such bill invalid once the National is able to muster the required members to pass it into law. “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has no role to play in this matter as they will only wait patiently for the amended electoral laws to conduct the next elections and that is what made them independent. “It is wrong for them to be arguing that they have already announced the election timetable and that the amended laws will alter their plan and incur additional funds. This is a hoax.” National Assembly Should Override Buhari’s Veto – Analyst Dennis Agbo, a public affairs analyst, said the National Assembly should quickly go ahead and override the President’s veto if he refuses to assent to the Electoral Amendment Act. Agbo said the President has no business in the sequence of the elections. “The National Assembly makes laws. The Executive executes. So, why should President Buhari interfere in the job of the National Assembly? He has no business there. “What we are talking about is comparative advantage. President Buhari should take charge of his area and allow the National Assembly to take charge of its side,” Agbo said. ‘Why It Is Necessary For NASS To Override Buhari’ Abdulaziz Momoh, a public affairs analyst, said 100 percent in support of the National Assembly to override President Buhari on the election sequence if that is the wish of other Nigerians. He said: “You see, our problems is that we attach or pay more attention on individual interests instead of the general interest of the Nigerian populace on such sensitive matters that have to do with the future of Nigerians. I am yet to understand the reason for that. “We are talking about how we can conduct elections that will guarantee that only credible people, with proven integrity, are voted for. If I understand what the bone of contentions has been, all that matter to some people is how Buhari will be voted in for a second term as if he is the only Nigerian that is without blemish. That is basically why I want the National Assembly to listen to the voice of Nigerians and forget about Buhari. “Again, I do not see the possibilities of President Buhari re-contesting because of ill health and age. Whether we like it or not, age is not on his side. That is why he is just managing to attend some few official engagements. Forget all the hullabaloo and padding here and there by his handlers and the very few that are benefiting from this government. “I was amazed with the excuse the state government gave on why the President could not come to Minna the last time he visited Sunti in Mokwa to commission one Sugar company, that is if they are telling us the truth. The Deputy Governor who briefed journalists ahead of last Presidential visit was quoted to have said that the President could not go through the stress travelling on a convoy from Minna to Mokwa, which is about three hours on road. Funny indeed! “A President cannot sit down in a car that is not only fully padded, but fully air-conditioned and in convoy which moves faster than ordinary movements on road for just three hours, while he is being driven by expert driver/riders. It is as good as to say that we don’t have a President. “You see, leadership is not by force. Nigeria do not need a President than cannot attend to their needs, or who is always giving one excuse or the other. All the lapses are not tenable in leadership because he (Buhari) cannot say he does not know that the demands are enormous. “So, when he started to campaign for the election, he knew that he was coming to work and not confined to Aso Rock with his wife and dishing out instructions or delegating duties at one function or another. President Buhari has been represented more at functions than where he himself is physically present. “We tend to make people believe that it is only Buhari that is a saint. I don’t want to believe that. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo was accused of plotting Third Term. When he was exposed, he had to quit. President Goodluck Jonathan wanted continued after completing late Umar Musa Yar’Adua’s mandate. He wanted to go for second term, but was booted out, willingly and honourably accepted electoral defeat. “We all know that he had the powers to force himself to remain in power. But, he told Professor Attahiru Jega, the then INEC Chairman, not to be discreet because he took Nigeria as being above his personal interests. “Now, Muhammadu Buhari came in through the popular vote and because Nigerians wanted a change, they voted for him. Now, it appears the drum for change is no longer louder. Nigerians can no longer endure the sufferings the change came with. It is only natural for him to honourably bow out so that Nigeria can move on. “So, the National Assembly should listen to the voices of Nigerians. Buhari is an individual. We cannot continue to die while he a Fulani man looks the other way while his brothers are killing Nigerians almost on a daily basis. Maybe, after killing we humans, they will rule over the cows they are protecting instead of human beings.” NASS Should Dialogue With President Buhari First – NCP Chief Chief Benson Ohakara Nwanne, an Owerri-based businessman and chieftain of the National Conscience Party (NCP), in his reaction, stated: “The National Assembly should not override Mr. President’s veto on the Election reorder bill for now. “They should rather exercise patience and dialogue with the President to find out the way forward. We still have enough time to hold the 2019 elections and for the NASS to override the President on this bill, it will inevitably over heat the polity. 2019 is a crucial year for us in our march to greatness and we cannot afford to toy with it. “Politics is a sensitive game and once your partner begins to give you the impression that he can do without you and that you do not matter in the act, you retreat into your shell and fight back later.” ‘There Is Nothing Wrong For NASS To Override Buhari’s Veto’ Chief Onyeuloka Ihedioha Kelvin, a former House of Representatives aspirant for the Owerri Federal Constituency seat under the platform of Labour Party (LP), maintained that the National Assembly should discharge its statutory functions as enshrined in our constitution. According to him, “there is nothing wrong for them to override the president veto on the bill you are talking about. Is this not in our constitution? Or, do you want to encourage dictatorship? “Let the National Assembly do what it believes is in our best interest no matter whose ox is gored.” It Is Politics And The Senate Knows What To Do – PDP Chief Dr. Wilson Imogan, the State Auditor of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Commissioner for Health in Edo State said: “Well, it is politics. The Senate knows what to do. It is not the Executive that amends the law. “ It is the elected members of the National Assembly and if the Assembly in its wisdom chose to reorder and the President says no, he will not accept, if the National Assembly has the two-thirds majority, they can override the President. But, the President gave reasons. So, let them exploit that reason. If he still refuses, the lawmakers know what to do. Two-thirds majority overrides him.” ‘It Is Not Right For Buhari To Withhold Assent To The Bill’ Abdullahi Usman, a retired civil servant, said: “It is not right for the President to withhold assent to the bill. But again, it is important that Nigerians find out why he is refusing to act accordingly, or is delaying in assenting to the Electoral Act, even when many notable Nigerians, including the youths, have come out openly to support it, because, many Nigerians have seen the negative consequences of this bandwagon thing that predominantly played out during last election, which brought this government in power in 2015. “It is not surprising that Buhari is not in a hurry to accept to sign anything that could jeorpadise his chances of continuing in office beyond next year if he is interested in recontesting. Sincerely speaking, I have noticed a lot of secrecy by this government and that made people like us begin to wonder if some people in this government really know what democracy is all about and I don’t think this is healthy for our democracy. “I am among the Nigerians that would have loved to ensure weather or President Buhari is medically fit to re-contest next year, because, he is not just himself as a leader, it appears some people are using him to secure a space for themselves because he seems not in charge of what is happening in Aso Rock… “The Electoral Act amendment, as being clamoured by Nigerians, will definitely affect the entire electoral landscape, because, first and most importantly, you will be voted into any office based on your personal merit and that is what Nigerians want, no more bandwagon thing, whereby if the President is of a particular party, the campaign and voting pattern will follow same pattern. No! “So, the President Buhari withholding assent to the Electoral Act amendment is simply because it will affect him and so many of his supporters who are already believing that it is going to be business as usual in 2019 election. Nigerians by the clamour for the review of the Electoral Act, showed that they want to decide who comes after Buhari. Even if he will come back, let Nigerians decided instead of scheming to manipulate the elections “I think it is only wise and respect for the wishes of Nigerians if the President will listen to popular voice and not that of few individuals in the corridors of power, who do not wish him well but only interested in their personal gains above the sufferings and excruciating pains Nigerians are going through. So, there is nothing wrong if the National Assembly overrides President Buhari’s veto. It may even be in the public interest if the lawmakers do so.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.