Lagos – National table tennis coach, Nosiru Bello, has challenged his players for the forthcoming Commonwealth Games in Australia to improve on their last outings at the Games. “Our target is to do better than what we did in 2014. The players are quite aware of this and we hope they will live up to expectations and not disappoint us,” Bello said. SATURDAY INDEPENDENT gathered that Aruna Quadri top the list of players named by Nigeria Table Tennis Federation (NTTF) for the Games. Also listed are, Segun Toriola, Jamiu Azeez, Portugal-based Bode Abiodun, who is Quadri’s teammate at Sporting, and Italy-based Omotayo Olajide. Quadri, who is Africa’s second ranked player, won silver at the ITTF Africa Top 16 in Kenya after losing to Egyptian rival Omar Assar. Toriola, who has featured in seven Olympics, last featured in the ITTF Africa Top 16 in Kenya, where he lost at the quarter-final to Congo’s Saheed Idowu. Olajide is Nigeria’s second best player and ranked 207 by the ITTF, Azeez is the 2016 and 2017 national junior champion, while Abiodun last competed at this year’s Nigeria Open, where he upset Quadri in the round of 16 of the men’s singles. In para-table tennis, Holland-based Tope Ogunsanya (male) and Faith Bazuaye (female) will represent the country at the Games. Bello in defending the players, said they were selected on current form. Bello explained: “Aruna is the best Nigerian player currently and no one can dispute that. Toriola is experienced and has proved many times he can deliver on the international scene. “He is also doing well in Italy while Bode is also in good form. Jamiu is on the team to learn more and build his confidence. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.