The president of Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), Comrade Bobboi Kaigama, yesterday said literacy injustice against Nigerian women was unprecedented and implored the Federal government to nip the development in the bud. He spoke in Lagos at the 2018 International Women’s Day Celebration, where he emphasised that giving women literacy opportunity will increase their earning power and give their children a brighter future. He said: ’’The news is everywhere that about 110 young girls have been abducted in Dapchi, Yobe State by the Boko Haram sect. Don’t forget that all the Chibok girls are yet to come back. On the front page of a national daily one of the escapees said last week that she will not go back to school again. That portends danger for the girl child. ‘’Literacy is a fundamental right for women .You must make your voice heard on the mindless abduction of young girls in our schools. I like to reiterate that life is a battlefield. Stay idle and you are conquered. Confront your challenges with wisdom and the world is at your beck and call’’ In her remarks, Comrade Oyinkan Olasanoye, Chairperson, Trade Union Congress of Nigeria(TUC) Commission, said the theme of the event, ’Press For Progress’’, should ginger women to identify their  strengths and abilities, inspite of the challenges posed by culture and the society. She said: ’’There is no better time to make this call than now when quite a reasonable number of women have succumbed  to situations and circumstances. This, to me is the most unreasonable thing to do in an environment like ours. ‘’As good managers and multipliers of resources, we can triumph if only we can push a little while. Accepting whatever is thrown at us is a sign of weakness. If we say we are not bunch of people incapable of doing reasonable things we must prove it in actions’’ She tasked women to press for emancipation with requisite sacrifices, saying the era of silence on salient issues that affect women and children is gone. ‘’I must say that as a mother I am fed up with the news of women suddenly becoming widows due to the unabated crises and killings in some parts of the country. I don’t know of any woman who will go to bed under such circumstances. What about the burden of training children in situations where spouses are more’?’’ 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.