Lagos – Stakeholders in the Transport industry have continued to pour encomiums on Senator Gbenga Ashafa, lawmaker representing Lagos East senatorial district and his team over  the passage of the National Transport Commission Bill which was passed by the Senate last Thursday. Dennis  Ogbebor, a stakeholder in the transport sector who said he was part of the stakeholders who deliberated over the bill said Senator Ashafa and other members of the committee deserve commendation for doing a thorough job and pursuing the passage of the bill to a logical conclusion. “ As a stakeholder in the transportation industry, I must say that the passage of the bill is one of the best things that has happened in the transport sector in recent times. Kudos to Senator Gbenga Ashafa and his team for a comprehensive job.  I appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to pass the bill into law as it will also generate huge revenue for the federal government”. “Transport is the connector of a greater world, a better economy and a brighter future. The National Commission Bill sets us on a path to making our transport sector better and more effective in delivering to this country the growth it desperately needs”. Also speaking, Jack Maduagwu commended the senate for passage of the bill, saying the need for a complete repositioning of the transport sector. “ The Joint Senate Committee on Land Transport and Aviation Transport have done a great job.  Nigerians may not know the significance now, but as a stakeholder, when the bill is passed into law, Nigerians  will begin to see a vast improvement amongst operators in the transport industry as well as a seamless transportation system in all parts of the country that matches international best staddards. The current version of the National Transport Commission Bill was sponsored by Senator Andy Uba and was read for the second time on the floor of the Senate on the 7thof October, 2015 after which the Senate referred the Bill to the Joint Senate Committee of Land Transport, Marine Transport and Aviation Transport chaired by Senator Gbenga Ashafa representing Lagos East Senatorial District. Ashafa and other members held interactive sessions with stakeholders in the Transport Industry to evaluate the bill including a public hearing to enable them diligently handle the bill before same was presented to the Senate for third reading. Commenting on the passage of the bill by the Senate, Ashafa expressed his excitement over the passage of the Bill having worked assiduously with other members of the committee and stake holders to ensure that the best possible version of the bill is passed into law. He said “the National Transport Commission when signed into law is capable of setting the transport sector on the path of positive development. With this bill, we would successfully create a multi-modal transport sector economic and safety oversight regulator for the transport sector. This is very good for business as it brings standard and structure to the transport sector while also increasing the revenue of Government.” “The Joint Senate Committee worked with the understanding that this is one of the priority Economic Bills of the 8th Senate and therefore ensured that all imputes from stake holders were considered and the best possible version of the bill was presented to the Senate.” Ashafa concluded by expressing appreciation to the Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki for his commitment to prioritising bills that would have great impact on the economy. The National Transport Commission Bill when signed into law will create a multi-modal transport sector economic and safety oversight commission, which will drive the National Transport Policy. 0 comments