Chief Victor Umeh, senator representing Anambra Central Senatorial District, was one of the several guests at the inauguration of Governor Willie Obiano’s second term in office in Awka last Saturday. Chukuwujekwu Ilozue had a brief chat with him. Excerpts: This appears to be the largest gathering of Igbo leaders in recent time:governors, former governors, leaders of Ohaneze Nd’Igbo and other Igbo leaders. What does this potend? Well, it was like this when we flagged off our campaign,  but the way the victory came created an opportunity for Ndi Igbo to rally round All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA).  And they have been demonstrating it since November 18 after that election.  There is no doubt that our people need a party they can rally around and use it to secure their interest in Nigeria. APGA, for obvious reasons is that party. Since then and following the governor’s victory and my victory our people have been thinking homewards. They want to use APGA to make that statement that Anambra people made on the 18th of November 2017. Beyond that we also saw a lot of South West representation. The Ooni of Ife, Governor Ayo Fayose among others were all here? Ooni has been very supportive of Governor Obiano and this is the time when people will explore friendship and relationship from across the country. Governor Fayose came,  yes he came and you know the way Nigeria is standing right now there is need for hardwork for any person to take leadership in Nigeria. The country is really very challenged and we pray that through the discussions on -going, we will be able to rediscover that we need each other. Nobody should be left behind. If things go in a manner that everybody does not feel a sense of belonging, the Nigerian nation will continue to suffer. The country is seriously facing crisis of unity and it is now that all those well-meaning people who wish Nigeria well will recognise the need to engage others in a manner that equity and fairness will drive our development process where everybody will have a sense of belonging. If you neglect any group, you lose power. It is very clear to me. How has it been spending your time in the Senate representing Anambra Central Senatorial district? I just resumed,  about two months ago. Since then I have been doing my utmost best to be part of discussion going on in the Senate and I hope to  over time bring the plight of Ndi Igbo to the floor of the Senate; how the Igbo question will be addressed in Nigeria. The Igbo people have not been treated well, whether they argue it from now till next year,  it won’t solve any problems. There are a lot of things the Igbo people need in Nigeria and they have been denied that. So, as we move on it will be part of national dialogue. This is the time for telling the truth. Anybody who refuses to give Igbos their due respect, refuse to give them their rights, I assure you for the next general election Igbos will not support that person. We want to see national integration where Igbo people have equal rights with the rest of the country. Anything they are doing in Nigeria, we want everybody to exist. We want Igbos to have their own rights. 0 comments