Abuja – Senators have expressed anxiety over the unwholesome developments in Kogi State and the attitude of Yahaya Bello, the state governor. The upper legislative chamber said on Tuesday that the developments had the potential to truncate Nigeria’s 19-year-old floundering democracy. The red chamber, as a result, resolved to investigate allegations of witch-hunt and harassment of Senator Dino Melaye (APC, Kogi West) by Nigeria police, allegedly at the instance of the state governor. The motion to this effect was moved under matters of urgent public importance by Senator Isah Misau (APC, Bauchi) wherein he called attention to what he described as “an ongoing harassment of Dino Melaye”. Misau cited a statement by the Force PRO in which the police claimed that some suspects had alleged that Melaye and Mohammed Audu gave them weapons and money to carry out atrocities in Kogi State, and that Melaye had been charged to court in the state. “Mr. President, from the intelligence that we have gathered from Kogi State, if we allow this, if police are allowed to be used to take Senator Dino Melaye to Kogi, there will be possible breakdown of law and order because there are supporters of Senator Dino Melaye and supporters of the governor. “For the past one year, we are aware of what is happening in Kogi. “If we allow this tension whereby even the security situation is bad and then you allow them to take someone who has problem with the state government and where their supporters are there? There will be problem. I think we are not doing good and risking the life of our colleague,” Misau said. Reacting to the development, Dino Melaye denied receiving any summons from any court in Kogi State or anywhere else in the country. “I’ll start by saying that I have not received any criminal summons from any court within the territorial area of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I also want to say that Mr. President, I have not received any arraignment notice from any court. “I also read in the media where Mohammed Audu (son of late Abubakar Audu) addressed a conference to say that he had not been served by any court in Nigeria. “My house is known, my office is known, and there was no attempt to even serve me any court summons in any of my known addresses,” he said. He explained further, “Despite the fact that I have not been served, an arraignment has been carried out according to the press briefing by Moshood (Force PRO). “No statement has been taken from me. So, I do not know what investigation was conducted, before the report generated that I have been arraigned according to newspaper and social media reports, but physically as Dino Melaye, I have not received any summons from any court.” Senator Abiodun Olujimi (PDP, Ekiti) on her part said, “The time is right for us to crystalise what he has been saying about Kogi and do something about it. Like Senator Misau has said, the only institution that can take action on this matter is this hallowed chamber”. Contributing to the debate, the Senate Minority Whip, Philip Aduda (PDP, FCT), noted that “looking at what’s happening in Kogi State, I’m afraid. “The state governor has continued to do whatever he likes irrespective of whether they are legal or not. “And the manner in which he’s going, he’s likely to truncate this democracy.” Senate President Bukola Saraki, before referring the matter to the committees on Police Affairs and Judiciary for investigation, re-echoed the concerns of other senators, saying that, “today it’s Senator Dino Melaye; tomorrow, it could be any of us.” He, therefore, directed that the committees turn in their report in the next 48 hours for further action. Reps Berate FG Over Collapse Of Security Architecture Meanwhile, the House of Representatives claimed on Tuesday that the once formidable security architecture of Nigeria was now in disarray. Members of the House argued that the situation had paved way for the ongoing killings and destruction of property by armed bandits and terrorists. The lawmakers also berated the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration for allegedly misplacing its priorities in the manner security forces were being deployed to tackle security crisis in the country. Almost all the lawmakers who spoke at the plenary held that the situation was growing worse by the day, noting that killings, abductions, armed robberies, amongst other criminal activities, were brought almost every week for consideration on the floor of the House without signs of these abating. The lawmakers insisted that the Federal Government had failed in its constitutional duty to protect the people. They insisted that the government’s failure had given rise to such statements as the one made by Lt-Gen. Theophilus Danjuma, former Chief of Army Staff (COAS) and former Minister of Defence, that the people should defend themselves against attacks and not wait for the military. The lawmakers expressed regrets that the country was under siege, stressing that the ongoing killings were gradually engulfing all local government areas of the country. Chika Adamu, who told the House that no part of the country was safe, lamented that the ratio of policemen to citizens was very poor, as it was unimaginable that the country had less than three hundred thousand policemen to protect over 180 million population. The lawmakers expressed sadness that the military were deployed to where they had no duties, averring also that many of those who were commanding the military had no business continuing anymore if they were unable to come up with innovations to redeem the situation. Their positions followed a motion brought before the House by Bosun Oladele who called for intervention in the spate of mindless killings, kidnappings, robberies and other violent crimes currently taking place in Irepo/Olorunsogo Federal Constituency of Oyo State. Oladele had told the House that killings and other violent crimes which were going on in some parts of the country were now being perpetrated in his constituency. He said those crimes, together with insurgency, that his constituency was presently facing had, no doubt, evolved from the displacement of the Boko Haram group from their stronghold in Sambisa forest. The lawmaker told the House that criminals and insurgents, often comprising foreigners from neighbouring countries, were finding their way into the country and were seeking safe havens in different parts. He said, last week, some of the insurgents appeared in the northern part of Oyo State, especially in Kisi, Igboho, Igbope, Igbeti, of Irepo/ Oorelope/ Olorunsogo Federal Constituency and over 200 villages and nearby settlements. Oladele told the House that the insurgents were present in a makeshift camp within the old Oyo national park and games reserve, traversing the constituency, spanning approximately 2500 kilometers of forest land. The lawmaker further disclosed that the bandits crossed the roads within the constituency to rob passengers, kidnap people to instill fear and to negotiate for and collect ransom randomly. He said when the bandits were not operating on the highway, they stormed the villages to maim, loot, and even kill in search of food, money, and shelter. He said the villagers, farmers and cattle rearers, who were attacked by these hoodlums were now taking refuge in Igbeti, Igboho, Kishi, thus sleeping in open spaces and overstretching limited resources. The lawmaker said that in the last three weeks, over eight people had been killed, and more than fifteen persons had been kidnapped for ransom, some resulting in fatalities and gunshot injuries. In view of his submission and the position of the lawmakers in support of his motion, the House presided over by Speaker Yakubu Dogara adopted the motion, and asked the Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Air Staff, and the Inspector-General of Police, to urgently deploy required men and materials to terminate the activities of the bandits and insurgents. It also urged the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants, and Internally Displaced Persons, and the National Emergency Management Agency to provide relief materials, shelter, and needs for the victims of the violence within the federal constituency. The House mandated the Committee on Emergency and Disaster Preparedness and Internally Displaced Persons, Refugees, and Initiatives on North-East zone to ensure compliance. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.