Lagos – Super Eagles technical adviser, Gernot Rohr, have kept his promise to give some new players chance to fight for shirts in the World Cup bound Super Eagles team. Rohr had said that some new players would be given a chance to prove themselves and if found good, could make the trip to Russia. And so, two new home-based players were invited for the friendly matches against Poland and Serbia. The two new players are CHAN Eagles’ stalwarts, defender Stephen Eze and forward Gabriel Okechukwu. “He wants the best for the team and also wants the team to excel at the World Cup.  And the only way to achieve this is to be fair to the players, both old and new ones,’ said our source at the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). Rohr has listed Captain Mikel John Obi, midfielder Ogenyi Onazi and playmaker Victor Moses in his 28–man squad for the pre-FIFA World Cup friendly matches later this month. Home–based goalkeeper, Ikechukwu Ezenwa, who kept the post for the last four World Cup qualifying games, leads the goalkeeping section and will be joined by new boy, Francis Uzoho and Daniel Akpeyi. Former junior international, Kenneth Omeruo is back among the defenders, as Joel Obi among the midfielders. Russia–based, Brian Idowu, who scored against Argentina on his debut in a friendly in Krasnodar last November, and Al Ahly of Egypt’s Junior Ajayi, who earned an Olympic bronze in Brazil in 2016, are also invited. Others invited are defenders Abdullahi Shehu, Tyronne Ebuehi, Olaoluwa Aina, Elderson Echiejile, Chidozie Awaziem, William Troost-Ekong, Leon Balogun, Stephen Eze. Wilfred Ndidi, Oghenekaro Etebo, John Ogu, Uche Agbo are midfielders. The strikers are Ahmed Musa, Kelechi Iheanacho, Moses Simon, Odion Ighalo, and Alex Iwobi. Nigeria will play the Bialo-Czerwoni of Poland at the 43,000 –capacity Stadium Wroclaw on Friday, March 23. Four days later, they will play Serbia at The Hive, London-home ground of Barnet FC and London Bees. These are the first two in a list of six friendly encounters planned for the Super Eagles by the Nigeria Football Federation ahead of the 21st FIFA World Cup finals in the Russian Federation this summer. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.