Abuja – The House of Representatives Committee on Telecommunications on Tuesday took a swipe at the Ministry of Communications for its inefficiency in the preparation of the documents on the Ministry’s 2017 Budget performance and 2018 budget proposal. The committee, which was on an oversight visit to the Ministry  in Abuja declined further discussions on the presentation after some of its members discovered many irregularities in figures quoted in the scanty documents meant to explain the performance of last year’s budget as well as the 2018 budgetary projections. After the Minister of Communications, Barrister Adebayo Shittu made his presentation, a member of the Committee, Anayo Edward, faulted his claim that the 2018 revenue projection of N1.3bn doubled the revenue projection in the preceding year, N600m. The minister had said that: “It is projected that revenue generation from sale of forms, spectrum licenses and renewal fees and other sources in 2018 would rise to about N1.3bn, twice the size of last year because of the envisaged installation of Radio Monitoring Equipment.” Anayo said it was wrong to say the 2018 revenue projection doubled that of 2017 because the difference between the two figures was more than half, explaining that such assertion was misleading. Another member, Abiodun Awoleye, pointed out lack of correlation in figures on pages of a document served members while he also criticised non-clarity of some of the figures quoted. Kehinde Odeneye queried the ministry for not stating the status of the Rural Telephone Project for which money was appropriated in last year’s budget, adding that the minister did not specify where the projects were located and if they were functional. Two other members were not comfortable with irregularities in figures quoted on pages of another document presented. Anayo asked the Chairman to discontinue the presentation because it was against parliamentary procedure to work on an incorrect or uncompleted document, saying that doing so would be efforts in futility. He urged his colleagues to reject the plea by the committee chairman, Saheed Fijabi that the Minister should be given the chance to answer questions raised by members. Awoleye who specifically pointed that this would not be the first time the ministry would be making an un-coordinated presentation and submitting incorrect documents to the committee, added that it would be wrong for the committee to entertain further comments on the presentation. Rather, he supported the suggestion by Anayo that the ministry should make a re-presentation. Admitting the errors and taking full responsibility for the irregularities, Shittu on behalf of the ministry apologised to the House Committee, saying that there was no justification for the inefficiency. The minister said, “I want to apologise on behalf of the Ministry. I want to take full responsibility for these mistakes and want to assure you that we will put our house in order. “I want to assure you that before the end of this week, we must have made necessary corrections and present a correct document to the office of the Committee chairman”, he promised. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.