Lagoa  – Joe Igbokwe, the Publicity Secretary of the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the criticisms credited to Moshood Salvador, the Lagos State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), against the Lagos State government as needless efforts to resurrect a dead party through vain grandstanding, empty and hollow promises that marked PDP’s 16 wasteful years in power. Igbokwe said he did not consider PDP as a credible alternative given its historic failure as a ruling party in Nigeria for 16 years where Nigeria became a cesspit for corruption, looting and impunity with not even one worthwhile project to outlive those wasted years.
In a release in Lagos Igbokwe said the PDP was desperately trying to get a life from the debris where maladministration, corruption and impunity landed it by picking out a wrong opponent in the Ambode regime.
He advised Lagos PDP to rather seek ways to apologise and atone for its destructive years in power instead of indulging in vain efforts to see itself as an alternative to APC and its government in Lagos.
“PDP is latching to the review of Land Use charge by the hyper active Ambode regime to seek the revival of a Party that is synonymous with corruption and incompetence in a Lagos that had been turned into a bursting centre of growth, progress and development in the last 16 years.
“This is a cheeky way that would not be allowed the surviving remnants of PDP. Governor Ambode is setting a pace in result-oriented governance and quick and classy deliverance. In reviewing upwards the Land Use charge and some other fees in Lagos, the Governor is driven by the desire and resolve to continue the landmark and record-setting infrastructural development of Lagos as he is doing since he came to power nearly three years ago.
“Lagos APC notes the complaints of well-meaning Lagosians about these reviews that had made the Governor to downwardly review the fees. We believe, that in line with his people-oriented inclination, the governor is still open to further engagement on these fees, which are meant to solidify the position of Lagos as the nation’s masterpiece in infrastructural development and growth. There is no place for a PDP that has a notorious history of corruption and unproductivity to play their sly politics here.
“We see as a cheap and mischievous solicitation for support the pedestrian and outlandish remarks Lagos PDP chairman made of the tolling of Lekki-Epe Expressway. His childish claim that the money used in constructing the road had been realised is a petty and cheap politics to curry an unmerited sympathy he and his party do not merit.
“This lie and false claim also reek with deliberate ignorance that flowers outside the technical and factual agreement on the concessioning of the road. We see his outburst as the mischievous trick to take advantage of Lagosians in his deliberate but futile effort to give life to a dead party. He has failed in this sly effort,” he stated. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.