Nigeria through the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), has been selected to lead other West African countries to pioneer the implementation of the Economic Committee of West African States Quality Policy. This selection was announced by Hermogene Nsengimana, the Secretary General, African Organisation for Standardisation (ARSO), during a 2-day capacity building workshop on the Implementation of the National Quality Infrastructure (NQI) in ECOWAS held in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire recently. Hermogene expressed the need to strengthen the regional efforts in implementing the ECOWAS Quality Policy (ECOQUAL) in spite of the domestication of the National Quality Infrastructure by all member States in their respective countries. This according to him, necessitated the initiation of a pilot programme to be championed by the National Standards Boards of a select eight- member countries made up of Togo, Benin, Sierra Leone, Burkina Faso, Niger, Ghana and Nigeria. The ARSO Secretary General disclosed further that in recognition of Nigeria’s strategic position in the implementation of its National Quality Policy, Mr. Osita Aboloma, the Director General, SON was nominated as the Chairman and Coordinator of the pilot scheme, with the Chief Executives of Ghana Standards Authority and the Nigerien counterpart nominated as Vice Chairman and Secretary respectively. In his acceptance speech, the Director General of SON expressed Nigeria’s preparedness to partner with other ECOWAS member states in the newly initiated pilot scheme to bolster the ECOQUAL implementation of harmonised Standards, removal of technical barriers to trade, improve intra-regional and international trade, protect the consumer, the environment and reduce poverty through the promotion of sustainable economic development within the sub-region. The SON boss said Nigeria’s selection was coming on the heels of its pole position among other ECOWAS states in putting in place a National Quality infrastructure for the nation. This according to him, is largely attributable to efforts put in place by SON to articulate a National Quality Policy which was achieved in 2015 with the support of the European Union (EU) and the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO). Mr. Aboloma said Nigeria thus became the first nation in West Africa to put together a National Quality Policy document which according to him is currently awaiting the approval of the Federal Executive Council of Nigeria. The SON Chief Executive disclosed that the status of the Nigerian Quality Infrastructure was at an advanced stage with a world class laboratory complex at Ogba, Lagos at 95% completion and a National Metrology Institute complex in Enugu also at an advanced stage of completion. Other achievements, he said included, the ISO Quality Management System certification of SON, the international accreditation of some of its Laboratories and on-going process of accreditation of its conformity assessment services including management systems training and certification. ECOQUAL is a policy ratified by member states of ECOWAS as the Abuja accord in 2015 to  harmonise standards of goods and services, balance trade and build capacity for regional testing and conformity assessment. The programme is being supported by ARSO, Afrexim Bank and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa. 0 comments