Despite exiting the recession, the high cost of rentals within the cities in Nigeria still remain subsistent. This has forced most renters to put up emergency structures at the suburbs or hinterlands. In most cases, the owners of these emergency structures are tenants either evicted from their former places of abode or who cannot continue with the constant rent increase and intimidation by landlords. This situation has given rise to what is now being referred to as One-room-land menace. APATA OYENIRAN, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH, NKASIOBI OLUIKPE and ANDREW UTULU carried out some investigations with some of the One-Room-Landlords. Excerpts: Towards the third quarter of last year, the country was said to have exited the recession with its attendant inflation rate which made the cost of living very high. However, the exit is yet to impact on the housing sector, because according to experts, it would take some time before it can translate to the sector. Expectedly, people still expend majority of their incomes on the most basic needs such as feeding and school fees. Houses which were initially rented before the now exited recession currently appear excessively priced because people are now forced to confront the obvious. Under normal circumstances, a renter is not supposed to spend more than 30 per cent of his/her income on rent. However, investigations by Independent revealed that most people in major metropolis in Nigeria expend more than 50 per cent of their incomes on house rents. Of recent, this has not augured well with the average Nigerian, especially, the low income earners as the cost of living is presently hitting the rooftop without a corresponding increase in their pay package. This kind of situation is beginning to force most renters to reconsider their stance as tenants. A good number of people, especially those who already have landed properties in the suburbs are now forced to go and develop their lands. Some of them don’t even wait to complete the construction before moving in with their families. These kind of tenants which are now common sights at such suburbs like Ibafo, Mowe, Epe, Ikorodu, Ofada, Odongunyan (Ikorodu), Owode, Ijegun, Ayobo, Lambe, Matogun, Magboro, Arigbawonwo, Orimerumu, OrunNkole, Matogun, Oke-Oko are called the ‘One room landlords’. While some executives spend millions on rented apartments at highbrow areas, their support staff are one room landlords in most of these suburbs. The reason is not farfetched. These days, it is difficult to see a face-me-I-face-you apartment to rent. Landlords no longer take pleasure in building face-me-I-face-you houses as it is not economically profiting to them. Even estate agents no longer derive pleasure house-hunting for face-me-I-face-you apartments because of the supposedly insignificant commission on them. Ironically, these are the kind of houses within the affordability of the very-low-income-earners who are now left with no choice than to go and put up a structure, no matter how miserable, where their incomes can afford. Even most of the old face-me-I-face you buildings are being converted to mini-flats, self contain or even two bedroom apartments. Landlords today find it easy to convert a face-me-I-face-you 12-by-12 inches room to self contain, cramping all the amenities (toilet/bathroom and kitchen) within the 12 by 12 inches space. By so doing, they increase the rent cost by more than double the initial rent they were collecting on the same size of apartment and land space. Sometimes, people are forced to move in with just the blocks for one room or two; they would roof the house and move in without doors and windows. This is understandable as the cost of construction is exorbitantly high owing to the fall in the value of Naira. Gradually, with time, they begin to buy and fix the doors and windows; do the plastering, the flooring and every other thing that needs to be done. It might take two or more years to finish. But people are happy being called landlords and saving themselves from the embarrassment of landlords. The matter is made worse by the attitudes of most landlords, who instead of considering the economic situation in the country and the fact that their buildings are not new, still go ahead to increase their house rents. This is the fate of the low income poor, who live in a country with embarrassing housing deficit, without any serious attempt at reducing or bridging the deficit gap and where there are no regulations by the government to protect them from the greed and selfishness of shylock landlords. In Nigeria, there are no loan facilities on which intending homeowners can fall on. In saner societies, people don’t build houses with their incomes but on single digit loans which are readily available and which are paid back gradually with ease. Ironically, the housing policies of successive governments in the country, which would have cushioned the effects of the deficit,have failed despite the continuous deductions from peoples’ incomes without any sign of them being entitled to any home. The Federal Mortgage Bank on its part,is said to be under-capitalised, making it difficult for it to disburse enough funds to the primary mortgage banks. The primary mortgage banks on their own parts are greedy as even when the Federal Mortgage Bank disburses funds to them, they use it to finance LPOs and engage in other quick returns transactions rather than their primary responsibilities of making funds available to intending homeowners. All these have left the average would-be Nigerian homeowner to his fate, leaving him to chathis own course. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.