Comrade Abayomi Arabambi is the Chairman of Labour Party (LP) in Ogun State and member, National Executive Committee of the party in Nigeria. In this exclusive interview with Dada Jackson, he speaks on a number of issues in  Ogun state and  Governor Ibikunle  Amosun’s performance so far. Excerpts: What can the people of Ogun State expect from your tenure as the new Chairman of Labour Party in Ogun State? Good governance, accountability, just, fair and equality before the law will be our hallmark immediately our Governor is sworn in come May 29th, 2019.  Our government will immediately declare a wholesome state of emergency in the education sector, infrastructure, agriculture and civil service.  The present and outgoing governor has destroyed these entire sectors. Our party and government’s main mission upon assumption of office is to start rebuilding the ruins and mess perpetrated by the grossly misguided, misplaced and incompetent administration of Gov. Amosun led APC clueless government. It seems as if the Labour Party in Ogun State is very quiet, how true is this now that you the substantive State Chairman elected on January 22nd, 2018? Well, you obviously has given a direct answer to your question because you said “it seems” but thank you for your inquisitiveness. In 2015, Gov. Amosun unilaterally shut the door of Local Government election against Labour Party in Ogun State simply because we are the voice of the oppressed and common man in Ogun State.  His administration disobeyed all forms of law in Ogun State and Nigeria by refusing to pay gratuities to retirees civil servants since 2011, after exposing this criminality, he then made payment to those ones he knows and short changing them by 30 per cent as management fees.  I challenge the governor to dispute this claims with facts to the public.  Our civil servants are living in poverty because Governor Amosun illegally retained over three  years co-operative deductions of these helpless citizens diverting the said deductions for road projects, non remittance of contributory pensions is now six years, no leave bonus, payment of pension has stopped.   Civil servants now eat one meal a day and managed other half with their children.  In Ogun State Model School constructed at the cost of 2.6 billion will accommodate a child at the cost of N3m per year.  But after we challenged the government about these, the Governor claims he has magnanimously reduced it to N400,000 naira per term and after much pressure from Ogun State Labour Party on Radio and other social media, on the 17th of August, 2017, a director,O. A. Ogunleye (Mrs.), of Secondary Education department, wrote to all parents via a ref nos Edu/55613/192 telling them that the Governor has further approved a reduction of 37.5 per cent and the fees is now N250,000 naira per year.  So, is this government not sick?  Is this government not incompetent? Is this Governor Amosun led administration not a curse to the people of Ogun State because we are still at a loss as to where the Governor expects an ordinary civil servant on N18,000 minimum wage to get such an outrageous and scandalous amount just to be able to give their children good education in government school.  I also demand from Governor Amosun why no single rehabilitation, renovation or reconstruction had been done on any of the existing 500 secondary schools and 1500 primary school.  But the Governor has N50 billion to waste on 20 model colleges with only one, Akin Ogunpola Model College, located at Akinale, Ewekoro Local Government that was partially completed till date, while others have now been a safe haven for criminals, snakes and other dangerous animals. We are also on top of our voices against Governor Amosun’s policy to suspend further payment of WASSCE fees and cancellation of free education which had been in existence since 1979. The Governorship election is around the corner, how prepared is your party? We are fully prepared and ready to take over from the present government and all the testimonies I have earlier enumerated will help us and the people of Ogun State now clearly see that Ogun State Labour Party that align with the masses and pro-poor.  On the other hand we have been sensitizing the electorate about the need to obtain voters card as that is the only weapon they have to vote out clueless, incompetent and corrupt government like the present APC administration.  They think they can perpetrate themselves in power but the electorate will shock Gov. Amosun come Governorship election in 2019. What is your take on the Governor’s position that any candidate the APC fields would emerge as the governor in the forthcoming governorship election? This statement  from Governor Amosun amounted to executive rascality, impunity, gross indiscipline, treason and threat to peace ,unity and co-existence of the good people of Ogun State. I am amazed that a governor who had crippled the educational sector by outright cancellations of WASSCE , destroyed the economy of Ogun State by plunging us into perpetual debt , destroyed our infrastructures , owing workers cooperative deductions spanning over two years , contributory pensions of about six years , paid gratuities since September 2012, has the audacity to say it is whoever he presents that will win the 2019 governorship elections even made worst as emanated from  an interview by Governor Ibikunle Amosun  with a news  especially the one on the gubernatorial race, Ogun state debt status, Dubious Mitros Rice production and Education. Let me expatiate more on the Governor’s statement as follows “You know why we have so many people in APC that want to be Governor? They know who is performing. Whoever APC present has won. I have warned them to go and prepare against the second term election if they want anything for them” “so help me forewarn those people that it is whoever we put down that will win the election”. What could informed the self-style demi-Gods in the lives of Senator Ibikunle Amosun to arrogate the power of Almighty God or could the APC sole administrator training militia or gun men who now rig election for him? Our party as a leading opposition political party condemned in strong terms this threat of war, political brigandage, use of force, cohesion’s, arrest, intimidation, threat to life and political rascality as displayed and exhibited by Governor Amosun. It is obvious the APC Government led by Governor Amosun is aware of his administration’s  monumental and colossal failure both economically and political. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.