Lagos – The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), yesterday, said it sanctioned about 39 erring filing stations in February for various offenses ranging from under dispensing, hoarding and selling above pump price. Mr Wole Akinyosoye, the  DPR Zonal Operations Controller, Lagos office, who disclosed this in Lagos, said  his agency would not hesitates to clamp down any stations found cheating the public. He said: “pursuant to the ongoing efforts to of Government to ensuring constant supply of petroleum products across the nation; the agency has redoubled surveillance at the depots and retail outlets in its jurisdiction. “We have been monitoring activities at the depots to gauge availability and ensure timely truck-out of available products. We have also intensified surveillance to ensure that available petrol is not sold above the N145.00 cap price at the pumps. “However, we noticed that some unscrupulous operators, aware that our officials cannot possibly be at all the 9,039 registered retail outlets in Lagos Zone at the same time often adjust their pumps to deliver at the cap price. “Whenever they sense DPR presence in their area and hike the price subsequently. We therefore, advise that motorists should insist on obtaining receipts for the purchase from such retail outlets,’’ he advised. He added that the department is expending all efforts to bring erring marketers to book through imposition of fines and suspensions in line with extant regulations. He specifically said: “We shall continue to expose retail outlets caught in underhand dealings and those sabotaging the government’s efforts at returning to operational normalcy in the zone.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.