Lagos – Chief Donatus Dunu, one of the victims of alleged billionaire kidnapper, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike otherwise known as Evans, on Friday narrated his 88 days ordeal in the kidnappers den before an Ikeja High Court, Lagos. The victim, Dunu was the last prey of Evans before he was arrested by the police in Lagos. While giving evidence before Justice Hakeem Oshodi, Dunu said he was abducted on his way from work at gun point. “I closed from work around 7:30p.m. when an SUV double-crossed me and a man came down from the car and pointed the long gun at me. He dragged me down and pushed me into the booth of their car. “I later discovered after my escape that I was  taken somewhere around Igando in Lagos. “Evans asked for my brother’s phone number and I gave him. They called my brother Anselm Dunu that I should tell him my bill is N1 million through a conference call. They were beating me that I should agree that I will pay N1 million and I told my brother. “They called my brother almost every day and they beat me whenever they called him, so that my brother will hear me cry. I asked my brother to start looking for where to borrow money and at a point,  they told me they have been able to raise up to N60 million, which I asked the chairman (Evans) to take and when I come out I will make the remaining money for him but he said my brother and I were saying rubbish. “I pleaded that euro was too hard to get and his boys advised me to ask him to give me discount and he came down from N1million to N500,000; that is about 50% discount. “He eventually offered my family 50% discount because it was Easter festive period.” Dunu further told the court that he overheard one of the kidnappers tell others that the best option was to kill him since his brothers were not acting fast in paying their one million Euro ransom. “I overheard one of the kidnappers tell others that the best option was to kill me since my brothers were not acting fast in paying their one million Euro ransom,” the victim, in the ongoing trial of Evans and others, Chief Donatus Duru, yesterday told Lagos High Court, Ikeja. “I prayed in the midnight of Thursday, before the Friday they scheduled to kill me, I wrapped the bedspread in the room where they kept me, round the shackles on my legs, like the one used to chain mad people, the padlocks opened up; found the kidnapper guarding me deep in sleep on a three-seater in the parlour. “I walked to the kitchen; found the doors open, then to the protector, eased my way through loose locks; and surprisingly found a ladder in the compound that aided my escape into the next compound. “I jumped into the next compound which was also a bungalow like the one I was kept, I sustained injuries in addition and I was looking very unkempt and haggard. The couple I jumped into their compound were scared. They threatened to call security in the street or the police. I told them to call the police. When they were about to do that, electricity went off and they abandoned me and went back to sleep. At that time, I realized that the kidnappers had started looking for me. So I hid somewhere till morning,” he narrated. The victim also said that people did not help him, thinking he was a thief, because they did not believe his story, except for a man who listened to his story and decided to call his wife and cousin through the number he provided them. “It was my cousin’s own that connected and he spoke with the man. “He then took me to Idimu Police Station, before I was referred to Ilupeju Police Station where my brothers’ initially logged the complaint of my kidnap. “I also led the police to the kidnappers’ den, where I saw Evans and the 2nd defendant. It was at Agege police station that I saw the 4th defendant known as Congo, who is from my home town. At the meetings, they pleaded that I should forgive them that it was devil that pushed them. During cross examination, counsel to the 1st, 2nd and 4th defendants, Olukoya Ogungbede reminded the victim of the statement he wrote at the police station, which stated that he was kidnapped in April but told the court that it was in February. Dunu however told him he made a mistake with the date. Justice Oshodi adjourned the matter till May 11, 2018 for continuation of cross examination and trial. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.