Lagos – Sergei Mavrodi, the Russian businessman, whose MMM pyramid scheme deprived millions of Nigerians of their savings put at over N100 billion, has died of a heart attack, according to Russian media. Reports said the 62-year-old was rushed to the hospital late on March 25 with pain in his chest but died several hours later. Mavrodi’s MMM financial pyramid was a typical Ponzi scheme in which earlier investors receive their profits from subsequent investors. Mavrodi promised returns of 20 percent to 75 percent a month, as well as lotteries and bonuses for investors. As soon as the number of new clients stopped growing, the pyramid collapsed, causing huge financial losses for at least 10 million people, in some cases leaving them destitute. In 1994, Mavrodi was elected as a lawmaker, a decision he later said was to ensure he received immunity from prosecution. In 1996, he lost his parliamentary mandate. In 2007, a Moscow court found him guilty of financial fraud and sentenced him to 4 1/2 years in a penal colony. In 2011, Mavrodi launched another pyramid scheme called MMM-2011, calling on investors to purchase so-called Mavro currency units in a bid to get rid of the “unfair” financial system. Some 15 months later, Mavrodi halted the project. From 2011-16, Mavrodi launched Ponzi schemes under the MMM brand in India, China, South Africa, Zimbabwe, and Nigeria. In many of those countries, Mavrodi’s operations were subsequently shut down or suspended. MMM started in Nigeria in November 2015 when it launched a new website for Nigerians, with the promise of 30 percent profit per month. The primary target of MMM was unemployed people. According to several estimates, the number of people that signed up by late 2016 was put at 2.4 million. However, after a year of work in Nigeria MMM announced the freezing of all members’ accounts. According to the company, the reason was “systems overload and the negative attention brought on by the government and mass media.” Panic set in among members when their accounts were frozen; surprisingly, MMM Nigeria reopened in January, 2017. Also, on February 11 the company announced the lifting of the withdrawal limits on 2017 mavro. Investors were angry because of the delayed and unfulfilled payments, and majority of members left the scheme. Though MMM came back, it could not regain the trust of the bulk of investors and failed to make the huge impact it had made when it was first introduced. Two leading regulators in the nation’s financial sector, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), told Nigerians at the peak of MMM transactions that it was nothing but a Ponzi scheme and warned them not to invest in it. SEC said the venture had no tangible business model, describing it as a Ponzi scheme, where returns would be paid from other peoples’ invested funds. Similarly, the Central Bank of Nigeria, in a statement by the Acting Director of Corporate Communications, Isaac Okoroafor, warned Nigerians to abstain from the activities of the MMM, describing it as an avenue to defraud investors through an attractive interest rate. According to the CBN, “These people always come with very interesting propositions. “These are fraudsters who are just out there to collect people’s money and run away as soon as they hit their target. “There is no insurance because the NDIC does not even protect them against such risks when they occur.” Regardless, some participants in the game saw the platform as a veritable avenue through which people of like minds could help each other cushion the current economic challenges. Subscribers argued that the scheme returned 30 percent or more on their investments, especially in the face of biting economic recession. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.