Barring any hitch, former Vice President of Nigeria Atiku Abubakar, will give a major economic speech at London’s Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House) at 10. am on April 25, 2018. The keynote speech entitled ‘The Importance of Strengthening State Economic Management Systems’ would unveil innovative solutions, which if  implemented would help Nigerian states come out from their current economic challenges and help to get Nigeria working again, according to a statement issued by the Atiku Media Organisation (AMO) on Thursday. The former vice president is expected to declaration his presidential ambition in the days ahead. According to political pundits, Atiku’s Chatham House date signals his seriousness this time around. Also, observers believe that the content of his speech, the purpose of his UK tour, would show a willingness to expand the scope governance if Atiku emerges as president of the country. The AMO release further itemised elements to be looked out for during the trip, stating that Atiku would also give another major keynote speech at the Invest Africa and British Council for Africa ‘Annual Debate’. He would be speaking alongside Dr Liam Fox, International Trade Secretary, UK Government, on the subject of “Building new trade partnerships in Africa” These speaking engagements are a follow-up to Atiku’s meeting in June of 2017 with Liam Fox and Prime Minister Theresa May, where they discussed the UK’s plan to increase trade with Nigeria post Brexit. During this trip, the former Vice President  would also be the guest of honour at a lunch on Nigerian inward investment to be hosted by Lord Anthony St John (former UK Minister for Africa) and be a guest speaker at Round Table of key UK business leaders interested in investing in Nigeria at the Institute of Directors, Pall Mall. The three-day trip would be capped by giving the keynote speech to UK Diaspora in the City of London on the subject of “Maximising the benefit to our economy of all our talents, wherever they may be.” “The visit to the UK by Atiku Abubakar, one of Nigeria’s most successful business leaders and foremost advocates for restructuring and free trade, is a continuation of his life-long commitment to find real solutions to help rescue Nigeria from its current economic crisis,” stated Paul Ibe, head of AMO. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.