Recently,Nigeria’s President,Muhammadu Buhari cautioned member  countries of Economic Community of West African States(ECOWAS) against forcing through the planned currency integration in the sub region by 2020. President Buhari who was represented by the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele at the fifth meeting of the Presidential Task Force on ECOWAS Currency Programme which held in Accra, Ghana noted that Heads of Government had not properly articulated and analysed a comprehensive picture of the state of preparedness of individual countries for monetary integration by 2020. Certainly, we agree with President Buhari. Notwithstanding the eagerness of certain interests within the sub-region to push through currency interrogation in furtherance of economic cooperation, the need to properly ascertain the state of preparedness of member countries of ECOWAS is critical in achieving the quest for monetary integration. The macro-economic fundamentals of many of the ECOWAS countries are as diverse and uncertain with inflation framework unstable and unpredictable. Whereas one of the primary attractions of currency integration is the convertibility of any adopted currency, the multiplicity of currencies has often been fingered as a crucial impediment to trade expansion within the ECOWAS. A region-wide currency would eliminate this obstacle. However, the need for a monetary union within ECOWAS has thrown up the imperative of macroeconomic policy coordination among ECOWAS member countries. Towards achieving economic integration, a set of benchmarks and performance indicators expected to guide national economic policies during the transition period were adopted to facilitate inter-country comparison of economic performance. The macroeconomic convergence criteria set for each of the countries include: achievement of budget deficit/GDP ratio (excluding grants) of not more than 4 per cent; Inflation rate of not more than 5 per cent; Central Bank financing of budget deficit of not more than 10 per cent of previous year’s; and gross external reserves of at least six months of imports cover. Unfortunately, no member-country has been able to satisfy all the convergence criteria. In the prevailing circumstances where none of the countries has fully met the conditions for the planned monetary integration, hasty commencement of currency integration in the sub-region would be counterproductive. It is imperative to reiterate that member states should push for the ratification and domestication of legal instruments and the related protocols. The harmonisation of all fiscal, trade and monetary policies and statistical systems also become imperative with a view to limiting the extent of current policy divergences. There is also the need to synergise activities of Francophone West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA) and those of ECOWAS towards engendering clear roadmap towards de-linking the CFA from the French treasury. There is the need to avoid the hasty decision that led to the introduction of ECOWAS Travellers Cheque some years ago which could not even survive beyond one year.  While   ECOWAS regional currency is good especially because of its advantages of a large market and broader goals of regional integration, achieving the laudable objectives by 2020 would not be feasible considering the challenges.  Rather, the dream of ECOWAS regional currency should be a work in progress while all outstanding issues are extensively engaged and resolved. Moreover, the objective of monetary union should not be allowed to distract attention from addressing the serious domestic problems across the region. Commitment of member states to addressing domestic challenges would buoy the economies of the sub-region by removing obstacles to trade posed by tariffs, other forms of protection, poor transportation infrastructure, and divergent regulations and codes. Strengthening of mutual surveillance should be used to provide  effective  channel for each country to benefit from regional integration. Rather than dissipating energies on short deadlines for monetary union, the member countries of the sub-region should reinforce convergence on low inflation, sustainable fiscal policies, and structural policies necessary for strong growth. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.