Lagos – The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Apapa Premier Port Command, has generated N24,803,004,087.58 revenue to the Federal government’s  coffers in the February, 2018. This was against the sum of  N24,767,852,067.58  generated  in the preceding year. The revenue, however, fell short of what the command achieved in January this year, which stood at N31,015,084,626.85 due to a slight fall in importation in February. INDEPENDENT investigation revealed that the fall in cargo throughput into the country during the period was due the early yearlong holidays observed by manufacturers in the People’s Republic of China which accounted for the bulk of imports into Nigeria. The Comptroller of the Command, Jibrin Musa, had recently intercepted 4×40 foot containers of banned drugs valued at N110,016,524.00. He said the command started the year 2018 on a very positive and optimistic note, particularly in anti-smuggling drive and revenue collection efforts. He noted that the level of compliance among the stakeholders, particularly the importers, shipping companies and their agents had improved and by extension, assisted in promoting the Executive Order on the Ease of Doing Business mantra in the command. Speaking on the drop in revenue in February 2018, the Customs boss, said revenue was a function of import, adding that when there is an increase in importation, the revenue will equally increase and when there is drop, the revenue also drops. “Let me further use this opportunity to inform our teaming stakeholders that the NICIS 11 training which was flagged off in other commands of the Service will soon take off and the software is about to be deployed into Apapa Area Command. The idea is by the time the software becomes fully operational, we would have blocked almost all revenue leakages, thereby increasing not only our revenue profile but compliance level. I, therefore, call on all stakeholders who operate within the larger value chain to fully embrace the new application which is faster, more efficient, all-encompassing and will provide an opportunity for seamless cargo clearance,”  Jibrin said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.