For 32 days, 110 girls from a college in Dapchi were abducted in a style reminiscent of the Chibok girls kidnap nearly five years ago. Though the abductor, Boko Haram, who were also responsible for the Chibok saga earlier this week released 75 of the Dapchi victims, NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE, in this report does a recap of the girl’s ordeal, the bleak future of child education in the North and the fears of the traumatised students in the days ahead. For the 104 out of 110 girls of the Government Girls Science and Technical College, Dapchi, situated in a rustic settlement just outside Gaidem, military garrison of the state and also near Damaturu, state capital, all in Yobe, one nightmare ends when another begins as they start life of serious contemplation after abduction by men believed to be operatives of Boko Haram. 32 days ago, insurgents wielding guns materialised seemingly from nowhere and whisked them away from their boarding facilities in school. While in captivity, they were witnesses to the death of five of their school colleagues. While 104 of them have regained freedom, five, unfortunately, died while being held by the insurgents, the last one is still being held for religious reasons. The girls, probably, will still agonise over the death of their schoolmate and how they had them buried. Then there is the question of the one still left in the hands of the insurgents. In fact, the case of Leah Sharibu, one of the very few Christians abducted in Dapchi, is another cause for future fears. Leah, according to reports, is still being held over her stands on her religion. She is Christian, according to the reports, and the insurgents insist that she must convert before being released. How does this whole incident impact on the lives of these unfortunate girls in the days ahead? The young girls may have been thrust into national and international limelight only equal to that of over 100 of their compatriots similarly abducted from the Government Girls Secondary School, GGSS, Chibok in 2012 and later released by the same group of insurgents in the backwater settlement in Borno state, the girls will still have to leave with the aftermath of the incident.   Like the Dapchi episode, not all who were kidnapped in Chibok made it back. As at today, about a 100 of the Chibok girls are still missing despite the many efforts at effecting their rescue. As federal government fetes and pampers the rescued girls, in the days ahead, they probably await further incentives to help assuage their trauma in the hands of the Boko Haram captors. The girls, their parents and other schoolgirl guardians especially in the North-Eastern states must be seriously contemplating the future of the girl child who seeks education in that part of the country. For the Dapchi girls, 19, February, could have been any other day in school, except for some sense of foreboding, perhaps engendered by snippets of warning that something bad was imminent in the vicinity. As gathered, locals had begun seeing the strange infiltration of heavily armed bandits in the locale between 2:00 pm and 6:00 pm on February 19. And at least five calls were made to tell the security services that Islamist fighters were in the Dapchi area. Locals said they spotted about 50 members of the Islamic State group affiliate in a convoy of nine vehicles in Futchimiram, about 30 kilometers (19 miles) from Dapchi, then at Gumsa. In Gumsa, where Boko Haram stayed until about 5:00 pm, residents phoned ahead to Dapchi to warn them. The convoy arrived at about 6:30 pm and left about 90 minutes later. If the girls harboured fears over these prevailing alerts at the time, proved a little too late. Like the Chibok instance, the girls were besieged and 110 of them were herded like cattles into waiting trucks. Like the case of the Chibok some five years ago, the federal government and the security agencies proved as ineffective. Doing a total recap of efforts at rescuing the girls, Amnesty International was unsparing on the security forces on their lapses. Amnesty claimed the military was warned about the arrival of the heavily-armed jihadists — yet failed to act. In the hours that followed both attacks, the authorities also tried to claim the girls had not been abducted. Amnesty’s Nigeria director, Osa Ojigho, said, “no lessons appear to have been learned from Chibok” and called for an immediate probe into what she called “inexcusable security lapses.” “The government’s failure in this incident must be investigated and the findings made public — and it is absolutely crucial that any investigation focuses on the root causes,” she added. Why were insufficient troops available? Why was it decided to withdraw troops? What measures have the government taken to protect schools in Northeast Nigeria, and what procedures are supposed to be followed in response to an attempted abduction?” These are questions she asks. The global rights monitoring advocacy giants, whose researchers spoke to about 23 people and three security officials, said the army command in Geidam had told callers they were aware of the situation and were monitoring. Police in Dapchi promised to tell divisional commanders, while army commanders in Geidam and Damaturu were also alerted during the attack. People in Dapchi have previously said troops were withdrawn from the town earlier this year, leaving only a few police officers. The nearest military detachment was an hour away. The Dapchi abduction has thrown into doubt repeated government and military claims that Boko Haram is on the brink of defeat, after nearly nine years of fighting and at least 20,000 deaths. Boko Haram, which has used kidnapping as a weapon of war during the conflict, has not claimed responsibility but it is believed a faction headed by Abu Mus’ab al-Barnawi is behind it. Unlike the case in Chibok though, the majority of the Dapchi girls were returned and barely over a month of capture. But rather assuage feelings, boost confidence and perhaps help the girls quickly put the trauma aside, there are even more questions and uncertainties in the matter. According to reports, the Boko Haram insurgents upon returning the girls have further embarked on a propaganda; warning parents in the town to desist from sending their girls to school. As it is, it is still not Uhuru for Dapchi Girls. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.