Turkish prosecutors ordered the arrest of 154 people including navy officers, teachers and unionists over alleged links to the Islamic preacher accused of orchestrating a 2016 attempted coup, state media said on Friday. Police launched operations across five provinces to detain 16 naval officers, seven of them serving and nine previously expelled from the armed forces, over links to the US-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, Anadolu news agency reported. In a separate investigation, the Ankara chief prosecutor’s office ordered the arrest across Turkey of 66 teachers, previously removed from their posts, over links to Gulen’s movement, Anadolu said. It said 72 officials from a labor union confederation which had been closed under a government decree were also set to be detained in a third probe across more than a dozen provinces. Gulen, who has lived in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania since 1999, has denied involvement in the July 2016 failed putsch in which more than 240 people were killed. Under a crackdown since then, more than 50,000 people have been jailed pending trial over alleged links to Gulen, while 150,000 people have been sacked or suspended from jobs in the military, public and private sectors. Meanwhile, a Turkish court in the Kurdish city of Sanliurfa sentenced opposition lawmaker Dilek Ocalan to two years and six months in prison after finding her guilty of “terrorist propaganda.” Ocalan, a member of the pro-Kurdish Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP), is the niece of the imprisoned Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) founder, Abdullah Ocalan. Kurdistan 24’s Diyarbakir bureau reported that Sanliurfa’s central criminal court, known in Turkey as a heavy penal court, deemed her attendance at a 2016 funeral for fallen PKK fighter Mehmet Yilmaz a crime. Ocalan was not present at the sentencing. Prosecutors were demanding up to five years in jail for her “behavior during the funeral procession that condoned violent acts by the terrorist organization.” A speech she delivered in Kurdish while at the funeral was also presented as evidence during the trial. The same court is also trying MP Osman Baydemir for attending the same funeral, in Sanliurfa’s Viransehir district, and, like Ocalan, for a speech he made while there. His lawyers said they needed time for defense, an argument the judge approved, postponing his trial. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.