Lagos – The new Customs Area Comptroller, Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos Command, Mrs. Jayne Shoboiki,  has called for collaboration among various security agencies at the airport. She stated these yesterday during her visits to the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Airport Command and the Nigeria Air Force (NAF). Shoboiki, who also visited the offices of the Nigeria Police, Department of State Security (DSS) and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) at the international wing of the Lagos airport, said that through effective synergy among the security agencies, threats and loopholes in the system would be blocked. In her brief speech at the Immigration office, Shoboiki urged the Command to continue to work as a team with the Customs at the airport, saying that both government agencies were at the command to improve the image of the country especially with foreigners who, apart from revenue generation for the government. She observed that about 80 per cent of foreigners already had negative impression of Nigeria, but noted that through dedication to duties by officers at the airport, such negative impression could be corrected. “It’s necessary for me to come around to visit the sister agencies; we have a common goal of security, revenue generation for the Federal Government. We need to collaborate together to meet the demands of the government. I am wholeheartedly soliciting for your support”, she said Responding, the Comptroller, NIS, Mr. Dikko Yashe, promised to the support of the command to the Customs. He reiterated that both agencies were working for same goals of security and revenue generation for the government and therefore should not see each other as rivals, but rather as partners in progress. Yashe urged Shoboiki and her team to continue the good relationship between the two parties, stressing that with this, insecurity would be minimised. He also called for information sharing on security within the command. At the NAF office, Shoboiki was welcomed by the Air Force Commandant, Mr. Francis Ankeli who like Yashe promised the support of the command to the NCS. Ankeli, however, said that apart from securing the airport, the command also participate in Air Traffic Service, which he said was essential especially during industrial actions by Air Traffic Controllers (ATC). 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.