Abuja – Justice Nnamdi Dimgba of the Federal High Court, Abuja, has okayed the trial of Robert Aziboala, cousin to former President Goodluck Jonathan, and his company, OnePlus Holdings Ltd. Justice Dimgba gave the ruling on Thursday. Aziboala and his company were alleged to have received the sum of $40 million from the office of Sambo Dasuki, who was National Security Adviser (NSA) in Jonathan’s administration. Jonathan’s cousin was also alleged to have converted the money to his personal use. But the court discharged and acquitted Robert Aziboala’s wife, Stella, of all the nine-count charge levelled against her by the Federal Government. While discharging Stella, in respect of counts 2 and 3, the judge was of the view that, “Just because Mr. Aziboala is a spouse of the 2nd defendant, is not enough to charge her. Criminal liability is personal; it is not vicarious.” Justice Dimgba gave the verdict in a no-case-submission made by the defendants in their criminal trial. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had, in 2016, preferred a seven-count charge against Aziboala, his wife, Stella, and their company, OnePlus Holdings Ltd, over an allegation that they received $40 million contracts from the embattled former National Security Adviser, Col Sambo Dasuki. The defendants were arraigned on June 7, 2016, and were subsequently granted bail to the tune of N500 million each. On April 27, 2017, they were re-arraigned on a nine-count amended charge dated April 19, 2017. In the course of the trial, the prosecution counsel called 10 witnesses and tendered 27 documentary evidence in a bid to prove its case against Aziboala, his wife, Stella, and their company. However, as the prosecution closed its case, counsel to the defendants, Chris Uche (SAN), filed a no-case-submission, insisting that the Federal Government had failed to establish a prima-facie case that would warrant them to enter defence. The no-case-submission was dated February 15, 2018, but was filed on February 19, and brought pursuant to Section 303 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015. Uche, in adopting his no-case-submission on March 16, 2018, prayed the court to discharge and acquit the defendants. Ruling on the no-case-submission, Justice Dimgba held that Aziboala (1st defendant) and his company, OnePlus Holdings Ltd (3rd defendant), have an explanation to make in respect of counts 2 and 3. It was claimed that the $40 million released from the office of the former NSA to Aziboala and OnePlus Holdings Ltd was meant for the procurement of tactical communication kits. “Counts 2 and 3 are basically the same. The difference is that count 2 borders on possession of the sum of $40 million while count 3 was hinged on conversion of the said amount,” the court stated. It added: “Having reviewed the oral and documentary evidence tendered by the prosecution through its witnesses in respect of counts 2 and 3, this court holds the view that there is good reason for the 1st and 3rd defendants to proceed with their defence. The court said there was no evidence to show that such tactical communication kits were supplied. According to Justice Dimga, “In the absence of any evidence to show supply of the tactical communication kits, the 1st and 3rd defendants are in a position to explain what the fund was used for. “By the exhibits, the sum of $40 million was sent to the 3rd defendant purportedly for the supply of tactical communication kits for Special Forces on the instruction of former NSA, Col Sambo Dasuki. “But there was no evidence that any such thing was supplied even though there were some suggestions in exhibits that the sum was for some other security assignments. “In the absence of any evidence for the supply of the tactical communication kits, the consideration for the transfer of the $40 million needs to be established. “I do not, therefore, believe that the no-case-submission should succeed in relation to these counts. “However, appraising the evidence adduced in respect of counts 2 and 3, I am of the view that the evidence can only support a prima facie case against the 1st and 3rd defendants.” “On the whole, there is sufficient prima-facie case made out by the prosecution against the 1st and 3rd defendants. “The no-case-submission in respect of these two counts is refused,” the court held. Meanwhile, the court absolved Robert and his company of any wrongdoing in 7 counts, which were counts 1, 4, 5,6,7,8, and 9. In dismissing count one, the court noted that the allegation relates to the offence of money laundering involving the sum of $40 million transferred to the domiciliary account of OnePlus Ltd from the ONSA account with the Central Bank of Nigeria. “This count relates to offence of conspiracy which needs to be established by the presence of an agreement among the 1st and 2nd defendants and one Amaobi Ovum to commit an illegal act as stated in the charge of the laundering of the sum of $40 million obtained from the account of the office of the NSA,” the court held. “Reviewing the evidence adduced, I see nothing to presume the offence of conspiracy. “That being the case, Amaobi Ovum – who served as a staff of Zenith Bank when the 3rd defendant opened an account – if as I find, the only relationship Amaobi had with the defendant was only a bank relationship link. “I, therefore, do not see any evidence of conspiracy to launder any sum of $40 million with Amaobi Ovum who is not a defendant in the charge. “If at all any conspiracy to launder funds existed, such a conspiracy would have been between Amaobi and the former NSA Sambo Dasuki, who in any event is not charged as a defendant in the charge. “And if there is no credible third party, I hold that the offence of conspiracy must fail entirely, given that it is legally impossible for the 1st and 2nd defendants to be found guilty of conspiracy on their own. “In the eyes of the law, they are regarded as one and therefore legally disabled from committing conspiracy,” Justice Dimgba stated. “All this considered, I hold that there is no prima facie case made to warrant the defendants putting up a defence in count one. “I, therefore, accordingly acquit and discharge the 1st and 2nd defendants of this count.” On counts four to nine, the court noted that, “All three witnesses PW3 to PW5, were witnesses brought by the prosecution to substantiate count seven, their testimonies, collectively assessed, did not raise any real case against the defendants to warrant them to be asked to open their defence. “It is clear from the evidence that, in the light of all the above, I hold that the no-case-submission of the defendants succeeds in part and fails in part,” Dimgba posited. The judge continued: “I uphold the no-case-submission in counts one, four, five, six, seven, eight and nine, and hereby discharge and acquit all the defendants in relation to these counts. “However, I dismiss the no-case- submission of the 1st and 3rd defendants in relation to count 2 and 3, and hereby direct the 1st and 3rd defendants to open their defence.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.