Abuja – After more than a decade of trying, the 8th House of Representatives, on Wednesday, finally passed the bill for an Act to Provide for the Governance and Institutional Framework for the Petroleum Industry and for other related matters, through third reading. The bill, which seeks to unbundle the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), provides for the establishment of Federal Ministry of Petroleum Incorporated; Nigerian Petroleum Regulatory Commission; Nigerian Petroleum Assets Management Company, and National Petroleum Company and Petroleum Equalisation Fund. Leading the debate on the report of the adhoc committee, was the deputy chairman, Hon. Victor Nwokolo (PDP, Delta), who explained that the regulatory bill would balkanise Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and create National Petroleum Commission which will take over the functions of Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). Nwokolo told the House that some subsidiaries of the NNPC had also been merged into an entity to be known as the Nigeria Petroleum Regulatory Commission. According to him, the House Ad-hoc Committee adopted the Senate version of the PIGB. Clause 3(2 & 3) provides for 10-year jail term and forfeiture of petroleum products and facilities for any person who fails or neglect to comply with a requisition to obtain all petroleum products made by or on behalf of the Minister in the event of a state of national emergency. As outlined in Part 3 of the bill, the Nigerian Petroleum Regulatory Commission shall be vested with all assets, funds, resources and other movable and immovable properties owned by Petroleum Inspectorate, Department of Petroleum Resources, and Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency. The bill further provides that, “Upon the recommendations of the new commission, the minister of petroleum resources can grant, amend, renew, extend or revoke any licence or lease required for petroleum production, pursuant to the provisions of the Act or any other enactment.” The power for issuing and revoking licenses was also vested in the commission, as well as the allocation of petroleum production quotas in a non-discriminatory manner. The commission was also empowered to advise the minister on fiscal and other issues pertaining to petroleum industry; establish framework for the validation and certification of national hydrocarbon reserves; undertake evaluation of national reserves and reservoir management studies, as well as conduct regular audits of the activities of operators engaged in petroleum operations and oil service companies in order to ensure compliance with Nigerian laws and requirements for petroleum operations. It also sought to create the methodology for determining appropriate tariffs for gas processing, gas transportation, transmission and transportation of crude oil and bulk storage of oil and gas. Also, the Commission is to regulate and set rules for petroleum products distribution, petroleum product pipelines, retail outlets, trucking or petroleum products and storage depots; develop market rules for trading in wholesale gas supplies to downstream gas distributors; ensure the security of petroleum products supply, market development and competition. When the bill was mentioned for consideration at the Committee of the Whole, only 30 members of the House of Representatives considered and passed the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) within 23 minutes (2:19 pm to 2:42 pm). Copies of the 191-page PIGB report, which was laid on resumption from Christmas/New Year recess on Tuesday, was slated for consideration barely 24 hours. Contrary to legislative procedure, clean copies of the 134 clauses was not circulated to enable them to make input during the debate. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.