Lagos – Lagos Youth Initiative (LYI), a coalition movement of all youth groups in Lagos State, has endorsed Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for second term in office. Sofuwam Ogungbo, chairman of the group, said the endorsement was borne out of the unprecedented achievement of the governor since he took over power in 2015. He said, “When you talk of achievement, even the blind in Lagos can see what Governor Ambode has done in less than three years, which cuts across every sector of the economy.” The youth leader particularly commended Ambode for his employment policy, which the youth are the greatest beneficiaries. He stressed that since the governor came to power, over one million people, majorly youths, had been employed as teachers, neighbourhood corps, traffic officer and cleaners across the 20 local government areas and 37 local council development areas in the state. The group, which said it played a similar role in the election of Governor Ambode in 2015, said it would organise a one million-man march in support of the governor’s second term bid on March 31, 2018 in Lagos. The march, according to the group, would start from Maryland to Freedom Park in Ojota. Speaking further on the endorsement, Adele Abdul-Hakeem, vice chairman of the group who is also the chairman of the one million-man march committee, said the achievement of Ambode was monumental hence the youth had no option but to tell him to continue for another four-year term. He said Ambode’s name would go down in the history of the state as the governor who spread development across the entire state by constructing two roads each in all the 57 local government and local council development areas. He said, “It is the first time we are witnessing the construction of two roads per local government in the history of Lagos State which Ambode commissioned in 2016. He has also gone further to increase the number of the roads to three in each local government.” Abdul-Hakeem said the permission of all security agents in the state had been sought in order to guarantee adequate security for participants during the march. He urged Lagosians, especially the youths, to show solidarity by enrolling in the LYI Ambode 2019 Walk portal. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.