Abuja – Zaid Jurji, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) Nigeria chief of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH), says about 25 per cent of Nigerians still practise Open Defecation (OD).
This means that out of 186 million Nigerians about 46.5 million people still defecate in the open.
OD contaminates the water sources, thereby causing diarrhoea and other water-borne diseases, he said.
Jurji made this known in his presentation ‘Moving Sanitation Forward in Nigeria’ at a two-day media dialogue on ‘Water Supply and Sanitation Reforms Sector Project’ organised by the Child Rights Information Bureau of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture in collaboration with UNICEF.
He graphically illustrated how the number of people practising OD in Nigeria increase continually.
The Joint Monitoring Programme on Water, Sanitation and Hygiene of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) stated that in 2000 Nigeria ranked sixth globally while Bangladeshi ranked seventh of countries practising OD.
“In 2011, Nigeria moved to fifth place and Bangladesh disappeared from countries practising open defecation. In 2012, Nigeria moved to third place and the number of people practising open defecation in India reduced, though they are number one.”
According to Jurji, “if this trend continues, Nigeria will only achieve 72 per cent coverage and we will not achieve Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 6 by 2030. Which means that, by 2030 10 per cent of the population of Nigeria will still be defecating in the open, and 10 per cent represents about 18.6 million Nigeria will still be practising open defecation.”
As a result of open defecation, less than 10 per cent of Nigerians get access to improved drinking water and over 90 per cent drinks water that is contaminated with feaces and E.coli.
He stressed that, “Open defecation in a vicinity of water source contaminates it. For water to be used, it has to travel from the source to the households and during this processes, the water gets contaminated. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.