Senator representing Lagos East Senatorial District, Gbenga Ashafa in partnership with Rotary Club Palm groove and Indo Eye Hospital has organised a free medical surgery for 160 constituents of Lagos East Senatorial District. According to a statement by his media team “This partnership is in line with the Senator’s commitment to provide complete sequence of treatment for all those diagnosed of different eye diseases at the Lagos East Senatorial District town hall meeting/ free medical outreach of 21st of December, 2017. The surgery to be performed on the beneficiaries involves Pterigum excision and Cataract extraction”. “The beneficiaries include constituents cutting across every age bracket and gender, including a 3-year-old child who would benefit from this programme as well. “The medical outreach which commenced on Monday 25th of February, 2018 will came to an end on Friday, 2nd of March 2018 when the last batch of beneficiaries were operated upon. On Saturday, 3rd March, 2018 the Senator joined his partners and the beneficiaries at  at an event which commemorated the opening of the eyes of the beneficiaries operated upon. This event took place at the Lagos Island General Hospital. Ashafa while delivering his remarks at the event expressed his appreciation to all who had made the free eye surgery a success particularly the sponsors of the event and called on all Nigerians to always contribute their quota to healthcare development and provision of health care to the indigent in the society. He advised that a lot more Nigerians should consider taking up provision of healthcare as a form of corporate-social responsibility and not wait for government alone to bear the burden of universal health coverage. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.