Kaduna – Supreme Council For Shariah In Nigeria, Kaduna State chapter, has criticised the statement credited to Gen. Theophilus Danjuma (rtd.), describing it as unfortunate. In a press conference on Tuesday, the council said: “It is quite unfortunate that the Nigerian citizens will still witness such an unguarded statement by a former player in the Nigerian project. “It is pertinent to note that a person of his caliber to openly call on citizens to take up arms, perhaps because of the demilitarisation being carried out by the Nigerian army, is a call to anarchy and also call to treason and treasonable felony. “Has the General forgotten that the genocidal killings in Odi Bayelsa State, Mubi in Taraba State, and Zaki Biam in Benue State are the worst ever recorded under his supervision as the then Minister of Defence? “One may tend to ask, how many children of the General still live within the Nigerian shores? Or is it because the oil well, which made him acquire a lot, is no longer under his care that makes him care less of the Nigerian state? “Or could it be true that the General is likely to be a conspirator in proliferation of arms in the region? “Is it because the efforts maintained by the Nigerian Army of neutrality and demilitarisation of the armed militias is yielding positive result, and the suppliers and conspirators may soon be brought to book to face the wrath of the law?” The statement signed by Yussuf Rigachukun, the BOT chairman, called on the Federal Government to invite, investigate and prosecute the General for such a most unfortunate statement in the presence of students who are known to be volatile due to youthful exuberance. The Council commended the Federal Government, especially on the successes recorded in the North East against the Boko Haram, the return of Chibok and Dapchi girls and the relative peace recorded in the country. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.