Chief Ebenezer Babatope, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Saturday said the exit of Prof. Tunde Adeniran and Prof. Jerry Gana from the party will not diminish its strength. Babatope, a former Minister of Transport, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) said that although the two politicians contributed greatly to the PDP, the party should respect their decision to leave and move on. It would be recalled that Adeniran and Gana, both former ministers, reportedly dumped the PDP for the Social Democratic Party (SDP) recently. Babatope said there was no need calling for their return to the PDP as they were competent adults. He stressed: “Both Prof. Adeniran and Prof, Gana were strong members of the PDP. Unfortunately, they have left. There is nothing anybody can do about that. “I am not one of those calling for their return to the PDP because they have the democratic right to join any party that suits them. “Again, they are competent and intelligent adults, who must have reasoned very well before they took the decision. “Even though the feeling might not be too good, being that I have known them for long, especially Adeniran, I cannot fault or stop their decisions. “I believe the PDP will remain strong even with their exit, as the party was built on strong foundations and not personalities.” Adeniran, he said, might have left PDP because of what played out during the last convention, when he vied for the party’s chairmanship position. Babatope said that he too was also affected by the incident, as his candidate, Chief Olabode George, had to pull out of the race in protest, even as he added thathe and Goeorge had put the issue behind them. “What the party did to us then was painful, especially the candidate I supported, Chief Olabode George. “Gov. Dickson, shortly after the convention, visited us on the way forward for the party. So, that is past. “We remain in PDP and we will never leave. I believe strongly in the PDP and its ideals. Both George and I will be in PDP,” he said. Even as Babatope wished Gana and Adeniran well in their new party, he expressed doubts that the SDP would evolve to be a dominant party before 2019, as political parties need time to develop. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.