Abeokuta – Parents of the abducted school girls from Government Secondary School in Chibok, Borno State, Saturday, said the return of 104 students of the Government Girls’ Science Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State has given them a renewed hope of reuniting with their daughters soon. The parents were in Abeokuta with members of Association of Parents of Chibok Girls and key members of Murtala Muhammed Foundation; the facilitator of the meeting, on a visit to former President Olusegun Onasanjo at his Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library. The Chairman of the Association, Yakubu Nkeki while reading a solidarity message from the parents to Obasanjo, however expressed mixed feelings on the return of the girls. He called on national, regional and global influencers and authorities to support Nigerian government to bring the nightmare in the country to an end. The parents expresses confidence in the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure the release of their girls saying that, unlike the past administration, Buhari has ensure open policy to the Chibok parents. Nkeki said the meeting with Obasanjo is one of the meetings they would be having to seek advice and counsel to garner high level support for the release of the remaining girls. The belief, according to the parents, is that the peaceful voice will galvanise action by the government and political leaders to protect students and ensure safe school policies are implemented. He said, “We are glad that our solidarity visit to Dapchi on Wednesday 21st March, coincided with the safe return of 105 girls and one boy.  We pray that others will also be there to share in our own joy when our girls come back home. “We call on national, regional and global influencers and authorities to support the Nigerian government to bring our nightmare to an end, and to take measures so that we can send our remaining children to school with peace of mind, and give them an opportunity for a better future.” The former President said God should not be blamed for their anguish saying the abduction was a test of faith that would make them stronger and matured. Citing bible passages from John 16 verse 33 and James 1verse 2, Obasanjo admonished the parents not to despair any longer, saying God who does no evil understands their plights and was capable of bringing succour to them in no time. Obasanjo also reminded them that as Christians, it should not be forgotten that they would experience tribulations and fiery trials in the world such as the one burdening them since four years now, and said God who allowed it, also had a good purpose for it. “I want to share with you some of my own thought about the sovereignty of God and what he can do. He is all knowing, powerful and can do anything. “I want to share some passages in the bible. Some of the passages in the bible have similar passages in the Holy Qur’an. (John 16vs 33). I have told you this that you may have peace and confidence in me, but in the world, you will have tribulations, trials and distress, and be undaunted for I have overcome the world. “That is our Lord Jesus talking  to his disciples and all of us who are Christians are Jesus disciples. Jesus did not say we will not have tribulations in the world, he said we will have tribulations, trials and distress. Our faith will be tested. “Whatever God allows to happen, he allows it for a good purpose, to test our faith and it is in testing of our faith that our character is shaped and strengthened. “I understand how you feel now, I understand your pain and your anguish, God never does evil whatever happens to strengthen and make us perfect. Never loose hope, faith and confidence in God, no matter the situation because He knows better,” Obasanjo said. 6 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.