Kenechukwu Okonkwo popularly known as Kcee is one of the music artistes that ladies drool over. In this interview with Ifeoma Ononye, the Limpopo singer who loves to call himself a ‘Lover boy’, speaks about his recent photoshoot that went viral, why he can never be intimidated by his brother and the role he would love to play in movies. The recent photoshoot you had inside a swimming pool went viral on Instagram, was it shot for a music video or you just wanted to shut the social media down with the hot look? I didn’t intend to break Instagram with those photos. The photoshoot was not for a video. I decided to cut my hair and change my looks. I felt that it was necessary to launch it properly with good photos so that my fans that are following me over the years will know that I have changed my look. People compared the pictures with that of an American movie star, Ryan Gosling; did you see the Ryan Gosling shoot before you did yours? Of course, I saw Ryan Gosling picture before I did mine. That was where the idea came from. You didn’t feel bad your pictures were compared to his? No, life is about recycling. I saw the pictures and I liked it. I felt it was going to look good on me. You are hardly seen in those kind of shirts, especially with suspenders? You are right that shoot was the first time I wore shirt like that with suspenders and all. After that shoot, I picked up the style because it looks nice on me. Would you say that that photoshoot is like unveiling the new style transformed Kcee, from the colourful flashy style to reserved? My colourful era was intentional. It was a market strategy. You know, sometimes, you need to carry your fans along, ride with them, they follow your lead. That period was what I wanted to sell and if you remember, I put up those colourful pictures and hash tag, fashionicon. I was doing it intentionally to trigger people to talk about it, which worked for me. It was always putting me in the news and on the spot. Did it affect you that they called you traffic light because you wear all the colours on the traffic light? I didn’t care because when they see me on stage performing, I don’t wear all those. I don’t wear them in my music videos but when I want to give them drama, I wear my rainbow. Tell us about the album you dropped few months back, attention to details It is a 20-track album. That is the album that unveiled the song ‘Desire’ ‘romantic call’ and many others. I have good songs there. I had a lot of collaborations with big artistes in the album like, Tuface, Olamide, Phyno, Patoranking and many others. How come with all these big names, one hardly hears of the songs? That is the way the industry is, since there are no videos, the music becomes slow. If you don’t have pictures to the song, it always slows the acceptance down. Most of the songs that are always popular are songs that have videos. If I make a video for them now, people will think I just release the songs. We will be doing the videos one after the other. Many are still of the opinion that the song Limpopo and pull over still beat songs on this new album? Everybody has his/her opinion and knows the kind of music he/she likes. I remember some people telling me that their favourite song is ‘O ga Adi Nma’. Limpopo is a great song, likewise, Pull Over. Those are my breakthrough songs. They are always going to be evergreen. It’s like saying that the only song Tuface has ever done is African queen, which is a lie. People hold on to those great songs and don’t want to let go. Anywhere I perform Limpopo, it feels like I just release it. In the song ‘Desire’, it sounded like you were directing it to a particular girl, who was the song for? It’s just music. It’s not like I desire anybody in particular but you can say that I desire all my fans. All the ladies that are my fans, I desire all of you. I wish I can have everybody, but I can’t. There are so many musical instruments here in your studio, which instrument have you learnt to play aside from guitar that was your first? None. No time to learn to play another instrument. It is not necessary to know how to play music instrument. Some great musicians don’t know how to play any instrument. It’s all about passion. Some play every musical instrument but nobody knows them. Some musicians can produce. I don’t know how to produce. I can only play the guitar. It’s not about how many instruments you can play; it’s about what God has for you. But if you really had time to learn to play another instrument, which one will it be? I will love to play the piano. You don’t fit that image of soul music artistes playing piano and singing at the same time, like Dare Art Alade kind of songs. I can do all that but that is not the market I am selling. My brand is different and I stick to my brand. Music is about how you feel. I am a jumping kind of musician. If I am performing, I want to be on top of the table, I want to be on top of the speaker. If I play the piano slow kind of music, I cannot have time to express myself. I have done some slow jamz. I have some in my album but that is not the brand I am cut out for. Do you have any project at hand? I just released a new song titled: ‘Burn’. It is not on the Attention to detail album. It is a new single for the year and it is doing so well already. The video is going to drop sometime this weekend. The song dropped about two weeks now. I did this song and I felt it is good and that my fans need to hear it. If you are asked to rate your Attention To Detail album, what will it be? I will rate it four over five. People rate the success of an album according to the hit song that everybody is singing. The ratings it got on radio and online was four over five; three over five, which is also a pass. That shows that the album did great. People always mistake E-money as your older brother, how does that make you feel? I get that all the time but we try to make them understand the truth. I don’t feel anyhow. It is normal everywhere. It happens in almost every home. He is our last-born. He came out with all the energy. The finer energy before my mum surrendered. I like the way I am. I have no complains. If I was bigger than him, I may not fit into the kind of business I am in because of the way I look. He looks the part for the kind of business he is doing. God knows how to share these looks. Have you ever felt intimidated? For what? I have never felt intimidated for anything. Would you go into movies like many other musicians that have been featured in films? Maybe, but I am not looking at that now. There is a possibility Do you think you can act? Yes, I can, very well. I have been rejecting a lot of scripts but I can act very well. What role do you think you can play well, gangster or romantic guy? Romantic now. I am a lover boy. Gangster what? I cannot do gangster. I can’t smoke hemp, except if it’s in the script. But with your tattoos and the big muscles from hard work in the gym, gangster would come easy to you? Well, it would be easy but I will kill it more when you make it romantic role. So you want to kiss Genevieve and other pretty actresses? They are in trouble. I will eat the lips. Are you targeting any actress in particular? I am targeting those that are targeting me. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.