The UN has again stressed the need to take decisive actions to stop discrimination against people living with HIV so as to end the epidemic. The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS) said in a message on the Zero Discrimination Day, marked every year on March 1, that discrimination is often based on misinformation or fear of the unknown. UNAIDS said by reflecting on people in everyday situations, on Zero Discrimination Day, UNAIDS is challenging people to recognise where everyday discrimination takes place and to take action to stop it. This year’s Zero Discrimination Day campaign invites people to ask themselves “What if …” and to reflect upon their own actions. UNAIDS said: “What if the person you bought your vegetables from was living with HIV? Would you buy tomatoes from him? “What if your neighbour had tuberculosis? Would you stop to chat? “Allowing discrimination to continue is not only wrong, it is bad for communities, bad for the economy and bad for the future”. According to the UN AIDS agency, discriminating against women affects food production. It added that women make up 43 per cent of the agriculture workforce in developing countries and yet only five per cent are able to access agricultural advisory services. The Executive Director of UNAIDS, Michel Sidibé, said: “We will never guarantee the right to health and end the AIDS epidemic if we exclude people. “However, huge structural barriers stand in the way of the health and well-being of millions.” He stressed no one should ever be discriminated against because of their HIV status, age, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability, race, ethnicity, language, geographical location or migrant status, or for any other reason. Unfortunately, however, he regretted, discrimination continued to undermine efforts to achieve a more just and equitable world as people faced discrimination every day based on who they are or what they do. According to him, access to health services is essential to prevent and treat HIV. “And yet approximately one in five people living with HIV reported avoiding going to a local clinic or hospital because they feared stigma or discrimination related to their HIV status. “Discrimination will not disappear without actively addressing the ignorance, practices and beliefs that fuel it. Ending discrimination requires action from everyone. “Zero Discrimination Day is an opportunity to highlight how everyone can be a part of the Transformation And Take A Stand Towards A More Fair And Just Society,” He Said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.