Lagos – Nigerian flag bearers Enyimba of Aba and Akwa United of Uyo in the second tier continental campaigns – CAF Confederations Cup – will resume actions this weekend in Calabar and Uyo in the quest for a Nigerian club to lift this format of the trophy which began in 2004 for its first time. The tournament founded as the CAF Cup in 1992, was modeled after the European UEFA Cup. It was the idea of the former CAF president, Issa Hayatou, who successfully made 1992 the year of African football – African Cup of Nations (AFCON) – in which 12 finalists participated in the competition for the first time in the history of the African competition. Thirty-one teams participated in the maiden edition of the CAF Cup and Nigerian club Shooting Stars F.C. were the first to hold the cup after defeating Ugandan club, Villa SC in the final. In 2004, the CAF Cup was merged with the African Cup Winners’ Cup and was renamed the CAF Confederation Cup, still following the European example of the UEFA Cup. Till date, Nigerian clubs’ search has continued with the best position been a second place by the defunct Dolphins FC of Port Harcourt in 2005 who were beaten by FAR Rabat of Morocco. However, fans of both sides are anxiously waiting to see how their darling teams could survive the second round hurdle to move to the final round which will take them to the money spinning round. Enyimba gave their qualification into the second round of the CAF Confederation Cup a huge boost following their 2-0 away win against Benin Republic’s Energie FC in their first-leg clash in Cotonou. The brilliant performance no doubt, has given football followers enough confidence that the People’s Elephant will not disappoint come Sunday March 18 2018 at their adopted home – the Esuene Stadium, Calabar. Besides the first leg performance, Enyimba has a good record at the local and international level with regards to African football, Nigeria to be specific. To underscore the supremacy of Enyimba and the confidence reposed on them it will be interesting to know that they have won the Nigerian Professional Football League seven times – 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2007, 2010, and 2015; won the Nigerian FA Cup four times – 2005, 2009, 2013 and 2014. Similarly, they have also dominated in the Nigerian Super Cup winning four times – 2001, 2003, 2010, and 2013. Enyimba on the international scene, were once a very big force to reckon with even as they may not have picked any continental silverware since their CAF Champions League exploit early in the millennium. They were African Champions (CAF League) back-to-back in 2003 and 2004; won the African Super Cup in 2004 and 2005 and that ends their silverware exploit till date. It therefore implies that the Aba side will go all out to secure their already advantaged victory over the Benin side on this Sunday to bounce back to reckoning. Otherwise, the return of coach, Paul Aigbogun, to the Aba side has been having very positive impact on the team; seventh on the table with a match to spare; new player were recruited to beef up the squad. Among them are Super Eagles of Nigeria first-choice goalkeeper Ikechukwu Ezenwa from Ifeanyi Uba and Yinka Onaolapo from Nasarawa United. Although, Enyimba’s CAF Confederations Cup surgeon so far has not been an impressive one; their only attempt was in 2010 where they bowed out in the second round. Invariably Enyimba’s opponents, Energy of Benin, are simply an obscure side in African football; not much is known about them even as they should not be taken for granted as anything can happen in football. Akwa United on the other hand have very sketchy history on the continental scene; their first experience was in 2016 where they ended up in the first round; they participated at that level after their first FA Cup victory in 2015. This of course will be their second coming. But, the Uyo side has a goal deficit against their guests – Libya’s Al-Ittihad – and Nigerian are wary of the North Africans because of their strong records in club football. Akwa handled by Abdul Maikaba has given some relevance to the build up to the season with some new players as Aremu Afeez and Super Eagles Ifeanyi Ifeanyi. Just as they Enyimba and Akwa need the support and prayers of Nigeria, former Super Eagles Assistant coach, Sylvanus Okpala has a word for them. Enyimba won 2-0, it is a good result, but they should know the battle is not is not over yet.” “I say this because the result can be overturned. Nigeria did it in Benin; they (Benin) too can do it here. “The two Nigerian clubs that won must work extra hard, particularly MFM. They should not go to sleep thinking the first leg victories can see them through. In football anything can happen within and after the regulation time (90 minutes and added time),” he said. The Anambra-born tactician however concluded with a word of encouragement for Akwa United of Uyo: “They should not be discouraged because they lost in the first legs; they should just believe in themselves. “But, Akwa United must win convincingly without conceding a goal; all the clubs have quality players and coaches that can do Nigeria proud I’m sure.” It is hoped that the match officials will be on top of their game within the 90 minutes regulation time for the spectators to get the worth of their money – fair play is the name of the game. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.