Lagos – The National Conscience Party (NCP) has lamented the suffering being unleashed on the masses of Lagos due to anti-people policies being implemented by the Governor Akinwunmi Abode of Lagos State. Comrade Fatai Ibu-Owo, the NCP’s Lagos State Chairman, who spoke at the party’s political education programme on Saturday, lamented that the state administration had been inflicting pain on the people through heavy taxation and draconian policies. Ibu-Owo cited the state’s water policy and the recent Land Use Charge, which he said were not only constitutional, but were skewed in favour of the government and the rich to impoverish the masses. The NCP chief tackled the members of the Lagos State House of Assembly, who he described as rubber stamps and stooges to the executive and do not have the minds of their own. He wondered why honourable lawmakers could be passing what he termed as anti-people and obnoxious bills, instead of laws that should put the state and its people in the right direction. Ibu-Owo said: “I want to draw the attention of the people to the rubber stamp Lagos State House of Assembly. These 40 members are the major problem and people behind all the obnoxious laws. “Comrades, we need to challenge these men to put Lagos in the right direction. Ambode cannot pass any law. He can only perform executive functions. “Members of the Lagos House of Assembly are dummies; they do not reject or question any proposal from the governor, thereby making them to be ‘sit don look’ lawmakers.” Ibu-Owo called on Lagosians to use the opportunity provided by the 2019 elections to pass a vote of no confidence on all the lawmakers in the state House of Assembly and ensure that none of them is returned. He also urged Lagosians to support the NCP to produce a capable replacement of Ambode in the next election, who would provide purposeful leadership for the people and bring to an end the regime of anti-people laws in the state. Comrade Gbenga Komolafe, the General Secretary of the Federation of Informal Workers Union of Nigeria (FIWON) , in his keynote address, said the time has come for the NCP to participate in elections and win. He called on the party to focus not only on the presidential and governorship positions in the next election, but should ensure that they elect people into the state and federal legislatures. This, he said, would ensure that anti-people bills do not sail through in the legislature, but will also end the implementation of draconian and anti-people policies. 3 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.