Microcred Nigeria, a subsidiary of Microcred Group, a financial inclusion group operating across Africa and China, has unveiled its new brand name – Baobab Microfinance Bank Nigeria. The unveiling was done in Lagos at an event attended by Baobab Group Chief Operating Officer, Charles Gill. He said: “Thirteen years after its foundation, the company has refreshed its brand and visual identity to reflect the expansion of the product range beyond the provision of credit to micro-entrepreneurs. The company, which now serves over 650,000 customers across 10 markets, has evolved significantly and now provides a wider service offering which addresses a broader range of customers,” he said. Gill said the launch came at a time when the business developed an ambitious and far-reaching strategy to digitise and grow across its existing footprint. Also, the company has appointed Arnold Ekpe, former group chief executive of Ecobank Group and former partner at Africa Capital Alliance, chairman of its Supervisory Board. Ekpe is providing his expertise on financial inclusion, in growing pan-African financial institutions and leveraging technology to drive operational improvement. On the rebranding, Gill said:”We have come a long way since we started operations 13 years ago. We have built secure foundations and become one of the leading providers of financial services in Africa. The business here in Nigeria is strong and growing rapidly. We have a strong relationship with, and a deep understanding of, our customers, and we aim to build on that to help our customers unleash their potential wherever they are and however they access finance.” Kazeem Olanrewaju, Baobab Microfinance Bank Nigeria CEO, said the lender would continue to expand, and offer quick credit facilities to its customers. He said the bank’s deployment of technology to drive its services earned it the status as Nigeria’s digital bank. Since inception in 2010, Baobab Nigeria has developed a network of seven branches in Kaduna, and 10 branches in Lagos, and now serves more than 65,000 customers. The company and its dedicated staff are committed to deliver value for the sustainable benefit of the customers, their families and their businesses. To do so, it offers a wide range of products: loans, savings plans and savings accounts and innovative products. He said the firm had also developed many products that have remained beneficial to its rising customer base. “Baobab Nigeria puts its customers at the heart of their concerns, and offers them more than a microfinance bank usually does. The new brand, a simple and recognisable name, is inspired by the Baobab tree, native to Africa, which not only has great cultural significance but also has many practical uses,” Gill said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.