Mr  Chris  Olakpe, a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Lagos State Transport Management Authority (LASTMA). In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on the award given to the agency as the Most Outstanding State  Agency by the management of Independent Newspapers Limited (INL) and Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s ongoing efforts to reposition it for operational efficiency. Excerpts: LASTMA under your leadership was recently awarded The Most Outstanding State Agency by the management of  Independent Newspapers Limited.  What were your thoughts as you mounted the stage to receive the award? The award is historical and it speaks volume of the transformation agenda of the governor which LASTMA has adopted and we are still working on the civility of the members of the public, the issue of corruption and basically, we are still working on other issues relating to interpersonal relationship between LASTMA agents and members of the public.  What are we trying to do? We are trying to fine-tune relationship to express the democratic air that is blowing now.  We know that that freedom and the right to be where you want to be is one of the beauties of democracy. But be that as it may, I have to say kudos to the management of INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPERS LIMITED and the publisher himself, Chief James Ibori.  This is a milestone that has never happened in the history of over a decade and half of the existence of LASTMA.  It is a record-breaking victory for LASTMA and we are pledging that we are going to sustain the tempo and not rest on our oars. Given the traffic influx in Lagos, were you scared when you were appointed by Governor  Akinwunmi Ambode to head LASTMA? No, I was not scared when the governor appointed me because I had a background. Going to the course of history, when I was about 26 years old, I was manning the Lagos Traffic Division of the Motor Traffic Division (MTD), Ijora in 1982.  I was in charge of accidents and other matters, including gridlock issues in Ojuelegba, Yaba which were the black spots at that time. So, it is a thing of joy to me that I was considered for a recap of what I did. Glory be to God, I am glad that the public is appreciative of what we are doing and we are being acknowledged.  Like I said earlier and with all sense of humility, we will not relent. One thing that is manifest in LASTMA these days are young, smart looking officials, who are mostly graduates. How did you make the agency so attractive for these ones to join? That is the brainchild of  Governor Akinwunmi Ambode; more so that the more educated, the more polite and more civil in mentality our people will be. I give it to the governor that he took a pragmatic and dynamic step in human development praxis that has done a lot to improve on the image of LASTMA.  I bet you other agencies should try to emulate this very essential impetus that we have added to LASTMA which hitherto had been peopled by not too qualified, educated personnel. But now that we injected qualified people into the agency, they are more malleable, more civil and more amenable to discipline and control.  So, it is a wonderful step. We have seen cases of LASTMA officials publicly fighting drivers of commercial vehicles in the past, how have you been able to instill discipline in your officers especially when dealing with errant drivers?. First of all, when I came on board, I had to establish the Provost Marshall Corps to take care of issues of indiscipline, indiscretion and investigation of matters that pertains to unbecoming conducts of LASTMA officials against members of the public. I also went on to set up a Surveillance and Monitoring unit whose responsibility is to go around in mufti to look at what LASTMA officials are doing on the highway and then to bring to book anyone caught extorting people or engaging in acts that can bring the image of the agency into disrepute.  These two units have worked so relentlessly in making sure that there is check and balance system occasioned by their presence anytime. They could jump at anywhere to check and the rapport between LASTMA and the group has increased and basically. So, we have put the fear of the unknown in the LASTMA personnel.  That is how we are able to reduce the issue of corruption and indiscipline to the barest minimum. We are still working tirelessly to have a more approachable and people-centric LASTMA as we approach the next quarter of the year. There used to be clashes between LASTMA officials and the Police and other security agencies  in the area of traffic management. How did you tackle this issue when you came on board? When I came on board, I set up a nine-point agenda, one of which is collaboration with other sister agencies to broaden and build the bridge of understanding and then to reduce the altercation and conflict in carrying out their duties.  We set up machinery and proceeded to 9 Infantry Brigade where we talked to the soldiers and from there we build a rapport, instead of conflict. We also extended the invitation to NNS Beecroft where we also built a relationship between the officers and rank and file. We talked about several road violations offences and we appealed to them to talk to their officers not to drive on BRT lanes and obey other traffic rules and regulations. That worked like magic. We also went to the police where we met with the AIG Zone 2 where we met with Commissioners of Police from Ogun and Lagos as well as Area Commanders. We discussed with them the need to tell their men to obey traffic rules and also to support LASTMA officials in carrying out their duties instead of seeing them as enemies. What challenges are you currently facing in LASTMA? I won’t call it a challenge rather I will say it is building a better infrastructure for transportation tomorrow. You can see the level of road construction going on by Governor Ambode in all parts of the state.  The BRT is now coming all the way from Abule Egba all to Oshodi.  Even from Igbogbo in Ikorodu, construction is ongoing there. There is also at the International airport axis, 10 lanes all through.  Also there is construction from Badagry to Mile 2. Because of all these, there has been some massive constriction on the roads whereby four lanes becomes two  and people are always jostling for space. But I say no pain, no gain. The governor wants the best for Lagosians in terms of seamless movement. It is just a matter of time. Everything will soon work out fine and Lagos will become the smart city that the governor is working towards, I want to appeal to members of the public that they should cooperate with LASTMA officials who are there to control traffic to make sure that socio-economic and other pursuits are effectively taken care of. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.