Dr. Yunusa Tanko, an accountant and cerebral politician, is the National Chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the recent abduction of female students at a school in Yobe State and recent killings by the Boko Haram terrorists as well as several other crucial issues of national importance. Exerpt: How do you see the recent abduction of 110 girls from Government Girls Technical College, Dapchi, in Yobe State? In fact, I see the whole thing as a conspiracy of the leadership. People are playing politics with the lives of our children. We have a Federal Government that lacks the will power. The Federal Government lacks the capacity to work with the Nigerian people.  It is unfortunate that the Federal Government could not pre-empt anything. That incumbent government lacks the capacity to lead the people. This, in fact, is sad. What does the school girls’ abduction tell of the nation’s security and the claim by the Federal Government and the military that the Boko Haram terrorists had been decimated? The Boko Haram has not been decimated in any way. The abduction of the children shows that this Federal Government and its security agencies cannot protect the lives of the people. So, it lacks the capacity to lead a country like Nigeria, which is very dynamic, with many things happening at the same time. How can you be leading the country and the Boko Haram is abducting such a number of school children and nothing was done to pre-empt or protect the children? Why do you say the abduction was a political conspiracy? I said that it is a political conspiracy because that was the same pattern that abduction of the Chibok girls took. The same thing that happened during the abduction of the Chibok girls is playing out again. It is one of the things that led to the failure of former President Goodluck Jonathan administration. The question is: Why should it happen now that the country is getting ready for general elections? That is why I am so concerned that the Federal Government could not pre-empt a situation like this. That is also why I said the government lacks the capacity to lead. The security for the children was reportedly removed before the children were abducted. Till now, the children could not be traced. This is serious when you consider that they were taken in vehicles in broad daylight. This is about half of the children abducted from Chibok. The Boko Haram freed almost half of them, and now they have taken them back through the abduction of the Dapchi girls. I am worried that this government lacks the capacity to lead the nation and carry people along. Everything about the nation now is catastrophic. The economy is catastrophic. Security is catastrophic. It is sad that while this type of thing is going on, the nation’s leadership and chieftains of the ruling party are going about celebrating a wedding. Even the governor of the state where the children were abducted was among those celebrating a wedding when he should be more concerned about the fate of the children. This is baffling. The Boko Haram terrorist also reportedly killed some United Nations Aid workers last week. How do you see this development? That is a clear indication that this government is not working. There is a lot of sentiments and propaganda and they keep on telling the people a lot of lies. What evidence do you need again to show that the government lacks the capacity to govern? Protection of lives and properties is the main function of government. If the government lacks the capacity to lead or govern as they have shown so far, they should step aside. The Boko Haram is coming with a different dimension now. How do you explain that you have decapitated the Boko Haram, yet they are doing what they are doing now? I suspect that there is also a high level conspiracy in this matter. The nation’s security architecture should be properly checked. It seems that some people are not happy, even within the military and the Police. It is suspected that some of the soldiers are even working for the Boko Haram What do you think the Federal Government should do now to tame the Boko Haram sect? It is simple. The President should call a national security emergency meeting. During the meeting, he should discuss with the stakeholders in detail on the security situation of the nation. The emergency meeting must involve people who are in control of power. There must be thorough investigation of the people. There must be intelligence. There is indeed a serious work to be done in this regard. Unfortunately, the government is not prepared to lead the people. They do not seem to care about the lives of the people. In Zamfara, people are being killed in large number. Yet, people are doing jamboree in Daura. Apart from the Nigerian people, God is also angry with the nation’s leadership. The government should carry the Nigerian people along because those abducting people are not ghosts. What is your take on the escalation of the herdsmen’s attack on communities in the North Central geo-political zone of the country? The whole situation shows a high level of uncertainty in this government. The herdsmen issue did not start today. There is anarchy because the government has not been able to provide succor to the people. Except you find the root of the matter, nothing will be done.  The herdsmen attacks are due to people’s quest for power. Those people are using the North Central to show their power. How do you see President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent appointment of The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to resolve the party’s internal crises? Asiwaju Tinubu is more of a politician than President Buhari. In APC, there are people who worked for the party, but they have not been carried along or rewarded. The government is stingy, even for themselves. The President selected only certain people from a certain place as his kitchen cabinet. The leadership and government of APC are not genuinely accepted, even by people within the party. I do not see this government getting another four years and do things differently. The President has not been able to favour or reward people in the party. In his fight against corruption, he has not been able to transform illegality to legality. He has not been settling those who worked for the party and his emergence as President. Everyone is dissatisfied. This government is not favourable to the people. It has not been taking care of the people. Look at the issue of Seme border. When you close sources of people’s survival and you do not provide an alternative, how will people survive? Everywhere is now stagnant. Government has denied people opportunities and everything is stagnant. Business is stagnant. It is creating problems within the party and outside. So, such people will do everything to ensure that this government does not survive. Several Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftains are said to be defecting to the Social Democratic Party (SDP). What does this portend to the former ruling party? People are gagging the main opposition party. That is why people are no longer comfortable belonging to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The party is no longer owned by the people. Power is no longer in the hands of the few who want to regain power. Even, people’s lives are on the line. They are now more comfortable in another party where they will be more comfortable to actualise their plans. A cross section of Nigerians believes that former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Gen Ibrahim Babangida were right to have told President Muhammadu Buhari to steer clear of the 2019 election. What is your take on this issue? Of course, the two former Presidents must have consulted. Before they came out with their statements, they must have discussed and taken a stand. These are the power gamers.  This government does not favour them too. These are people that give power. They were not being carried along by President Buhari. These are leaders who people visit. They are the power brokers. Now, the government seems to have been hijacked and they are not being consulted or told what is happening. They are no longer on the same page with the government. So, they are not happy. The truth is, it is unfortunate that this government does not show capacity for leadership. They have not differed much from what the former government left behind. Now, the power gamers are seeing that the power gamers are seeing that the government does not govern.  The government has not been able to strike a balance between the people and the power gamers. This is because the people are also not happy. How do you see the emergence of the Third Force, a coalition being put together by Former President Olusegun Obasanjo for the 2019 election? How would you relate it to the Coalition for New Nigerian (CNN) being championed by your party and others? When it comes to a coalition, everybody must put heads together. But, our coalition started long before theirs. However, the new coalition is reaching out to some of us. The main objective is to take over power from the incumbent government. We are in discussion with a lot of people. Our coalition is very strong. Since the registration of more political parties, we are now more that 35 political parties. What is your reaction to the rescheduling of the 2019 elections contrary to the earlier schedule brought out by the National Assembly? We have discussed this at a certain level. We support the election starting from the House of Assembly and the National Assembly, the Governorship and lastly that of the President. This will give Nigerians a robust election. It will make people more interested and involved n the elections. If you start from the Presidency, everything will go one way. But, if it is too wieldy for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to do all the elections at once, we may have mid-term elections. I think it will be better for elections to hold every two years. So, we may have another amendment of the Electoral Act. With the number of parties hitting 62 and the possibility of more being registered by INEC, don’t you think the number may be too much for the electoral agency to handle? The number of parties is not too much. We have to have the will power to do elections. We must adopt the electronic voting system. If elections are systematically worked out, it will not pose a problem. What is your take on the Federal Government’s rejection of the Transparency International (TI) report on Nigeria? How can they say the Transparency International report is not true? In this country and under this administration, even animals steal money. The other day, a snake reportedly swallowed billions of Naira in an office. People who are arrested for fraud are not being prosecuted. This government has not been able to deal with corruption. People are hungry. Some people, who have stolen state money, are using it to defend themselves. The government should look at the Transparency International report and find out how it came about the report. There must be something that made the Transparency International came out with that report about the country. How your party, the NCP, and how it is grappling with the upsurge of presidential aspirants for the 2019 elections, including you? Well, the NCP is doing well. But, I will make my position known by the end of this month or next month. I have been consulting and discussing with a lot of people and many have been urging me to run. That we have four or five presidential aspirants shows that we are growing and people are showing interest in our party. The more, the merrier. We are moving forward.  People are gravitating towards the NCP and we are happy. A lot of people are joining us too. We have been welcoming people with credibility, people who have the interest of the masses at heart, not looters. We are welcoming people who are problem solvers, people with leadership capacity and people who have the interest of the nation at heart. What is your last word for Nigerians? Nigerians have a big opportunity to fight to place the country in a big pedestal. The time is now. That is why we need the younger people who have capacity to provide solutions to the problems of this country. They need to vote for the party that has the interest of the masses as heart, which is the NCP. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.