Lagos – Still basking in the euphoria of their 1-0 victory over Poland on Friday, the Super Eagles of Nigeria will attempt to continue their winning streak as they take on Serbia today (Tuesday) in London, the friendly will kick off 8 p.m.Nigeria time. The tie, which is the second in the series of international friendly matches, lined up for the team ahead of the summer World Cup in Russia, will hold at The Hive, Canons Park by at 8pm. The team has intensified trainings since arriving London from Poland and DAILY INDEPENDENT learnt that the spirit is very high in camp as the players have resolved not to lose the match. The team received a huge boost with the arrival of strikers Junior Ajayi, Gabriel Okechukwu, and midfielder, Mikel Agu. Agu, we gathered was called up owing to the inability of Captain Mikel John Obi to travel from China. Another boost for the team is that the venue for today’s tie was the venue the Super Eagles battled Senegal to a 1-1 draw last year. Meanwhile, technical adviser, Gernot Rohr has warned the players not be carried away with the Serbians 2-1 loss to Morocco in another international friendly match as well as the team’s 1-0 victory over Poland. “Beating FIFA ranked number six nation on their soil was a remarkable feat, but it does not warrant getting carried away,” he was quoted as saying. Rohr also recounted his side’s dramatic 4-2 win against Argentina on November 14 in Krasnodar, Russia, but maintained that beating two teams in the FIFA top-10 bracket does not mean the team can win the World Cup. Rather than see his side hop atop a high horse, Rohr stressed that they have to keep their heads down, stay focused and remain modest in all their achievements, in order to gain more. At the World Cup finals in Russia, Serbia will play five –time champions Brazil, Switzerland and Costa Rica in Group E, while the Super Eagles battle Croatia, Iceland and Argentina. Serbia is ranked 34 in the world by FIFA, while Nigeria is ranked 52. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.