Lagos – The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has called on ten largest banks in the country to urgently conduct an Asset Quality Review (AQR). The Fund also said recapitalising four undercapitalised banks in the country is long overdue and if delayed further, risks undermining financial stability as maintaining a tight capital position would continue to stagnate credit flows and impede economic activity. These were among recommendations of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the concluded the Article IV consultation with Nigeria. According to the report, the ten largest banks should conduct an Asset Quality Review (AQR) through a recognised international auditing firm to help assess the true nature of asset quality and identify any potential capital need. It added that this review should be linked to scenario stress testing on the ten largest banks Adopting a more prudent approach to the treatment of doubtful loans, the IMF directors  recommend that the CBN investigates the extent to which banks are resorting to “ever-greening” of potentially problematic loans—a practice that should be discontinued. They supported the 2 per cent general provisioning of loans in place and calls on the CBN to take a conservative approach to assessing doubtful loans, which should be fully provisioned. The report added that Nigeria’s “banking system resilience needs to be strengthened to support growth and that the banking system’s previously healthy capital buffers have dwindled over the past two years, with the Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) remaining marginally above the Basel II regulatory 8 per cent ratio albeit higher for large banks. Furthermore, loan restructuring may mask an underlying deterioration in asset quality”. Notwithstanding the recent signs of risk appetite returning,  it added that capital market funding has not met the gap left by banks’ retrenching their loan book in favour of liquid assets. However, attractive returns on government securities have helped banks maintain healthy profits and freed up scarce capital, while higher oil prices may alleviate lingering concerns about potential further credit loss. Significantly, falling bond yields may reduce profits, with additional pressures arising from the planned move to IFRS 9 and to an exchange rate more reflective of transactions undertaken by banks (i.e., a rate closer to N/$330–360) could further reduce solvency ratios by an additional 2 to 3 percentage points. Non-performing loans that have been fully provisioned for should be written off. The directors agreed that the CBN should call on banks to increase capital, including by requiring them to withhold dividend payments, in view of the upcoming move to IFRS 9 implementation and the adoption of a rate closer to the IEFX window rate for financial reporting. As part of the Article IV consultation with Nigeria, the IMF stressed that rising banking risks should be contained and endorsed the CBN’s commitment to help increase capital buffers by stopping dividend payments by weak banks. They called for an asset quality review to identify any potential capital need. “An enhanced risk-based banking supervision, strict enforcement of prudential requirements, and a revamped resolution framework would help contain risks,” the report added. The IMF directors also emphasised that structural reform implementation should continue to lay the foundation for a diversified private-sector-led economy. “Building on recent improvements in the business environment, implementing the power sector recovery plan, investing in infrastructure, accelerating efforts to strengthen anti-corruption and transparency initiatives, and updating and implementing the financial inclusion and gender strategies remain essential,”  it affirmed. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.