Hisense, FIFA’s official partners and global home appliances giants, has launched a 60-minute weekly radio show, WITH HISENSE TO RUSSIA, ahead of the 2018 World Cup finals, which starts in June. The show, a variety lifestyle package, will run between Wednesdays and Saturdays every week from March 22 to July 30, across four national stations, namely; Rhythm 93.7 FM, Fresh FM 105.9, Cool FM 96.9 Lagos and Cool FM 96.9 Abuja. According to Mr. Gboyega Okegbenro, seasoned sports journalist and CEO of Peachtree Communications Ltd., producers of the show, “With Hisense To Russia’’ is a lifestyle, breezy, fans-engagement and rewarding show, designed to entertain thousands of Nigerian soccer fans ahead of the World Cup.  The programme, he explained, offers fans and listeners, up- to- date information, analysis and reviews of complete facts and trends around the 32 teams competing at the Russia 2018 finals. “As a variety show, adequate attention is focused on vital, behind-the scene and major human-inherent developments in the various team camps; in a way that provides Nigerian fans adequate information and entertainment going into this World Cup Season. “Every week, Hisense will reward fans and listeners with bounteous gifts on the show are its phone-in segment. Specifically, one 32 inch Smart TV; one microwave oven; one sound bar and 20 branded T-Shirts will be won by phone-in fans on each of the four stations. The show comes with various interactive segments where listeners would connect via various social media handles as whassap, instagram, sms and direct phone calls”, he stated. Giving further insight on the show, Mr. Mohammed Fouani, Managing Director of Fouani Nigeria Ltd., promoters and distributors of Hisense products in Nigeria, explained that the show has been specifically designed to encourage and reward Nigerian soccer fans and customers for their love for the game of football. “As a major FIFA sponsor, it is extremely important for us to motivate and support the passion of Nigerians for football, by helping them acquire more in-depth knowledge and be part of the global fans all through the World Cup finals. We are also optimistic that with Nigeria’s young team, Russia 2018 will be full of positive memories for Nigerians. So we are determined to ensure Hisense plays a key role in delivering pleasure to the good people of Nigeria before and after this World Cup event,’’ he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.