Ado-Ekiti – Akinlayo Kolawole, a chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC), has urged the party to go for the best material that can deliver as the state hosts Chief John Odigje-Oyegun, National Chairman of the party. The national leader is expected to flag off party’s registration in Ekiti. Kolawole called on delegates, saddled with the task of electing the party’s flag bearer for the July 14 gubernatorial poll, to consider competency, experience, commitment to the progressive ideals of the party and mass appeal of the aspirants before making their choice on the candidate of the party. According to him, “we are operating as an opposition party in the state; we need to ensure that the best among the aspirants currently jostling for the party’s flag is presented as candidate for the election.” Kolawole, who has been mobilising APC faithful in Ekiti North Senatorial District for sometime now said, “money should not be part of the requirement to occupy public office but commitment, consistency, contributions to party development should be some of the conditions that will determine who emerges as the party’s flag bearer.” Speaking with newsmen in Ado-Ekiti on Sunday, Kolawole called on the leadership of the party to ensure that the forthcoming primaries of the party were not only transparent, but free, fair and credible, saying “anything short of these would engender crisis, acrimony and division within the party. In his words, “a free and fair primary would enable the party go to the poll with a united and formidable house, with every party member working for the success of the party from wards to state level. Stating however that “once we allow imposition, the after effect would not be palatable for our party and that would mean allowing the ship of Ekiti to wander away for another four years. “In a contest, one person must win, if we all have the interest of the party at heart, once a winner emerges, we should all line up behind whoever emerges, join hands with him and face our common enemy. “Our leaders must be prepared to go the extra miles immediately after the primaries to assuage the feeling of the aggrieved and make sure they remain in the fold and whoever emerges as the candidate of the party must reach out to them too. “He said the primaries would be a litmus test of the party’s unity”, Kolawole said. 0 comments