Abuja / Lagos – President Muhammadu Buhari appears to have sent subtle warnings to the opposition camp on Thursday when he said he would firmly resist attempts by the opposition to use the issue of insecurity in the country to win cheap political scores against him. He equally noted that whichever way the election goes in 2019, he was committed to bequeathing a legacy of supremacy of the people’s will through the ballot box. The president said this in his message to Christians on the occasion of Easter. Buhari spoke through his media aide, Femi Adesina, and reaffirmed his disdain for hate speech, bigotry, corruption, banditry, and terrorism, insisting that such vices had no place in Nigeria. He said Nigerians must do all it would take to love one another and display increased spirit of tolerance and accommodation. The president, who is in Lagos State on a two-day state visit, also gave assurance of securing the unconditional release of Leah Sharibu, the only Christian girl still in the captivity of Boko Haram after other abducted schoolgirls from Dapchi, in Yobe State, had been released. He also promised to continue efforts to free the remaining Chibok schoolgirls who were abducted in April 2014 from their hostel in Borno State. He noted that Nigerians must not stop praying for Leah Sharibu’s safe release. Buhari said: “I am indeed delighted to join our Christian brothers and sisters to commemorate this year’s Easter celebration. “We thank the Almighty God for granting us the opportunity to celebrate another Easter at a time of great promise and hope for our dear nation, despite the challenges we also have. “Easter, the season in which Christians mark the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, represents the triumph of good over evil; and life over death. “It is also a time to show love, forgiveness, compassion and renewed hope in the Grace of God. “The Holy Scripture affirms that happiness and fulfilment in life do not flow from acquiring the best things in life, but in being richer in a relationship with God and fellow human beings. “Let us use the opportunity of this special season to deeply reflect on how every one of us can imbibe the profound teachings of Jesus Christ with renewed vigour. “In so doing and by placing the joy, comfort, and happiness of others above ours, we will make a statement that vices such as hate speech, bigotry, corruption, banditry, and terrorism have no place in our nation. “We must do all it takes to love our neighbours and display increased spirit of tolerance and accommodation. “I commend those who recognise and support our unwavering efforts to prevent the spread of conflicts in our communities; check wanton criminality and the taking of innocent lives; unite the country; and steer the ship of state to a steady path of economic growth, job creation, and development. “While we enjoin law-abiding fellow compatriots to work for peace and social justice in our beloved country, let there be no doubt of our resolve to firmly resist others who may want to make cheap political capital out of current national security challenges. “Our programmes and policies in the last three years have resulted in bringing down the prices of staple crops; gradual improvement of road, rail, and electricity infrastructure, and making Nigeria the preferred destination for investors. “More than ever before, we are ready to consolidate on these gains and ensure that we improve the lot of our communities in the years ahead. “Thankfully, our Dapchi schoolgirls, who were safely released recently after 30 agonizing days in the hands of their abductors, have been reunited with their families. “I am very optimistic that all others, including the Chibok girls, who are still in captivity, will be safely released unconditionally to their families. I urge you to continue to pray for their safe return. “In the meantime, I have given clear instructions to our security agencies to prioritise safety in schools in areas where the humanitarian and security situation are still dire, in addition to ensuring adequate protection of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). “As we approach the period of campaigns, I appeal to our political actors and other stakeholders to resist any act that could mar the integrity of our electoral process. “I am optimistic that with God on our side, the dark days of Nigeria’s elections being manipulated by violence and rigging by corrupt politicians and their agents are over. “They are confined to the dustbin of history where they rightly belong. I remain committed to bequeathing a legacy of supremacy of the people’s will through the ballot box. “May this year’s Easter celebration bring us renewed hope and confidence as a great nation.” Buhari’s Visit To Lagos Disrupts Flight Operations, Road Traffic Meanwhile, flight operations were massively disrupted at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, on Thursday, following the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to the state. Most air travellers and other users of the airport had to trek long distances before they could access the airport. They were either seen dragging their luggage on the ground or carried it on their heads in order to meet up with their flight schedules. Flight delays were massive at the airport while some passengers could still not show up for their flights. Some of the airline operators had to send messages via the social media and calling up passengers to inform them of the situation to avoid them coming to the terminals to wait endlessly, not knowing when the traffic situation on the roads would abate. Kingsley Ezenwa, Spokesman of Dana Air, said the airline had to inform its clients of possible disruption to their schedules through the social media. He said: “We have been putting out information on social media and sending messages to our passengers also reassuring them that we are going to accommodate them on our multiple flights out of Lagos to other destinations. “We actually have up to five flights out of Lagos to Abuja and we have also been chatting with them so that passengers get updates on the situation.” Chris Iwarah, Spokesman for Air Peace, lamented the sordid situation, especially the plight of their passengers who had to trek long distances to get to the airport terminal while others were stranded at various bus stops without vehicles to board. “We would have been quite insensitive if we didn’t empathise with our guests and take steps to ameliorate their difficulties. “The situation, however, caused huge, huge, huge disruptions across our network. “Of course, you know Lagos is our hub, so you can only imagine how far the disruptions went to disrupt our flights for the day, we deeply regret the challenge for the day,” Iwarah said. As at the time of filing this report, the situation in Lagos also affected airports across the country as many passengers were waiting for the aircraft that would take them out to other cities. According to sources, many passengers had to pay more on transport to get to a point where they were dropped off and trekked into the airport as security agents blocked some parts of the roads leading into the airport. The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), in a statement, on Thursday, informed passengers, airport users, and the public of the visit of Muhammadu Buhari to Lagos State for a two-day official visit. The authority stated that commercial vehicles would only operate from 7am – 7pm around the Murtala Muhammed Airport on Wednesday 28, 2018, to allow smooth movement around the airport during the visit. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.