Ado-Ekiti – Oba Ganiyu Obasoyin, Olukere of Ikere-Ekiti, has accused Governor Ayo Fayose of plotting to destroy Olukere institution in Ekiti. The embattled monarch also cautioned the leadership of Ekiti State Council of Obas against being used by government or politicians with regard to Oba stool tussle in the community. The Obas Council, through its chairman, Oba Oluwole Ademolaju, the Oloye of Oye-Ekiti, had maintained that Olukere should not be addressed as a king since he was yet to be recognised as such by the state government. This was made known through an official statement from the council. In his reaction, Oba Obasoyin described it as most unfortunate saying the council cannot assume the role of kingmakers. “I have seen the report even though it was unexpected and came to me as a rude shock. With happenings of recent, the government of Governor Ayodele Fayose, I believe, is trying everything possible to destroy the institution of Olukere. “I want you to know that the institution of Olukere precedes or predates the creation of Ekiti State itself. The institution of Olukere has been there before Ekiti State was created,” he stated. He said, “I was not the person that made Olukere an Oba; before I was born, Olukere had been known as an Oba in the whole of Yoruba land even though he had not gotten letter of recognition from the government. “Writing to the Council to get recognition from the government does not indicate that the Olukere does not exist or that it has nothing to do with the institution of that obaship. “I want you to know that the institution of Olukere precedes or predates the creation of Ekiti State itself. The institution of Olukere has been there before Ekiti State was created.” “Government does not make an Oba, government only recognises Oba; it is the people of the community that make an Oba. “The Council of Obas visited me here in this palace sometime last year and they saw all what we have in this palace including artifacts, historical sites and the pictures of the past Olukeres and they saw them in their crowns. “I believe if they have anything against such, they would have raised it when they visited me then but I don’t want to engage my most respected Obas in any war of words. “On the day I was released from prison for an offence I knew nothing about, the Ikere people showed who their Oba is and I don’t think there is anybody anywhere whose words supersede those of my people in Ikere. “It is the people of Ikere that I reign over as Oba, I am not an Oba over any other community in Ekiti State. So, it is the people of Ikere that can say Olukere is not our Oba. “My most respected Obas should live above board and not allow themselves to be used by any politician to rubbish the institution of obaship because government comes, government goes but the obaship institution remains forever.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.