Lagos – Many leaders and supporters of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will not forget in a hurry the tragedy that befell the party in the 2015 general election. It was the year the progressives  in Lagos suffered a major loss in the National Assembly and state house of assembly election. The APC in Lagos which has been occupying more than 90 per cent of the seats lost seven out of the 24 seats available for the state in the House of Representatives. The party lost seven of the seats to its arch rival, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and one to Accord Party (AP) a relatively unknown party in the state. The seven seats won by PDP were in Ajeromi Ifelodun Local Government, Ojo Local Government, Amuwo Odofin Local Government, Surulere Local Government and two in Oshodi/Isolo Local Government areas. The only seat won by Accord Party is Mushin Federal Constituency 1 which was won by Hon. Abayomi Dauda Kako-Are, who is the incumbent lawmaker. The Ajeromi/Ifelodun Federal Constituency seat was won by Barr. (Mrs.) Rita Orji of PDP.  She defeated the then incumbent lawmaker, Hon. Taiwo Oyewole Adenekan of APC.  Orji polled a total number of 46,787 votes to defeat Adenekan who scored 29,566 votes. Also in Ajeromi- Ifelodun, the PDP won the two seats in the Lagos State House of Assembly and the only one for the House of Representatives, won by  Barr Orji. Though the two members of the PDP in House of Assembly-Dayo Famakinwa and Fatai Oluwa of Constituency1 and Constituency 11 had since defected to the APC,  Orji, a lawyer, has not  defected. Determined to right the wrong in 2019, leaders of the APC in the constituency have vowed to reclaim back the constituency for the party in 2019. They have also resolved to ensure a level playing field for all intending aspirants so that only the best candidate that appeals to the delegates eventually clinches the party’s ticket. Prominent among the aspirants that have so far indicated their intention to represent the constituency are  Hon. Kamal  Ayinde Bayewu, a two –term Executive Chairman of  Ajeromi- Ifelodun Local Government  and  senatorial aspirant for Lagos West senatorial district in the 2015 general election, Hon. Kolawole Taiwo, the immediate past Deputy Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly and Paul  Kalejaiye, a former Special Adviser on Rural Development to former Lagos state governor, Babatunde Fashola  and  currently the Chairman of the Lagos State Ferry Services. Hon. Kamal Bayewu A well-loved politician among the youths and the elderly,  Bayewu, a banker-turned- politician first indicated interest in representing Ajeromi- Ifelodun Federal Constituency in 2007.  He won the party primaries defeating the then incumbent lawmaker but the party leadership prevailed on him to step down to allow the incumbent lawmaker run for another term. The following year, he was elected as Executive chairman of  Ajeromi- Ifelodun Local Government and was reelected for another term in 2011. A technocrat par excellence,  Bayewu brought his experience as a seasoned banker to bear in managing the affairs of the council making it one of the best councils in the country then. His tenure witnessed significant decrease in crime rate in Ajegunle, Nigeria’s most notorious slum, widely regarded as the ‘Jungle City’ or AJ City.  He was also the first council boss to introduce a monthly stipend for elderly ones aged 70 years and above called the  ‘ Old  People’s  Grant’. In the 2015 general election, Bayewu, owing to demands by his constituents sought to represent his senatorial district, Lagos West in the National Assembly.  He was inches away from clinching the ticket but was prevailed by the party leadership to withdraw for  Hon. Solomon Olamilekan Adeola (Yayi) who was then nursing the ambition to represent Ogun West in the Senate but had to beat a hasty retreat when the dream could not materialise. Though he played a prominent role in the election that brought in Governor Akinwunmi  Ambode,  Bayewu has not been compensated in any way till date. Some of the party leaders who spoke with our correspondent believe  while a primary election should be conducted and a level playing field provided for all the aspirants, giving the ticket to Bayewu as compensation as a loyal party man will not be a bad idea. Hon. Kolawole Taiwo HKT as he is popularly called by his supporters is another frontline aspirant who commands a lot of respect in Ajeromi- Ifelodun.  He is a legislator with a wide range of experience in public service and administration. His ambition to return to the Lagos state house of assembly for a record fifth time was truncated as he was defeated by the candidate of the PDP, Bayo Famakinwa. As the then deputy speaker, Taiwo would have emerged the Speaker of the House of Assembly if he had won the election.  For his loss, he was compensated with an appointment as Chairman, IBILE Micro Finance Bank, which was established by the Lagos State Government and licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria in January 2017, to carry out microfinance banking activities and was set up to alleviate poverty, reduce unemployment and increase financial inclusion in Lagos state. Paul  Kalejaiye Kalejaiye is another highly experienced politician who is interested in representing Ajeromi- Ifelodun Federal Constituency.  Until 2011, he was a full time lecturer at the Lagos State Polytechnic at the School of Business and Management Studies before he was appointed to serve in the Cabinet of Lagos State and was subsequently granted leave of absence by the Polytechnic. He was a pioneer secretary of the defunct National Republican Convention for the then Ojo Local Government, which is presently composed of Ojo, Oto Awori, Amuwo Odofin, Ori Ade, Ajeromi/Ifelodun and Ifelodun Local Government. He has also served as a Chairman Ajeromi/Ifelodun Government, All People’s Party. And served as the Chief Returning Officer for Alliance for Democracy in Ajeromi/Ifelodun Local Government for the gubernatorial and Presidential elections in 1983. He was appointed as Chairman Transport, Welfare and Mobilisation Committee for the launching of Action Congress of Nigeria in Abuja by the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu-led administration  and reappointed to serve in the same capacity during the launching of the presidential campaign of the party in Abuja. In the 2007 election of Governor Babatunde Raji Fashola, he was a Chairman mobilization committee of Action Congress of Nigeria for the State campaign committee of the Action Congress of Nigeria. In 2014, he was appointed as a member of the strategic committee for the Akinwumi Ambode Campaign Organisation and subsequently elected as chairman of the campaign committee for the Lagos West Senatorial District. The APC appointed him as a member of the state campaign committee of the party in 2015. He signified his intention to run for the Federal House of Assembly, lower house and was screened and cleared for the party primaries but was advised to step down by the leadership of the party both at the local and state level for a smooth return of the incumbent. This led to his withdrawal from the primaries demonstrating his loyalty and commitment to the party supremacy for the second time as it was in 2011 primaries. For this, he was compensated as the Chairman of the  Lagos State Ferry Services, a position he is holding till date. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.