Yenagoa / Makurdi /Dutse –  Suspected Fulani herdsmen on Monday killed over 30 persons in Okpokwu Local Government Area of Benue State, among them women, children, and a 90-year-old woman. In some cases, the herdsmen allegedly wiped out families, leaving none to carry on their lineage. This was the case of Godwin Igoche, who was wiped out with his whole family, according to residents. The killings were perpetrated by the suspected herdsmen in Omosu, Edumoga community of Okpokwu LGA of the state at about 4:30p.m, they said. Following the killings, Samuel Ortom, the Benue State governor, has appealed to the Federal Government to step up efforts at putting an end to the massacres. The incident took place ahead of the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari who may be visiting the state this week. It would be recalled that the herdsmen had on the first day of 2018 killed about 73 persons in Guma and Logo LGAs of the state. Narrating the incident, one of the victims, Peter Ojobo, said his father, Innocent, was murdered in cold blood by the herdsmen alongside his 90-year-old grandmother. He further narrated the sad story of a relation, Godwin Igoche, and his two children who were killed during the attack, while Eric Attah was killed along with his wife. Governor Samuel Ortom who visited the affected area on Tuesday described the attacks as “unfortunate, unwarranted, and uncalled for.” He called on the concerned authorities to urgently put in more efforts that would permanently put a stop to the incessant attacks on his people by Fulani herdsmen. The governor further lamented that efforts made by the Federal Government by deploying security agencies to the state to restore peace were being frustrated by some Fulani mercenaries. Ortom decried the situation whereby the herdsmen would kill, maim, and rape women, adding that security personnel were not spared by these mercenaries. While he reiterated his call for the arrest of the leadership of Myetti Allah Kautal Hore, the governor called for the arrest and prosecution of the perpetrators of the heinous acts. Olofu Ogwuche, Chairman, Okpokwu LGA, earlier told Governor Ortom that arrangements for a peace meeting between farmers and herders had reached an advanced stage when the unfortunate incident took place. He commended the governor for his prompt response by visiting the area immediately. Gunmen Kill Two, Abduct One, Cart Away 14 Boats In Bayelsa A gang of gunmen attacked Ayama community in Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, killing two persons and wounding five others. It was gathered that the bandits stormed the sleepy coastal community about 9p.m on Monday and started shooting sporadically. The hoodlums, who are suspected to be sea robbers, pumped bullets into the community for over 25 minutes before carting away over 10 speed boats. Those wounded were said to be receiving treatment at undisclosed health centres. After operating at Ayama, members of the gang moved over to Ogbia town, headquarters of Ogbia LGA, where they laid siege and abducted one Augusta Apaga about 12:30a.m on Tuesday. The gun-toting youths also went away with four 75 horse power engine boats parked at the Ogbia waterfront. A member of the state House of Assembly representing Ogbia Constituency 2, Munalayefa Gibson, confirmed the attacks on Ayama and Ogbia towns. He said that the operational manner of the gunmen suggests they have collaborators in the communities who also benefit from the proceeds of robbery attacks. The legislator, who sympathised with the affected communities and the victims, called on the security agencies to spread their dragnets and arrest the perpetrators of the crimes. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer of the Bayelsa State Police Command, Asinim Butswat, confirmed the attacks on the two communities. He said that the command has commenced investigation into the incidents. Cholera, Meningitis Outbreaks Claim 40 In Jigawa Meanwhile, outbreaks of cholera and Cerebral Spinal Meningitis (CSM) have been reported in Majiya town of Taura Local Government Area of Jigawa State. These have claimed the lives of over forty children while 30 others have been hospitalised and are currently receiving medical attention at Taura Comprehensive Health Centre. This is coming after an outbreak of a strange illness which claimed over fifty lives in the community ward of Gidan Dugus village of Wangara District in Dutse Local Government Area barely four months ago. Investigations by DAILY INDEPENDENT in the affected towns revealed that the children under the age of seven are dying on a daily basis as a result of high fever, stomach ache, vomiting, and diarrhoea resulting in loss of blood. The illness is suspected to be cholera. The adults were suspected to be dying of CSM due to poor medical facilities, medication, and insufficient qualified doctors to arrest the situation as complained by residents. Lamenting the issue, Mal. Kamai Abdu informed DAILY INDEPENDENT that it was pathetic to note that Majiya town with over two hundred and fifty communities has only one basic health centre with one operational medical attendant overseeing hundreds of patients. While on a visit to the area, DAILY INDEPENDENT discovered that parents were living in fear as the health condition of their wards continued to hang in the balance due to the absence of adequate medical facility, coupled with poor sanitary condition. At Taura Comprehensive Health Centre over twenty CSM and cholera patients were receiving medical attention. Contacted, Jigawa State Health Commissioner, Dr. Abba Zakar Umar, confirmed the outbreaks, stating it was a serious issue, but said the government was on top of the situation. Haladu Usman, who lost his seven-year-old child, revealed that he lost three male and four female children to the strange illness. “The children, aged between three, two, and one-year-old and an infant died one after the other; I lost three in a day,” he said. Another parent, Salisu Abdullahi, said he lost four of his children in one week despite several efforts at securing medication from a nearby clinic for his children. The illness persisted and resulted in their death, he lamented. “I was scared of this unknown sickness which consumed the lives of innocent children of this community,” he said sadly. Also speaking, the ward head of Gidan Dugus, Mallam Umar Dashiru, said it was quite alarming and pathetic as the community now lives in fear and agony over what he described as a catastrophe, adding that the community now buried five to six children on a daily basis due to the strange illness. Mallam Dashiru, represented by Bashari Galadima, explained that the community had reported the case to the state government and it sent a team of medical personnel who took blood samples from some of the children for tests. But the results, vaccines, and other drugs are still being awaited. Dutse Local Government has also sent financial assistance to the affected parents. Contacted, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry Of Health, Ali Garba Dandidi, confirmed the incident and faulted the community for not informing the ministry in good time. 3 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.