Abuja – The civil society organisation, OURMUMUDONDO Movement, led by Charles Oputa, a.k.a. Charly Boy, has vowed to occupy the headquarters of Department of State Services (DSS) in Maitama on Wednesday, March 7. This is sequel to the continued detention of Tony Ezimakor, the Abuja Bureau Chief of Independent Newspapers by the agency since Wednesday, last week. The #FreeTonyEzimakor campaign has since begun among civil societies in protest against press censorship and human rights violations by security agencies in Nigeria. In a statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT on Monday, in Abuja, the group noted that the detention of the journalist was in disregard of his rights to freedom of speech, right to dignity of the human person, and right to fair hearing as guaranteed by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The group stated that the decision to occupy DSS office was made in a bid to prevent Ezimakor from suffering the same fate as Sheik Ibrahim Elzakzaky, who had been detained illegally at the DSS facility for more than two years. “We reemphasise our demand for the unconditional release of Mr. Ezimakor by the DSS. “In the alternative, we demand that the Federal Government charges him to court as stipulated in the constitution and give him the opportunity to defend himself,” the statement noted. The group called on all members of the local and international media to attend this peaceful protest aimed at drawing attention to the increasing incidents of unlawful harassment of the press and the unlawful detention of Nigerian citizens in violation of their constitutional rights by the present administration. The statement was jointly signed by Charles Oputa (OurMumuDonDo), Deji Adeyanju (Concerned Nigerians), Ariyo Dare Atoye (Coalition in Defence of Nigerian Democracy) and Bako Abdul Usman (Campaign for Democracy). There have been indications that the DSS may arraign Ezimakor on spurious charges. Ezimakor has been held for seven days. Ezimakor is being held over a story published by the newspaper alleging improper handling of the Chibok girls negotiations by Swiss negotiators and Nigerian collaborators. DSS insist on knowing the source of the story. It also demanded a total retraction of the story by DAILY INDEPENDENT and wants its own version of the story published by the newspaper. The management of the newspaper has, however, rejected the conditions but said that it was ready to publish DSS account of the Chibok story. But on Monday reactions from operatives of the agency became hostile, especially to the newspaper’s lawyer who had come to see Ezimakor. As gathered, the operatives refused to speak with the lawyer and were generally uncooperative. Wife of the detained journalist has continued to speak on her ordeal and that of her children in the hands of the men of the agency who stormed her home in Lugbe in Abuja to ransack the place and to generally terrorise the family and the neighbourhood. “I can’t shake off the feeling that these operatives may have bugged our home after the siege. “The children are perpetually afraid now, especially given the manner with which they skewed computers and phones belonging to my daughter,” Mrs Ezimakor said. The DSS has detained Ezimakor without charging him to court despite calls condemning his incarceration by well-meaning individuals, activists, and human right groups. On Saturday, the wife of the detained journalist raised the alarm over the health of her husband. DSS frustrated efforts by some members of the NUJ to see him by 2p.m on Sunday. Also, some members of his church were not allowed to see him on Sunday. Human right advocates, lawyers, and journalists who have commented on Ezimakor’s incarceration have decried the DSS’s illegal detention of the journalist but the agency has refused to budge. Meanwhile, commentators have warned Nigerians to be alert to the fact that detention of journalists without trial points to the political repression and strong-arm tactics that will increase as 2019 approaches. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.