Four top restaurants in Abuja would be participating in the first Chef Taste Challenge put together by the French Embassy and the Institut Francais.
The restaurants are Helene’s Food Co, Zuma Grill at Trancorp Hilton, Petit Square and Relais Cafe International.
The programme is coming under the Good France programme, says Aude Urcun, the Cultural Attache to the embassy, adding that, the winner would spend a week with the Head Chef Oliver Perigault, learning more about French cuisine.
She explained that the “Chef’s Taste Challenge” was meant to bring together Nigerian and European cuisine in order to showcase the cultural significance of both countries.
She described the process as a way of promoting and fostering cultural relations between Nigeria and France.
Urcun said the competition was conceived by the French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs and the renowned chef, Alain Ducasse.
She added that French Cuisine was a vital driving force of the French culture and economy with tourists coming to France for its culinary heritage.
Urcun said four restaurants in Abuja would be participating for the challenge.
They are; Helene’s Food Co, Zuma Grill at Trancorp Hilton, Petit Square and Relais Cafe International adding that, the winner would spend a week with the Head Chef Oliver Perigault learning more about French cuisine.
“Cultural fusion is essential between Africa and Europe. Gastronomy is part of our cultural heritage and history.
“We have to employ this art to improve tourism in Nigeria that will eventually create job opportunities for Nigerian youths,” she said.
Speaking also, Perigault the head chef for the embassy said that, it was a platform for Nigerian chefs to gain exposure internationally.
”Gastronomy is the way of our lives because we cannot do without our cultural heritage,” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.