Abuja – Few hours after the Senate summoned the management of Dana Airlines to explain the circumstances that led to the recent air mishaps in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered a full audit of the company. Recent air mishaps suffered by the airline has already started taking its toll on the company. Precisely on February 8, 2018, at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, the door of one of the aircraft fell off after it had successfully landed, but the management of the airline attributed it to a passenger who attempted to open it. In the second instance, another aircraft, which had successfully landed, overshot the runway in Port Harcourt. Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, explained that President Buhari approved the investigation of the airline following a report presented by the Accident Investigation Bureau for deliberation at the Federal Executive Council meeting. He said the investigation would involve the staff strength, technical capacity, and general operations. The government has already suspended the operational license of both pilots. Shehu said: “A lot of quality time was spent discussing air safety. “The government of Nigeria is very much concerned about safety and the life of Nigerians; this is following the recent air incidents, minor as they were because they are no fatalities. “The government did feel concerned and the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, presented a report to the council on steps that were taken, following the last incident in Port Harcourt, Dana aircraft overshooting the runaway. “As soon as that happened, a few seconds a rescue team was there on the ground, and few moments thereafter every passenger on board were evacuated; there was no harm to persons and this is something that should be celebrated. “Within 24 hours an official investigation had commenced, because investigators arrived in Port Harcourt and began work. “One week after that a preliminary report was prepared and it was about this that the Council was briefed. “Consequently, as announced by the aviation authorities, the Engineer and Pilot of that particular aircraft got their licenses both suspended and, beyond that, the government has ordered a complete audit of Dana airlines in terms of personnel, operations, and technical capacity. Meanwhile, FEC approved the augmentation of the contract sum for the rehabilitation of Burnt Marina Bridge and the Maintenance of Eko (Apogbon) and Ido bridges in Lagos. The contract was awarded in favour of Messrs. Buildwell Plant and Equipment Industries Limited, in the sum of N114, 424,225.05 representing 12 percent of original contract sum, thereby revising the contract sum from N957, 053,316.45 to N1, 071, 29,541.40 with an additional completion period of six months. Shehu also noted that Council approved the augmentation for Mangu Dam, in Plateau State, to N7.66 billion from the original cost of N5.66 billion, increasing the total contract sum to N13.2 billion. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.