Gunmen suspected to be herdsmen have killed six people in Bakin Kogi, Kaninkon chiefdom in Jama’a Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Auta Maurice, a member of the security committee in the community, said the people were killed in separate attacks between 10am and 11am on Thursday. He said the gunmen, numbering about 10 wore army and police uniforms. Maurice said three people were killed in the bush when they went to cut wood for the roofing of their houses while three others were killed at a local mining site. He said four people who sustained injuries were taken to the hospital in Kafanchan. “The attacks occurred in the bush. The first attack occurred at about 10am when some members of our community went to the bush to cut wood for roofing their houses,” he said. “All of a sudden, the herdsmen opened fire at them and three people were killed while others managed to escape. The second attack happened at about 11am at a local mining site. Three people were also killed there, while four others were injured. “The herdsmen were dressed in army camouflage and mobile police uniforms.” Maurice said the distance between the village and the place where the other attack took place is about five kilometres. “We reported the case to the soldiers maintaining security in our community and we went to the bush with them, but the bandits had fled by the time they reached there,” he said. However, the Administrator of the Council, Alhaji Yusuf Usman, said only three persons were killed following a clash at a mining site in Bakin Kogi village of Kaninkon Chiefdom in Jema’a Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Usman said the three persons lost their lives during a shootout between illegal miners. He said during the scuffle, four other persons sustained injuries and were being treated at the Kafanchan General hospital. He said security personnel had been deployed to the area to contain the situation, urging people to go about their normal businesses and report any suspicious persons to the appropriate authority. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.