According to the World Health Organisation, an estimated 253 million people in the world, including Nigeria, live with visual impairment. Unfortunately, unlike most countries of the world, Nigeria still has a long way to go in the care of people with visual impairment including, providing for their educational, social and economic needs. It is not unusual to see people with visual impairment resort to street begging as a means of livelihood even though this should not be the case. Many are left to their own devices without help from family or even the communities they reside. Unfortunately, ignorance and poverty on the side of the sufferers and family members have also played a huge role in their inability to nip the problem in the bud. Sometimes, what is needed might be a simple surgical procedure to remove a malignant tissue after which the sight is fully restored. In a post visual impairment survey conducted in 2007 by six collaborating institutions, including the International Centre for Eye Health (ICEH), a London-based research and educational group, it was gathered that an estimated 1.13million people, aged 40 years, are blind in Nigeria and an additional 2.7 million have partial impairment. Simply put, an estimated 42 out of every 1,000 persons in the country are blind. Commensurate care however, has not been provided by the government to help fix the high prevalence of the scourge. The majority of blind people live in middle and poor income parts of the country and cataract, a highly treatable eye disease, represents a major cause of blindness. There is the need for stakeholders and the government to pay more attention to the plight of blind people and ensure that their educational and social needs are adequately catered for. Sadly, this is not the case. The pain and suffering blind people go through even within their families is so pathetic that it gives the feeling of hopelessness, especially for those who have dreams of pursuing careers in the different sectors of the economy. Chioma Ohakwe, a caregiver and mother has a firsthand experience with blind people and the challenges they encounter in the society. She has been the caregiver of three members of her family who were blinded by measles, and understands that blindness should not translate to the end of their dreams. Moved by their plight, she further opened her doors to young blind boys and girls, teaching them to work around their disabilities and to continue the pursuit of their academic aspirations. Moved by the zeal to care for blind people, she founded the Bethesda Home for the Blind, a non-for-profit institution, which she operates with her personal resources and contributions from some well meaning Nigerians in her neighbourhood who want to help. With her experience, Ohakwe knew she could not turn her back on these vulnerable people who also had the right to survival. She continued to take in more blind people into her home where she lived at Tejuosho in Lagos, until the place became too small to take in more. Fortunately, her actions were noticed by the Surulere local government authorities led then by Tajudeen Ajide, who commended her for her actions and relocated the home to its present place in Mushin, Lagos. Just like Mrs. Ohakwe, MTN Foundation, the social responsibility vehicle of MTN Nigeria, understands the plight of vulnerable people in the society and for this reason embarked on an initiative aimed at supporting over 1,500 orphanages in Nigeria by providing food and household items, tagged Orphanage Support Initiative, (OSI) for them. Under this project, about 37 orphanages across the six geo-political zones were visited and presented with food and household items. Mrs. Ohakwe’s orphanage, which specialises in caring for people with visual impairment, was among the beneficiaries of MTNF’s OSI. While expressing her appreciation to the Foundation, Mrs. Ohakwe she wished many more private organizations would emulate the gesture. According to her, “Providing and taking care of the needs of blind people is an uphill task, which requires a lot of support from government and the private sector.” Ohakwe added that she was happy more people and private organisations are beginning to see what she saw several years ago and are pitching in to help alleviate the suffering of people with visual impairment. Basic amenities and social infrastructure, especially for the less privileged are critical to the human existence and societal growth, as well as economic uplift, which are best served by the government. Basic amenities would not only guarantee the happiness and welfare of the people, it would also promote the security and the socio-economic development of the nation or state. However, government alone cannot do everything, which is why private organizations like MTN Nigeria have contributed in support of government’s efforts in the provision of these basic amenities. MTN, through its Foundation, constantly explore opportunities to contribute to the development of communities they operate in, whether it is in the areas of rural health care, education or economic empowerment. For Ohakwe, it is all worth it because several success stories have been recorded since she began caring for the blind. Founded in 2005, the home currently houses 126 students and has recorded a several success stories. So far, four students have undergone successful surgeries and have their sights fully restored, 23 of them have gotten admissions into various tertiary institutions and a couple of them have gotten married. This, Ohakwe said, is what makes her determined to continue impacting the lives of these bright young people. She urges the government to play its role in their lives so they can have better living conditions and achieve their dreams. This is why the donations from the MTN Foundation come in handy. Ohakwe said: “We are so happy with these gifts from MTN because for at least another month or more, we will not have to buy food. The money saved will be channelled towards other things like staff salary and sundry expenses.” People with visual impairment need much encouragement and it is imperative that there is collaboration between the public and private sectors so as to alleviate their suffering and provide their needs, thereby giving them a better life. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.