Umuahia – One major outcome from the Great Ukwa Ngwa Declaration over the weekend was the resolve to ostracise any Ukwa Ngwa indigene that would come out to contest the governorship position with Governor Okezie Ikpeazu in the 2019 governorship election. However, the event, which was held at Okpuala Ngwa, the ancestral headquarters of Ngwa people, saw prominent sons and daughters from the nine local government areas that make up the Ukwa Ngwa bloc endorse Ikpeazu for a second term in 2019. Moving the motion for the endorsement, Adolphus Wabara, former Senate president, said: “Our son and our brother, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, is a silent achiever and performer. He has performed creditably and that confers on him the right to lead once more. Our people today speak with one voice to make a proclamation in support of the governor, asking him to contest again as governor in 2019.” Seconding the motion, Chukwu Wachukwu, former Director-General of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), said: “Abia North was governor for eight years with Orji Uzo Kalu, Abia Central governed for eight years with Senator Theodore Orji. Abia South is completing four years with Governor Ikpeazu; therefore, we as a people unanimously, through a voice vote, declare our support for the re-election of Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu as governor of Abia State in 2019, because he has done well and also because he must complete the eight years of Abia South people.” Emmanuel Adaelu, an elder statesman, explained that “the governor has the constitutional right to seek re-election in 2019,” and as such deserves the support of his people and the generality of Abians. “We have seen governors in Abia State and I will boldly state that there has not been any like Okezie Ikpeazu. He has done so well and the evidence of his great work is everywhere in Abia State for the world to see. So we are boldly and eloquently declaring our support for him to re-contest in 2019,” Adaelu said. For Reagan Ufomba, former governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the state, re-electing Ikpeazu in 2019 is a task for all Abians because he has performed beyond expectations across the three senatorial zones of the state. “In the spirit of equity, inclusiveness, fairness and justice, re-electing Governor Ikpeazu in 2019 is task for all Abians, from Ukwa through Umuahia to Arochukwu, because he has done well, and there is no alternative than to allow him to continue with his good work till 2023.” While calling on the governor to sustain the tempo of development, Ufomba said: “As a great Ukwa Ngwa son, know it today that your people are behind you. What this means is that the majority of Abia have asked you to contest again in 2019.” In his response, Ikpeazu described the adoption as a show of love and demonstration of the unflinching support of Ukwa/Ngwa people for him. He used the occasion to call on the people to go and get their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs), as a sign of seriousness, if they want him to re-contest in 2019. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.