Enugu – Kenneth Okonkwo, one of the pacesetters in the Nollywood industry, at the weekend declared his intention to contest the 2019 governorship election in Enugu State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Okonkwo made his declaration at an enlarged Enugu State APC State Executive Committee (SEC) meeting on Saturday. During the meeting, the SEC passed a vote of confidence on President Muhammadu Buhari and Ben Nwoye, the state chairman of the party. Addressing the enlarged SEC, Okonkwo said his candidature emanated from his people at home in Nsukka who were yet to benefit any legacy project from their kinsman, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, after almost four years in office. Okonkwo, who came to limelight after starring as ‘Andy Okeke’ in Igbo thriller ‘Living in Bondage’ in 1992/93, said since the incumbent governor stayed four years without executing any legacy project at Nsukka, it became incumbent on him to hearken to the call of his people and contest for the governorship seat. He assured that in the spirit of triangular equilibrium, which guarantees equity in the state, if given the mandate, he would stay one term of four years, to complete the eight years of Nsukka zone under Enugu North senatorial district. “When I wanted to go into acting in the early 90s, some people came to me and asked me why I wanted to go into acting, which was not paying, with my sound educational background and certificate. I went into acting and it turned around. I will do the same thing in Enugu, if elected governor,” Okonkwo said. He used the opportunity to call on Ndigbo to support President Buhari for second tenure in 2019, to ensure that the country produces apPresident of Igbo extraction in 2023. He said if Ndigbo had supported Buhari in 2003, they would have been president today. Okonkwo regretted that despite the support Ndigbo gave the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for 16 years, they were not considered fit for the presidency. “There is no alternative for Buhari. We will support Buhari for all his achievements in the war against corruption and insecurity. Any other person we support will stay for eight years and that means we will remain in the wilderness,” he said. Earlier, Nwoye had announced the guidelines of the party for the primary elections for the governorship, House of Assembly and National Assembly elections. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.