Hon. Dahiru Yusuf Yabo, former gubernatorial candidate under defunct Congress for Progressives Change (CPC)in Sokoto State,w in this interview with HABEEB HAZEEZ, spoke on the relationship between President Muhammadu Buhari and the Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal. Excerpt: What informed your group’s decision to issue an ultimatum to Governor Aminu Tambuwal over President Buhari’s 2019 re-election? What informed our decision was the fact that 2019 is around the corner, and we are part and parcel of All Progressive Congress (APC) in Sokoto State, through the Congress for Progressives Change (CPC), one of the legacy parties that formed it. Secondly, the antecedents of our governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, his actions and inactions prompted us to have some apprehensions and his antics clearly show that we deserve some clarifications about his position towards 2019 presidential election. Also, some of his recent moves had added up to our fears. We felt as loyal party men and bonafide members of APC, we need to voice out if things are not right, especially his relationship with Mr. President. In the last two years, we have been watching him closely and his performance as a governor is not satisfactory. We are also not comfortable with his relationship with President Buhari. We are also not comfortable with the way he is treating some of our party members, especially those from the defunct CPC in the state. As patriotic party members, we are also not comfortable with his relationship with former governor, Alhaji Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko. So, all these put together informed our decision to come together as  representatives of other likeminded elements within the party, who believe that something needed to be done to harmonise our moves towards galvanising more support for President Buhari in 2019. Your group levelled allegation of anti-party against Governor Tambuwal. How do you arrive at this? The apprehension that led to our position that Governor Tambuwal is not loyal to President Buhari are well reported in the media and his silence on the ultimatum we gave him added weight to our allegation. As a governor under APC, his romance with key stakeholders in the main opposition party is documented in the media. He was being alleged to be among those that funded the emergence of the current leadership of the main opposition party. We are aware of his frequent visit to the fortress of the opposition leaders, when election is approaching. Again, happenings at the National Assembly gave credence to our fears, taking into consideration the relationship of Governor Tambuwal as a former Speaker of the House of Representatives and current Speaker, who he galvanised his emergence. Do not forget that the Senate President is also a very close ally of Senator Aliyu Wamakko, who is Governor Aminu Tambuwal’s predecessor, and they  had both told us that they have a bond that cannot be broken. At least, you will recall that Senator Wamakko was recently rewarded with the position of the Northern Senators Forum Chairman, to replace Senator Abdullahi Adamu, a vocal supporter of President Buhari, in the election re-ordering saga. Also, three years into this administration, Mr. President has visited several states to commission projects, but yet to be invited to Sokoto and we can see the kind of speed at which governor Tambuwal invited Vice President Osinbajo to Sokoto, not to commission any project when there were rumours that President Buhari was incapacitated while on medical treatment abroad. You can juxtapose this with Mr. President’s statement recently in Jos, where he said, when he was away, people were pursuing the vice president to give them the position of vice president if he (Osinbajo) becomes president. Your group’s agenda is to galvanise support for President Buhari come 2019 election even, when Buhari has not decided to run or not. In the event he declines to seek re-election, what would you do? We don’t have to wait until he publicly declares his intention to seek re-election. Rather, we see it as our responsibility to encourage him and seek re-election because we are satisfied with his performance so far, looking at the rots he inherited from the immediate past administration. Your former party, defunct CPC, was one of the legacy parties that collapsed into APC. How formidable is your new group, APC Adalci Buhari Sak? We are indeed a formidable force to reckon with in Sokoto politics because our bond of defunct CPC is intact, except for one of us, who was lured away with a mere Special Adviser office. But, a lot of new converts have also join us. To buttress our strength, in 2011when Senator Wamakko was the state governor and Tambuwal, as the House of Representatives Speaker under PDP, there was an election with President Buhari as the CPC presidential candidate. President Buhari, in Sokoto, clearly won with a margin of over 550,000 votes alone. In 2015, when both Wamakko and Tambuwal joined Buhari’s bandwagon, we only won with about 670,000 votes, which shows that PDP, in addition, only gave 120,000 votes. Another fact was that with former Governor Wamakko as an incumbent, we (CPC) beat him in his local government with a margin of about 20,000 votes. Why does it take your group a long time before raising your voice? As loyal party members, we decided to take our time to watch keenly and gave benefit of doubt to happening around us, with the hope that things will change for better, but unfortunately things are degenerating as the leopard never changes his skin. We believe that there is no better time than now to expose the ineptitude surrounding the government of Aminu Tambuwal. We can recall that things were not good enough at the beginning of this administration, both at the central and state levels, especially in terms of economy. But, we also know the efforts made by the Federal Government in terms of fund interventions. We also understood that the immediate past government caused most of the problems which they (Tambuwal and Wamakko) were part of them. So, we thought Governor Tambuwal should be given time to plan his government and also execute projects. But, with three years gone now, it is expected of him to start showing what he has done. Instead, there is a lot of propagandas being disseminated and people in the state are now becoming apprehensive that this government is not doing anything. We know that Tambuwal wouldn’t have won on his own merit. But, he won on the President Buhari’s popularity in 2015. We all know how Niger and Jigawa governorship candidate lost in the last election because they failed to join Buhari’s mantra. We all know what would have happened if Wamakko and Tambuwal had not joined APC during the last election. But, after benefitting from Buhari’s mantra, Tambuwal is now trying to betray President Buhari. People are complaining and we are the leaders of these people. At least two of our members were gubernatorial aspirants in the last party primary and still have pending court case, which anyone of the can even be declare the governor if all things have been equal. I was also a governorship candidate on the platform of defunct CPC in 2011. So, if we cannot talk, who will? It is our responsibility as leaders and politicians who have the state at heart to come up and show how things should be done. If we did not correct these things, we are all bound to find it difficult in the forthcoming general elections. The CPC group is much on the ground and more popular in the state. As anybody either from the governor or party leadership in the state responded to your observations or agitations? You know we gave the governor an ultimatum, which has elapsed, to state his position regarding his loyalty to President Buhari. His silence confirm to us that he is not with Buhari and for those of us who are with Buhari, we will move a step further to find out from the party leadership in the state, if they are in support of the governor in his anti-Buhari scheme. There response and action will determine our next line of action. Our apprehension that they will ditch us when it matters most is glaring because that is their stock in trade, particularly Governor Tambuwal. We know what he did to PDP, even though it is to our favour in APC. We don’t want to suffer such betrayal. We cannot also forget what Senator Wamakko did to us when he hijacked the ANPP structure and later moved to PDP, snatched the gubernatorial ticket from a party member, who had already won the party ticket. Aside their insignificant contribution to the APC, they cannot be trusted with the future of the party. It is in the open that all is not well within the APC, which necessitated the Bola Tinubu reconciliation committee. Taking into consideration the magnitude of issues bedeviling the party at state levels, do you think the committee can deliver on its mandate before the elections? Time shall tell whether the Tinubu committee will deliver on its mandate because the problems in each state differ. In some states, the issues have been left to fester for long that individuals have suffered personal and material losses, as the case may be. In Sokoto, we have a gubernatorial aspirant who is seeking redress over the sudden emergence of Governor Tambuwal as APC candidate, whose farmland has been confiscated. Same for another whom a section of his school is under threat of demolition, for daring to speak out against the governor. We are aware of the magnitude of the problem in our party in Kano and Kaduna states. Still on your question, Tinubu has been given a herculean task by the President and I appreciate his ingenuity by reaching out to members who seem to be aggrieved. A good example was his visit to Sokoto, which was surprising to outsiders. But Tinubu’s visit to Sokoto however, butressed our claim on who to watch closely on the radar as politicking approach. Tinubu in his wisdom has been to the National Assembly and the national headquarters of the party to resolve his differences with the national chairman, and his alleged proxy war with the Senate President. He should be commended for taking bold steps to reconcile with those he has grievances within the party. We all know that issues arose between Tinubu and Tambuwal on the emergence of the Speaker of the current House of Representatives, where Tinubu was allegedly betrayed by Tambuwal, despite all he did in supporting him to become the Speaker then. Tinubu has shown his large heart and forgive Tambuwal by visiting Sokoto, towards achieving success in his assignment. Despite all these moves by Tinubu, his traducers are yet to come to terms with him because their heart is not in APC and this is why we want people of like minds to join us in check-mating those disloyal elements from destroying or causing collateral damages before jumping boat into their alternative party. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.