In spite of the anti-corruption efforts of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, it is worrisome that the latest ranking by Transparency International (TI) paints a dismal picture of the state of corruption in Nigeria. While the federal government has  reportedly taken a number of bold steps in the bid to deal with corruption under the previous administration which has manifested in the recovery of looted funds as well as the forfeiture of illegally acquired assets, the popular perception however remains that the current administration has not only be condoning corruption by certain individuals in government but also indulging in complicity in alleged cases of corruption. The controversies over presumed attempt at shielding corruption cases involving the former chairman of presidential pension committee, Abdul-Rasheed Maina and Professor Usman Yusuf, the Executive Secretary of National Health Insurance Scheme signpost major failing of the present administration notwithstanding it’s professed commitment to stamping out corruption in the polity. Only last week,the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III berated what he termed, high level corruption in Nigeria; insisting that Nigeria cannot continue with the negative trend. There is no doubt that the anti-corruption war would continue to be undermined and seen with negative perceptions by the citizens and global stakeholders alike until and unless corruption cases are prosecuted to logical conclusions. It is therefore instructive that the administration appreciates that misgivings over the lastest ranking clearly depict the level of frustration amongst Nigerians regarding declining standard of living even as hope of combating the scourge of corruption now appears to have been dimmed by distressing corruption allegations under the present administration. While  the economy which is yet to comfortably exit reccession is attributable to pervasive corruption,which remains a critical index for evaluating governance, it is disturbing that alleagtions of corruption and obvious complicity in corrupt related cases have continued unabated under the present administrtion inspite of its anti-corruption stance. The latest TI ranking coming against the backdrop of recovered loots by former public officials who served under the immediate past administration should understandably warrant disapproval from the government. However, what should be of interest to the collective quest to rid the country of the vices of corruption is to urgently reassess existing approaches with a view to make the desire meaningful impact. It is noteworthy that the Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo has expressed the willingness of the government to accept the latest ranking by the global anti-corruption campaign group in good faith. It would however be reassuring if the government can take proper look at the dynamics that led to the poor rating with the view to effectively tackle corruption in the country. Indeed,government must recognise the need to avoid contradictory double standard in its approach to fighting corruption. This administration could no longer pretend not to appreciate that transparency remains a cardinal value in evaluating the commitment to anti-graft war.  Nigerians would like to see government taking deliberate urgent steps to correct the perception of carrot and stick in pursuing anti-corruption agenda. One major disincentive to the ongoing fight against corruption is the perception of politicisation which has been allowed free reign through selective treatment of corruption cases involving members of the opposition camp.  The Buhari’s administration must also consider the need to correct the impression that membership of the ruling party confers immunity from corruption investigations and trials. Failure to recognise negative practices like nepotism, political manipulation as well as wilful circumvention of constitutional processes are major disincentives to the fight against corruption and would continue to negatively impact on the perceptions of corruption in Nigeria. On a final note, it is becoming increasingly imperative that the anti-corruption is not personalised. Official interference with anti-corruption cases for political or any personal considerations would continue to erode faith and confidence of the citizenry in anti-graft initiative. Relevant institutions must be put in place and strengthened to provide needed capacities for diligent investigation and prosecution of corruption cases. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.