Abuja – Barely five months after her arraignment before Justice Yusuf Halilu of the Federal Capital Territory High Court, Mrs. Maryam Sanda, the alleged killer of her husband, Bilyaminu Haliru, was on Wednesday granted bail for the offence. Maryam had been in Suleja Prison since November 24, 2017, for allegedly stabbing her husband, Bilyaminu, to death. The court had on three occasions rejected the bail applications filed by the defendant’ lawyer, Joseph Daudu (SAN). After the last attempt, which was struck out on February 6, Justice Halilu fixed March 19 for definite hearing of the murder case. While the police prosecution counsel, CSP James Idachaba, waited for the commencement of trial on March 19, Daudu approached the court with another bail application, seeking vacation of the earlier date. As usual, Idachaba was opposed to granting the bail, but this time the court held otherwise. In granting the bail application, Justice Halilu said the court was satisfied with the health reasons canvassed for Maryam, who was said to be over three months pregnant and asthmatic. The court explained that the police were unable to counter the claims that health facilities at the Suleja Prison could not take care of Maryam’s conditions. Consequently, Justice Halilu ordered that Maryam provides two sureties who must deposit their titles of ownership of landed properties in Abuja. More so, the court ordered Maryam’s father to undertake to always provide her in court throughout the period of the trial. The late Bilyaminu was the son of former National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mohammed Bello Haliru, who is being prosecuted by the Federal Government for allegedly receiving the sum of N300 million, meant for procuring arms, from Col. Mohammed Sambo Dasuki (rtd), the former National Security Adviser during the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan. Maryam Sanda, a nursing mother, was said to have stabbed her late husband several times in the chest and neck region with a broken bottle on November 19, 2017, in their Abuja residence. Her action allegedly led to Bilyaminu’s death. Her arraignment was sequel to a two-count charge dated November 20, and filed same day by the Commissioner of Police, FCT Command. It was brought pursuant to Section 109(d) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015. The prosecution counsel, James Idachaba, pleaded that the charge is read to the defendant to enable her take plea. However, when the two-count charge marked CV/15/17 was read to Maryam Sanda on November 24, 2017, she pleaded not guilty to the offence. The charge reads: “That you, Maryam Sanda, female, adult of No.4 Pakali Close, Wuse 2 Abuja, on 19/11/2017 at about 0350hours at No.4 Pakali Close, Wuse 2 Abuja, within the Abuja Judicial Division, did commit the offence of culpable homicide punishable with death in that you caused the death of one Bilyaminu Bello Haliru, male adult of No. 40 Pakali Close, Wuse 2 Abuja by stabbing him in the chest with a broken bottle which eventually led to his death, and you did so with the knowledge that your act is likely to cause his death. “You thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 221 of the Penal Code Law. “That you, Maryam Sanda, female, adult of No.4 Pakali Close, Wuse 2 Abuja, on 19/11/2017 at about 0350hours at No.4 Pakali Close, Wuse 2 Abuja, within the Abuja Judicial Division, did commit the offence of causing grievous hurt in that you stabbed one Bilyaminu Bello Haliru, male adult of No. 40 Pakali Close, Wuse 2 Abuja with a broken bottle on the neck thereby endangering his life. “You thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 240 (g) and punishable under Section 247 of the Penal Code Law.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.