Yenagoa – Otuasega Community has won the Governor Dickson Unity Cup beating Otuokpoti Community 1-0 on Friday. The victorious Otuasega football team, in addition to lifting the coveted trophy, also went away with a cash prize of N500,000, while Otuokpoti received the sum of N250,000, and the third-placed Ebelebiri community got N150,000. Speaking at the event, Rear Admiral John Jonah (retd), the Deputy Governor of the state, who was the guest of honour, directed the state Ministry of Sports Development to include the Governor Dickson Ogbia Unity Cup in the state’s sports calendar. He also directed that similar events should be replicated in every local government area of the state. Jonah said the football competition falls in line with the restoration government’s policy for youth engagement with a view to keeping them away from social vices like crime, drug and cultism. He commended the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, and the Ogbia Restoration Crusaders, the organisers of the football competition, describing them as true lovers of peace and unity that should be emulated by all. In her welcome address, the chairperson of Ogbia Local Government Caretaker Committee, Naomi Ogoli, said the positive engagement of the youth may ultimately be a potent tool in crime fighting. She also expressed the council’s willingness to partner with good-spirited individuals and corporate organisations in sponsoring sporting and skill acquisition programmes with to promote productivity and self-reliance among the youth. In his remarks, Daniel Iworiso Markson, who noted that the tournament had provided new vista of peace, unity, rebirth and development in Ogbia Kingdom, thanked the Deputy Governor, Secretary to the Bayelsa State Government and other top government functionaries, for gracing the final match of the 2018 Governor Dickson Unity Cup Football competition. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.