Visionscape Sanitation Solutions says it has cleared 2,000 of the almost 5,000 illegal dumpsites in Lagos State.
Kiran Reddy, Head of Planning, Visionscape Sanitation Solutions (VSS), in an interactive session with journalists in Lagos, said approximately illegal 5,000 dumpsites, also known as black spots, were found during a baseline study of the state.
“We found approximately 5,000 black spots with waste from five tonnes to 150 tonnes and we have cleaned up approximately 2,000 black spots. We rented trucks, used pay loaders just to clean these dumpsites,” he said.
Highlighting other implementation efforts of the organisation, Reddy informed that over 15,000 bins had been distributed across the state, and that by the end August, over 20,000 galvanised bins would have been distributed.
He noted that four million waste bags had been distributed to residents of Lagos, and that 10 million was targeted by the end of the year.
Speaking on the implementation process, Motunrayo Elias, the Head of Corporate Communications, averred that over 100 Private Sector Participation (PSP) operators had joined Visionscape to aid waste collection in the state.
“Our plan is to service all the residential areas in the streets of Lagos State. We have a lot of black spots or illegal dumpsites in the state. We want to clear all the black spots before moving into the residential areas,” she averred.
Elias appreciated the PSPs for all the work that had been done before Visionscape arrived. She said the company was willing to work with the PSPs.
“We are willing and we have made progress and we will all work together,” she said, noting that though the organisation commenced full operations in January this year, some progress had been made.
Visionscape, she added, was embarking on advocacy programme at the grassroots level. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.