Bauchi – Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar has assented to the 2018 Appropriation Bill of N168 billion, with provision for massive rural road construction, covering 1,000 kilometers in all parts of the state. Speaking on Thursday at Government House, Governor Abubakar said capital projects would take 60 percent of the appropriation, while 40 percent had been allocated to recurrent expenditure. Abubakar, who lamented that many governments in the country had been making higher allocations to recurrent expenditure, which had been benefiting only a fraction of the population, said his administration had to make higher allocation to “capital projects for the overall interest of the generality of the people.” He explained that the state had already made available its counterpart funds for the construction of the 1,000 kilometers of rural road to the World Bank for the immediate commencement of the project. Abubakar stated that citizens of Bauchi State were lucky to have such representatives that work within the parameters of the law, stressing that House of Assembly had shown commitment to everything put before it was treated for the betterment of the people. “For the second year running in Bauchi state, education takes the highest allocation of 19.22 percent, followed by health with 15.23 percent,” Governor Abubakar said. He explained that the huge allocations given to the education sector had already started yielding fruits with improvement in the performance of Bauchi State students writing WEAC and NECO, from 03% when the administration came into office in 2015 to 27% in 2017. “We haven’t reached the target yet. We target the highest in both WEAC and NECO the entire country,” the governor said, but regretted that the administration was not so happy with results coming from the huge investments made in the health sector. He stressed that completion of all ongoing projects, diversifying the economy through agriculture, tourism and mining are going to be pursued. The governor revealed that some experts would soon be arriving the state from the Czech Republic to carry out scientific studies in order to improve mining activities in the state and turn around the economy of its people. On agriculture, the governor revealed that his recent visit to Morocco had attracted the acquisition of improved seeds, use of science through improvement in mobile soil analysis, fertiliser combination for higher yields and mechanisation. He revealed that all these would be carried out through a partnership with the largest fertiliser producer in the world, which was coming from Morocco to Bauchi for the commencement of the exercise soon. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.