African Heads of four International Election Observation Missions on Monday  pledged to remain impartial and ensure that the process complied with the relevant regional protocols and international best practices. According to a statement issued by Mr Paul Ejime, Spokesman of  the ECOWAS Network of Electoral Commissions (ECONEC), on behalf of others, further agreed to continue constructive engagements with the country’s stakeholders and to hold further consultations among themselves before and after the elections.’’ Sierra Leoneans would vote in country’s presidential, parliamentary and local Council elections scheduled for Wednesday. The missions met under the coordination of ECOWAS and the African Union, was held to strategise on effective value addition to the electoral process ahead of the countries elections. The meeting was attended by Prof Amos Sawyer, Liberia’s former Interim President, for ECOWAS; and Kgalema Motlanthe, the former South African President for AU. The two other leaders were Ghana’s former President John Mahama, for the Commonwealth; and Nigeria’s former President Goodluck Jonathan, for the Election Institute for Sustainable Democracy in Africa (EISA). “ After an exchange of information on the work of their observers on ground, the Heads of Missions discussed the level of preparations for the poll. “They also discussed emerging scenanios, identifiable challenges, especially the and legal issues before the Supreme Court and the way forward. “They noted that while international observers could render support, the success of the electoral process is the primary responsibility of Sierra Leoneans,” the missions said. According to the missions,  the new ECOWAS Commissioner for Political Affairs, Peace and Security Gen. Francis Behazin had joined the Prof. Sawyer-led ECOWAS Observation Mission as leader of the Commission’s Technical Support Team to the Mission. NAN reports that the Sierra Leone Telegraph, reported that both Dr Samura Kamara of the ruling All People’s Congress (APC) and Dr Kandeh Yumkella of the National Grand Coalition (NGC) Presidential candidates are facing separate suits against them at the Sierra Leone Supreme Court. The separate petitions are to determine if they are qualify to contest the Wednesday presidential elections The petition against Kamara is calling on the Supreme Court to disqualify him for violation of electoral laws, which states that all public officials wishing to contest the elections must have resigned from their posts at least 90 days prior to the elections. He is alleged to have been receiving his government salary as foreign minister and had failed to resign his job in accordance with the law. It is also alleged that Samura has both Sierra Leone and British citizenships, and has failed to renounce his British citizenship before his nomination as the presidential candidate of the ruling APC. On the other hand, the case against Yumkella, who is also contesting Parliamentary election at the same time, was filled by APC claiming he is ineligible to contest the constituency election in his place of Birth-Kychum in the Northern district of Kambia. The Sierra Leone’s National Electoral Commission (NEC) has declared that Yumkella was free to contest the parliamentary election until decided otherwise by the court. It was reported that Yumkella’s name is on the ballot papers for both presidential and parliamentary elections. Both cases were adjourned till Monday, March 5. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.