The United Nations Children’s Educational Fund (UNICEF) has appealed to Mrs. Aisha Buhari, wife of President Muhammadu Buhari, to partner with it in championing the rights and educational advancement of Nigerian children. Mohamed Fall, the Country Representative of UNICEF, made the appeal at a reception in honour of Mrs. Buhari as a strong advocate of rights of women and children at the National Centre for Women Development (NCWD) in Abuja on Saturday. The event was jointly organised by the centre and the Blaugrana International Sports, with the theme, “Legends For Children Project”. The UNICEF presented Mrs. Buhari with a Global Award of Excellence for Humanitarian Services in recognition of her service to humanity through her pet project, the “Future Assured”. Fall said the award was relevant considering her efforts in providing support to victims of insurgency, especially the protection of the rights of women and children, who suffered gender-based violence. He lamented that there were over 10 million out-of-school children in the sub-Saharan Africa hence the need for stakeholders, especially the wife of the president to join the campaign and advocate for child enrolment in school. Mrs. Buhari, who was represented by the wife of the Speaker of House of Representative, Mrs Gimbiya Dogara, said her passion to advance the cause of women and children was borne out of her love to give back the society. She called on stakeholders to join the campaign against child abuse and promote the enrolment of out-of-school children to ensure brighter future for the younger generation. Mallam Musa Bello, the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), the chief host, said the FCT administration had prioritised the child rights in education by providing necessary infrastructure to primary schools. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.