Oleh – Chief Great Ogboru’s chances in 2019 Delta State governorship race appears slim, as the leadership of All Progressives Congress (APC), Delta South Senatorial District, Sunday threw its weight behind the quest by Delta North senatorial district to produce the party’s governorship candidate in the 2019 election. Following the endorsement by APC Delta South leaders, Chief Great Ogboru chances of picking the party tickets might have been narrowed to Delta Central, where he currently does not enjoy overriding followership, because some other party leaders believe that Delta North should be supported. With this development, it appears that the 2019 APC Delta State gubernatorial primary would be a contest between those who believe in power rotation as an effective strategy to win the general election because it accommodates the unique interest of minorities and the Ogboru group who think otherwise. The decision to support Delta North gubernatorial candidacy was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of the expanded Delta South Senatorial District well attended by Senatorial executive members, LGA chairmen, leaders and stakeholders from the district. The meeting convened by the Delta South Senatorial Chairman, Snr. Apst. Yemi Omaghomi, agreed to support Delta North governorship candidacy, but on the condition that such a candidate would only do one term in line with extant power rotation in the state and to allow the zone complete its eight-year tenure. The communiqué, which was signed by the Senatorial District by Yemi Omaghomi, Chairman, APC Delta South District; High Chief Hon. Augustine Seibi; Secretary, APC Delta South, and three others, they stated that the desire of Delta North to produce the next governor of Delta State on the platform of APC is fair, just and equitable. The communiqué reads in part, “The Delta South APC notes that the request of Delta North APC is fair, just and equitable as it guarantees all ethnic groups, particularly the minority ethnic groups in our dear state fair access to the governorship seat of the state. “The Delta South APC further notes that the request of Delta North APC is in sync with the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) and the constitution of our great party. In particular, Article 20 (vi) of the APC Constitution provides, ‘Without prejudice to Article 20 (ii) and (iii) of this Constitution, the National Working Committee shall subject to the approval of the National Executive Committee make Rules and Regulations for the nomination of candidates through primary elections. All such Rules, Regulations and Guidelines shall take into consideration and uphold the principle of Federal Character, gender balance, geo-political spread and rotation of offices, to as much as possible, ensure balance within the constituency covered.’ “The Delta South APC therefore unequivocally supports the quest of Delta North APC to produce the governorship candidate of our great party in the 2019 gubernatorial election in Delta State provided however that such candidate must commit to serving one term of four years.” The Delta South APC leaders also urged all members of the party to remain steadfast and gird their loins as the party prepares for the epochal battle to dislodge the PDP government in Delta State. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.