Akure – Campaign for Democracy (CD) on Thursday asked Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State to set up a panel of enquiry that will probe financial activities of the immediate past administration of Olusegun Mimiko.
Akeredolu in a recent media chat had reiterated his earlier claim that the Mimiko government left behind a debt of N220 billion.
CD said in a statement that Akeredolu had not made any effort to investigate the circumstances that led to such a huge debt by a government that inherited over N32 billion from its predecessor.
The statement was signed by Ifeanyi Odili, CD national general secretary, and Samuel Olaseinde Aina, its South West chairman.
The group said it was worrisome that Akeredolu could decide to sweep the alleged financial misappropriation perpetrated by the last government under the carpet.
“Akeredolu claims that his predecessor, former Governor Olusegun Mimiko, is friend since their days at the University of Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University. For that reason, his hands are tied to commence a full-scale investigation into the real reason the state was grounded and rendered impotent. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu should separate friendship from governance.
“It is not the business of Ondo State people if they are childhood friends or bed mates in the higher institution, as such should not be a barrier to transparency and accountability in the running of state affairs,” it said.
The group issued a month ultimatum to Akeredolu to institute a panel of enquiry that would unravel any shady deal that might have been perpetrated by the last administration.
CD said failure to comply with the ultimatum might mar the good working relationship it hoped to maintain with the Akeredolu government. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.