Buhari Youth Organisation (BYO), Lagos State chapter, on Wednesday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to sanction Ibrahim Idris, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), for defying his order. The group made the call in a statement signed by AbdulWaheed Odunuga, its oordinator, and Adekunle Aderibigbe, the general secretary. Buhari had in Benue on Monday said he was unaware that Idris disregarded his directive to relocate to the state after the killing of 73 people on New Year Day. The president was reacting to Benue stakeholders’ allegation that the IGP didn’t spend a day in the state, contrary to the president’s order to him on January 9 to immediately move to Benue and restore peace. BYO said it was disheartening that the IGP, the number one policeman in the country, had to wait for the directive of the president before addressing crucial mayhem and massacre in Benue. “The IGP decided to renege on the oath of his office by taking solace in another state, while some Nigerians were begging for their lives to be saved in the hands of armed herdsmen. “The serving police officers in the troubled region could not have done more than what their role model and leader, Ibrahim Idris, did at that moment. “In a war where the commander is hiding, the combatants will either do the same or defy orders,” it said. It added that the continuous stay in service of the police boss would amount to bad omen and “symbol of insubordination and unpatriotic personality”. According to it, the situation must be addressed instantly to forestall a situation in a country where security is being entrusted in the hands of those who cannot manage it. The youth group also recommended that the president should review the profile of serving officers for competent, committed and patriotic ones. They said the nation needed officers who would motivate men with passion for oneness, selflessness, dignity and security of the nation. Buhari queried the IGP and demanded full report of police operations in Benue during the period. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.