Lagos – Dr. Marcelli Oguh, a House of Representatives aspirant for the Ahiazu/Ezinihitte Mbaise Federal Constituency seat in Imo State during the 2019 election, has pledged to work for an end to violence against women and children if he emerges victorious. Oguh, who spoke with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said he would put machinery in place to help in the control of child trafficking and reduce sexual harassment, even as he promised to improve on the campaign against violation of girl-child rights, especially genital mutilation.
Oguh, an aspirant under the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), said he wept daily when he read and listened to news about Nigerian girls and the rate of human abuse in the country with high rate of prostitution among the female folk, which he said drew strength through recruitments by human traffickers.
He vowed to help in ending crimes against women and children and provide them with skills that would suit their nature and reproductive responsibilities, insisting that it is the responsibilities of the governments at all levels to provide such facilities that would make life easy and environment habitable for the people. He attributed such crimes and violations against women and children to lack of vision on the side of the government, lamenting that Nigerians had lost confidence in their governments, adding that he would help to restore the nation’s glory if elected into the House of Representatives. He also promised that the people of Ahiazu/Ezinihitte Mbaise Federal Constituency would not suffer problems of lack of electricity supply come 2019, even as he had already provided transformers to some communities in the area. Oguh declared that as a federal lawmaker, he would concentrate on health and power generation, adding that he would explore his contacts to make government provide adequate electricity to his people and attract donor agencies like UNICEF to built health facilities and other structures that would provide employment for numerous Nigerian youths of Mbaise extraction. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.