Mastercard has partnered with Vconnect to empower Micro, Small, Medium Enterprises, (MSMEs), as part of a shared commitment to drive financial inclusion and literacy in Africa. Nigeria will be the first market to benefit from the partnership, which will be rolled out over a three year period. Vconnect will work closely with Mastercard and its partners to provide MSMEs with Mastercard’s mobile payment solution, Masterpass QR. Additionally, merchants will have access to an array of digital tools that will help to enable their online presence, ensure effective business management and provide access to finance. “With access to Masterpass QR, these merchants will be able to accept fast and secure digital payments, removing the need for cash,” said Omokehinde Adebanjo, Vice President and Area Business Head, West Africa, Mastercard. “Additionally merchants will be given access to skills that have the potential of helping the business owner to develop a sustainable business.” Vconnect currently has a community of over one million MSMEs registered on its database. These businesses play a pivotal role in the growth of the economy. Naveen Luthra, Head of Growth and Partnerships at Vconnect, added, “We are thrilled to partner with Mastercard to ensure we are working together to support Africa’s growth. This collaboration represents what is possible when we combine global capabilities with firsthand experience.” According to the World Bank, MSMEs make up approximately 60 percent of employment and 40 percent of Gross Domestic Product, (GDP), in emerging economies, indicating the vital role in economic development. In Nigeria MSMEs comprise about 96 percent of the country’s businesses. However, these business owners often battle to access finance, with approximately 70 percent of smaller businesses in emerging economies lacking access to credit loans. Combined with a lack of critical financial literacy skills and gaps in infrastructure, many businesses fail. “Through this partnership, we aim to bring about improvement in the way these businesses operate to drive growth and new opportunities,” said Adebanjo. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.