Lagos – Aare (Dr)  Gani Adams, the Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, has advocated more leadership roles for women in the society. He made the suggestion on Tuesday during the 2018 edition of the Grandmothers’ Day celebration at Epe, Lagos. Aare Adams stressed that in Nigeria, there are a lot of women that are capable of taking leadership position. He said, “Let us empower our women; let us offer them leadership roles in the society. In Nigeria today, we have many of them who can take up the challenges of leadership.” He stated Nigeria and Yoruba land in particular have women who had their names written in gold and also a source of inspiration to others in the society. “In Nigeria, and Yoruba land in particular, great names like, Madam Tinubu, Efunsetan Aniwura, Moremi  Ajansoro, and Funmilayo Ransome Kuti,are names that inspired great feelings of respect. “They also had their names written in gold in the book of history. Today, there are a few numbers of them around- women that have excelled in their various endeavours. They are role models to young women of today.” He urged Nigeria to emulate countries like United Kingdom, US and Sweden which accord special recognition for women whereby making them some of the leading countries of the world. “Great countries like the United Kingdom (UK) United states of America( USA),France, Sweden and South African give special respect, preference and recognition to women. That is why they are able to make meaningful progress in the world. According to Adams, Halloween, one of the world’s oldest holiday resorts is celebrated annually in a number of countries across the world to honour mothers. “In Europe and America, they celebrate the Halloween Festival to honour our mothers. Halloween Festival is believed to have originated from Ireland. But it is one of America’s favourite festivals. “For instance, in Ireland, France and Sweden, and Asian countries like China and Japan, there is effective social security system. “The government of these countries, take good care of the elderly people, particularly, women that are above 60 years. “They pay them monthly allowances for their upkeeps that tell you how their governments appreciate the old women”. Dignitaries at the event include HRM Oba Akeem Adesanya, The Alara of Ilara Epe Kingdom, The Paramount Ruler in Epe Division and Royal Father of the day, HRM Oba Kamoruden Ishola Animashaun, The Oloja of Epe Land, HRM Oba Sefiu Adewale, Olu Epe of Epe, HRM Oba Babatunde Ogunlana, Oba of Noforija, The Guest Speakers are Prof. Adams Kolade of University of Lagos, Ojo, Prof. Kolawole Raheem of University of Education, Winneba, Ghana, Prince Adeleke Ajala. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.