Lawyers on Thursday condemned the arrest and detention of Tony Ezimakor, DAILY INDEPENDENT’s Abuja Bureau Chief on Wednesday, February 28 by the Department of State Services (DSS). Ezimakor had walked into DSS headquarters in Abuja about 10.30a.m on Wednesday to honour an invitation from the security agency, and was detained. He was shunted from one office to the other on Wednesday and was asked to wait for a particular officer who was said to have been away from his office. INDEPENDENT management had made frantic efforts through its lawyer, Mr. Douglas Ekhator, since Wednesday to see the detained Ezimakor but with little result. Nobody as at press time has told Ezimakor the offence he committed. Malachy Ugwummadu, Lawyer and President of Committee for the Defence of Human Right (CDHR), said, “Everybody knows my position on illegal arrest. If it is happening in a military dictatorship, it is bad enough. But under a democracy, it is scandalous. If someone is arrested for any investigative purpose, he must be released within the constitutionally allowed period of time under Chapter IV of the 1999 Constitution. “In other words, granted that the law allows arrest for the purposes of investigation, it frowns at arrest that exceeds the constitutionally limited period beyond which the arrested person must be released. It would amount to a breach of the fundamental right of the arrested person if he remains in DSS custody beyond the period constitutionally allowed. “Besides the DSS has no right under the law to deprive anybody in its custody access to his lawyer. If this is indeed the case with your colleague, then I must say it is most unfortunate.” Zik Obi, a Lawyer, said, “The case of your colleague in Abuja nearly resembles that of the Elomba brothers which we have condemned for its illegality. They just took those guys and kept them under what looks like false imprisonment. You can see this is what is happening more and more these days. It is becoming the norm. The sad reality is that all these detention of journalists, who are doing their legitimate job, is pure illegality. And they are doing it with impunity. Everybody must condemn what is happening. Truth is this development makes for the intervention of the courts because it is simply outrageous. “It is most unfortunate. What is more troubling, here, is the allegation that your colleagues was not even allowed to see his lawyer. A detained person must be allowed to see his lawyer. That is why I say there is a lot of impunity in the system. Unfortunately the Federal Attorney General is not helping matters, because he himself is also been accused of impunity. We know situations in which people are picked up for nothing, detained for many days and weeks and nothing happens. I hope the case of your colleague does not degenerate to that level. We are in real trouble, I must tell you.” Olusina Fasugba, a Lawyer, said, “From the legal point of view, incidents like this are symptomatic of a draconian regime. This is a regime that is bent on using extralegal means to resolve issues. This is a regime that is intolerant of opposition. A regime that is intolerant of critical comments. And this is part of the failings of this government. But it is only when a government is willing and ready to listen to the voice of wisdom or constructive criticism that it will be able to move forward. “This government does not seem to like critical comments and that is telling in its lackluster performance. When a government is unwilling to stomach critical comments or appraisals it will inevitable resort to extralegal means to sustain itself in power by all means. “Under the circumstances, your man in DSS custody should use all the remedies provided under the constitution to seek justice and his release by virtue of the Fundamental Human Right Enforcement Procedure Rules. The press is the Fourth Estate of the Realm and must be prepared to face the challenges that come with the kind of government we have in Nigeria today. All draconian regimes anywhere in the world share the same characteristics. The press is always the cry baby in all draconian governments. But the press must remain resolute and unyielding. Under no circumstance must the press allow itself to be gagged”. As at today, the INDEPENDENT management had received no news about Mr. Ezimakor, though the lawyer, Mr. Ekhator, returned to the DSS office on Thursday morning. One thing is certain, Mr. Ezimakor was not given his medication though the lawyer who took it to him late Wednesday. We hereby alert the world to this real and present danger that Mr. Ezimakor is a high blood pressure patient and apart from taking his drugs, needs to see his doctors at very short notice. The implication is very clear; any outfit holding him for days is endangering his life. We reiterate that Mr. Ezimakor’s wife said the husband left home on Wednesday without medication and did not eat any food before leaving home Wednesday morning. She lamented that her husband’s health must be in grave danger, especially as DSS operatives have denied him access to his prescribed drugs. INDEPENDENT, therefore, is asking for its Abuja Bureau Chief’s immediate and unconditional release, otherwise his life is in serious danger. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.