In this engaging chat with STEPHEN UBIMAGO, senior lawyer Chief Godwin Obla (SAN) speaks about his over three decades of practice as a lawyer. He also weighs in on the dastardly activities of dreaded Fulani herdsmen in his home state Benue, describing such activities as war crimes, against the backdrop of the seeming indifference of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to the carnage… Not a few lawyers in Nigeria today have a family background of lawyers. Is that also the case with you? My father was a soldier. All my uncles were soldiers. Nobody in the long line of my family history was associated with law before I decided to become a lawyer. As a young kid I was always into one form of argument or the other. Even from the age of 10 or 11, I had often told people that I was going to be a lawyer. At the end of the day I ended up being one. Some lawyers have hinted that after seeing the type of public advocacy championed by the likes of Gani Fawehinmi or the impressive grasp of the law for which Chief Rotimi Williams was known, they became mentored to become lawyers. Who were your mentors? None. I did not know anything about Gani or Rotimi Williams when I decided to become a lawyer. Don’t forget that television actually reached us in 1970. And not everybody had it. We did not have it till I think 1978 or thereabout. That was when we had our first television in the house. And even when it came, we never saw lawyers except once in a while when they showed the Crown Court. But by then I had already made up my mind as to what I wanted to be. You chose to study Law at the University of Lagos. What specifically informed your choice? My father wanted me to choose Ahmadu Bello University. I did my primary school in Kaduna. I was born there. But I completed it in Benue State. I did my secondary school in Benue State too. I did my HSC at the Federal School of Arts and Science, Sokoto. So I felt I have had enough of the North. I was a young man looking for adventure. And I had also heard when I was doing my HSC that the University of Lagos was very good in Law. So I decided to take the plunge. I did not know anybody in Lagos. But once I submitted my result, within four days I was admitted, and that was in 1980. What was studying Law at the University of Lagos like at the time? It was fantastic. We had the best faculty in terms of lecturers. As at the time, we had the likes of Professor Ajose Adeogun in charge of Contract; Professor Obilade in charge of Legal System; Professor Abiola Ojo in charge of Constitutional Law; Professor Adesanya in charge of Evidence. Professor Amaechi Ukaegbu was teaching Jurisprudence. Professor Fogam was also there. There was also my lecturer that I just did a case against in London. We also had Akin Oyebode who was teaching International Law; Professor M.I. Jegede of blessed memory taught Equity and Trust; and Professor Oluwole Agbede taught Conflict of Laws. We also had junior lecturers like Yemi Osinbajo, who is now the Vice President. Professor Amos Utuama was a junior lecturer at the time too. I mean it was a huge, fantastic faculty. In my first year I got National Merit award for excellence. In my second year I became the first northerner to become the secretary general of University of Lagos Student Union. And I still graduated with a second class upper division. It was an interesting time. When you attended the Nigerian Law School (NLS), there was only one NLS campus in Lagos. Today you have five campuses of the NLS. From stories you might have heard, will you say things have changed for the better or worse in respect of the vocational training students receive at the NLS? Generally things have changed. I think when you have a huge number of students being attended to there will be quality control problem. I think that is what we are seeing. NLS has about five campuses, so you need high number of lecturers and this will impact on quality and discipline. The turn over is so huge that you can’t have guarantees for anything. But during our time, only about five or six Faculties were producing students. Then our wig and gown came directly from Ede and Ravenscroft in the UK. They just come take the measurements and send them down to Nigeria. I recall that I paid for my wig and gown, my shirt, everything, at the rate of N500 then. Some lawyers have argued that given the circumstances private interests should invest in establishing Law Schools. Are you in support of this suggestion? Some people have even advocated that the Law School is no longer relevant. You see, private universities were not contemplated about 30 years ago in Nigeria but they are now the reality. But we need to be extremely careful about who can run what. There should be like a control mechanism. Depending on who is doing what and the level of control, private Law Schools can bring competition to the entire process. But I think what we need to bother most about legal training is that it needs to be more futuristic, much more practical. A lot of the things that are being taught in the Law School are things that students have already been taught in the university. So, as far as I am concerned that is repetition. There should be more emphasis on preparing people practically for the realities they will confront when they begin practice. What do you think students are not being taught at the Law School, but which ordinarily they ought to be taught? There are so many. The Law School is meant to prepare you. But if you find out, you will discover that after call to bar, new wigs begin to learn afresh in the various chambers and offices that they go to, which means there is a disconnect between what is taught and what is required in practice. So NLS should be able to prepare them to know how to file briefs, file papers in court, know how motion is to be taken and things like that. I think a lot more time needs to be spent on pupilage rather than the theoretical aspects of the law. But from what we know you didn’t really undergo pupilage. Are you not indirectly suggesting that what you got from the Law Faculty and Law School at the time was sufficient, and that you didn’t require more? What prepared me was my one year of Youth Service. During that period I was practicing Law. I was attached to the FCDA in Abuja. But I was in court almost every day during the period. I was doing things on my own. I was drafting agreements for contractors in Abuja. I was representing undefended people in court; I was doing litigation for contractors. You don’t have a lot of those opportunities today. I only gave you the experience of Godwin Obla. I did not give you the experience of a thousand other lawyers. It’s not everybody that has the capacity or resilience to launch out on their own like me. But even what I did came at a huge price. I had to trek to my office on some days. Before you get a client; or before people will entrust you with their problems, you have to be sure you can deliver. So the fact that I opened an office immediately after my call does not mean I was successful. Only recently about 30 persons were slaughtered by Fulani herdsmen in your state of origin Benue. But the governor had to shelve the mass burial ceremony he had planned to give them but for the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari. What is your take about the security situation in Benue State? It is important we ask the question: has the president for once condemned the activities of the Fulani herdsmen? He was in Benue State, and I heard he was still asking the people to accommodate the herdsmen. I think that is begging the question and giving an impression of official complicity in all these atrocities that are going on. Well we are not unaware of the accommodation that Afonja gave to the Fulani. And we know the repercussion. It is not going to happen in Benue State. It started in Agatu, then entered Tivland. It has now entered another component of Idomaland again. Well the president went to Benue and saw how cold the reception was. That says a lot. The president went and left the same day. Don’t forget that the Inspector General of Police made a statement that it was because of the Anti-Open Grazing Law that is why the killings have continued. And he ordered his men not to arrest the killers. Has he withdrawn the statement? Well it is very sad because IGP speaks for the president. And whoever is complicit in these things should know that time does not run in criminal matters, even in the International Criminal Court (ICC). So at the right time people will be asked to account. A Nigerian has been appointment president of the ICC. What is you take about the development? Nigerians are actually very hardworking people; but it does not impact on anything that is taking place here. He is an independent person. He will do his assignment in accordance with the substantive and procedural laws of the ICC. And I am sure he will acquit himself creditable. Was he appointed by Nigeria? What he recommended by Nigeria? Don’t forget that he is just a judge. He is not part of the investigation or prosecution. So whatever comes to him, he will deal with it in accordance with the law. A lot of humanitarian breaches have occurred under the current administration in light of the activities of the herdsmen. What is your take? What’s happening in Nigeria today is not just humanitarian breaches. War Crimes have been committed under this administration. To call it humanitarian breaches is just to massage and window-dress a very serious issue. People have committed war crimes and genocide; and they will be held to account some day. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.