Engr. Saleh Dunoma, the Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) in this interview with aviation correspondents at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos spoke on indebtedness to the agency by its clients including the airlines, and plans by the government to up the non-aeronautic revenues to procure mobile Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras to improve security at the airside among others. OLUSEGUN KOIKI was there for Daily Independent. Excerpts: Most major airport managers across the world are diversifying their revenues from aeronautic to non-aeronautic; what is FAAN doing about this? Yes, aeronautical revenues are very straight forward and very easy to capture; these are services that are much defined and the charges are also well-defined. That also makes it easy for us to collect. A lot of our revenues come from aeronautical sources, but that is not to say that we don’t have non-aeronautical sources. However, we are trying to develop non-aeronautical revenues this is because we want to concentrate on our core activities, which is providing facilities to flight operations and passenger movement. In most cases, in order for us to free ourselves from distractions, we try to see that the non-aeronautical revenues are concessioned out; so, we concession out the car parks, toll gates and others so that FAAN can concentrate on their core issues. That is providing and managing the airports operations. I know there are some countries that have high non-aeronautical revenues and aeronautical too. Nigeria is moving towards that gradually and by the time we design projects like aerotropolis, bring about a lot of developments on the landside of the airport, we would be seen to have developed the non-aeronautical sources of revenues. We have issued out pieces of land for construction of hotels and other giant projects that we feel by the time they are completely completed and commissioned, w are going to earn more revenues from non-aeronautical sources. We are working hard on that, but we want to concentrate on the aeronautical sources so that we make sure that we provide the services that we are expected to provide to airlines and passengers. Sir, what is the level of indebtedness by airlines and other concessionaires to FAAN? As long as we continue to do business, there would continue to be debts here and there. There is no day you will say nobody or airline owes FAAN, but as long as we continue with credit policy that gives them two weeks, indebtedness will always be there, you can never eliminate it, but what we have done in recent time was to call all our concessionaires in our regional offices to a meeting to reconcile and we have reconciled with almost everybody and we created a programme of payment, which is signed up by each and every person. So, we look at what is reasonable and what they can pay monthly. We signed off on that. Everybody has some debts to pay, but we are making arrangement and with that plan in place, I think we are good to go, we don’t have issues with the airlines. Unless if they now default on the programme of payment, then, it means we need to call them back again and sit down for us to look at it and know why you are defaulting. We are ready to listen to everybody that is doing business with us; we will listen to them, consider their issues and see how we can work with them to make sure they are also comfortable and make them to make commitments on how to pay our debts. Recent incursions into the restricted areas of the nation’s airports have been more pronounced in recent time, what is FAAN doing to have perimeter fences in most of our airports and eliminate these incursions? Airport is a public place; there are certain areas that are restricted and there are some of the areas that are allowed for public to have access. As you know, we have various categories of people coming to the airport apart from the airline staff, you still have other people that are providing services. So, that is why we have the airport access control system. Apart from that, since it is a public place, there is a limit to what you can do in order to stop people from getting access to some areas they are not supposed to access. So, we have a lot of measures in place and one of them is of course the proper fencing of the airport to restrict access to the place, we have perimeter patrol and there is technology also, which is for surveillance. To some extent, we have these facilities in all the airports, but security challenges always come up in different forms. If you address this challenge, the challenge will come back again in another form. So, the only way out is to improve on our technology. As we speak, there are things going on at Lagos and Abuja airports to make sure that we cover all the restricted areas with Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras. This is ongoing; in Lagos, it is 80 per cent completed and it is about 70 per cent completed in Abuja. We will soon commission this and once it is commissioned, our people will sit up and monitor these restricted locations. This is going to help us a lot. In addition to that, we are buying another technology, which is a mobile system that has cameras on it and can see up to seven kilometers. So, we will position it and even at night, it has cameras that will watch all the sensitive areas of the airport; the runway, apron and the other restricted areas. By the time we have all these technologies in place and we improve on the perimeter road, we mend some of the broken fences, the security will be watertight and nobody will be able to have access to the restricted areas and if you try to access it, you will be caught because of the technology put in place. The CCTV cameras will not just be installed in Lagos, but in the five international airports across the country. The CCTVs have always been there, but you know that the facilities keep on growing; in Abuja and others, we are building new terminals and as we keep developing the airport, we have to keep developing on the security apparatus we have at the airports too. It is a continuous thing and a priority for the government. The car park at the international wing of the Lagos Airport is a far distance from the terminal, what is FAAN doing to address the challenge? I don’t think this distance is something we should worry about, but because in our airports, we are used to short distances. If you travel out, before you get to your gate from the security and immigration areas, you either spend 15 to 20 minutes walk and I am not sure if the distance between the terminal and the car park is more than five minutes walk. But, what we need to do is to improve the ambience. May be, when the passengers are walking, they should walk under a shed. However, once this terminal under construction is completed; the whole thing would be linked. The car parked would be linked to the terminals. So, you don’t have to come out. You can trek the terminals to the car park all within under a roof. However, on a temporary basis, we have buses that are working there and they carry passengers, but what we need to do is to increase the frequencies of the buses. We are going to improve on that and we are trying to get more buses to complement on the ones that we have. Sir, what is FAAN doing to curb runway flooding at our airports? I don’t think there are floods in our runways because one of the critical things in runway pavement is the drainage system. You drain the runways in two directions; you know, runway is most times 60 meters wide. The centre is slightly high so that water does not stay on the runway at any point in time and most of the runways are properly designed for drainage. If it is raining heavily, the airlines know their safety limit; they either land or avoid landing at a particular point in time. Our runways are designed in such a way that they are properly drained. What is the current situation at Enugu Airport? Just last week, we were there with the Minister of State for Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika and we met the governor of the state on the issues pertaining the runway. Of course, the market is there, but you know the government has a programme of extending and expanding the runway. This programme started sometime in 2011 and we have successfully extended the runway, but we could not finish the approaches because of land issued. However, the land issue is not within our purview, but within the state government and the minister has made this issue known to the governor. In fact on the day we visited him, the governor gave a directive right there and then that all the encroachments on the approach should be stopped. He also gave a directive to Enugu State Radio, which has a mast there to immediately prepare and remove the mast there and that included Nigerian Television Authority (NTA). He has also promised us that he’s going to look into the relocation of the market and if these issues are addressed, then we will continue with the approach. The runway is wide enough because it is 60 meters wide. As soon as all these are addressed, we are going to go back, finish the runway and the installation of the lighting system and that makes the airport 24 hours. What kind of partnership does FAAN have with State Governments that have airports in the states especially with upgrading of facilities at those airports? We have Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) with several State Governments that have airports; about six or seven of them. These include Gombe, Bauchi, Gigawa, Kebbi, Akwa Ibom and Delta States. We are providing security service, fire cover, marshalling and some technical assistance. The airports are standards already because they did not build the airport without our consultations. They consulted us, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and all the parastatals through the Ministry of Aviation. During those consultations, we gave the guidelines, consultants and others in designing the airports. So, the airports are complainant by standards. The only thing they need to do is to improve these airports on infrastructure, technology or personnel and they will get back to us and we provide them with technical materials so that they will do it in accordance with international best practices, International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and NCAA standards. They don’t work in isolation; they work with us so that at the end of the day, whatever they are providing in terms of technology and what have you, they are cleared by us. They can then go ahead and implement. There are allegations that the scanning machines at the major airports don’t have the capacity to detect illicit drugs, how true is this? We have various types of screening machines and equipment at the airports, but I will quickly add that it is not the set of that equipment that we have, but we are planning to buy equipment that can check almost everything. Recently, I went to Qatar where they were displaying some scanning machines. There are scanning machines now that would tell you the atomic number of anything. So, it can detect almost everything. We don’t have these machines now, things are being tested and they have to obtain airport certification before they are deployed to aviation. But, what we have currently is a combination; the scanning machines that we have there are doing different jobs and we also have the hand held scanners, which are detecting narcotics. So, the combination of that can help security men t detect whatever they want to detect. Normally, the screening machines tell you it suspects something in a luggage and now, it is left for the security personnel on ground to carry out further analysis, using the machines or you can focus on the area detected by the machines and if you are not satisfied, bring up the bag and check manually. So, it has to be a combination of technology. Right now, these are the technologies we are using, but I can assure you that these technologies would change very soon as companies have developed something that is more sophisticated and more efficient. Very soon, we will get these equipment at our airports. The new terminal buildings under construction have suffered several completion dates, when will these terminals be eventually commissioned? We have to change the completion dates of the terminals under construction in the five or six airports because of issues raised by the contractors. There was an evaluation because of the devalued of naira to dollar. When the contract was awarded, I think a dollar was N165 and today, it is over N300 and the approval process to the variation was a bit lengthy. As we speak today, we are getting to the end of the journey; we have got Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) approval. So, the contractors have never stopped work. If you visited recently, Port Harcourt is over 80 per cent completed, followed by Abuja and Lagos. If you go to Abuja, the avio bridges are shooting out from the terminal building and all the materials are there on sight, but just awaiting the installations. So, we believe that by the middle of this year, Lagos and Abuja should be ready. We have a lot of external work to do because we need to extend the apron especially in Lagos; in Port Harcourt, they have already started with the apron and it is about 33 per cent completed; Abuja also, they have started with the apron, already installing the avio bridge in Abuja. So, Abuja will come up very soon. Just recently, we were there with Sen. Sirika and the Federal Capital Territory Minister to look how we can commission the building with the light rails that are servicing the airport. We are working with the FCT to make sure that we synchronise our activities in such a way that passengers can start using the light rail to the airport. Very soon, the light rail in Abuja would be commissioned, alongside the terminal building and passengers can now come by train and also leave the airport by train. Data gathering is one of the major challenges confronting this sector as several government agencies dish out conflicting figures, how can this be addressed? If you have two or three people doing the same thing, the tendency is that there would be difference in whatever they are doing and if you have four or five agencies collecting data, definitely, there would be differences in data collection at the end of the day, but what we have resolved to do in order to get to the root of these differences, is to have better reconciliation. All the statisticians in the agencies will come together from NCAAA, the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), FAAN and others will come together so that we will reconcile the information, the numbers before we issue them out. But, for the purpose of day-to-day data, we have to rely on what we collect and then, later on, we can do reconciliation either with our agencies or our immediate stakeholders so that whatever data that is sent out, is data that is agreeable to all of us. So, this reconciliation we do quarterly with the agencies helps us a lot in order to make sure that at the end of the year when we want to publish our information, the data is captured by all of us and the airlines. These data are regularly reconciled to ensure we get required information and all the errors are usually minimised. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.