Lagos – The Board of Trustees (BoT) of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) has called on relevant organs of the party to ensure the emergence of only credible candidates to carry the party’s flag in every part of the country and that all primaries are free, fair and credible. Arising from its meeting in Awka, Anambra State capital, the board in a communiqué made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT at the weekend, advised that the party’s machinery should intensify the publicity of its activities of the party, stressing that “APGA today is the third-party in Nigeria after the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It maintained that the board would like the party’s organs to work to push APGA to the second or the first position in 2019, while it advised that the committee earlier set up by Governor Willie Obiano, the National Leader and the BoT Chairman, to win prominent Nigerians to the party to continue its good work. The BoT, which appointed Alhaji Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi as its Secretary, also advised Nigerians to register and obtain their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) in line with the electoral guidelines in readiness for the 2019 general elections. Also, the board called for the review of the party’s manifesto in line with its current successes in readiness for the coming elections, even as it commended Gov. Obiano for his leadership and stewardship for the people of Anambra State. “The Board of Trustees is reviewing the security situation in Nigeria and called on the President Muhammad Buhari to arrest the situation in Nigeria,” the communiqué added. “The board further consoled the families of the victims of the insecurity across the country and prayed for early return of the abducted Chibok and Dapchi girls by the Boko Haram insurgents in Borno and Yobe states,” the communiqué added. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.