Osita Chidoka, a former Minister of Aviation was the governorship candidate of the United Progressive Party (UPP) in the last Anambra governorship election. In this interview with Joy Anigbogu, he speaks on the kidnap of Dapchi girls, clamour for state police and other national issues. Excerpts: What can you say about the communication issues between the army and the police on the kidnap of Dapchi girls Nigerians did not handle the kidnap of Chibok girls well that was why some people used the opportunity to label the government as being incompetent. The way we behaved when the Chibok girls were kidnapped,  I knew it would be a question of time before another kidnap would take place. Instead of criticising the kidnappers for going against a world convention that women and children are usually spared in act of wars, Nigerians turned it around to mean that the government of the day was incompetent. Anywhere in the world if you kidnap a woman or a child, the world would go against you. When the issue of Chibok girls was on, I had my fear that sooner or later more girls would be kidnapped and history would repeat itself. I condemn the kidnap of Dapchi girls in its entirety because the Boko Haram or whoever is the culprit should be treated like criminals that they are. The Nigerian government should bring the full weight of the law against them because this is a gross violation of the international convention. Do you support the giving of ransom for the release of the girls? I do not know of any ransom being required to release kidnapped girls. Children are very vulnerable people. No matter how you try to secure a place, you may still run into problems and so you cannot use the kidnap of children to measure the performance of a government. What can you say about the herdsmen and farmers clashes across the nation? I don’t want to attach prefix to criminality, anybody that enters another person’s farm and destroys his crop has trespassed and should be tried and if the person goes ahead to kill another person, he should be tried for what he has done. He has committed murder and the law of the State should take its course. I don’t like attaching prefixes to criminality. There is nothing like herdsmen’s crime. It is criminality whether it is done by people on the street or by those tending to cattle. People must learn to respect laws and that has brought us to the fundamental issues of respect for our laws and institutions. The Vice President said that the establishment State police has become imperative. Do you agree with him? I think that fundamentally the issue of police is with planning and implementation. The solution is not with centralisation or devolution, the issue is to go back to the fundamental principle, why do we want to have the police? What is the work of the police? How do we fund the police? How do we equip the police? What is the ratio of a police officer to the population?  When we determine all these things we should be able to know who should own police. We used to have State police in Nigeria. It was used as a tool for harassing opposition in the past. I think we should make a progress on this issue. Is the unity of Nigeria negotiable? We must discuss Nigeria. There is nothing like Nigeria’s unity is not negotiable. Nigeria’s unity is negotiable. We must negotiate and that is what will make our union better. The reason we have the National Assembly is to constantly discuss Nigeria. Do you think that the National Assembly should reorder the election time table? I support anybody carrying out a legal function. If the national assembly has powers to reorder the election, who am I to say, no. If it is within their power, let them go ahead. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.