Ado-Ekiti – Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State has disagreed with Ekiti Council of Elders on the developmental roadmap prepared by elder statesmen in the state. The senior citizens have been lending their voices to critical matters in the state and offering useful advice. The council led by Professor Joseph Oluwasanmi, its chairman, had paid a courtesy visit to the governor where issues relating to the roadmap were raised. Fayose noted that since it was the government that would implement anything decision, it would have been better to carry the government along in preparing such a document. On the state of the national economy, the governor frowned at a situation whereby the Federal Government would borrow money for its own use, but would make all the three tiers of government repay the same. The governor charged the elder statesmen in the country not to keep quiet in the face of poor governance and leadership, but rather keep public officers on their toes by demanding good governance and accountability from them. He noted that history and posterity would not be kind to them if they fold their arms and watch the situation deteriorate. The governor charged the elders not to only offer advice to public office holders, but that they must not shy away from criticising them when the need arises. “We must make political office holders accountable for our commonwealth. The essence of giving people the opportunity to lead is to make life better for all. Evaluate the situation and guide where necessary but don’t say you have tried to get across to some people but that they are proving stubborn or inaccessible. “They are representing the interest of the people who elected them and whoever feels too big to identify with the people must be taught the needed lessons. Turning to the Ekiti elders, the governor said, “We appreciate you for appreciating the little we have done. We are working for history and posterity. We will take a number of elders around our projects for you to appreciate them and hand them over to Ekiti people.” Fayose, while reacting to some demands made by the council, noted that the previous administration left the finances of the state in tatters. “We can’t even borrow money without the approval of the Federal Government. Right now, we pay over N1.2 billion monthly to service debts incurred by the Kayode Fayemi administration and we will pay till 2036. This same person has been a Minister for Solid Minerals for about three years now and has not found anything worthwhile to bring to the state in spite of the abundant solid minerals in Ijero, Oye and other parts of the state,” he added. Earlier in his speech, Oluwasanmi commended the Fayose administration for the giant strides in education, infrastructure and other sectors. 0 comments