Abuja, With Agency Report – No fewer than four UN aid workers were killed in a Thursday night attack coordinated by Boko Haram insurgents at Rann community in Kala Balge Local Government of Borno. A female aid worker was also missing while one other sustained injuries in the attack. Samantha Newport, Head of Communications, UNICEF Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), confirmed the incident on Friday in Maidguri. Newport said two of the deceased were personnel of UN client organisation, International Organisation of Migration (IOM), deployed to Rann as camp managers. She added that others killed were a medical doctor working as consultant with UNICEF and an aid worker with International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC) affiliate organisation. The UNICEF communications head said a female nurse was abducted, while another female aid worker was injured in the attack. She explained that all the deceased personnel were Nigerians, adding that the world body would soon issue a statement on the incident. Competent sources in Rann revealed that the insurgents attacked the town at about 7 p.m. on Thursday. The source added that the insurgents, moving on gun trucks and motorcycles, infiltrated the town and attacked a military base and a displaced persons’ camp. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday condemned the attack on the humanitarian workers, saying the latest incident confirms to him that the Boko Haram insurgents are godless, brutish, and utterly to be despised. Buhari who condemned the attack through his media aide, Femi Adesina said “As I have always maintained, no true religion advocates hurting the innocent. “To now further attack and kill those offering humanitarian aid is the height of bestiality. It is odious before both God and man”. He sympathised with the United Nations and other humanitarian agencies working at Rann, and in the country generally. President Buhari affirms that such cowardly attacks can only bolster the determination of government to bring the Boko Haram insurgency to a decisive end, in the shortest possible time. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.