A foremost women body in Nigeria, Al-Mu’minaat (The Believing Women) Organisation has collaborated with media organisations to ensure issues concerning womenfolk enjoy media prominence. This is with a view to pushing such issues to the front burner of national discourse via adequate reportage and proper analyses of women affairs. Speaking at a media seminar organised by The Professionals, an organ of Al-Mu’minaat, with the theme:“Muslim Organisations, Public Relations and Effective Media Engagement: The Essentials”, a senior correspondent at The Nation newspaper, Tajudeen Adebanjo urged women to be more involved in non-governmental organisations and human rights activities to achieve their aims. Mr Adebanjo said: “You must carve a niche for yourselves and become a point of reference whenever issues of public concern regarding women and in fact, the general populace are brought to the media for discourse. “I also urge you (women) to brace up to fight your cause by making use of social media to present your grievances on issues by simply making series of educative posts on Facebook, Twitter and even WhatsApp. It is high time you stopped expecting men to fight your cause for you.” Adebanjo cited the issue of Firdaus Amasa as an infringement on the human rights of women, but which did not enjoy women’s massive support because of religious bigotry and sectionalism. “It could happen to your younger ones or daughters who want to study Law in Nigeria in the future. So, why don’t you be passionate and speak up for these rights,” he said. Islam Lays Emphasis On Media, Public Relations The Coordinator of The Professionals, Alhaja Jelilat Abdul-Hamid noted that the entire life of Prophet Muhammad and his relationship with people was characterised by effective personal and public relations, while his use of media was unrivalled. According to her, the rise of Islam came through conveying the message via the contemporary media available then. The life and times of our Prophet portrays how the people of Makkah were invited to Islam by moral and pious conducts of the Prophet and his rightly guided followers. “The melodious and inspiring recitation of the Qur’an also changed the hearts of even the fiercest opponents, as many media were used to make the non-believers aware of the truth of the divine message. The Prophet (SAW) also sent men on horseback to the rulers and kings of the neighbouring lands with letters declaring his prophethood and inviting them to Islam”, she noted. Alhaja Abdul-Hamid cited the dexterity in the speech of a young companion, Musa’b bn Umayr, who changed the mind of Usayd bn Khudayr, who had originally come with a sword to kill him. She buttressed her point with a quotation from the research paper of Muhammad Kirat of Qatar University; Alhaja Abdul-Hamid described Public Relations in Islam as a vehicle for creating a healthy environment and atmosphere for both the individual and the organisation to establish the Islamic Ummah, which should be characterised by harmony, mutual understanding, mutual respect and mutual interests, while being governed by Islamic principles and values. “The final objective is to reinforce social solidarity and a strong community in terms of faith and welfare”, she stressed. The Coordinator, who remarked that Prophet Muhammad set a standard in Public Relations and the effective use of the media, added that until Muslims follow the prophetic footsteps in his best PR ever known and cultivate the habit of effective media management, it would be difficult for them to achieve their Daw’ah objectives. Investment In The Media, A Necessity For All Muslim Organisations In his address, a seasoned journalist and Osun State Bureau Chief of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Alhaji Tajudeen Abdussalam called on women organisations to invest in the media to push and pursue their cases, in order to achieve their goals using the power of the media. He said it was high time they corrected the erroneous belief that investing in the Media and Public Relations is a wasteful or unworthy venture. Alhaji Abdussalam said, while Media or Public Relations may not give immediate cash, it has the potentials to mobilise and win the people’s hearts and their wealth eventually. He noted that the power and influence of the Media is incontestable, which explains the respect that powerful leaders have for the media. “It is in recognition of the power of the media that top-level politicians, big corporations and organizations, profitable or charitable, invest heavily in the media and will continue to, even when they run at a loss”, he stated. The guest speaker appealed to the leaders of various organisations, especially religious groups like Al Mu’minaat, to engender a paradigm shift from traditional preachings on morality and begin to give priority to less expensive but useful public or social services such as traffic control, portholes filling, clearing of highway bushes to allow road users see clearly ahead, drainage clearing, facilitation/donation of wells or boreholes, construction of directional signposts, running extra-mural classes/adult literacy cum Quranic centres, regular visitations to hospitals, prison yards and orphanage homes, media tours, among others. “These will win for you a good and favourable public image, as you will directly touch the lives of the people. Meanwhile, your identity must be well displayed while rendering these services, and necessary safety measures must not be taken for granted,” he said. He advised the women group to erect billboards and giant signposts displaying the names of their organisations in conspicuous places, while making announcements about their beneficial activities by sponsoring radio, television and cable network programmes. Maintaining favourable media relationships, Alhaji Abdussalam said, is the most effective way to engage media professionals, while treating them with the requisite dignity and establishing direct contacts with them. Effective Communication, A Key To A Successful Daw’ah While speaking at the event, a columnist with Daily Independent, Mallam Rasheed Abubakar called for effective communication and public relations as a key to successful Daw’ah. The author of “Hijab and the Nigerian Press” advised the women group to set up a Public Relations Committee, rather than just a Publicity Committee, adding that there is a difference between the two. Mallam Abubakar explained that the publicity committee is just an organ of the public relations committee, which houses other organs such as new media, production and research, among others. Abubakar stressed that no institution, country or establishment that wants to achieve its goal in this information age can afford to joke with its public image. “They spend huge money on this,” he said. He urged Muslim organisations to form the habit of issuing official press releases addressing national issues as they affect Islam and their objectives. “This should also involve media engagements on Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter, Instagram and embarking on media tours. In the same vein, appearance on radio or TV discussions, establishment of TV and radio stations, as well as newspapers, and having a social media committee for Twitter, Instagram and Facebook are all necessities for religious, social and women organisations,” he said.  0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.