Lagos – An alleged notorious serial killer and hired assassin, Adeola Williams, alias Ade Lawyer, has blamed the lack of proper means of livelihood as the reason why he took to killing people on hired basis to make ends meet. Ade Lawyer was arrested recently by operatives of the Inspector General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT) on allegation that he had engaged in several violent killings around Lagos and other Southwestern states of the nation. In an interview with SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, he confessed that he took to contract killings because he had no sustainable means of livelihood. The suspect, currently in police net at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, further confessed that some top members of the Lagos State Chapter of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, forced him into becoming a contract killer when they took away his job. He was arrested on February 14, 2018, when IRT trailed him to an hideout in Akure, the Ondo State capital. The final manhunt for him commenced after he allegedly killed the personal assistant to the chairman of the Idumota Branch of the NURTW, Kunle Azeez, who is also known as Kunle Poly, on January 23, 2018. He had been on the police wanted list for a very long time following reports of several high profile killings, which were linked to him. Following his arrest, Ade Lawyer told operatives of IRT that the Former Chairman of the Lagos State Chapter of the NURTW, Akanni Olohunwa, hired and paid him the sum of N500,000 to kill Kunle Poly because he had over the years refused to pay homage to him. He also told the police that he snatched one of Olohunwa’s cars from his driver when Olohunwa failed to pay him the N500,000 balance for the killing, which was targeted at Kunle Poly. Olohunwa told the police during interrogation that he had no hand in the attempted murder of Kunle Poly and the eventual killing of his P.A, Ganiu Piero. It was gathered that, Ade Lawyer and Olohunwa, were both transferred to the Force Headquarters, Abuja, but on arrival, Ade Lawyer changed his story and hinted the IRT operatives that he implicated Olohunwa and several others in the attempted murder of Kunle Poly and the eventual killing of his PA because he wanted to punish them for the evil they did to him over the years. He was said to have lamented that he linked Olohunwa, Musiliu Akinsanya, alias Mc Oluomo and several others to the Kunle Poly saga because they had all used and dumped him. He was said to have disclosed further that he wasn’t sent by anyone to kill Kunle Poly or his P.A, and he equally lied against Prince Kazeem Eletu, who he said he had never met in his life. Police sources disclosed that, Ade Lawyer confessed to have killed over a hundred persons since he became a contract killer terrorising Lagos and the entire South Western part of the country. However, he said he was a frustrated man who was pushed to the wall, and he admitted taking to killing as the only means of survival. He narrated how he grew from being a lawyer’s son to becoming a bus conductor and eventually a garage tout, who then turned into a notorious serial killer and a hired assassin. “My name is Adeola Williams, I am from Ijebu-Igbo area of Ogun State. I am 39 years old and I am married with three children. I am a member of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW and I attended Methodist Boys High School, Lagos Island, but I couldn’t finish my secondary education because I was very stubborn and I dropped out in Class Three. After I dropped out of school, I ran away from the house and I became a bus conductor and my bus was plying Lagos Island, Ojuelegba and Victoria Island routes. I did that for about three years before I became a driver. In 1998, I was arrested by the police and taken to the Ikoyi Prison because I stole a wristwatch belonging to late Fuji musician, Sikiru Ayinde Barrister when he came for a show at City Hall, Lagos Island. A fight broke out when he was about leaving the hall and I found my way to the front where I succeeded in snatching his watch from his wrist. People saw me struggling with his bouncers, and the next day they brought police to arrest me in my mother’s house and I was taken to the Zone 2 Police Command, Onikan, before I was charged to court and remanded at the Ikoyi prison. Two years into my incarceration, some inmates on awaiting trial staged a violent protest at the Ikoyi Prison over their long stay in prison without trial and I joined them. The protest turned into a riot and many inmates attempted to escape from the prison. Some were killed by soldiers who were sent to the prison to quell the riot, while other sustained serious injuries. The next day, the prison authorities came because of the riots and they transferred all the awaiting trial inmates in that prison out and I was taken to Kirikiri Maximum Prison, where I spent an additional five months before I was taken to court and was eventually released in the year 2001. After my release, I went back to Ajah and I started working again as a bus conductor and a driver. I worked in Ajah for like two years before I joined the National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, at the Ajah Branch and I was made a parking attendant at Phase One Unit in Ajah in the year 2004. After a while, I became king of the boys and I started collecting N50 from every bus that comes into that park.  I later turned that my position into a unit, I started collected N100 security money from every commercial vehicle that make a turn at the Ajah garage. I also recruited some boys who started working with me.  At the end of each day, we will share all the monies collected among ourselves and we will also give a part of it to the chairman of the unit where we worked.  I did that for about six years before the Ajah branch chairman died and a caretaker committee led by one Mustapha Sagoe was sent to take over the branch by the then state chairman. The caretaker committee stopped my job and I went to Sagoe, whom I knew very well because he is also from the Lagos Island, and I begged him to allow me retain the job. I told him that was my only means of survival and I have no other place to go and he promised to return the job to me. I waited for two years and I didn’t get the job back, and each time I go to Sagoe, he will ask me to keep on waiting. I became frustrated and I decided to invest the remaining money I made from the Ajah garage on illicit drugs. I went to Ghana, where I met with people producing ‘skunk’, an illicit drug that looks more like Indian hemp and I bought large quantities from them and they brought it down to Benin Republic for me. I equally bought two used cars from Benin Republic, which I used in smuggling the drugs into Nigeria. I did that successfully on three occasions, but on my fourth trip, the police in Benin Republic intercepted my goods and they seized   everything. I was back to square one and I had no money to fend for my wife and our only child. I went back to Lagos Island and I met Sagoe and I told him what I was going through and I made him know that he was leaving me no other option than to go into crime, since he does not want to return my job in Ajah back to me. He snubbed me and his boys who were with him chased me away from him. I felt so bad about it, and I thought about going into armed robbery, but I knew it was a very risky business, so I opted to start afresh. I went to Ikota Housing Estate in Ajah and I started peddling Indian hemp on the street.  In fact, I was even buying from people who I was formerly selling to and some even sold to me on credit; it was so humiliating. So, when I heard that a fight had broken out between Musiliu Akinsanya, also known as MC-Oluomo, who was the treasurer at the Lagos State Chapter of the NURTW, and Akanni Olohuwa, who was the state chairman; this was in 2010, I saw a huge opportunity to pay back Sagoe, who is a strong supporter of MC-Oluomo, for the evil he did to me. I approached Olohuwa and I volunteered to work and fight for him, hoping I was going to regain all I have lost through him. I was always with him during that period and whenever supporters of Mc-Oluomo and Sagoe attacked him, I was always on hand to defend him. I did this until 2012, when Mc-Oluomo and Sagoe succeeded in removing him as the state chairman of the union and a new chairman, Tajudeen Agbede, emerged. I knew it was over for me and I went back to my hemp joint and I continued selling my drugs. Since I was less busy, one of my friends, Rafiu Bashorun, linked me to Olumegbo and I started fighting for him over his landed properties. Olumegbo gave me a pump action rifle, which I used in warding off people who wanted to trespass on his land. When they are aggressors who are equally armed with rifles, we usually exchange gunfire and there could be casualties on both sides. Olumegbo wasn’t the only landowner I fought for in Ajah and Lekki, there were several others and I ended up buying an Ak-47 rifle and a pistol for myself. During the run-up to the 2015 general elections, I volunteered to work for the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, because Sagoe and Mc-Oluomo were in the All Progressive Congress, APC, and my friend, Bashorun, also linked me to the PDP caucus in Lagos Island and I started working for them. I believed the party would help me achieve my goals of regaining my park and also make me a branch chairman of the union. When I joined the party, I met Olohunwa, Kunle Azeez, alias Kunle Poly and Agbede, the NURTW Lagos Chairman and several others. I gave my loyalty to the party with the hope that they will win at both the federal and the state level and I will be rewarded handsomely, so I worked closely with Kunle Poly, Agbede and Olohunwa during that election. On some occasions, during rallies, members of the opposition would attack us and we normally defend ourselves with our own guns. In one of such attacks, one Ashake, who is a supporter of the APC, was killed. I wasn’t there when the killings took place but people accused me of being part of the group that killed him, but when the police conducted their investigations they discovered that I had no hand in it. After the PDP lost the 2015, presidential and governorship elections in Lagos State, Sagoe and his men ordered all of us who supported PDP to leave Lagos Island and follow former President Goodluck Jonathan to his home town in Bayelsa State. Then they started attacking us on a full scale and lots of our colleagues were killed. Some were shot dead, while others were burnt alive. I then relocated my wife and children to Ibadan, which is where my wife hails from. Assassination had been the source of my livelihood for more than a decade now and I know I have taken many lives that I can’t even count, but God knows I am a new person now. If I get a chance to regain my freedom in this life, I will never go back to crime again. I also advise the millions of youth out there that crime does not pay. I have been into crime for over 20 years. Despite the risks involved and no rest of mind, I have nothing to show for it, except the uncompleted 3-bedroom bungalow in Ibadan. I have nothing on ground to fall back on despite taking the life of more than 100 Nigerians I wasted as an assassin. May God forgive me,” Ade Lawyer regretted. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.