The cat and mouse relationship between journalists and security agencies is not new. The sour relationship, which both parties try to conceal with fake handshakes and sometimes, hugs have always seen members of the fourth estate of the realm on the receiving end of brutality and this has defined the relationship for ages. The world over, journalists are endangered species as they are always under threat due to the erroneous impression by the security agencies and their mostly ill-mannered operatives who see themselves as more important to the survival and cohesion  of the nation, far and above the contributions of the media men to the development of the country. In Nigeria, several, in fact, almost uncountable number of journalists have had brushes at one time or the other with security operatives with the journalists suffering physical abuse, and in some extreme cases, losing their lives. One can readily recall the ordeal of Mr. Friday Ogungbemi, the publisher of the Policy and Lawmakers Magazine, Kogi, who was picked up following a publication, which allegedly criticised the Chief of Staff to Kogi State Governor, Edward Onojo, in December 2017. The same bitter pill was served on Mrs Yuadoo Tor-Agbidye, Controller of News, Radio Benue, in December 2017. Both were picked up and locked up without trial by the operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS), the Nigerian secret police, which rather than concentrate on its constitutional assigned duty of gathering intelligence needed for internal protection of the citizenry, have suddenly become the weapon of intimidation in the hands of disgruntled public office holders, who see journalists as pests that must be gotten rid of. It was the turn of Mr. Tony Ezimakor, Abuja Bureau Chief of Independent Newspapers to be served the sour dish of harassment and intimidation by the security agents, albeit, under the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, who during his campaign, promised Nigerians freedom of expression in accordance with constitutional provisions. Ezimakor, who willingly honoured the invitation from the DSS on Wednesday following an official invitation issued to him for an undisclosed reason, has been put under lock and key since then, with family members and associates denied access to him, at least for the first 24 hours of his detention. Save for the decision of Jide Oyekunle, a photojournalist with Independent Newspapers who went along with him on the said day to verify what the problem was, who knows if his presence in their coffers would have been denied. Ezimakor, who is managing hypertension and ulcer, has been denied his medication even with the intervention of the Independent Newspapers lawyer, Mr. Douglas Ekhator who was able to establish contact with the distraught journalist only on Thursday. His attempt to see Ezimakor on Wednesday was rebuffed by the DSS authorities, who unfortunately, handled Ezimakor’s case like that of a common criminal. Incidentally, both civil and criminal laws give certain rights to even suspects to discuss with their lawyers before answering any questions during interrogations by the security with any agency. Aside his colleagues and friends, who have been worried about his safety in detention in view of his health situation, the worries and anxiety of the family can be better imagined. His wife, Mrs. Linda Ezimakor, could barely put herself together to explain what the family has gone through in the last four days following the incarceration of the love of her life and the father of her children. Speaking amidst sobs and intermittent stream of tears running down her face, Mrs Ezimakor said all she desires is for her husband to be released to her and the children unhurt, as she knows her husband is never a criminal that should be locked up for any reason. “It has been a difficult time at home since they locked him up without even telling anyone what his offences are. You can imagine how the children felt when they heard that their father was picked up and is being treated like a common criminal. Only criminals are legitimately denied their rights to freedom of movement and associations as the law allows their incarceration for the sake of safety of other law-abiding citizens. “It has been a difficult time for me explaining to the children what is really going on, especially the little one who is very close to him, and eats with him and treats him as his hero. “It has been really difficult convincing the children that their father was invited for questioning by the DSS over what the security agency considered offensive in the discharge of his duties as a journalist as all they know is that DSS arrests criminals, most especially, Boko Haram members. “Try and put yourself in my situation and tell me how you will explain to the children that their father is not actually sharing a room with Boko Haram suspects as they have already formed opinions that all who get arrested by DSS are Boko Haram members. “I’m deeply worried about his health, because he’s been on medication for years treating BP as well as ulcer. “I saw him today (Friday) and like a brave man that he is, he’s in high spirits and was only worried about his children and how they must be feeling about his absence from home. “The fact remains that we are all down emotionally his brothers, children and myself. The worst part of it is the calls and visitations by friends and relations who have been calling to express sympathy with us over the sad development. You can imagine getting visited by people to sympathize with one as if someone died in the home. It is too emotional for me and the children to bear. “I wish to appeal to all well-meaning Nigerians to help me beg the government to release my husband because he is not a criminal. He is just a committed journalist who does his job with conscience. “I didn’t see any sign of physical torture on him when I saw him for the first time today (Friday) since Wednesday when he was incarcerated. But emotional torture is difficult to gauge immediately.   I’m sure he’s not comfortable with his freedom being restricted. The government should please release my husband, his children are missing him,” she said amidst tears. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.