Lagos – Akwa United Football Club face an uphill task in Libya in their Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) Confederation Cup game against Al-Ittihad FC in the first leg of their Round of 16 tie. Still smarting from their brilliant performance in sending out Hawks FC of Gambia to qualify for this stage, the Uyo-based team will have to be their very best and approach the match with all seriousness. Akwa Utd in the first leg match of the preliminary stage, lost 1-2 at home but against all expectations, went to Banjul and defeated their opponents 2-0 to reach this stage on 3-2 goals aggregate. Coach Abdul Maikaba must have learnt one or two lessons from their last two matches and the corrections should be put in place in today’s match against the North Africans. “We’ve actually learnt one or two lessons from the ties against Hawks FC and we’ve corrected those loopholes. “Hopefully, we expect to have a good match all things being equal as the players are in good spirit,” he said. Scorer of the two goals in Banjul, Cyril Olisema has charged his teammates to be at their best in today’s encounter as the North Africans are beatable on their soil. “I was very happy to have scored the vital goals that secured our qualification to this stage and this has really boosted my confidence ahead of this tie in Libya,” Olisema, told CAFOnline.com. According to him, they have to be psychologically ready for the match in Libya. “I don’t believe it is difficult to play against North African teams; we have to be psychologically prepared. “If we play to instructions and adopt the same mentality as we did against Hawks FC in Banjul, we would definitely smile home,” he noted. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.