Kremlin considers the statement of UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, who compared Russia to Nazi Germany in the light of the upcoming FIFA World Cup, offensive and unacceptable, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Thursday. On Wednesday, Johnson agreed with a lawmaker’s notion during the UK Parliament’s Foreign Affairs Select Committee meeting that Putin was going to use the World Cup the way Hitler used the 1936 Olympics as a “PR exercise.” “It is absolutely outrageous statement, it does not fit the Foreign Minister of the country … It is undoubtedly offensive and unacceptable,” Peskov told newsmen. NAN reports that the 2018 competition will be the 21st FIFA World Cup, a quadrennial international football tournament contested by the men’s national teams of the member associations of FIFA. It is scheduled to take place in Russia from June 14 to July 15, after the country was awarded the hosting rights on Dec. 2, 2010. This will be the first World Cup held in Europe since the 2006 tournament in Germany; all but one of the stadium venues are in European Russia, west of the Ural Mountains, to keep travel time manageable. The final tournament will involve 32 national teams, which include 31 teams determined through qualifying competitions and the automatically qualified host team. Of the 32 teams, 20 will be making back-to-back appearances following the last tournament in 2014, including defending champions Germany, while Iceland and Panama will both be making their first appearances at a FIFA World Cup. A total of 64 matches will be played in 12 venues located in 11 cities. The final will take place on July 15 at the Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow. The winners of the World Cup will qualify for the 2021 FIFA Confederations Cup. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.