The thinking of President Muhammadu Buhari to rather negotiate the release of 110 girls abducted by the Boko Haram insurgents from Government Girls Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State is hardly surprising, considering that the option is perhaps the safest for the students, three weeks after their abduction. Still, it does not reduce the despair of Nigerians that the country failed to secure her citizens at a most crucial time. Negotiating at state level with terrorists and other criminals is ordinarily unacceptable, a least favoured option, and against the grain of international standard for many reasons, one of which is that it undermines the strength and sovereignty of the country involved. Secondly, it motivates the negotiating party, in this case Boko Haram, to carry out more criminality, knowing that there is always something – money, prestige, popularity, freedom for captured members in exchange etc. to gain after each criminal operation. Indeed, the penchant of government to negotiate with Boko Haram is a stimulus for other criminals to perpetuate their activities, with the hope that government will call for a truce sooner than later. If that happens, and it is already happening, where then is the apparatus of state to secure the lives and property of its teeming citizens as enjoined in the constitution? President Buhari reportedly told visiting US Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson that the Nigerian Government was doing everything possible to secure the release of the Dapchi girls, kidnapped about three weeks ago, through some sort of negotiation, rather than adopting military option. The president said Nigeria was working with international organisations and negotiators to ensure that the girls were released unharmed by their abductors. In the President’s words: “We are trying to be careful. It is better to get our daughters back alive.” Clearly the president cannot be faulted for upholding the sanctity of life beyond anything else. That principle has been employed at critical times by many countries worldwide. What is sad is that Nigeria’s security apparatus failed to prevent the capture of the girls, thus placing the country in a caged and weakened position, and with little option but to court the nation’s number one enemy. Sadly too, Nigerians are still reeling from the almost four-year old saga of more than 276 school girls similarly abducted in Chibok, Borno State, out of which more than 100 are still not accounted for even after 21 and 82 were released in different batches following long-drawn negotiation with the abductors. Government at the time explained that the long time it took to secure the girls’ release was because there were many factions of the Boko haram, and government needed to ensure it dealt with the right faction. Even then, it is believed that the girls were exchanged for captured Boko Haram prisoners. The anxiety of many affected parents and other Nigerians now is whether government would easily connect with the right faction, and how long that would take. Importantly, how sustainable is negotiation as a tool to deal with Boko Haram on the Dapchi girls, considering the impasse of the Chibok girls? Besides, is negotiation not rapidly becoming a thriving industry in the security sector, in which event, it may also serve to encourage insurgency, more so as negotiations are never done in the open? While government earnestly pursues its plan to recover the captured Dapchi girls, it needs to drastically re-strategise and come up with a robust security policy in the North East. As things are, Boko Haram is rapidly rendering education as an endangered factor, true to its avowal that ‘western education is forbidden.’ Granted that the security personnel are stretched, Dapchi should not have happened if the security agencies learnt any lesson from Chibok. It is lamentable that, for failing to act on time, government has allowed itself to be boxed into a corner. Prevention should have been the watchword, and it should not have been compromised for any reason. Dapchi surely is a serious dent to the security image of President Buhari’s government. But government can still redeem itself, first by ensuring that the students are brought back safely, and quickly, to their parents; and then by ensuring that a permanent end is brought to incessant abduction of hapless Nigerians leading to unending negotiation that only reduces the country in the perception of the international community. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.