Lagos – The Executive Director, Lake Chad Research Institute (LCRI), Maiduguri, Olowasina Olabanji, has said Nigeria expends about $4.2 billion on wheat importation annually. Olabanji made this disclosure at a capacity building workshop for wheat farmers in the South-South Agro-Ecological Zone in Benin City, the Edo State capital. According to him, the event was aimed at bridging the gap between national consumption and local production of wheat in Nigeria. He said that the country’s national consumption of wheat is about 4.7 million metric tonnes, while production is less than what is consumed. In order to bridge the gap between what is consumed and what is produced, Olabanji said there was need to expand the scope to the South West, the South East and the South-South. He explained that even though wheat is grown in the Northern part of the country, research had shown that it could also do well in the South-South, adding that it is a crop that can adapt to new environment. “We have come to sensitise farmers here and prepare their minds towards engaging in wheat production,” he said. Olabanji revealed that plans were underway to reduce wheat importation by 60 per cent in 2025, adding that Nigeria had the potentials to be self-sufficient in wheat production. He said Nigeria had 650,000 hectares of land for wheat production in the North and about 80,000 hectares for wheat production during the rainy season in Cross River, Jos and Taraba. Olabanji said the Federal Government was committed to the diversification of the nation’s economy through agriculture, adding that the capacity building for the farmers is to train the trainers. “After the training, we are going to help the farmers get some farm equipment, organise them into cooperative groups to enable them access incentives, inputs and grants to commence expansion of wheat production. “Our expectations are that many farmers in the South-South region will add value to the wheat value chain in Nigeria.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.