Osaz Enobakhare, an award winning structural engineer and CEO of Heavens Contractors Limited, said the lull in the market that may not likely bounce back soon is due to the recession in the economy, which is yet to be fully exited. He argued that many people cannot pay their rents as and at when due as a result of job losses, non-payment of salaries or poor business returns. Many businessmen are virtually doing nothing. “Those who work for government are not getting paid either. Property sales is the worst affected. “Most properties above N100m are difficult to sell because of the absence of money bags who usually buy them. Most corporate bodies are not doing well either, hence they cannot buy properties as they used to do. Their patronage for high rental properties has also stopped; therefore, you see so many blocks of flats in Ikoyi and Victoria Island remaining vacant for long”, he said. This, coupled with the depressing economic situation in the country, has given rise to the now one room landlord menace. For the suburbs within Lagos, places like Ikorodu, Epe, Ijegun and the rest, the OmoOnile ban by the state government, which previously before the ban, was a put off for intending homeowners, have also made it easier for people to put up structures of their own. Even though it is ennobling and dignifying to be referred to as a landlord, investigations reveal that there are also negative side effects to this rush to homeownership. Enobakhare, emphasised that being a one room landlord does make a lot of economic sense, in that it is cost effective in the long run. It may however, be wise up to that extent. But on the flip side, most of these sorts of buildings are not healthy for decent human habitation. This is because they are usually built in a hurry and without any proper planning and professional input. “It is cost effective when compared to rental cost over time. Most often people who find themselves in such situations suffer from Owner Contractor Syndrome (OCS); often applying Do-It-Yourself (DIY) approaches which sometimes go wrong. “There is also a feeling of privacy, peace, prestige and freedom when tenants become landlords and this continues to fuel desperation to own a home irrespective of how small it is,” he said. Furthermore, Enobakhare advised that prospective homeowners should learn about alternative building methods and technologies, using internet sources; construction and property fora on social media; related construction news articles on print media and elsewhere;as well as, always consult a professional on their projects, at least for the sake of advice and guidance. Meanwhile, a breakdown of how much it cost to build a one room self contain apartment according to the structural engineer is as follows: Site preparation – N50,000 Substructure/Foundation – N321,000 Walls/Columns, Lintel, Beams – N582,000 Electrical Works/Wiring – N72,000 Plumbing Works – N87,000 Roof and Roof covering – N275,000 Budget friendly wall, floor and ceiling finishes – N203,000 Fittings and fixtures – N80,000 External works (partial) – N116,000 Total = N1,786,000 In addition, stakeholders also took time out to analyse the pros and cons of the mass movement of people, particularly the low income earners, who compulsorily move to the hinterlands as a result of high costs of rent. These stakeholders heap the blame for high cost of houses on the government who they accuse of not taking the housing challenges facing the citizens seriously. Ismail Aniemu, a public affairs analyst explained that the various housing policies of successive governments of Nigeria have not met the expectations of the people. As a result, it has failed Nigerians woefully in that regard. According to him, the Federal Government earmarked  so much money to housing schemes, which they tagged low cost, (Federal Government Low Cost Housing Scheme), only for government functionaries and civil servants  to buy them up and begin to sell them out at exorbitant costs. “Hardly will you see any low income earner benefitting from the so called low income scheme. You will see one person buying up to 20 flats at a low cost and begin to sell at an exorbitant cost,” Aniemu lamented. He narrated further that several other Nigerians who deserve to benefit from such schemes hardly ever gets it. ‘That is the manifestation of corruption, he insisted. The analyst also averred that the very high increase in the population of Nigeria is putting pressure on available accommodation, as when there is an increase in demand for accommodation, the cost of rentals also increases alongside. “For instance, a city like Lagos, with a population hovering around 20 million people, you have cases of people up to five and six sharing one room, even before the recession. So people are now forced to look for alternatives because shelter is one basic need of life, where government is either not showing interest or cannot fund adequately.” Aniemu said that as a result of the foregoing, people begin to source for a way out of the situation by themselves, adding that in sourcing it by themselves, people manage to acquire cheap lands in very remote and rural areas, which are far from their places of work and businesses as well as far from urban settlements. “People begin to buy lands there, after which they start putting up structures. Some put up one room, some two rooms and some more than one room with other rooms uncompleted and move in.” This, according to him, also affects their health and life span due to the distance they have to travel to their places of works and businesses. The increased numbers of hours they spend on the roads and in the traffic, the less time they have to rest as a result of spending a major part of their time on transit, all contribute to inflicting health problems to them. “Do you know that people within this city of Lagos, spend up to three to four hours on transit from work to house. You will be travelling from your work place to your house while somebody who left Lagos to Akure would have arrived Ore and Akure, and you are still trying to get to your location within Lagos. That is what this housing problem has caused”, Aniemu explained. He further disclosed that people are not able to afford the cost of houses at places close to their offices and businesses. “Every year, check the budget on housing by the government, you will be amazed by the figures you will see. Then you ask yourself who are the people benefiting from these houses, when it is not meeting the needs of the people?” Aniemu, the public affairs analyst who called on Government not to leave housing for the low and middle income earners lamented that there are so many politicians that have houses abroad, as well as different other places across the country. These same set of people also buy up a good number of the low cost houses from the government budget which is supposed to be for the low income earners. And they begin to sell or allocate them for rent. “So housing problem is far from being addressed by the government, and if this trend continues, it will be worse in the years to come, because the rural areas where people are migrating to are lacking the basic amenities. They do not have good roads because some people build their houses where they cannot bring out their cars. If they manage to take their cars there, they leave it there as they cannot take it out. Some of them swim out of these areas during the rainy season.  All these affect their health. “Meanwhile, they are far away from good hospitals, they are far away from good schools, they are far away from recreation facilities, they are closer to bushes, snakes and reptiles, they are even closer to kidnappers and armed robbers, and other criminals, and prone to being robbed, they are at the mercy of men of the underworld. This is what bad housing policies of the government have gotten Nigerians to,” Aniemu enthused. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.