Abuja – National Association of Nigerian Traders (NANTS) has cautioned the Federal Government to desist from diverting $1 billion (N360billion) approved recently as additional funding support for agricultural sector to politics. Barr. Ken Ukaoha, President of NANTS, who gave the counsel during the consultative meeting to document and validate famers’ concerns and challenges in Nigeria in Abuja, told government to channel the funds to the agricultural sector for optimal food productivity to guarantee food security in the country. It would be recalled that the National Council of State on February 22, 2018, approved increased agriculture funding from the current $200 million to $1 billion. The funds would be disbursed through Anchor Borrower and Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme (CACS) Programmes, in order to encourage diversification of the economy and promote food security. Commenting on this funding support for agriculture, Ukaoha commended this initiative, adding that it shows the recognition of the agricultural sector to the economy, as the sector greatly assisted the country to exit from recession. According to him, “we commend this initiative. It shows the recognition of the agricultural sector to the economy. “The agricultural sector has helped the nation to come out of recession. Therefore, things should be done to stabilise the economy. “However, the farmers must be made to be part of the decisions within the context of deciding where the funds are going, priorities, thematic areas and its distribution. “We want to see investments go directly to farmers. Let farmers decide their priorities. Let farmers be part of decision-making process in agriculture. “If government is investing $1 billion in agriculture, we are saying that farmers should not have their hair shaved in their absence. “This money should not go into politics and electioneering campaigns, as 2019 is around the corner.” “It should not be diverted. It should be spent in agricultural sector in specific areas of needs.” Ukaoha who expressed worry over the diversion of previous similar additional funding, including budgetary provisions to the sector, noted that such funds have not been properly utilised by those saddled with their implementation, as they did not make any impact on the agricultural sector or farmers. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.