The Federal Government came up with the Ease of Doing Business initiative in Nigeria against the backdrop of several deep-seated structural challenges stifling operating environment for businesses, which the country has persistently been ranked low by the World Bank in its Ease of Doing Business (EODB) report. The essence of the Executive Order was to reduce bureaucratic bottlenecks associated with trade facilitation, make it easier for people to have access to government services in terms of establishing businesses and carrying out their trade and services. ANDREW UTULU, IKECHI NZEAKO, CHRIS EBONG and ISAAC ASABOR examine the policy and its workability in the maritime sub-sector of the economy. I n the maritime sub-sector of the economy, the Executive Order on the Ease of Doing Business resulted to the reduction of documentation for business transactions at the ports and border stations from about 14 to eight documents. This is what the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), had keyed into to make business registration faster in Nigeria. It is also geared towards making government agencies synchronise their activities to enable them have a one-stop-shop or what is called single window. But stakeholders have identified acute corruption, infrastructure decay, too many government agencies duplicating the same functions, bad access roads to the ports and absence of scanners as bane of the Executive Order. Towards the end of last year, the Federal Government reduced import, export documentation requirements to ease business.  According to Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, the Minister Finance, the measures include the reduction of documentation requirements from 10 to seven for exports and from 14 to eight for imports. Adeosun said that additional responsibilities had been given to the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and the shipping lines/other carriers. Government attention in this regard was principally focused on measures to ensure reduction in time spent on processing of export and also to ensure 24-hour clearance of cargo imported into the country. The minister announced that the NCS shall coordinate the mandatory joint examination and Sign-Off Form, within the official working hours, including Saturdays. “NCS shall make available the shipping manifests to other examination agencies as soon as they are received, to enable enough time for risk assessment. “Nigeria Integrated Customs Information Systems (NICIS) should be strengthened to accommodate more agencies. “Shipping lines shall transmit to the NCS and the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), the cargo manifest, before leaving the last Ports of Call to Nigeria and shall ensure that Nigeria-bound containerised cargoes are palletised,’’ Adeosun said. The minister added  that a new section had been introduced, which stated that the NPA shall receive cargo manifests from shipping lines before the ship leaves the last Port of Call and circulate to other regulatory agencies for Risk Assessment and Profiling. According to her, NPA shall be responsible for traffic management of vessels and shall ensure pilotage of vessels. Import Guidelines, said, would be fully implemented with effect from January 1, 2018. “The Guidelines may not be perfect to address all concerns but government will monitor its implementation closely, to address emerging and unforeseen situations,’’ the minister averred. Also, Dr. Mamoud Isa-Dutse, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance, urged business entities involved in both import and export trading to abide by the provisions of the guidelines. “Let our efforts in striving to create a lucrative business environment in Nigeria be mutually-reinforcing, to enable us as a country make significant progress. “We are duty-bound to foster formal trade not only to block loopholes for leakages of government revenue but also to promote the growth of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, so as to enhance the competitiveness of the economy for our business to continue to prosper. “The present government is taking steps toward ensuring 24-hour clearance of cargo using cutting-edge technology. “In this direction, efforts are ongoing to revive and upgrade the scanning system as a short-term measure, pending the acquisition of modern High Definition Scanners,’’ Isa-Dutse said. He said that the Ease of Doing Business order had improved Nigeria’s performance in terms of trading across borders, with the introduction of Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC). Dr. Jumoke Oduwole, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Industry, Trade and Investment, urged the private sector to cooperate with the Federal Government in the reform initiatives. “We ask that stakeholders should refrain from circumventing policies, as we strive to implement initiatives and reforms needed to scale up the efficiency and transparency of the public sector, ’’ Oduwole said. Ease of doing business had been a serious idea of the current administration’s medium term Economic Growth and Recovery Plan (EGRP) to build a globally competitive economy. The eyes of the administration were recently forced to open following a global report, which ranked ease of doing business in Nigeria as among the world worst. In a reaction, government started looking at several indices that were serving as impediments to doing business in Nigeria, which were largely bureaucracies in government agencies, ministries and departments involved in interfacing with investors. PEBEC was established in July 2016 by President Muhammadu Buhari to remove critical bottlenecks and bureaucratic constraints to doing business in Nigeria. Vice President Osinbajo is the Chairman of the Council, with the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr. Okechukwu Enelamah, serving as Vice Chairman. Ten other ministers, the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, as well as representatives of the National Assembly, Lagos and Kano states and the private sector are also members. Ahead of the second launch, the Vice President had presided over an expanded meeting of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) in Abuja. Senior Special Assistant (SSA) Industry, Trade & Investment in the office of the Vice President, Dr. Jumoke Oduwole, noted that “PEBEC had approved a second 60-day National Action Plan (NAP 2.0) to drive reforms aimed at making Nigeria a progressively easier place to do business”. “NAP 2.0 will run from October 3 to December 1, 2017, and is expected to further reduce the challenges faced by SMEs when getting credit, paying taxes, or moving goods across the country, amongst others, by removing critical bottlenecks and bureaucratic constraints to doing business in Nigeria. The reforms, Oduwole explained, would also improve the country’s ranking in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index 2019. The NAP 2.0 marks the beginning of another reform cycle 2017/2018, which aims to deepen the ease of doing business reforms implemented across the various Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs) in the last 12 months and will in turn increase productivity through industrialisation, enhanced exports and foreign exchange earnings, while creating jobs and reducing poverty. Key in the expected reforms ready for implementation to ease the process of starting a business, include eliminating the manual registration process at Corporate Affairs Commission in 10 additional states, increase access to credit for SMEs by registering at least 300 microfinance banks on the collateral registry, and enforce the elimination of illegal roadblocks on major trading routes across the country. It would be recalled that the Executive Order E01, which was signed by Osinbajo, ensures that citizens have complete clarity on all government requirements and processes, better cooperation and improved information sharing among MDAs, as well as requiring proper communication of approval or rejection of applications to Nigerians within the stipulated timeframe. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.