Lagos – The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has assured ailing Super Eagles goalkeeper, Carl Ikeme, of all World Cup allowances due to the player. This assurance was given on Monday during a visit by the leadership of the NFF led by Amaju Pinnick to the goalkeeper at the Christie Clinic in Manchester, where he is being treated.
Ikeme was diagnosed with acute leukemia after returning “abnormal blood tests” during pre-season testing at English club Wolverhampton Wanderers and had to undergo chemotherapy. He kept the post in Nigeria’sfirst World Cup qualifier against Zambai in Ndola that the country won 2-1.
In the delegation also were NFF 1st Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi, General Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi, Super Eagles’ Team Administrator, Dayo Enebi, Eagles’ goalkeepers’ trainer Alloy Agu and team media officer, Toyin Ibitoye.
Pinnick, while assuring Ikeme, told him that he would be fully captured in the team’s financial benefits for Nigeria’s qualification for the FIFA World Cup “as we all remember the role you played in helping us get off to a winning start in the final phase of qualifiers in Ndola against Zambia.
“We believe this is just a phase that will pass away. You will come out of it stronger and still be able to do what you love to do the best, both for your club and the Super Eagles of Nigeria.
“We have also come to seek your permission to be our special guest at the pre- World Cup friendly game against England at the Wembley Stadium on 2nd June. We want you to perform the customary kick-off of that game and if you approve of it, we will immediately request this of The Football Association.”
Ikeme responded: “I am so overwhelmed by this show of love. I am indeed grateful to Nigerians who daily flood my phone with prayers and well wishes. I feel their love everywhere, everyday, on social media. I thank the Government of Nigeria and the NFF for all the support and I appreciate my teammates so much for being there for me.”
An autographed jersey, signed by all the players, was presented to him. It is our new kit for the World Cup. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.