Lagos – The 150 trainee graduates of the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) skills acquisition scheme under the Lagos State Employability Support Project (LSESP) organised in conjunction with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have secured immediate employment following their successful graduation in the first batch of the LSESP skills acquisition programme. The employment of the 150 trainee graduates who had all undergone 6- 8 weeks of intensive trainings carried out by experienced facilitators across – Garment Making, Hospitality, Construction, Healthcare, Entertainment and Manufacturing sectors – was announced at the graduation ceremony/job fair of the LSESP which held at 10 Degrees Event Centre, Oregun, Ikeja, Lagos. In addition to the already employed trainees, commitments for 600 more jobs commitment were made by executives of various private organisations in attendance at the event. The additional 600 jobs commitment is a testament to the quality of capacity building project. Organisations such as Dangote Group, Samsung, Crown Nature Plc, Whispering Palms, Farenheit Hospitality, X3M group among several others led the way in the employment of the trained young workmen and women. More so, all the 540 trainee graduates in the first batch of the initiative were awarded a certificate endorsed by both the Lagos State Technical and Vocational Education Board (LASTVEB) and the Australian Vocational training and Employment Group (AVTEG). Speaking at the event, the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Mrs. Oluranti Adebule, said through the successful graduation of the 540 trainees, his administration was laying the necessary foundations for steady and sustainable economic growth in Lagos State. Ambode added that his administration has identified skills acquisition as a sure pathway to economic prosperity and personal development of the burgeoning youths in the State, adding that the LSESP was providing a viable platform to bridge the gap of shortage of skilled and employable labour required to fill the needs of the job market. “While the business ecosystem in the State has improved over the years, manpower skills gap remains a significant issue for businesses operating in Lagos. Several firms and industries across the country are unable to find graduates and non-graduates with requisite skills to fill key positions. Paradoxically, there are thousands of unemployed youths out there desperate to find a job, any job. “The Employability Support Project will continue to support these young men and women through job placement initiatives. With twin aims of capacity building for Lagos State youths and the provision of employment opportunities for them, the project aims to provide 10,000 new jobs by 2019,” he said. In her address, Chairman of the LSETF, Mrs. Ifueko Omoigui-Okauru said the objective of the Employability Project is to improve the technical and vocational training outcomes in the State with an aim to increase employment opportunities for young people in Lagos. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.