Ilorin – Isaac Adewole, Minister of Health, has called for a workable synergy between the managements of the government-owned hospitals and private concerns for promotion of effective health services that will put an end to medical tourism abroad by some Nigerians. The minister made the call while speaking at the celebration of the achievements of Abdulwaheed Olatinwo, the outgoing Chief Medical Director (CMD) of University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH), at the hospital’s premises in Ilorin. Adewole, who was represented at the occasion by the former CMD of University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, said the present economic recession would not make the Federal Government to exclusively meet all the health needs of the nation and her people. According to the minster, health is very expensive the world over, and many countries are able to surmount the challenge with the aid of an effective partnership with the private sector. He stated: “Government alone can’t give us all the enabling environment in the area of quality health services in Nigeria. The world over, health is very expensive, but many countries are blossoming in the sector due to their effective partnership with the private sector. “When you occupy a public office, you need the guidance of God, your spouse and your ingenuity to succeed. Even where the funds are not enough, you have to think outside the box to make headway. We must never play the second fiddle to any developing nation in the area of health. Instead, we must set the pace for others.” The event, which was witnessed by notable personalities within and outside the health sector, was used to unwind some of the achievements recorded by the administration of Olatinwo whose eight years in office ends on March 16, 2018. Among others, his tenure witnessed the first successful renal transplant, series of open heart surgeries, and facilitation of international collaborations with ‘Orbis’, a world-acclaimed Ophthalmic Aeroplane theatres with seasoned ophthalmologists who freely carried out complex eye surgeries on over 200 patients in Ilorin. Besides, the event witnessed the public presentation of Compedia that catalogued other achievements under his tenure, just as it was also used as an occasion for the presentation of UITH the anthem. Yusuf Ola-Olu Ali (SAN), chairman of the occasion, praised the outgoing CMD for moving the hospital to its next level despite pockets of “internal and external oppositions.” Responding, Olatinwo thanked the management and staff of the hospital for helping him to drive home its one-point agenda of ‘Total Care for Quality Health’. He said he supervised the affairs of the UITH by planning for its brighter future rather than planning for his own future. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.