It is no news that there is no love lost between the Presidency and the Senate. As it is, the former is putting on the pressure against the latter.
The Saraki court cases are in full gear. This week, two other key players in the Senate felt the heat. First is the comical senator, Dino Melaye, as he is currently under investigation by the police.
It is said that some arrested gunslingers have mentioned him as their ‘sponsor’. He was said to have asked them to cause chaos in his home state, Kogi, during next year’s elections. The allegations are really weighty and the police have vowed to get to the bottom of it all.
Also feeling the heat is the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu. This week, the Federal Government approached the Federal High Court in Abuja to issue an order freezing all the hidden assets that were recently traced to him.
The request was made via an ex-parte motion filed by legal practitioner, Festus Keyamo on behalf of the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property.
The motion marked FHC/ABJ/CS/284/2018 and filed on Wednesday March 21, specifically applied for an interim court order “temporarily attaching/forfeiting the properties listed in Schedule B hereunder, to the Federal Government of Nigeria, pending the conclusion of further inquiry/investigation by the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property and/or possible arraignment of the Respondent.”
It also listed 19 properties that the senator declared in the Assets Declaration Form he submitted before the Code of Conduct Bureau, CCB, on June 5, 2015, seven properties he declared on June 1, 2007, and details of his investments in and outside Nigeria, including his shares, debentures and other securities.
It seems all those in the top echelon of the senate are in for a bumpy ride even as the general elections draws close. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.