The Code of Corporate Governance, amongst other things, stipulates that the Director of a telecom company cannot serve for more than 15 years. No other code gives that latitude. It also defines sanctions for issues of delayed text message delivery, call masking, drop calls, forced subscriptions, bogus promises and unkempt agreements, to mention a few. It is all in the interest of the subscriber. On how to move the telecoms sector to another level, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, recently stated that efforts are being made by the government to support the operators and ensure that subscribers enjoy the best services they deserve. “We also decided to look at how we can improve Quality of Service consistent with key performances indicators that characterize the quality of service. The information we are getting from the consumers as well what we source from network operators is that Quality of Service has improved. The experience by consumers through their accounts, also indicate significant improvement,” he said. Also of note is the expected listing of MTN on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) by July this year. Though, the listing may be a  perforce due to the fine of N1.04 trillion imposed on the telecoms giant by NCC  in October 2015 for missing a deadline to disconnect around 5.1 million incompletely registered subscribers. However, the outcome of the incident has brought in some unexpected benefits to the country’s economy from various fronts. One, the negotiation for the reduction of the fine from N1.04 trillion to N330 billion, gave birth to the listing plan to raise at least $400 million from the initial public offering (IPO), with the group preparing to file an application to the Securities and Exchange Commission to launch the offer, after getting approvals from existing investors. MTN plans an offer price of around N80 ($0.2) per share for the IPO. This, to a great extent, will buoy the capital market and create more confidence in the shareholders. It will also give many Nigerians opportunity to share from the success story of MTN Nigeria. Secondly, the amount (N330 billion) the network was fined, part of which a total of N110 billion out of the record fine has been paid, will go a long way in boosting the country’s economy. The payment was spread over a three-year period not to snuff the life out of MTN Speaking on the issue, Engr. Gbenga Adebayo, Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), reiterated that the inclement situation service providers is operating has been compounded by the recent economic challenges characterized by the steep depreciation of the naira, the need to resort to the parallel market and foreign exchange scarcity which have considerably increased the capital and operational cost of providing telecommunications services. “As the sector is contributing to the general economy of the country, the government can also assist by reducing import taxes on ICT equipment. It was reported that over 70,000 companies are not paying taxes in this country. What is the government doing about such companies? Ghana slashed import taxes on mobile phones for its people to have more access to telecommunications services. The main target of our government seems to focus only on telecommunications companies for revenues generation,” he said. In the second quarter of 2016, the telecommunications sector of the Nigerian economy contributed N1.580 trillion to gross domestic product (GDP) or 9.8 per cent, which represents an increase of 1.0 point relative to the previous quarter. According to a data released by National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in the same year, this is the largest contribution to GDP made from this sector in the rebased period, which emphasises that growth in telecommunications has remained robust when compared to total GDP. The industry remains quite strong and defiant in the face of very challenging times. In response to the need for further growth in the telecoms, Mr. Adeniyi Ojikutu, President of Computer and Allied Product Dealers Association of Nigeria (CAPDAN), admitted that the mobile and telecoms sector has immensely contributed to the country’s GDP. He said the country needs to fund the sector so that the operators can give their best. Ojikutu said: “There is no doubt to the fact that our market has been impacting on the economy. The Computer Village has been contributing its quota to the economy through phone sales and repair. A significant amount is transacted everyday our market. You can imagine what the telecoms operators and other relevant service providers are also supporting the economy with. “Mind you, we are not only serving Nigerians; our market serves the sub Sahara Africa. Many people come from various countries across Africa to buy phones and their accessories from us here. That is big plus for Nigeria. I think the government should do more by supporting the sector financially and technologically. Technology transfer and skill development are key to keep the industry relevant globally.” Speaking further, Ojikutu urged the government not to play down on the importance of the telecoms industry to the country’s economy. Multiple and/or unlawful levies, taxes and charges being increasingly imposed upon telecom operations by myriad MDAs of Government at all levels as a way to subtly regulate the industry, is taking a toll on the contribution of the sector to the economy. The frequent enforcement actions of these MDAs to compel payment result in extensive disruption of telecoms operations, affecting customer experience.  Operators face major challenges in securing site and right of way approvals from state governments. Increasing incidences of recurrent fibre cuts on network is an issue the operators have been contending with. The fibre cut affects signaling and transmission links across the country. Indiscriminate vandalisation and sabotage of sites by some MDAs who often claim to regulate, collect levies and permits from operators but provide no further protection for such infrastructure. These interventions considerably increase the lead time to roll out, inflate costs of deploying infrastructure and depreciate network quality. The interference of the MDAs has created a wide infrastructural gap that leads to the poor quality of services being experience by subscribers. While the mobile and telecoms sector has been contributing significantly to Nigerian economy, there is also the fact that the current evaluation report of the state of the industry suggests that whilst not understating the impact of other external and fiscal issues confronting the sector, that most challenges negatively affecting the health of operators in the sector today are attributable to poor governance issues. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.