A major landmark development in world football was achieved last Saturday with the approval of the Video Assistant Referees (VAR) by the International Football Association Board (IFAB) as part of the laws of the game. No one can deny the fact that this will help in eliminating controversial decisions by referees that have become the rule rather than the exception in football matches of late. The usual excuse is that referees are human, they can never be perfect. To avoid this sort of human errors, tennis has adopted a video replay which has reduced the margin of error in tennis games. We will comment on this after FIFA must have accepted the VAR for the summer World Cup in Russia on March 16, 2018. Last Sunday, the nation witnessed a great innovation in women’s football- the inaugural edition of the Charity Shield that held at the Agege Stadium. The Charity Shield is expected to decide the champion of champions in Women’s football in the country. And Rivers Angels beat Nasarawa Amazons 4-3 on penalties to win the first edition after the game ended 1-1 on regulation time. On Tuesday and Wednesday, four Nigerian clubs-Plateaus United, Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, Enyimba and Akwa United were involved in continental club championships. Safe Enyimba that defeated Energie 2-0 away, the three remaining clubs are walking on tight rope in their bid to qualify for the money spinning group stage. MFM beat Alger of Algeria 2-1 at Agege and will need to play the second leg in Algiers; Plateau United lost their first leg away 4-2 to Etoile du Sahel, while Akwa United lost 1-0 away to Al-Ittiad of Sudan. Just as the chairperson of the Nigeria Women Football League, Aisha Falode, was still savouring the joy of such Charity Shield innovation, even promising to do more, the nation was inundated with the corruption stench oozing out of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN). AFN is the body administering track and field in the country. It is the body that liaises with all international bodies that have something to do with athletics. Though, it is something that has been spoken in hush tunes, it, however, became a public knowledge when the International Associations of Athletics Federations (IAAF) threatened to sanction AFN for failing to refund $150,000.00 mistakenly paid it last May instead of $15,000.00 statutorily subvention due to AFN. Within a jiffy, the funds developed wings. The AFN was paid the money when the federation boards were dissolved by the sports ministry last May. During this lacuna, the sports ministry appointed Mr. Akawo Amaechi as secretary to run the federation pending when a new board would be elected. Before the election held on June 13, 2017, the whereabouts of the money remained a misery. AFN President, Hon. Ibrahim Gusua, we learnt, told IAAF officials in Morocco late last year of his inability to refund the money on the premise that he did not spend it. But he was informed that the IAAF does not deal with individuals but federations. Since the AFN federation was mistakenly paid the money, the only option left for him was to refund. I am at a loss till date that the AFN has not even set up a panel to unravel the circumstances surrounding the whereabouts of the money. Gusua has also not called a board meeting to discuss the issue. Who spent the money, what was it spent on are questions that must be answered. The board of the AFN is sharply divided on the issue. While some are calling for a congress with the view to unraveling the whole scenario, others are playing the ethnic card with the view to sweeping the matter under the carpet. The Sports Ministry, which is the supervising ministry, is also foot dragging on the matter. Till today, Solomon Dalung, Sports Minister, has not taken any step towards finding those involved in the fraud. The ministry, expected to be the arrow head of the fight against corruption, President Mohammadu Buhari’s campaign plank during the last general election, has not set up an investigative panel to unravel the misery surrounding the whereabouts of the money.  There are insinuations that the leadership of the sports ministry is in the know on how the money was spent. The thinking is that some top ministry guns may have shared the money and are looking for ways to refund the money. The question is why did the AFN officials fail to pay the money into the TSA in line with federal government policy?“Righteousness,” the Holy Bible says in Proverbs 14 v 34, “exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach.” We do not have to look further for answers as to why Nigerian sport is in doldrums. What happened in AFN is a revelation as to what has been happening in the sector for ages. No wonder the fight to control the federation at every general election is always fierce. And the truth is that it is not only in athletics, other sporting bodies also witness such frauds. This is a case that must not be swept under the carpet. Those involved must be brought to book. We must take the advice of Alhaji Ibrahim Galadima, who has called for the prosecution of those who misappropriated the fund. “The issue is not about returning the money to the IAAF but the embarrassment to the country. “The authorities should investigate, expose and sanction those who sat on the money because it is a disgrace to this country,” Galadima said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.