Lagos – It was a sunny Saturday March 17, 2017 afternoon. Stakeholders in Imo State gathered at the expansive secretariat of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) on Port Harcourt Road, Owerri, the Imo State capital. The event was the inauguration of the Governing Council of Imozurukwuo, a coalition of the Imo elite, which, according to the coordinators of the event, would redeem the state from maladministration, and redirect the people towards a new and better life as the country marches towards the 2019 general elections. The event drew the cream of professionals in the medical, legal, academic, non-academic, engineering, the media, social activists, community and market leaders, youth and women leaders. There were also clerics of the various Christian denominations and groups, including the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) as well as the political class cutting across several political parties. Chief Uche Njoku, the Founder and President General of the coalition, in his address, stated that the coalition emerged to correct the ills of the society occasioned by bad governance in the state. He said the coalition comprises all sectoral stakeholders in the Christian religious institution, the traditional institution, professionals in the medical, legal, academic, media, etc, as well as market organisations, artisans, youth and women organisations as well as the political class. Njoku stated that the coalition would be deeply involved in the activities leading to the emergence of political office holders in the state from the Wards, Local Governments, state Houses of Assembly and the National Assembly and state, pledging non-partisanship of the body in the discharge of its responsibilities. Prof Phillip Njemanze, a member of the coalition’s Governing Council, stressed the need for all elected officials to have the mandate of the people on what to accomplish for them. The people, he said, must search out those vying for political offices in character, integrity and leadership qualities. The academic Professor described political leaders as mediators between man and God hence they should not shun diabolism and criminality. Dr Darlington Akukwu, Chairman of the Governing Council, extolled the founding fathers of Imo State and pioneer administrators, especially the late former governor, Dr Sam Mbakwe. According to Dr Akukwu, Imo State was a model of excellence under the late Mbakwe administration in areas of education, industry, sports, health, civil service and infrastructural development. Akukwu, the Imo State NMA Chairman, observed that while the late Mbakwe brought meaningful development to the state, he did not siphon the state’s treasury, nor convert the state into his dynasty. He regretted that the government in power in the state has reduced the state to mockery and laughing stock with such uncomplimentary remarks as statue moulding state, hardship and happiness state, ‘my family, my family’ state and the worse being, a state with high level of lowest quality, uncompleted or abandoned infrastructure, inept leadership and tyrannical leadership which is fast degenerating to a monarchical dynasty. He therefore implored Imo citizens to rise up to salvage the state from what he saw as “the state’s current dilapidated conditions,” saying that the state “must be liberated from the present regime,” even as he urged the people to join forces with Imozurukwuo. Chief Fidel Onyeneke, a veteran journalist and former Nigeria Union of Journalist (NUJ) State Chairman, in his speech, extolled the antecedents and virtues of the coalition, which according to him, made him to join the group. He said he had always been reluctant at joining such groups, but was convinced that members of the Governing Council of Imozurukwuo “are men and women of integrity, who are needed to join forces to bring about credible leadership and a government that will feel the pulse of the people and meet their expectations.” Chief Fidel Onyeneke, also a member of the coalition’s Governing Council called for a genuine change, “which will change the ‘Change’, both at the state and federal levels.” Barrister Ignatius Nwaketi, the state Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), ironically gave the Rochas Okorocha government a pass mark. Nwaketi said given the limit of his knowledge, experience, intellect and patriotism, Governor Okorocha had done his best. Nwaketi, who chairs the state Chapter of All Political Parties Forum (APPF), Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) and former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s Coalition for Nigerian Movement (CNM), argued that “nobody can give what he does not have, neither can anyone teach what he does not know.” He noted that Okorocha’s best performance is not what the state needs to move forward. He concluded by calling on everyone to join Imozurukwuo to change the current government. Chief Donald Ekenta of Imo State University (IMSU) Radio FM and a veteran journalist, regretted that man has diminished beyond his elevation by God. He observed that certain lower animals are more orderly and principled that man, the higher animal. Ekenta, also member of the coalition’s Governing Council and a resource person, identified the love for money as the driving force of today’s corrupt leadership, especially in Igboland. Monetary inducement on the Igbo man, according to Ekenta, has denied the Igboland of good governance and heightened corruption in the land. Chief Mrs. Berna Mgbeahuruike, representing the Christian Women Organisation of Ahiara Catholic Diocese, harped on prayers as the master key to achieving the coalition’s mission. Ezinne Mgbeahuruike called on all and sundry to embrace prayers, which Jesus Christ started and ended with and conquered the wild with it. The coalition marshalled out 10 cardinal criteria of leadership qualities expected of the next crop of leaders. They include, God fearing, patriotic, integrity, honesty, visionary, erudite scholarship, respect for the rule of law, national and international exposure, zero corruption and indigenous Igbo Imo personality. Hon Dennis Adikwuru, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in the state and former Senior Special Assistant to Gov. Okorocha, who spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT at the offline of the event, went down memory lane on the prompting for a better government and what the coalition is set to achieve. Adikwuru, one of the brains behind the coalition, maintained that a stateless society of the old order, when power was might and there was no organised body to attend to human affairs brought life to hopelessness and it became short, brutish and everyone on his own but God for all. This, he said, brought the need for some measure of control and sanity as well caring for the people, thereby bringing about the creation of the state, with government as the instrument, “hence the popular saying that government exists in order to give to the people what they cannot ordinarily provide for themselves.” He stressed that government has the basic duties of providing security, infrastructure, social welfare, all put together, “what we commonly refer to as dividends of governance.” Adikwuru lamented that today’s growing insecurity arising from herdsmen and terrorists attacks has returned Nigeria to a stateless society. Life, according to the social activist, has become harsh, shot, brutish, and everyone is insecure and only banks hope on God. He lamented that the Federal Government cannot secure the lives of citizens in the midst of the herdsmen killings, even as he alleged that the Imo State government had been recruiting thugs and social urchins in the name of task forces to brutalise, kill, coax, maim and wipe away opposition. Adikwuru maintained that a deliberate machinery of inflicting kwashiorkor on Imo citizens has been advanced by the state administration. This, he said, is aimed at taking away the sensibilities of the people. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.