Almost six decades after gas flaring begun in Nigeria, it appears there is no end in sight to the practice which has wreaked environment, health damage to Nigerians as well as continually denied the country huge revenue. MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, ANDREW UTULU and PRECIOUS NKASIOBI write: The recent  revelation by the Nigeria Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme in the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources  that of the 16,000 flare sites across the world, Nigeria has 178,represents another death kneel on a country that has continued to shift goal post for the elimination of gas flaring. Although the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC),  said it  has achieved 26 percent reduction in gas flaring in the country,there is no clear-cut evidence that the 2020 new date  for the elimination of  the practice is  sacrosanct. Experts are of the opinion   that gas is flared in Nigeria as a result of    absence of technical know-how, regulatory defects, and economic challenges. They posited that  huge quantities  of the  gas could have been tapped for use in solving the nation’s energy problem, but the development remains  a tall dream  because oil companies believe that the technology is expensive, which makes flaring a cheaper option. Penalties Various legislative measures to nip gas flaring in the bud in Nigeria have been in place since 1969.The first regulatory framework aimed at promoting antigas flaring policies in Nigeria was the Associated Gas Reinjection Act, 1979. The Act required every oil and gas producing company in Nigeria to submit to the minister for petroleum, detailed programmes in relation to the re-injection of produced associated gas or programmes for the use of produced associated gas. The Act further provided for the deadline for gas flaring in Nigeria as stipulated by the Federal Government to be 31 December 1974. This deadline has however been extended a number of times between 1974 through a succession of bills and amendments of laws and the final deadline remains uncertain as of date. Through the applicable laws over the years, the law has always provided for application for permits to be granted by the Minister provided the applicant pays the amount prescribed by the Minister, without providing for strict measures to ensure its effectiveness. Since 1984 it has been illegal to flare gas in Nigeria without the written permission of the Minister of Petroleum Resources. The current penalties for gas flaring in Nigeria officially stand at $3.50 per 1000 standard cubic feet. A report by the Petroleum Revenue Special Task Force in 2012 found that oil companies often do not comply in paying fines and when they do are still paying the old penalty of N10 per 1000 standard cubic feet flared. The Task Force also found out that the Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR, is unable to independently track and measure gas volumes produced and flared and depends largely on information provided by the operators. The report stated that in November 2012 no penalties for gas flaring had been paid for that year. Health and Environmental Effects of Gas Flare Inspite of the acute energy poverty faced by Nigerians and legislative efforts to reduce gas flaring it is still a major cause of human and environmental health issues in the Niger Delta and releases vast amounts of CO2 and polutant gases into the atmosphere. Experts said the dangerous air pollutants emitted from gas flaring have been shown to impact human health. These include oxides of Nitrogen, Carbon and Sulphur (NO2, CO2, CO, SO2), particulate matter, hydrocarbons and ash, photochemical oxidants, and hydrogen sulphide (H2S). They said the pollutants are associated with a variety of adverse health impacts, including cancer, neurological, reproductive and developmental effects. Deformities in children, lung damage and skin problems have also been reported. The extraction of oil in Nigeria since the 1950s has released vast quantities of liquid pollutants into the Niger Delta, damaging the region’s ecosystem. Besides, gas flares have been linked to acidification of rain and waterways through the emissions of large quantities of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides into local areas which combine with atmospheric moisture to form sulphuric acid and nitric acid. Acidification of waterways and rainfall damages vegetation, insect and animal life. Some birds and many insects are drawn to bright lights at night and studies have shown that gas flares can attract birds and insects to their deaths in large numbers. Doubts Over Accurate Gas Flare Penalties But the Federal government has accused oil companies of not paying stipulated gas flare penalties,which amounts to loss of revenue in billions of dollars into its purse. Kemi Adeosun, Minister of Finance, said the companies are taking advantage of the wording in the legal framework which stipulates charges instead of penalties for gas flaring A report by Petroleum Revenue Special Task Force found that oil companies often do not pay these fines, and when they chose to, they paid the old penalty of N10 per 1000 standard cubic feet flared.. Ofoegbu Donald Ikenna, Programme Officer & Researcher, Centre for Social Justice, said despite the penalties, the operators have continued to flare gas at the rate of N10 per scf and records at the Department of Petroleum Resource (DPR) reveal that none of the companies paid any gas penalty fee in 2012 and the DPR seem to look away; possibly for reasons best put as questions like; has the Nigerian government so far failed to pay its quota in the expected sums of gas penalties given that most of the oil and gas projects are run as joint ventures? Is it cheaper to flare gasses than monetise gas or reinjection them considering the lack of infrastructure? ‘’If the affirmative is the response, then it’s possible that the practice of gas flaring without payments of penalties may remain longer than needed especially when alternative arrangements that ensure the working of both the IOCs and the Nigerian government via NNPC; NLNG and NGC are not put in place,’’ he added. According to him, every year, around 140 billion cubic meters of natural gas produced together with oil is wastefully burnt or flared at thousands of oil fields around the world. This results in more than 300 million tons of carbon dioxide being emitted into the atmosphere – equivalent to emissions from approximately 77 million cars. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.