Lagos – Mikel Obi, Super Eagles captain, has been ruled out of the friendly match against Poland on Friday. This is because the player cannot make it to Wroclaw, Poland for the matchon account of his work permit which he is trying to renew. The player, according to Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), “is unlikely to make it to Wroclaw as he has been working hard at renewing his work permit in China, where he plays for Tianjin Teda. We all had been hoping that the renewal would come in good time for him to fly to Poland. As it is now, it is not likely that he would make the trip.” Also ruled out of the friendly on Friday are midfielder Oghenekaro Etebo on account of injury, and Egypt –based Junior Ajayi, who was unable to secure visa into Poland. Ajayi is expected to fly directly to London for Tuesday’s clash with Serbia at The Hive, Canons Park. Nigeria –based goalkeeper Ikechukwu Ezenwa and South Africa –based Daniel Akpeyi are expected on Wednesday. Despite the absence of these players, the 22 players in camp began began preparation for the match. The team trained twice on Tuesday, with the same schedule for Wednesday, before Thursday’s training at match time inside the Municipal Stadium in Wroclaw. The match kicks off at 8.45pm (Nigeria and Poland are on same time zone) on Friday. Friday’s showdown inside the 43,000 –capacity stadium formally opens the first phase of the Super Eagles’ preparation for the summer World Cup finals, inRussia. After Tuesday’s game with Serbia in London, Nigeria will play a Send –Forth match against the Democratic Republic of Congo in Nigeria, before flying back to London for a game with England on 2nd June. Four days later, Nigeria will play Czech Republic at their final training camp in Austria, and another friendly game is on the cards before the squad jets out to the World Cup finals on 11th June. Playewrs in camp are goalkeeper Francis Uzoho, defenders Kenneth Omeruo, Elderson Echiejile, Stephen Eze, Abdullahi Shehu and Chidozie Awaziem, midfielders Joel Obi, John Ogu, Ogenyi Onazi, Uche Agbo and Wilfred Ndidi, and forwards Ahmed Musa, Moses Simon, Odion Ighalo, Kelechi Iheanacho and Victor Moses on Tuesday. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.