“…A poor person has no role in politics, a poor person has no business In politics. A poor person cannot win Elections in Nigeria. If you are poor, Stay in your house”. – Adeseye Ogunlewe (former federal Senator and Minister in Nigeria) My nine year old niece asked me a very fundamental question, “… why is it that our Social Studies teacher is always giving examples of good leaders with dead people; late Awolowo, Nnamdi Azikiwe, Sir Ahmadu Bello and even from South Africa, late Mandela, aunty, what of all these governors that come out on TV, are they not good?” For a moment I was between the devil and deep blue sea, the poor young girl had a valid point and an innocent question. I told her the governors are all good. To me, she would grow up to draw her own conclusions about what ‘good’ in a political context means especially in Nigeria political space. As for the constant reference to dead heroes, we did not explore that aspect of the question because it was a telephone conversation and naturally other juvenile demands and questions shifted the focus. But I digress… The above quote from a former federal Minister and Senator sums up the definition of the post-civil war political environment of the Nigerian nation. His assertion about those who have business in politics, who can win elections and who can have a role in politics in Nigeria is by no means ambiguous. The ‘poor’ according to him (and in words and actions he speaks for the professional politicians) has absolutely no role in Nigerian politics. “…if you are poor, stay in your house” the Senator concluded with all the arrogance and ego that Nigerian politicians carry around. He made this statement on Channels TV political programme, Politics Today in December last year. Funny enough, even though he was the proverbial dog with excreta on the mouth indicative of indiscretionary self-exposure, the actions and body language of our politicians speak louder than what the what the Senator said. Like they say …out of the fullness of the heart, the mouth speaketh. While some of his peers in the political tuff might not voice their convictions, he was ‘bold’ enough to say it on National TV. Make no mistake about it, politics anywhere in the world is not run on charities or as a charity. Money is involved, huge monetary involvement cannot be wished away by the ‘poor’. But there is a mercantile bent that removes the soul out of Nigerian politics. The Nigerian brand is too transactional and ‘professional’ politicians monopolise the field in ways that make them run affairs of the country as their collective and individual business enterprises. The godfathers, financiers and party leaderships invest in their cronies for returns. The poor (read the people) are then shut out of the ‘business’ transaction as the country goes from one economic problem to the other. This transactional kind of politics did not, for the avoidance of doubt start in 2015, not even in 1999. The second republic witnessed a very worrisome kind of mercantilist politics that opened the floodgate for the plethora of military coups that finally nailed all the anticipated growth and development that those that fought for independence projected with the then oil and other resources. As the 2019 elections horizon radiates like the rising sun, the country would probably again be faced with more business men and women in politics devoid of any empathy for the supposed mandate givers in democracies – the poor (read the people). Nigeria lacks heroes in the political firmament because politicians see politics as purely business. They invest during elections and work to recoup their investment after elections. In a political system that experiences the conspiracy of political investors, competence and working for the people do not make much sense. The exact reason those with the financial muscle deliberately invest in candidates that would give returns on investments. For a system that is devoid of any implementable electoral financial regulations, Nigerian politics has, for long, been hijacked by those with the financial muscle that the Senator made inferred reference to. So with investors and merchants, heroism and national vision are very far-fetched. Business minded individuals have little or no need for heroism. Their main goal is to recoup their investment with huge profits. Heroism and vision for the future of the country cannot therefore be the concern of politicians in Nigeria. This is exactly why the political space is impenetrable by the ‘poor’. The fact that the political parties have no remarkable ideological convictions is traceable to the fact that they all see themselves as business people whose only target is profit and power to continue in the transactional politics. As some advocates shout themselves hoarse over the need for either a third force or some other loftily named groups to wrestle power from the present crop of politicians (read business people) it remains to be seen how much impact they can make not for want of trying or qualified candidates but the fact that in the ‘business’ field of merchants, money might speak louder than ideals and competence. The fluidity of the political party structure and the unity amongst the politicians guarantees the rich access to power while the ‘poor’ stays at home literarily and figuratively. To Nigerian politicians, heroism and vision should be relegated to the immediate post-independence era, for now, it is business…and the poor must stay where they belong – at home, deprived of all democratic dividends by the investors. But, by the way, is my niece reading this? I hope not, because that would drain all her aspirations and patriotic zeal as a Nigerian. Here’s hoping she and her future can be guaranteed by some selfless citizens with vision and eye on heroism. We await such people in 2019 at all levels of governance. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.