Uyo – Determined to eradicate flooding in Uyo metropolis as the rainy season approaches, Akwa Ibom Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, has taken a trip to streets and communities in the capital city to ascertain the extent and quality of work on roads and drainage. The move may not have been unconnected with the desire to avoid a repeat of the flood situation in the state during last year’s rainy season, and the quest for a speedy completion of ongoing drainage work and road projects before the critical season sets in. Emmanuel, who inspected about 18 ongoing road projects, said he was satisfied with the quality and number of projects currently being executed by his administration. He said his industrialization plan cannot succeed without huge investment in infrastructure. He applauded the quality of drainages done at the areas inspected, saying it would forestall the devastating effect of floodwater on the new roads, especially in Ewet housing extension. “We know the devastating impact of those drains and I don’t want to go into details but seeing the quality of what they have done there, even the concept on how to take out those outfall drains, I think it’s quite impressive,” he said. Led by Mr. Ephraim Inyangeyen, the state Commissioner for Works, Emmanuel said he was impressed that many road projects had taken shape within the short period. “Actually I didn’t know that with the money we deployed, even within this estate, we’ve done in total up to 10 roads within this Ewet Housing Extension alone.” Inspecting about six (6) roads within Atan Offot community, the Ring Road 2; opposite the Udo Udoma Avenue roundabout by Aka Road, ten (10) internal roads in Ewet Housing Extension as well as the outfall drains on Edet Akpan Avenue, Emmanuel applauded the standard and quality of projects done in the community. He commended the Commissioner for Works, Mr Ephraim Inyangeyen for constantly being on toes to ensure that government’s huge investment on road projects are well utilized, the contractors handling the jobs for the level of work done, quality side-drains and concrete pavement. He assured Akwa Ibom people that by May 29 this year, the road will be ready for inauguration. While soliciting continued support from Akwa Ibom people to enable his administration record more achievements, he said; “The only complain some people have against me is that I have done four times better than what the first term governor could do. If that is the only offence I have committed, I am sure they will pardon me because we came with a lot of passion to do a whole lot. I don’t see myself as a first time governor, I see myself as somebody who has a mission and we are on a course here not on an applause”. Assessing the performance of the PDP- led administration in the state, the State Chairman, Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Paul Ekpo who accompanied the governor on the tour, said the choice of Mr Udom Emmanuel as candidate of the party in 2015 governorship election has been justified and undoubtedly vindicated. He said the party was not surprised that what the governor is doing in Akwa Ibom was appreciated, even by those outside the State, noting that in less than three years after being sworn into office, Emmanuel has in a very remarkably way reshaped the state, proving that indeed good governance was possible if done with sincerity of purpose. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.