Osogbo – Governor Rauf Aregbesola of Osun State will on Tuesday, March 6, inaugurate the Orita-Olaiya-Ita-Olokan dual carriageway funded by the state government and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO). Osun government dedicated the road to workers and named it ‘Workers’ Drive’. The All Progressives Congress (APC), the party hold the reins of power in the state, described the commissioning of the road as another feat recorded by the administration of Aregbesola. In a statement signed by Kunle Oyatomi, its director of Publicity, Research and Strategy, APC called on the critics of the government to “come and see how the administration is creating something out of nothing” in the state. The party said: “Those who do not see anything good in Aregbesola should come to Olaiya Junction, Osogbo, on Tuesday when the governor will declare open a dual carriageway dedicated to workers in the state. “In spite of the difficulty that the state is going through financially, workers’ interest remains paramount in the thinking of the governor, so much so that he named a major access way ‘Workers’ Drive’. “Things are changing. People are marvelling at how Aregbesola, in spite of financial difficulty, keeps accomplishing projects, which richer states in the country are not doing. “Those who are criticising the governor refused to recognise the uncommon intelligence required for any leader to work his way skilfully around such economic impasse as Osun has gone through since 2014.” According to the party, with the naming of the new ‘Workers Drive’, Aregbesola has shamed the opposition that accused him of not doing much for workers. “A man who cares less for workers would not think of naming a major street in Osogbo, a ‘Workers Drive’. “When Aregbesola became governor of Osun, he inherited an administration and economic space that was considered the third poorest in Nigeria. But today, Osun is acknowledged as among the best 10 states in Nigeria, whose economy is seen as progressive, socially responsible, peaceful and with the least number of unemployed youths. “As you read this, a number of states richer than Osun have laid off workers in their thousands; some others have not paid salaries for up to seven months. But Aregbesola refused to go down that path. Instead, he developed a modulated salary scheme, which left 70 per  cent of workers with their full salaries; 10 per cent with three-quarters of their salaries, while only 20 per cent are paid half salaries.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.