Lagos – With less than a year to the conduct of the 2019 general election, the question on the lips of many Nigerians is ‘Which political party/parties will emerge as the  third force movement that will wrestle power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Nigeria’s major opposition party? The reason for these worries by Nigerians yearning for a new alternative is not far-fetched. The nation is currently littered with 68 political parties, with others still to come. The electoral body, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) recently raised the alarm that the proliferation of political parties is dangerous as it may pose serious challenges in 2019. Aside these political parties, there are several coalitions such as the Coalition for a New Nigeria (CNN), a group of 30 political parties which has promised to form the new government in 2019; National Intervention Movement (NIM), a political group led by Chief Olisa Agbakoba (SAN) and the Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM) spearheaded by former President Olusegun Obasanjo. Last Thursday, however, the coast became clearer following reports that the Social Democratic Party (SDP) has been adopted by key leaders of the APC, PDP and the coalitions as the third force movement. Some key leaders of the PDP who met at the Ladi Kwali Hall in Abuja also signified their interest in joining the party. Confirming the development to DAILY INDEPENDENT, Chief Olu Falae, national chairman of the party, said, “Some former governors, serving senators of the PDP as well as coalition of political leaders are joining SDP. They have decided to adopt SDP as their political platform.” Leading the pack are a former Information Minister, Jerry Gana, and ex-Education Minister, Tunde Adeniran. Others include a former Military Administrator of Katsina State, Sen. Joseph Akaagerger; Chief Mike Oghiadhome, who is a former Chief of Staff to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan; ex-Governor Saminu Turaki of Jigawa State; and ex-Minister of Defence, Dr. Olu Agunloye and a former Deputy Speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly, Dare Emiola. Other leaders who have aligned themselves with the SDP are a former member of the House of Representatives, Dr. Junaid Mohammed; Sen. Bassey Ewa Henshaw; a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Olamide Oni; Supo Shonibare (South-West Zonal chairman of SDP), Dipo Olaitan (a former leader of the Alliance for Democracy in the House of Representatives); a former Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Kehinde Ayoola; Amb. Yemi Farounbi; leaders of the Middle Belt Forum; Mr. John Dara; the leaders of the National Intervention Forum led by Dr. Tafawa Balewa; Amb Bejide and Shehu Gabam. The SDP and the Gana-led team from the PDP on Friday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to work together. Jointly signed by Falae (for SDP) and Prof. Gana (for Movement for a New Political Order), the MoU reads in part: “Whereas on the 12th Day of February 2018, a joint resolution was adopted at Sheraton Hotel Abuja, for working together to ensure the emergence of a new and credible political order to deepen democracy, good governance and genuine development, with peace, security and social justice. The said meeting also unanimously resolved to build: *A restructured, balanced equitable and truly functional Nigerian federation. *A humane, free, self-reliant and democratic society. *A dynamic, productive, transformed and sustainable economy. *A just, fair, egalitarian and peaceful nation. *A land of bright and full of opportunities for all Nigerians; and *A national culture of raising good leaders through effective mentoring. “Whereas, it was also agreed that the proposed movement shall be directed, driven and defined by such core values as: (1) Justice, fairness, equity and progress;  (2) Democracy, good leadership, good governance and sustainable development; (3) Transparency, integrity, truth and honour; (4) Accountability and zero tolerance for corruption; (5) Respect for human dignity, human rights and sanctity of human life; and (6) Peace, security, harmony, cooperative solidarity, within the rule of law; and (7) International cooperation for a common humanity within a secure and peaceful order. “Whereas, the movement further resolved to be inspired and motivated by the ideals of social democracy, with great emphasis on: the triumph of social justice; the nobility of human dignity; the harmony of fairness and equality; the power of working together in solidarity; the excellence of good governance, driven by good leadership; the wisdom of reforms and transformation far beyond mere growth; the horror of poverty, demanding eradication; the dignity of prosperity; the imperative of democracy and the security of peace with justice “Whereas with due reference to these objectives, core values, and ideals, a strategy committee was mandated to search for a suitable, popular, meaningful and widespread platform, with a name that already resonates with the people and to make appropriate recommendations; and “Whereas, the strategic committee, comprising representatives from all the six geopolitical zones of the federation, have met and submitted their report, unanimously recommending the adoption of Social Democratic Party (SDP) vehicle by the movement for a new political order: “Therefore, we hereby resolutely agree to: (a) Fuse together into one political form; (b) adopt the Social Democratic Party (SDP) as the political vehicle for the fused political formation; (c) Convene a non-elective convention for Saturday, 14th April, 2018; (d) authorise the National Working Committee to serve as the Interim Management Committee until the said convention; Set up a National Steering Committee of 12 members to guide the Interim Management Committee during the transition period; Raise a Constitution Review Committee to consider all necessary amendments to the party constitution.” Dr. Mohammed, speaking on the arrangement said: “Those involved in SDP are the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Peoples Salvation Party (PSP), the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and some elements of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It was like a merger but we do not want to call it so because the All Progressives Congress (APC) has destroyed the concept of merger. “I am an optimist. I believe SDP will make a great impact. The main reason I want to be associated with it is because it is ideologically driven. Even it was not ideologically driven before it has to be ideologically driven.” DAILY INDEPENDENT findings show that the SDP already enjoys the full backing of mass-based organisations, including Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Middle Belt Forum and the South-South Assembly under the leadership of First Republic Minister of Information, Chief Edwin Clark. Some key leaders of these organisations were among other eminent persons, including serving senators from the Northern part of the country that attended a major meeting held on February 12 in the federal capital. Other major stakeholders in the coalition include some key members of the PDP Board of Trustees (BoT); former Minister of Education; former deputy Senate President, Senator Ibrahim Mantu, and prominent senators from the South-South, all of PDP extraction. On why he left the PDP for SDP, Adeniran mentioned impunity and imposition of candidates in PDP as being responsible for his action. According to him, “I have left the PDP for the SDP with my supporters. I left because there is no internal democracy in the PDP. It may interest you to know that Prof. Jerry Gana has also left the PDP”. However, given the national spread of APC and PDP, how far can the SDP which is currently regarded as a regional party domiciled in the South West go? Like the APC did in 2013, can the party mobilise people of like minds to accept it as the better alternative to the APC? Coming at a time Nigerian youths are clamouring for power shift, will the party put that into consideration when shopping for its flagbearer in 2019? However, Falae who said SDP is the only political party that is generally accepted by Nigerians, said the party enjoys massive support from all Nigerians just as it was in 1993. He added that the party embodied the social re-engineering and massive development agenda of its late presidential flag bearer, Chief MKO Abiola, the acclaimed winner of the annulled June 12, 1993 presidential election. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.