The Executive Secretary of Electricity Meters Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (EMMAN), Mr Muyideen Ibrahim, has implored the Federal Government to break the monopoly of distribution companies in the sale of meters to electricity consumers in order to address the challenges of estimated billings
He also said the development would enable electricity consumers procure and own meters directly.
Ibrahim, who spoke in Lagos, said that the association had always advocated the need for government to liberalise the metering arm of the power sector so that everybody could have access to meters.
“If every consumer has a prepaid meter, it will allow them to manage the electricity consumption, and the Discos will collect revenue maximally without billing outrageously. But now the consumers are short-changed because they are being given estimated bills. It presupposes that the Discos are smiling to the bank while the consumers are suffering.
“Unfortunately, some of the Discos are complaining that they don’t have the fund to invest massively in metering, whereas the meters are available in the various warehouses of the manufacturers. If the telecom sector could be liberalised, why not metering? The only thing is that it will enhance the whole power sector and also add value as well,’’ he said. The association’s scribe stressed the need to convene a metering summit where all stakeholders would come together to discuss challenges facing the Discos and meter manufacturers.
He also appealed to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to attract manufacturers with intervention funds at a single interest rate, in order to enable them import basic raw materials from overseas’’.
According to him, CBN should also allow manufacturers to have unfettered access to Forex as well.
This, he noted would enable manufacturers to produce at full capacity, employ more Nigerians and also contribute to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.