Nnewi – As Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State prepares to be sworn in for his second term of office on March 17, 2018, Ngozi Chianumba Nnamekwe, the governor’s Special Assistant on Youth Mobilization, has pleaded with the governor to provide greater opportunities for youths to enable them harness their potential. “I will start by thanking our governor for his great interest in youths of this state.  There is no governor in recent history,, who empowered youths as much as Obiano did. Gone are the days when government appointees in the state are made up of aged people, who have little or nothing to offer. This is time for youths; courtesy of Governor Obiano. “However, like Oliver Twist, the youths would like to be provided more opportunities in the governor’s second tenure.  I believe strongly that Anambra State will be better off when her youths are gainfully employed. “During the governor’s first four years, crime rate was drastically low because many youths were gainfully engaged in appointments, some in agriculture, and some in some other skills through opportunities provided by Obiano’s government. The youths of this state are happy with Obiano’s government, but we request His Excellency to provide us more opportunities in his second term”, she said. While expressing optimism on Obiano’s determination and willingness to deliver on his election promises and bring greater transformation of Anambra State in his second term, Nnamekwe also pointed out that the present government in Anambra has enough space to accommodate every youth; and insisted that anybody who is not ready to engage himself meaningfully should leave the state for good. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.