President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday condoled with the government and people of Adamawa State on the passing on Saturday of Abubakar Michika, its first civilian governor. Buhari, in a condolence message issued by Femi Adesina, his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, in Abuja, commiserated with the family, friends and professional colleagues of the late former governor. The president, who described the deceased as an astute administrator, political strategist and community developer, noted that Michika had worked variously with reputable international organisations before bringing his experience and skills to bear on the development of Nigeria. He commended Michika’s strong sense of patriotism and commitment to national development, which prompted him to alter his career path from the private sector to take up public office by contesting and winning the gubernatorial elections in 1992. According to him, the country will sorely miss the wise counsel, visionary leadership and disciplined lifestyle of the former Adamawa governor. He prayed the Almighty God to grant the soul of the departed eternal rest and comfort his family. Adesina said in the statement that the president had sent a Federal Government delegation led by Boss Mustapha, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), to commiserate with the family and people of Adamawa. Born in 1941, Michika served as the first elected governor of Adamawa, from 1992 to 1993, after the creation of the state out of the defunct Gongola State. He was elected under the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC). The deceased, who has since been buried in his hometown, Michika, left behind wives, 38 children and 99 grandchildren. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.