The Police Rapid Response Squad (RRS) on Thursday arrested an electricity cable thief at Sangotedo Housing Scheme under construction by the Lagos State Government. Policemen guarding the site told the Commissioner for Housing, Mr Gbolahan Lawal, during his inspection visit to the project that the suspect, an employee on site, was rescued from being lynched. “We got information that the suspect was being beaten and they were about to kill him so we rushed down to take him to the station,” said the police. Narrating his ordeal, the vandal told the Commissioner that he came from Ibadan to work as a bricklayer on the site three days ago. “One man came to me and said there was something to sell and make quick money and I collected the bag containing the cables from him and I was caught,” he said. Speaking during the inspection visit, the commissioner said that security measures had been put in place to protect assets and facilities in all ongoing housing estates in the state. Lawal explained that there was collaboration between the police, Neighbourhood Watch, vigilante groups and other security outfits to ensure safety of men and equipment on site. Lawal assured that the state government would deliver the estates in time to curb further vandalisation of materials on site. According to him, the first phase of the Sangotedo rent-to-own housing scheme for low and medium income earners is nearing completed. “There are 12 of them in all, the total number of estates for rent-to-own scheme is 5,008 units; Sangotedo Estate is 1,118 units. “There is Sangotedo Phase one, which is almost at 85 per cent completion and they are 514 units in number. “Sangotedo Phase two is 648 units in number and it is about 55 per cent completed,” the commissioner said. He said that the ministry was working with the contractors to ensure speedy completion of the project. “Before the end of June, Sangotedo one should be ready and by August, it should be livable,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the commissioner earlier visited the Lekki Phase II Estate which had 77 blocks and was about 40 per cent completed. Lawal also visited the Iponri and Gbagada Housing Schemes where he directed the contractor to change some tiles to give the units world class outlook. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.