Russia is ready to develop relations with all countries, including the United States, to the extent of the other countries’ readiness to do so, says Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Wednesday. “Russian President Vladimir Putin has repeatedly explained his fundamental position on international affairs. “Putin is ready, and Russia is ready, to develop mutually beneficial relations based on mutual trust with all countries, including the United States. “To the extent of the readiness of our opponents or partners to do so,” Peskov told newsmen answering a question as to whether the Russian president still wanted to meet U.S. President Donald Trump. Answering a follow-up question as to whether the expulsion of Russian diplomats from the U.S. in connection with the Skripal case would affect the potential meeting of the two leaders, Peskov stated that Russia remained open to dialogue. However, he noted, that the Kremlin has no information on Washington’s position on the matter. “Currently, amid the expulsion of Russian diplomats, we have no information on whether the U.S. side is ready to implement Tramp’s statements. “It depends on whether our U.S. colleagues will or will not discuss the matter. Of course, Russia remains open to dialogue,” Peskov said. On Monday, the U.S. government announced its decision to expel 60 Russian diplomats and close the Russian Consulate General in Seattle over the poisoning of former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury, England, on March 4. The move followed London’s statement that Russia “highly likely” organized the poisoning. Moscow has rejected all accusations, and said that it would respond “adequately” to the expulsion of its diplomatic staff. 3 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.