Lagos – Nigerians have expressed disappointments at the recent outburst of President Muhammadu Buhari, who claimed he did not know that the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris did not carry out his directive. They wonder how President Buhari would feign ignorance of performance or level of compliance of his appointee, a development, they say speaks volume as well as confirms calls by Nigerians for reshuffling of the cabinet. They also see the development as demonstration of lack of cohesion and responsibility in governance. Stakeholders, including Wale Ogunade, a Lagos based lawyer, Dele Seteolu, a Political Science lecturer at the Lagos State University (LASU), Malachy Ugwummadu, President Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Afuye Funminiyi an ex-lawmaker, Yinka Odumakin, Right activist and spokesperson of the Pan Yoruba Socio-cultural group, Afenifere and Ekanem Ayemba a Civil Engineer,  in an interview with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, were unanimous in their submissions that this can only happen in Nigeria. They stressed that if it were to be in other civilized country, the defaulter would have been sacked immediately. They also said the president’s excuse shows his level of incompetence, saying the President is equivocally detached from the people. Seteolu, said that he agreed with Professor Wole Soyinka that President Buhari, is in a trance, showing excessive incompetence. He stated that the President has not shown basic features of credible leader as he has lacked the capacity to monitor and supervise lieutenants. “With due respect, the president is showing incompetence. He has not shown the capacity to govern Nigeria and he is not showing capacity to monitor and supervises lieutenants and he has not punished or reprimands those who violate the law.” He said where the Director General or the Inspector General of Police fails to implement his order, the President should know what he should do about that. He also said though the IGP has been queried but beyond that, the more fundamental question is how has the IGP handled security cases in crises-ridden areas? “The feedback we get is that the police have shown incompetence in the handling of security crisis particularly in the Middle Belt; Benue and Plateau States. Secondly, the security agencies are working at crossroads; state security service and police are engaging in rivalry.” Seteolu further stated that the IGP has equally shown incompetence, stressing that a serious President should sack the IGP. “I suppose it is about time to replace him and I expect he might not be comfortable with that. I expect that in two years the President should also be sacked but the question is that what is the alternative? Is there an alternative party to the APC and PDP? We do not have that, but if you ask me, this President has shown incompetence, Nigeria has retrogressed. Nigeria has regenerated in every facet, it is terrible and it is unfortunate,” he added. Ogunade, said that it is only in Nigeria that such thing will happen and the intransigent officer will still be in office. He said this is an embarrassing situation and that is not the first time such will happen; stating that with this, it shows that something is wrong with the system and something must be done quickly. “With this one, I guess something must be done or something is wrong with the system and government should quickly do something as the cry and shout is all over that IG must be penalised for disobeying constituted authority. “The IGP should be sacked immediately to serve as a deterrent to would-be defaulters and violators of executive order so as to ensure that indeed everyone is in the same page.” He said government must take stringent step, which should be timely, else it will be seen as if this government condoned reckless, insubordination and disobedience. “Government must take step and must do it fast or else it will be seen as if this government condoned reckless, insubordination and disobedience and I don’t think that is the signal the government wants to send,” he added. Odumakin, in his own view said that it shows that the country has a President who is detached and who is not in control. He wondered how many of such directives he has given and has not been implemented. “It shows that we have a President who is detached, who is not in control. The government is being run by a cabal. Do you know how many of such directives he has given and has not been implemented?” he queried. Afuye said that the IGP action is the height of insubordination and inconceivable for any appointee of the President to defy his instructions. He said that since the President cannot be everywhere, it shows that the IG is not fit for the post he is occupying.  “The IG, to me has never demonstrated any professionalism since he was appointed, even in his utterances. It’s the height of insubordination and inconceivable for any appointee of the President to defy his instructions. The President can’t be everywhere. The IG is not fit for the post he’s occupying. He should go,” he added. Ugwummadu, said that this kind of statement by President Buhari exposes the degree of dysfunctionality in the Buhari administration. “It casts a very dark shadow on the intricacies of government operation at the highest level. But by and large, it is not very surprising the government that took as long as six months to constitute itself a government that did not know that AbdulRasheed Maina, who was directed to be prosecuted has been reinstated into the civil service, a government that was not aware that the head of the NHIS was reinstated. It will not be surprising if he says he didn’t know that the directive given to the IGP was not carried out.” Ayemba, said that since this government came into power, he was very happy that there will be good change but that unfortunately along the line, it was discovered that people working with the President are not honest with him, as they do not report what is happening in this country to him and they don’t have the love of this nation in their heart. “I cannot see where a President gives an order to a security officer, the IG and he faults it. If he has taken action immediately the lives that were lost in the North East will never happen and I see no reason why a person like that should still remain in office till this date. “In a civilised nation, such a person supposed to bow out respectfully and those who are willing to take over the business come into power,” he said. It will be recalled that President Buhari had expressed rude shock that the IGP Ibrahim Idris did not carry out his directives to stay in Benue until blood-letting between farmers and herdsmen was resolved. President Buhari had on January 9 ordered the Inspector-General to move to Benue to check the reported cases of attacks on innocent citizens but two months later, the order was not carried out. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.