A 40- year-old lawyer, Dayo Abudu, on Friday appeared in an Ijede  Magistrates’ Court for allegedly slapping a policewoman who was on duty. Abudu is being tried for assault, obstruction, breach of peace and threat to life, which he earlier pleaded not guilty. According to the Prosecutor, Police Inspector Aminu Isaac, the accused committed the offence on January 20, 2018 on a piece of land at Gberigbe Area of Ikorodu, Lagos State. He said that the accused assaulted and slapped Sgt. Serifat Tiamiyu who was attached to Area ‘N’ police command, Ijede while performing her lawful duties. “The police stopped his clients, Oladipupo Ahmed and Taiwo Adetu from working on a piece of land which the ownership is being investigated by the police. “The accused instead went to the police station to harass the police officers on duty and did not allow his arrested clients to write a statement, thereby caused an obstructions. “He also sent a text message to one Insp. Yetunde Fasuba, threatening her life if she continues investigations on the matter. The offence contravened Section 174,117(1)(2)168(d)and 57(b) of the Lagos State Criminal Code Laws, 2015. The matter was first mentioned on February 2, 2018, in which the lawyer was granted bail on self recognizance. The defense counsel, Ladega Adetayo, had earlier sought for justice for the defendant, saying that his client was wrongly charged. On resumed hearing, the Magistrate, Mr R.O.Davies, however, pleaded for peace to reign. “Laws allow encouraging settlement in this kind of case, if care is not taken, there might be a battle between Commissioner of Police and Nigerian Bar Association (NBA).” According to Daramola Biola, the prosecuting counsel, if the accused refuses to opt for settlement, the matter should be tried. Davies adjourned the case until April 6, for substitution of the charge without prejudice to settlement. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.