Umuahia – The withholding of assent on the Electoral Bill because of the reordering of the sequence for the 2019 general elections has been described as democracy in action and that people should not read meaning into the action of the President. Speaking with newsmen in Umuahia, Senator Theodore Orji, representing Abia Central Senatorial District, insisted that President Muhammadu Buhari had not committed any offence for which he should be crucified, and that it would not lead to friction between the executive and the legislature. He disclosed that withholding of assent was a constitutional, which the occupiers of the executive branch of government can exercise and that it is that constitutional right that Mr. President had exercised. Orji maintained that having refused to assent to the bill based on the observations spelt out in the President’s letter to the National Assembly,  it was now the duty of the lawmakers to look critically into the issues raised and see if it was germane or not. “Let me restate for the umpteenth time that the amendment was not done with the President in mind or anyone for that matter.  There is nothing like that.  The President is the President of Nigeria and the father of the nation.  Therefore, it will be inconceivable for any of us to do anything untoward to him. “The truth is that it is those who are not sure of their performance as senators and are afraid that the electorate will reject them at the 2019 elections that are spreading these lies.  Instead of going to uplift the condition of the people that gave you their mandate, you betray and want to hide and return to the National Assembly through the backdoor of lies. “What we did is in accordance with the powers vested in us as lawmakers.  If anybody thinks we do not know our rights as enshrined in the constitution, that person is deceiving himself.  We acted on the basis of the law and if we were going contrary to the constitution of Nigeria, the bill would have been shut down and discarded.  The people in Senate and the House of Representatives are not morons, who do not know what the law says.” Orji, the immediate past governor of Abia State, insisted that they had understudied the provisions of the constitution before coming up with the amendments and that the reordering was in line with the way elections were conducted in Nigeria in the past, adding that the NASS felt it would be good for the father to see that his children had been fully settled before his own, hence the Presidential poll was put last. “But now that Mr. President has returned the bill to us, both chambers will now sit back and decide on the best way forward for Nigeria and Nigerians because what we did we did in the best interest of Nigeria and Nigerians. It is not expected to lead to any friction between the executive and legislature because he (President) acted within the confines of the powers vested in him and we also will operate within the powers vested in us.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.