The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has condemned the murder of several persons, including international aid workers, by insurgents in Rann, Borno state. It charged the United Nations (UN) and the International Community to hold the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government directly accountable for their death. The party also called for full-scale investigation, by independent bodies, into circumstances surrounding the alleged compromising of security in flashpoints,as well as alleged release of some arrested insurgents by agents of the Federal Government, a development now generally believed to have contributed to the upscale of violent attacks in the northeast. The PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Saturday described as sad and disheartening the incessant killings of innocent and well-meaning individuals, including security operatives, due to the incompetence and duplicity of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-controlled Federal Government. The party said the Federal Government must also be held responsible for issuing false security assurances, claiming it has routed out insurgents, thereby making communities and international aid workers believe a lie, whereas their lives were, in fact, on the line. “The PDP is pained that defenceless individuals are being mowed down daily by marauders because those vested with the duty to protect them are busy telling them lies and even engaging in acts that embolden their attackers,” Ologbodiyan said. ” We urge the international community to compel the Buhari Presidency to come out with the truth on the alleged compromising of security in flashpoints as was reported in the sudden withdrawal of troops from Dapchi, Yobe state, just before the abduction of our 110 daughters. ” The withdrawal of troops before the horrendous abduction has raised all manners of speculation and provided room for conspiracy theorists to thrive,” Ologbodiyan said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.