Abuja – President of the Senate, Senator Bukola Saraki, has enjoined Christians and Nigerians across the nation to work towards emulating the virtues of Jesus Christ as epitomized by his passion, persecution, death and resurrection during Easter.
Saraki, in a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, in Abuja, stated that all Nigerians must remain constant in their efforts to promote unity across all lines.
He noted that it was imperative for all Nigerians to come together in order to build a country that both present and future generations can take pride in just like the work of Christ which has endured for over 2000 years and has continued to inspire generations.
The statement read in part: “This weekend, we join our Christian brothers and sisters in Nigeria and across the world to celebrate the Easter festivities. This commemoration is a time for deep reflection as it marks the sacrifice of Jesus Christ and his victory over death. It is a time to reach out to our brothers and sisters in need.
“It is also a time for all of us regardless of faith, or ethnicity to come together to pray for the peace of our nation. We must all remain constant in our efforts to promote unity across all lines because united, our nation remains stronger and we thrive as a people.
“As we do this, we must all collectively work towards playing our part in the development of our nation and its economy,” Saraki stated.
Meanwhile, the Senate on Thursday decried the incidence of renewed killings by bandits in Zamfara state.
The motion which necessitated a minute silence by lawmakers was moved under matters of urgent public importance by Senator Kabiru Marafa, (APC, Zamfara).
Marafa told the Senate that “more than two villages were held ransom for more than 24 hours as the bandits had a swell day raping both women and children”.
“Such incidents happen almost every day in Zamfara. What is more worrisome about it is the fact that the local authority doesn’t want anybody to say it. They don’t report it. The local radio doesn’t report it. The local newspaper doesn’t report anything.
“Women are being snatched from their husbands. Just two weeks ago, a bride was snatched from her husband and from a marriage that was just two weeks old. She was raped and hospitalized,” he said.
The Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu in his ruling condemned in strong terms the incessant nature of violent attacks by bandits on hapless civilians.
He called on the security agencies to step up their surveillance activities aimed at detecting and averting future attacks before they occur. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.