The final burial rites for Elder (Mrs.) Adeline Ndoma-Egba (nee Wilson) begin in April, according to a statement released by the head of the Ndoma-Egba family, Prof. Rowland, Tuesday. To kick-start her funeral rites, Prof. Rowland said the Mourning House would be open on April 2, at her home, Dr .Bassey Ndoma-Egba Hills, Bokomo, Ikom at 7.00am prompt. A Night of Tributes holds at No. 1, Ndoma-Egba Crescent, off Parliamentary Road, Calabar Municipality, on April 5. Thereafter, Vigil Night would be at her residence, Dr. Bassey Ndoma-Egba Hills, Bokomo, Ikom, from 6.30 p.m. till dawn on April 6. She would be interred on April 7 at Memory Acre, ‘Ithaca’-Nkpanjen, Akparabong, Ikom. A memorial service would hold at Presbyterian Church, Akparabong, April 8 at 10:00 a.m. prompt. Mrs. Adeline Ndoma-Egba was born on January 8, 1926 to James and Elvira Wilson in St. Catherine’s Jamaica, The West Indies, where she had her early education. She left for England to join her brothers, Brad and Aston, on the death of her father. While in England, she trained as a nurse at the Lewisham School of Nursing (affiliated to Guys Hospital, London), University of London, London School of Tropical Medicine & Diseases and the North Middlesex Hospital. Upon qualifying, she worked at Kings College Hospital, London and the Bristol Royal Infirmary (where she also did Theatre Technique). She got engaged to the patriarch of the Ndoma-Egba family, late Justice Emmanuel Takon Ndoma-Ega (famously known as E.T.) on her birthday in 1958, and they got married on December 16, 1960. Late Elder Adeline joined her husband in Nigeria in 1962 and worked at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (former General Hospital) Enugu, and Park Lane Hospital, Enugu, as the first Theatre Matron. At the outbreak of the civil war in Nigeria, she was matron at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Umuahia. She also worked with the International Red Cross at the Awomama Reference Hospital, Awomama. After the civil war, she was matron at the General Hospital, Ogoja, matron at Catholic Mission Hospital, Monaiya, Ogoja, and matron at the Holy Family Joint Hospital, Ikom, from where she retired in 1985, into a quiet life of service to family, community, humanity and the Presbyterian Church of Nigeria; where she had long been an Elder. She died on December 31, 2017, barely nine days to her 92nd birthday. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.