The European Union wants to rapidly expand training of Libyan coastguards to stem migrant flows to Italy and reduce deaths at sea, an EU naval mission said on Friday, signaling a renewed push to support a force struggling to patrol its own coasts. In spite of growing help from the EU and Italy, Libya’s coastguard has continued to be accused by European charities of operating recklessly during rescues and putting migrants’ lives at risk, accusations the coastguard routinely denies. Six years after the revolution that overthrew Muammar Gaddafi, Libya is split between rival governments in the east and west while ports and beaches are largely in the hands of armed groups. However, Rear Adm. Enrico Credendino, the chief of the EU naval mission in the Mediterranean, has said his Operation Sophia hopes to train 300-500 personnel by the end of the year. Since 2016 the operation has trained 188 Libyans, which Credendino said had contributed to a sharp fall in the number of attempted crossings in the second half of last year. “The Libyan coastguard has been very active, particularly in the second semester of 2017,” Credendino said, adding this was thanks to training by the mission and to the patrol boats supplied by Italy. Operation Sophia began monitoring the Libyan trainees in late 2017, providing Go-Pro cameras to Libyan coastguard boats to record their work. “We monitor the Libyan coastguard, observing them at sea. We have airplanes, we have ships that are observing them and we also have periodic meetings with Libyan coastguard,” he said. Libya remains the main departure point for mainly sub-Saharan African migrants trying to reach Europe by sea, though the level of migrant smuggling by Libyan armed groups has dropped under European pressure. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.