Lagos – Operatives of the Lagos State Task Force on Wednesday, February 28, manhandled Innocent Anoruo, an employee of Independent Newspapers Limited, for allegedly recording an altercation between them and the officials of Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA). The journalist said he was on the pedestrian bridge watching the policemen dragging a yellow commuter bus, known as danfo, which was probably seized from the driver suspected to have committed a traffic offence when the task force came for him. “When I got to Ojota some minutes after noon on my way to the office, a gathering at the lay-by near Fidelity Bank caught my attention. There, I saw the task force operatives trying to take a danfo from a LASTMA official who was already in the driver’s seat. One of the operatives even pulled out a tear-gas canister threatening his rival. “I asked some people in the crowd what the problem was, but no one was able to volunteer an answer. So, I climbed the bridge to have a better view of the scenario. Within seconds, I felt my belt being pulled from behind. As I turned, I saw two men looking like touts dragging me down the bridge,” he said. According to Anoruo, the men knew he was a journalist, as one of them shouted: “Come, follow us; shebi you be press.” As they were dragging him to the Black Maria, one of the officers seized his phone, accusing him of making a video of the task force. “Don’t you know that snapping the task force on duty is an offence? Enter the Black Maria; you are going to prison today,” one of them said. Even his plea that he did not take any shot reportedly fell on deaf ears, until one of them suspected to be their leader intervened. “My friend, come down,” he commanded. The journalist, who had been bruised and stained all over, said he jumped down from the Black Maria and met the ‘leader’ who asked him to unlock his smartphone. Phone unlocked and they ascertained that no shots were taken, he was released, with a warning not to snap or video the task force next time because “it is an offence”. Curious about the information, DAILY INDEPENDENT called Godwin Oti, the Lagos Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), to verify when it has become an office to record proceedings in a public place like a bus stop. It was only on Thursday that the PPRO took the call and said that taking public pictures is never an offence. He, however, warned that photojournalists should be careful not to infringe on individuals’ right to privacy. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.