Draco (650 BC to 600 BC) was an Athenian lawgiver who was notorious for the severity of his laws. The word draconian, which connotes severe, oppressive or strict, owes its paternity to Draco. Draco has had to reincarnate in Nigeria time and again. His current reincarnation is Mallam Nasiru El Rufai, the governor of Kaduna State. El-Rufai first invaded public consciousness when he was appointed as the Director-General (DG) of the Bureau of Public Enterprise (BPE) during Chief Olusegun Obasanjo’s first term as Nigeria’s president. He later emerged as the minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja in 2003. He got smuggled into Obasanjo’s economic team which specialised in killing a country in order to save her! El-Rufai wielded enormous power as DG and minister. He rode roughshod and beguiled Nigerians through media grandstanding. He played to the gallery and got applauded until after the Obasanjo years when his actions were exposed to public scrutiny. He was accused of violating regulations at the BPE and one of such instances was his engagement of two inexperienced staff that he paid outrageous salaries. As minister, he inflicted pain and made families destitute in the name of restoring the Abuja master plan. He embraced controversy and discarded conscientiousness. That El-Rufai is brilliant and intelligent may be true. But brilliance without circumspection is poisonous just as intelligence without character is precarious. What has become glaring in El-Rufai’s political character is his lack of wisdom, political wisdom. He is undoubtedly one of Nigeria’s unconscionable politicians. Obasanjo’s testimonial on him in My Watch speaks volume about his character. El-Rufai sees himself as an “accidental public servant”, which is the title of a book he wrote to give a hagiographic account of his public stewardship. Of course the book was intended to manicure his ego. A flatulent self-celebrating narrative, the book deliberately avoided the many dark contours and administrative inebriety that characterised his stint in office. Why then did El-Rufai emerge as governor in 2015? Politics is like war which Thomas Paine says “involves in its progress a chain of unforeseen and un-supposed circumstances that no human wisdom can calculate its end”. Politics, especially Nigerian politics, is a chain of interminable imponderables! In establishing El-Rufai’s resurgence in the public space one must take more than a casual glace at the political fortunes of Muhammadu Buhari his later day political benefactor. After Buhari’s masochistic rule as Nigeria’s Draco from 1984 to 1985 Nigerians would have sworn that the man would never be allowed to come near the seat of power. When the defunct All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP) politically exhumed Buhari to run for the presidency in 2003, he lost woefully. The story was the same in 2007 and 2011 after which the man swore never to contest elections again. However, an alliance from the most unlikely corner, the South-West, saw Buhari emerging as president with the son-in-law of the man whom his soldiers humiliated and harassed becoming his vice president. Buhari’s campaign can aptly be termed buharimania. The phenomenon was like a flood that carried debris along and El-Rufai was one. El-Rufai rode on Buhari’s fantasia to become governor. That Buhari emerged as president was a political imponderable. In no time buharimania became Hurricane Buhari and El-Rufai became an instrument of affliction. Under El-Rufai, Kaduna State which hitherto was a haven became tumultuous. The crises in southern Kaduna which had cooled off rebounded and took on a frightening dimension as El-Rufai became helpless. He told a shocked nation of how he paid herdsmen in order to prevent more killings. He also took on helpless beggars abrasively denying them their humanity. As the state’s security got ruptured El-Rufai went after teachers by sacking twenty-one thousand of them claiming that they failed a common entrance examination. His fracas with the senators representing Kaduna State has further rubbished his pretentious democratic credentials. Intolerant of dissenting views he once slapped his deputy governor who retaliated. El-Rufai’s bulldozers have brought down the house of one of the senators. The same house that served as the headquarters of his campaign organisation! El-Rufai opened a new frontier of war a few days ago when he said “trade unions have never served the country well. They have been selfish and everything is about their narrow interests…trade unions have been a danger to our progress and I think they should be curtailed”. Still heaving with hostility he took on the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) as follows, “I warned the Kaduna State University that if you ever go on strike again I will fire you”. Should such insensitive and undemocratic vituperation be coming from a governor in Nigeria after nearly twenty years of democratic rule? Oghene bikooo Surely, El-Rufai’s profiling of trade unions is an apt depiction of the class, to which he belongs, the oppressive and exploitative class that produces nothing, but appropriates everything. Listen to his authoritarian cum military lingo “I will fire all of you”. The people of Kaduna should fire him in 2019. This irascible behaviour is fast becoming the hallmark of many All Progressives Congress governors who now behave as if they drink palm-wine through their nostrils. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.