The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and Russia are looking to turn a crude oil supply agreement that started in 2016 into a long-term relationship which could further tip control of crude oil pricing in favour of the cartel. Specifically, the two parties are looking to turn their one year rolling cooperation to a10-20 year arrangement. Crude prices have been on the uptrend since the appointment of John Bolton, a major opponent of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), as the new US National Security Adviser. Alongside the earlier nomination of Mike Pompeo, another JCPOA opponent, as the new US Secretary of State, markets have begun pricing in prospects of a reintroduction of sanctions on Iranian oil exports. Brent benchmark traded at US$70.59/barrel on Tuesday, 6.6% higher than it closed the week prior to the new NSA appointment. The decision by OPEC and Russia to further consolidate corporation could support positive sentiment on prices in the weeks ahead. However, increasing production from the US and further expansion of US crude oil stocks could dampen this positive momentum. OPEC agreed to cut crude oil production in 2017. The ongoing 1.8mbpd oil production cuts was initially scheduled to end March 2018 but was later extended until December. However, on 27 March 2018, OPEC and Russia announced a possible shift from a year to year agreement to a long-term agreement. This arrangement could potentially give the two parties, which control 44% of global crude oil supply significant control over pricing over the near term if compliance to the agreement remains high. Most recent data from the IEA places OPEC compliance at 149% in January 2018, helped by declining production in Venezuela. With the delayed listing of Saudi Arabia’s Aramco to 2019, we see scope for OPEC’s largest producer, Saudi Arabia to continue to support further cooperation to curb any supply glut. Besides indication that the US government could decertify the nuclear deal with Iran, has stoked concerns about a possible decline in supply through the crude oil markets. This followed the appointment of John Bolton as the new US NSA, Bolton is a major opponent of the deal and has long been vocal about the need for US to either pull out of the deal or force Iran to make further concessions on its nuclear plans. However, we believe getting the European Union and the wider UN Security Council to join the US led move to scrap the deal will be a hard sell especially in the light of reports by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) that Iran is abiding by the terms of the deal. In terms of impact, we note that Iran has ramped up production (up 36% from pre-sanction removal levels to 3.81mbpd in February 2018). Thus, we estimate that re-introduction of broad sanctions on Iran could take out roughly 500kbpd of global supply, which in view of recent growth in global crude consumption could drive significant tightening across crude oil markets. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.