President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to understand that all the Holy Books revealed by Allah preach peaceful coexistence among people. Buhari stated this on Saturday in Katsina at the closing of the 32nd National Quoranic Recitation Competition. He said: ‘’All the books of Almighty Allah teach us same thing; that is, how to live in peace with one another. ‘’It is clear that Quoran is the greatest encyclopedia, which contains all aspects of human life. Quoran teaches us how to be fair and just to all, including the non-Muslims. ‘’It has also been stated that during the lifetime of the Prophet Muhammad (Peace be Upon Him), when Muslims were being persecuted, he asked them to migrate to a Christian Kingdom in Ethiopia, where they lived peacefully.” The President who was represented by Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of State for Aviation, said that the Quoran should not be used as a decoration in houses, hence the need for reflecting on the teachings contained in it. Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar, the Sultan of Sokoto, urged states and local governments in the country to intensify efforts towards ensuring peace in their domains. ‘’It is only with adequate peace that competition like this can take place,’’ he said. He also urged Nigerians to strive and register in the ongoing voter registration, as the 2019 general elections approach. ‘’It is only with a voter card that Nigerians can elect leaders of their choice who will protect their interests,’’ he said. Gov. Aminu Masari, in his speech, frowned at the way children roam the streets in search of survival in the name ‘almajiri’ instead  of seeking for knowledge. Masari said such children were often exposed to abuses by undesirable elements, hence the need for concerted efforts to address the issue. He pledged to give scholarship to all Katsina State participants, who emerge victorious at the competition. The Quoranic recitation competition is an annual event organised to select the country’s representatives at the international competition, while the 2019 edition would hold in Gombe State. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.