Mr. Charles Udoh, Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, in this interview with newsmen in Uyo, challenged unemployed youths in the state to key into the industrialisation policy of the present administration either through direct or indirect employment to enrich their quality of living. He also speaks on other issues of national interest. Idongesit Ashameri brings the excerpts: In your recent radio interview, you called on unemployed Akwa Ibom youths to key into the industries created by the present administration; how easy can this be? There has been a concern that the people are not keying into the employment and job creation opportunities created by the industrialisation effort of the government in the state. So we want to really talk more about these industries, to create more awareness so that the people will come to understand that it is beyond seeking for direct employment, that there are other things that the people can get from these industries. From being a distributor, to being a supplier, to being a service provider, so that the local communities will be able to see the opportunities coming their way by virtue of the industries. Then also to re-echo the fact that Akwa Ibom state of Nigeria, within the last thirty months has been able to attract industries than any other state in the country. And more of those industries are on the way. When you say that the people are not keying into the industrialisation effort of the government, what do you really mean? Well, if you look at the social media platforms in the state, you will still find people saying that those industries are not in existence; people who are still deliberately trying to convince others that those industries are not in existence. Yes of course a lot of other people know that those industries are in existence. However, what is paramount for us is that these industries are coming, but how do our people benefit from them? There are limited number of people that the companies can employ directly, but beyond that, there are several other opportunities that comes from having an industry in an area. It means that the locals can also aspire to become distributors, suppliers, salesmen and women or even marketers. Even the media can begin to tap into opportunities where they can begin to market and showcase these products; remember that these products will also have competitors. So there is a huge opportunity for people to be able to key into it. And if you look at it you will also know that those industries will also need raw materials. Where do they get these raw materials from? Who supplies those raw materials? Certainly those industries will need people to provide services to them. Who provide those services? Those industries will also be dependent on some ancillary services from the local communities and the locals are aware that they can begin to set up these services. For instance; go to where they have a factory and give it between five to fifteen years, you will see that it will become a mini town, and people will begin to migrate there and start setting up businesses around there; and now is an opportunity for our people to begin to take the lead, knowing that if they do not do that now, other people from other states will come and take over those opportunities, and the benefits that are supposed to have been accruing to us would have been eroded. Like our governor is always saying, the dream is to turn the economy of the state around. Today, the economy of the state is focused on government; everybody is looking up to government for business and every other thing, but the dream of the governor is to turn that around so that the people will begin to look more on the private sector. Take a look at a state like Lagos for instance, there are lots of thing that the government don’t need to do; if you go to some schools, you will find libraries being sponsored by some private bodies, some laboratories being sponsored by cooperate bodies etc. That will happen in a state like ours if Governor Udom Emmanuel turns the focus of the economy around. If we don’t attract more businesses to set up more industries and ensure they are strong enough, everybody will still be looking up to government to provide these social amenities. So we are calling on the people to take up this opportunity. Today if you look at Onna LGA for instance, compare the cost of a plot of land to the prize of say six years ago, it is very different, and that is because economic activities are going on there. So it means that a man who had a plot of land there may never have thought that someday that place will become something but now it is becoming something wonderful. I use my village as an example; there is a place that we used to call enam; because people used to fight there, but now there is an International stadium there. This is a place that was viewed in times past as an evil forest that people were always afraid of going close, but today it is a developed place that the world congregates; so that is the beauty of development, and that is the advantage of opening up local areas. That is why you see also in most countries, they take developments away from the city centers so that they do not congest the city centers. Today we are talking about the Deep Sea Port, we all know the challenges of Lagos for instance with the port they have, because they didn’t take certain facts into consideration, that is why the roads around the area is in a bad state today. We have taken note of that; we are constructing a super solid road around that place to ensure that we are able to handle that and then have access to those ports. People are of the view that government should establish industries for proper funding, to be able to create enduring employment opportunities for people. Why is government merely attracting for private investors to run? Nigeria as a country is littered with examples of companies that were established and run like an extended arm of government parastatals; We have a lot of factories here; From the paper mill at Oku Iboku that was set up by the federal government, to the Aluminum smatter that was also set up by the federal government and run as an extended arms of government parastatals. Now all of these factories are dead because they were run by the government, so we are moving away from that models and adopting what the developed countries are doing. And that experience tells us that government has no business with setting up and running industries; if you set up and run an industry, you will run the industry within the ambit of civil service bureaucracy, and that means that certain decisions will only be taken as at when due. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.