Lagos – Lt. Gen. Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma, former Chief of Army Staff and Minister of Defence, last Saturday raised alarm of ongoing ethnic cleansing in the country and asked Nigerians to rise up to resist it. Danjuma’s outburst came against the Federal Government’s policy on hate speech and its plan to clampdown on those who engage in such across the nation. Danjuma, who spoke in Jalingo at the convocation of Taraba State University, said Nigerians must be alert to defend themselves and the country, accusing the military of complicity in the killing of farmers by herdsmen. He accused the Armed Forces of partisanship and colluding with armed bandits to perpetrated carnages across the country. He said: “When I arrived this arena, I saw rich cultural display, and I was amazed at the rich cultural heritage of our people. Taraba is a mini Nigeria with diverse ethnic groups living together relatively peacefully. But, the peace in this state is under assault. “There is an attempt at ethnic cleansing in the state and of course, in some riverine and rural states in Nigeria. We must resist it. We must stop it. Every one of us must rise up. “Our Armed Forces are not neutral. They collude with the armed bandits to kill people, kill Nigerians. The Armed Forces guide their movements. They cover them. If you are depending on the Armed Forces to stop the killings, you will all die one by one.” He enjoined Nigerians to rise up to defend themselves, saying Somalia would be a child’s play if they failed to act. He concluded: “This ethnic cleansing must stop in Taraba State and other rural states of Nigeria, otherwise Somalia will be a child’s play. I ask every one of you to be alert and defend your country, defend your territory and defend your state. Defend yourselves because you have no other place to go…God bless our country.” Danjuma’s outcry came amidst killings of hundreds of people in attacks on villages in Benue, Kogi, Adamawa, Zamfara, Kaduna and Taraba, Danjuma’s home state, since January. The 2018 attacks began in Benue, where about 100 people were killed in two local government areas on January 1. Danjuma is not the first former military chief with political clout to condemn the Buhari administration. Former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Ibrahim Babangida, both Military Generals, had condemned President Buhari for not doing enough to curb the killings. In January, Obasanjo openly called on President Buhari to “dismount” from power by 2019. Babangida also accused Buhari of failing to protect Nigerians and should shelve the idea of second term. He advocated for the emergence of a younger leader to lead Nigeria and make it competitive in a modern world. However, both the Federal Government and the Nigerian Army dismissed Danjuma’s allegations, saying that such calls were inflammatory and should be disregarded. Col. Mansur Dan-Ali (rtd), the Minister of Defence, through his spokesperson, Tukur Gusau, said in a statement: “This is highly uncalled for and is invitation to anarchy and should be disregarded by well-meaning Nigerians. “The efforts of the Nigerian military towards restoration of peace, security and order in Nigeria are evidently clear and Nigerians continue to show appreciation for changing the security environment from what it was before.” Gusau stressed:  “The Armed Forces is well organised and highly professional in discharging its constitutional mandate. Therefore, if anyone has evidence of wrongdoing or dereliction of duty against our troops (the person) should please bring forward such evidence through the channel for necessary action.” He added that the military would “not be distracted” by comments like the one that came from Danjuma. In its reaction, the Nigerian Army described Danjuma’s statement as unfortunate. Brigadier-General Texas Chukwu, Director of Army Public Relations, in a statement, said the Army viewed the statement as most unfortunate at this critical time that the military had embarked upon demilitarisation of the North Central Region of the country. Chukwu said that the Army personnel had had to pay the supreme price for ensuring the sustenance of security in Taraba State. He said: “The attention of the Nigerian Army has been drawn to the unfortunate statement made by a former Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant-General Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma, during the convocation ceremony of the Taraba State University on Saturday 24 March 2018, in which he categorically asserted that the Armed Forces of Nigeria was colluding with militias and other criminal elements and was unable to provide security for the citizens of Taraba State. “He further called the people of Taraba State to take up arms and defend themselves.  The Nigerian Army views this statement made by the former Chief of Army Staff as most unfortunate at this critical time that the military has embarked upon demilitarisation of the North Central Region of the country. “While Nigerian Army would not want to join issues with the Elder Statesman, however, certain facts need to be clearly stated in the interest of the Taraba People and the Nigerian public. “The Nigerian Army is constitutionally charged with the responsibility of defending the territorial integrity of Nigeria and to aid the civil authority whenever called upon to do so. The Army spokesman also accused the Taraba State government of not cooperating with the Nigerian Army at the inception of Ex-AYEM AKPATUMA due to the Army’s stance to remain absolutely neutral in the herdsmen-farmers crisis. In his reaction, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential  Advisory Committee  Against  Corruption (PACAC)  said those accusing Danjuma of making hate speech are misinformed adding that the former Defence Minister is only telling the people of the state to rise up and defend themselves from being killed. Sagay who said the law of  Nigeria confers on citizens the right to self-defence also accused the Defence Minister,Mansur Dan- Ali of bias and insensitivity to the plight of victims of herdsmen attacks over the statement he made on the Benue Anti-Grazing Law. According to  Sagay “ Where is the hate speech in what General Danjuma said? He is merely expressing an opinion. I think people are just making hasty judgments. If you remember the speech made by the Minister of Defence on this issue”. “He said the problem was caused by Benue state closing the grazing routes and areas of water where the cattle of these herdsmen are to be drinking from, which has been pre-historic before independence. So, he laid the blame of the crisis on the Benue state government for making that law”. Hon. Dare Falade, the National Chairman of the Mega Progressive Peoples Party (MPPP), said that Gen. Danjuma was expressing himself, maintaining that he must have spoken based on information at his disposal and cannot be seen as hate speech. Falade said: “Gen Danjuma is talking from the background of knowledge. The government should investigate his allegation, consider his utterances and buckle up. Such allegation coming from one with experience as a Military General, cannot be waved off by the government. Barrister Nnaemeka Iheonu, a member of African Bar Association (ABA), maintained that government’s policy on hate speech applies only to the poor and not for someone like Danjuma, a reputable retired Military General, who like Obasanjo and Babangida, cannot easily be arrested. He stressed: “Personally, I don’t see what he said as hate speech. His people are being killed. He has a military background. He feels that the military is supporting the herdsmen, who are President Buhari’s kinsmen, to kill his people.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.