Abuja – Conference of Speakers of State Houses of Assembly on Thursday told the leadership of the National Assembly that they were convinced based on their interactions with Nigerians that what the people desired most was devolution of power and not just cosmetic constitution reviews. Abdulmumin Ismaila Kamba, Chairman of the Conference of Speakers and Speaker of the Kebbi State House of Assembly, stated this at a ceremony held in the National Assembly, Abuja. At the event, State Assembly Speakers transmitted the report of State Houses of Assembly resolutions on constitution amendments to the National Assembly. However, facts emerged from the event that State Assemblies in Lagos and Rivers shunned the exercise, thus it was carried out by 34 state legislatures instead of the expected 36. Speaking at the event, Kamba said: “Though as requested and constitutionally empowered, the State Houses of Assembly went through the 29 constitution amendment bills sent to us and concurred with the National Assembly on 15 of them. “But during our interactions with stakeholders at the grassroots on the proposed constitution amendments, they expressed their displeasure on the absence of devolution of powers from all the items sent. “Various stakeholders during the sessions yearned for devolution of powers from the centre to the states, the absence of which made them to see the items considered as somewhat cosmetic and not substantive.” He, however, disclosed that one of the striking items in the constitution amendment voted for by the State Houses of Assembly was financial autonomy for State Assemblies, aside from the not-too-young-to-run bill. He disclosed that two out of the 36 states, Lagos and Rivers, did not participate in the entire process for reasons best known to them. In his remarks, Bukola Saraki, the Senate President, said the devolution of powers being yearned for by Nigerians would surely be attended to by the National Assembly soonest. He, however, urged the State Houses of Assembly to also ensure the passage of the constitutional item amendment on local government autonomy when sent to them again. He said: “The foundation of our constitution rests on its ability to enable, strengthen our unity, deepen democracy, engender good governance, and enable the enforcement and protection of our peoples’ rights as they go about seeking a better life for themselves. “These are the crux of the proposed alterations to the constitution which the 8th National Assembly, in accordance with the 1999 constitution, sent to the State Assemblies for their approval. “The conclusion of this process today is another great testament to the growing stature of our democratic practice and the maturity that all of you in this room and those outside it have shown. “I am proud of the value and the patriotism you have exhibited to get us this far. “I commend your hard work and your forthrightness. “The process of amending the constitution is a solemn process that is not flimsily embarked upon. “These current amendments which have passed through the last constitutional hurdle will help strengthen the bonds of our unity, strengthen our institutions to provide good governance. “We remain resolved to continue to take on the hard national issues that hold us down with a view to using all legislative and constitutional measures to resolve them for the welfare and security of our people. “It is our expectations that, with the success of the current exercise and the lessons learned, we are better equipped to take on more constitutional proposals that would give our people greater sense of belonging, safety, and oneness including the issues of devolution of powers.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.