Abakaliki – Ahead of next year’s general elections, Prince Uche Secondus, the national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has assured Nigerians that the former ruling party would not toe the inglorious path of imposition of candidates as was the case in the past. Secondus who spoke Friday at the Government Secondary School Afikpo in Ebonyi State during a rally in support of Governor David Umahi second term bid, said that in 2019 the people would be allowed to elect leaders of their choice without interferences. The leader of the former ruling party also commended governor David Umahi for his the massive development in Ebonyi State, stating that the governor has made the party very proud in the discharge of his duties as the governor of Ebonyi State, the chairman of the South East Governors forum and in all the national assignments he has been given. He noted that his party, the PDP, was ready to dislodge the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) from the presidency and also take over all the states of the federation come 2019. Chief Secondus also called on the people of South East to continue to support the party, noting that only PDP has their interest at heart. “Today we are not here to talk politics, but we are here to welcome the governor to Ebonyi South and to thank him for his good works in the state. We must, however, tell ourselves the truth and the truth is that before 2015 Ebonyi was not like this. So you can see the good works of your governor just in three years. “PDP is the best party for the South East; what APC has given us is nothing but deceit and nepotism. But our Party was founded by great nationalists like Late Chief Alex Ekweume on ground of national unity. Support PDP. It is because it is only the party that can restore the dignity of Ndigbo and other minorities of this country after 2019. “While PDP was in power it ran an inclusive government, even peoples of other party were appointed into power, but its not so now. Nigerians have seen the difference between PDP and APC and are now in better position to make an informed choice in 2019. “All the PDP governors are working and the indices are there to prove this.Your governor has done well in all areas. While coming here I nearly did not recognise the Abakaliki-Afikpo road again. So in 2019, you can’t have a better option than Umahi come 2019. “We in PDP we have returned power to the people, to the grassroots and to all the units.There is no more imposition and impunity in the party. You will be allowed to elect your choice, no more imposition in PDP,” he said. Governor David Umahi while commending Chief Secondus for finding time to come to Ebonyi to see for himself the strength of the party, assured him that the state was PDP down to the grassroots, adding that come 2019 the state would vote for PDP at all levels. The highpoint of the event was the adoption of the governor for a second term in office by the people of Ebonyi South Senatorial zone following a motion moved by the member representing Ohaozara, Onicha/Ivo federal Constituency, Linus Abaa Okprie and seconded by Idu Igariwey of Afikpo North and South federal constituency. 3 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.