Lagos – The Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) yesterday, expressed concern over the delay in the passage of the 2018 budget by the executive and legislative arms of government in the country. Mr. Larry Ettah, President of NECA, who conveyed his association’s displeasure at the end of its Governing Council meeting in Lagos, said the development is capable of dragging the nation into a state of inertia. “It appears to have become a tradition in this democratic dispensation for the budget to be unduly delayed thereby plunging the economy into a state of inertia, particularly in the first quarter of the year. “In December 2016, the President presented the 2017 Appropriation Bill to the National Assembly. However, the National Assembly did not pass the bill until May 11, 2017, almost six months after it was presented. We recollect that President Muhammadu Buhari presented the 2018 budget to our Legislators in November, 2017’’, he added. He implored the two arms of government   to mutually agree on a time frame that would ensure that the budget for the following year is passed into law before the end of every current fiscal year. The NECA boss, who commended the government for the constitution and re-constitution of some boards of parastatals and agencies, however, raised anxiety over the lateness and outright non-reconstitution of some other boards in the c portends danger for good governance with negative image for the Country. He noted that of greater concern to businesses is the non-reconstitution of critical Boards such as the NSITF, NHIS, PENCOM, CBN, SEC, among others. “We had expected government to have set up the Boards by now. The absence of Boards for the parastatals is one awful legacy of the military regime that should be discarded without further delay. ‘’We are worried about the non-confirmation of nominees to the Monetary Policy Committee, (MPC), by the National Assembly. This critical Committee has been unable to meet because it could not form a quorum as stipulated in the CBN Act 2007. We believe that the country’s monetary policy should not be left to run on auto-pilot as the outcome of the deliberation of the MPC is important to the sustainable economic growth and development of our country’’ He, however, expressed disgust over the recurring fuel scarcity in the country, saying, “Like a sore that has refused to heal, the recurrent issue of fuel scarcity has reared up its ugly head again’’. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.