Enugu – On March 3, the people of Uhu-Owerri in Igbo-Eze South local government area woke up in the morning, not knowing that misfortune was lurking around in the community. However, on that day, a deadly rainstorm wreaked havoc in the community, leaving three persons dead and destroying property worth millions of naira. One of the deceased was identified as Anthony Mamah, a block moulder at Mario Institution of Hospitality and Entrepreneurship Studies in Uhu-Owerre, while the two others were students of Uhu-owerri community secondary school. The natural disaster also destroyed the multi-purpose hall of the institution and other buildings. Giving an account of the incident, Rev Fr Cornelius Obe, the Director of the School, said God loves him and the school, said: ”Yes the rain storm of February 23 caused havoc by destroying the networking, home economics and multi-purpose hall building of the school. “The school was more devastated by the death of Mr Anthony Mamah, the school block moulder who was trapped in that multi-purpose hall building when it collapsed “Every 5pm staff and students gather in this hall for one meeting or the other. It is God’s intervention that the rain started when no meeting was on, or else many students and staff could have died. You can see why I said God loves me and the school.” Obe said what happened to his school and Ihuowerre community would remain evergreen and a mystery because they least expected it. “We are only agonizing because of the lives we lost in the ugly incident but we thank God who without his love, the entire community could have been wiped out by that natural disaster. The reverend father said he was still in his office around 5pm that fateful day when it started raining and suddenly he heard a sound like a rocket and explosives, quaking roofs and buildings of the school immediately. “I started praying. But after about five minutes, someone rushed to my office and informed me that Mamah and his children were trapped in the collapsed school hall building. When I rushed outside what I saw was an eyesore. “The whole buildings in the vicinity were all damaged, trees uprooted, building roof and walls blown off.  Electric poles were cut down. So, people were alerted who helped to rescue those who were trapped by the iron door of the hall, “I rushed him and his two children to Faith Foundation Hospital, Nsukka where we donated two pints of blood to them. The man was stable and talking, He prayed to God to keep his two sons alive and let him die in their place. The cleric lamented that the Mamah gave up the ghost the next day, adding that, the deceased was the person who moulded all the blocks used in constructing buildings in the school. In his comment Mr Felix Amoke, the chairman of Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) in Mario described the disaster at Mario as unfortunate because of loss of life and damage of school buildings. Amoke urged Federal, state and local governments as well as public spirited individuals to come to the assistance of Mario Institute to enable the school to rebuild the damaged building by rain storm. “PTA has met and agreed on what to do to assist the school on that disaster. The PTA also recommended that Mamah should be immortalised by naming one building in the school after him,” he said. Speaking, Ugwu Theresa Ukamaka, the Student Union President (SUG) of the institute, said the disaster had constituted a setback to their education, explaining that since that incident they have not been having their studies due to devastating damage of the windstorm on their classrooms and administrative block. Ugwu appealed to Federal, state, local governments and public spirited individuals to come to their aid to rebuild damaged buildings. Also speaking, Igwe Sunday Ogbonna, the traditional ruler of the community, said the community had not witnessed such disaster since it was born Igwe Ogbonna said that the rainstorm was a strange one giving the fact that it only targeted school, and no individual house was affected. He promised to summon his cabinet members to proffer solution on how to consult the gods to know why such an unusual wind should wreak such havoc on their community. “Three people lost their live in that Friday February 23, one block-Moulder in Mario and two students in Ihu-Owerre community secondary school,” he said. He advised Christians in the community to pray to God and seek answer to the ugly incident to forestall further occurrence. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.