Abuja – Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa, Permanent Secretary, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), has charged the six Area Council Chairmen in the Federal Capital Territory to be prudent and make judicious use of government’s funds. The Permanent Secretary gave the charge on Thursday in his office at Area 11, Garki, Abuja during the Joint Area Councils Allocation Committee (JAAC) meeting for the month of January. He further noted that the ongoing Area Councils biometric exercise which is being conducted by the FCT Administration is intended to fish out ghost workers across the six Area Councils. Sir Ohaa who is the Chairman of JAAC disclosed that the total funds from the Federation Accounts due to the six Area Councils in the FCT and other stakeholders as their share of statutory allocation for the month of January stood at N2.419,771.26 billion. The figure shows that January allocation was higher than last month allocation by over N100 million  and the highest so far since 2015, following the sudden slump in oil price in the international market. The breakdown of the allocation shows that Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) got N216 million, while Gwagwalada Area Council received N195 million and Kuje got 166 million. Similarly, Kwali received N162 million, while Abaji got N151 million and Bwari also received 151 million. Furthermore, statutory deductions from the release include Primary School Teachers’ salaries that gulped 1 billion. Others are 15 percent Pension Funds N226 million; 1 percent Training Fund, N24 million and 10 percent Employer Pension Contribution, N58 million. Hon. Joseph Shazin, Chairman of Kwali Area Council who is also the Chairman of ALGON, described the allocation as far equitable. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.