Lagos – The Radisson Blu Hotel camp of the Super Eagles in Wroclaw, Poland, is expected to be full today as only six of the 28 invited players have already arrived camp for the Friday’s friendly match between Nigeria and Poland. According to information from Demola Olajire, the spokesperson of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), all the invited players will be at the camp before the close of today, even as he revealed that more players were still being expected.
The players already in camp include Bursaspor of Turkey’s Williams Troost-Ekong, Alex Iwobi of Arsenal, Tyronne Ebuehi, who plays club football for Ado Den Haag of Holland, and Leon Balogun of FSV Mainz 05 in the German Bundesliga. The rest are Bryan Idowu of Amkar Perm of Russia and Ola Aina, who plays for English Championship side, Hull City.
Those expected in camp today are Odion ighalo who was permitted to arrive today.
Meanwhile, Junior Ajay, the Al-Ahly of Egypt forward, will miss the friendly against Poland due to visa hitch. But the player, as reported by kingfut.com, is, though, racing against time to obtain a United Kingdom visa for the Serbia tie.
Ajayi got his maiden invitation in the 28-man list recently released by the Nigeria Football Federation for the two friendly matches between Super Eagles and Poland on Friday, March 23, and Serbia four days later.
Ajayi won the league cup and Super Cup since joining Al Ahly. He also led the team to a silver medal in the 2016/17 CAF Champions League.
The match against Serbia will come up at The Hive, the home ground of Barnet Football Club, and some of the Super Eagles players will not have issues accessing United Kingdom due to the fact that some of them have passports of some European countries. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.