Abubakar Habu Muazu, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), recently expressed interest in becoming the next governor of Gombe State. In this interview with select journalists, he speaks on his chances at the poll, his political pedigree and structure in Gombe State, among other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: You have expressed interest in contesting the gubernatorial seat of Gombe State come 2019 under the banner of the APC. What has been the response of your party members to this aspiration? Well, I started my consultations for a very long time considering the fact that the APC under which platform I am aspiring is an opposition party in the state. So, I felt that there was the need to make the party attractive to the teeming people of the state in order to make it a centre of attraction to the people irrespective of political affiliation because of my political pedigree and in order to expand its followers and supporters. One fact though is that no party can be attractive without it being lively and a crowd puller, so I felt the only way this can be done is to make the party relevant by engaging party leaders, stakeholders and other supporters in a series of activities. Reason for doing this is that where there are lively activities, people will always come around to be part of the happenings.  That was the reason that since early last year, apart from the usual meetings and consultations with party leaders at wards, local governments and state levels, I have initiated and sponsored series of activities in collaboration with the party to bring our members together as a deliberate strategy to build and sustain a virile APC in Gombe State so that we can have a solid foundation to dislodge the PDP come 2019. What has been your contribution to the sustenance of the party in the state? As part of my effort to make the party relevant and well rooted in the state, I recently gave out funds to the party to rent offices in all the electoral wards and local government areas of the state in order to have a strong support base for the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari. My organisation has also done some rallies in his support, all in a bid to add colour and value to our party knowing that politics is all about engaging the people and we cannot succeed as an opposition party without engaging the people and building the party and I thank God, the people of Gombe have accepted us and they are fully ready for change to come 2019. Any aspirant that says he is disengaging himself from the party leadership is disloyal and when you have a governor that does not believe in party supremacy, it would be difficult to pull back such governor when errors are being committed. You had in the past advised people to shun money politics, but the activities you are undertaking involve spending huge amounts of money. Are your actions not contradictory to what you are preaching? Don’t get me wrong, I still maintain that stand that money politics should be discouraged, people should be elected based on their integrity and contributions to the well being of the people. However, it is not all about me, but about building a viable party that is well accepted by the people, a party that can stand the test of time and pull the crowd to itself.  You should know that there is no way I can achieve my dreams and aspirations without having a strong platform, therefore one must be willing to sacrifice in building and uniting our great party in the state before one can start talking of his aspirations. There are people that are also eyeing the governorship seat that is far richer than I am. One thing though is the fact that I am doing this not because I am a desperate person who wants to be a governor at all cost or because I am rich but because I believe in the vision and mission of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC to salvage the country. This is why during my meetings and consultations with party leaders, I always advise them to be wary of politicians that will try to buy their conscience with money. If they collect such monies, they are mortgaging their future and that of their children. I encourage them to assess the antecedents of the aspirants, considering their contributions to the society and the development of the party before making the decision on whom to support. Go and ask those that know me, they will testify to the fact that I am not doing this because I want to contest an election. I am a true politician and a grassroots mobiliser, a giver right from my childhood. It is something that I inherited and you cannot take that away from me. It is not about having lots of money, you can have a little and decide to share to touch lives and you can have plenty and decide to keep it to yourself. For me as a politician, I value people and I care about their needs, which is why every time you come to my house you see people and I always reach out to them. That is why I do all my activities openly; I don’t wait until night then call some few people and we lock ourselves in a room in the name of political meetings. Politics is for the people and not a cult for a selected few. As at the last count, there are no less than 10 aspirants in the APC aspiring for the same seat as you, what gives you the confidence that you will get the party’s ticket? I am a dogged fighter, a very courageous person who never relent until a goal is achieved. I am not scared of challenges because I believe in myself that is why I am not afraid of investing in developing the party. I am from a respected royal family. You ask people who have interacted with me as a politician, they will tell you, I am a straightforward person.  I have also gone around the state and I don’t know any aspirant that is not taking Habu Muazu seriously. What steps are you taking to emerge as the party’s flag bearer? That is close to my heart, you know that in war you don’t declare your strategy to your opponents, so I don’t need to disclose the steps I am taking to get the party’s gubernatorial ticket, the most important thing is that no one can deny the fact that I am on the ground as a formidable force and fully ready for the contest. I am not the type of politician that only surface during elections and disappear immediately after an election; I am a complete politician and not afraid of any form of challenge.  Therefore, I am ready for the contest. With God on my side and with the support of the people, we shall surely be victorious. Like I mentioned earlier, my duty is to sell myself to the delegates and convince them that I have what it takes to win victory for the party. I know our people and I understand their problems more than any other aspirant does. Because of my philanthropy, I have initiated and executed projects in all the 114 electoral wards across the state. What other things have you done to deserve the ticket of the party? If you go around Gombe State as at now there is no polling unit in the state that you will not meet two or more persons that know me personally. I have given out scholarships, pay fees for SSCE, NECO and UTME forms for students, sunk boreholes and empowered women as well as assisted other vulnerable people irrespective of religious and political affiliations. This is apart from settling medical bills of persons that I don’t even know but only heard about their ailments from people and associates. Moreover, I have been doing this long before thinking of aspiring for the governorship and I challenge you to investigate. Among all those aspiring, I am the most accessible, I have a cordial relationship with the traditional institution, I respect them and they see me as one of their own. I have a very cordial relationship with religious leaders and groups both Christians and Muslims, that is why whenever you come to my house you see both Christians and Muslims eating together without any form of discrimination and I always tell my supporters not to antagonise or discriminate against each other because of ethnicity or religion. I am working towards uniting our party supporters not dividing them; we don’t need to bring divisive factors to destroy our party because of politics. I have done a lot to the society that is enough to sell me to the electorate, but that is not to say that I am completely perfect, but if you are to rate me with other contestants, I think I can stand tall to say I am the most outstanding. Considering the present hardship in the country, are you still confident that the APC will win again? One thing you don’t know is that the country has been bastardised for 16 solid years under the rule of the PDP and so it needs another 16 years to be fixed. Yes, things are difficult because that is the process of rebuilding, it is always very easy to destroy but difficult to rebuild. By the grace of God, the APC will win reelection and even win more states that it did not win in 2015 including Gombe because Nigerians are gradually understanding that what the APC is doing to get the country back on a good track. I don’t have any iota of doubt in my mind that the APC will do even better than 2015. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.