Lagos – The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday said while it is true that it has fixed another National Executive Council (NEC) meeting for this month, the controversy arising from the tenure extension granted the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the party as well as all other structures at the state and local government levels will not be discussed during the meeting. There are reports that the party has fixed another NEC meeting to hold later this month to review its position on the tenure elongation debacle which is already generating ripples within the party. However, speaking exclusively to DAILY INDEPENDENT, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, said the extension of tenure of the NWC is already settled and will not be discussed at the fresh NEC meeting. On the purpose of the new meeting, Abdullahi said the meeting will primarily focus on the review of the party’s constitution and the report of its panel on true federalism which was chaired by Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State. He added that when the two issues were discussed during the last NEC meeting, majority of members in attendance requested for more time in order to study the report and that is why a new meeting has been scheduled whose date will soon be made public. “Yes, we are having another NEC meeting but it has nothing to do with the issue of tenure elongation that was approved during the last meeting. “The NEC meeting has to do with two things. One is the review of the party’s constitution and the report of the restructuring committee headed by Governor Nasir El- Rufai of Kaduna State. “The two issues came up during the last NEC but members requested for more time to go and study the report. That is why we are scheduling another NEC meeting”, he said. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the date for the meeting will be fixed by the president, who is yet to communicate a definite date to the party leadership. The extension granted Oyegun and his NWC team at the last NEC meeting is generating ripples among party stakeholders who wanted a new national leadership, particularly the South-West wing of the party. Lagos, Osun and Oyo governors, allies of the national leader of the party, Senator Bola Tinubu, were not present at the last NEC meeting. It would be also recalled that a dissatisfied member of the APC, Nnamdi Okere, has asked the Federal High Court in Abuja to sack the Odigie-Oyegun-led NWC. The plaintiff, in his suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/219/2018, prayed the court to compel the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to reject, cease to recognise and to stop dealing or having any official communications with the Odigie-Oyegun led NWC of the APC, effective from June 1, 2018, having spent the constitutionally allowed tenure of office. Aside the APC NWC, others the plaintiff asked the court to compel to vacate their offices from June 1 are the State Working Committee, Local Government Area Executive Committee and Ward Executive Committee of the party. While APC was sued as the 1st defendant in the suit dated March 2, INEC was cited as the 2nd defendant. Specifically, the plaintiff urged the court to among other things, determine “Whether or not the National Executive Committee of the All Progressives Congress has the constitutional powers to extend the tenure of the National Working Committee, State Working Committee, Local Government Area Executive Committee and Ward Executive Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) by one year or by any day howsoever purported; in view of Section 223 (1) (a) and (2) (a) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) and section 85 (3) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). “Whether or not the purported one year extension of the tenure of John Odigie- Oyegun led the National Working Committee, State Working Committee, Local Government Area Executive Committee and Ward Executive Committee of the All Progressives Congress by the National Executive Committee (NEC), commencing from June 2018 to June 2019 is illegal, unconstitutional, null and void and of no effects whatsoever in view of the combined reading of Section 223 (1) (a) and (2) (a) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) and Section 85 (3) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). “Whether or not the NEC of the APC has the constitutional and statutory powers to alter the provisions of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, by undemocratically and unconstitutionally extending the tenure of its National Working Committee, State Working Committee, Local Government Area Executive Committee and Ward Executive Committee of the party, and purportedly performing the functions of the National Convention of the party in view of the combined reading of section 1 (1) and (3) section 223 (1) (a) and (2) (a) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended); section 85 (3) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended).” In his supporting affidavit, Okere told the court that he is a registered and card carrying member of the APC that registered at Ulakwo, OAU ward of Owerri North, with membership card number 11013379 and has been participating in all programmes and activities of the party. He told the court that he is aspiring and contesting the Imo State chairman of the APC slated to hold during the party elective convention in July 2018. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.