Lagos – Insurers who have already put in place a microinsurance structure within their organisations’ organogram are said to be mourning the 18 months ultimatum handed down by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) recently for them to upload and transform the unit to a full-fledged microinsurance company, DAILY INDEPENDENT has learnt. This, according to the industry source, has been an additional burden on the insurers who are of the view that they are being overburdened with too many regulatory directives that by extension is telling on their finances. Mr. Sunday Thomas, Deputy Commissioner (Technical), while speaking on the issue had said that the existing companies who are already operating a microinsurance had been given an 18month ultimatum to move the microinsurance businesses to a registered microinsurance company. DAILY INDEPENDENT checks reveals that these operators are not comfortable with the NAICOM’s directive as it amounts to additional financial burden on their operation, adding that the NAICOM would have allowed them to operate as a unit of the larger company while those going for a fresh applications should be given  the new licences to operate as separate entities. They also added that the microinsurance operation is still undergoing test running and would amount to an expensive experiment by asking existing companies to go for a fresh licence. A managing director of a frontline insurance firm who attended the just concluded Insurers Committee retreat in Abeokuta told DAILY INDEPENDENT on the condition of anonymity that the issue was brought to the fore at the retreat. He said by his understanding the existing companies that are already into microinsurance are not meant to raise additional capital so far the companies have met the statutory requirement of the existing capital base. He further explained that with the categorisation companies have the options of playing either as national, regional or community base micro insurance operator, adding that with the existing capital base of companies, they are qualified to operate at the national level. By the capitalisation NAICOM is given for micro-insurance, you know before it was a licence that covers the entire operation but they have given categorization. So for those who have the licences, which one are you carrying? My own understanding is that return the old license for a new one and insurance companies that capitalised up to N3biilion, N2billion and of course can operate as a national microinsurance company because they have the minimum capital requirement for national which is N100miilion and you need not pay additional money, he said. Recently, the NAICOM pegged a minimum statutory capital for a National Insurer seeking to operate a composite microinsurance at N600million, while N400 million minimum capital base was pegged for a General microinsurance and N200 million for a Life operations It noted that national operators are allowed to have a presence in at least six states within the three geopolitical zones of the federation. For a State Microinsurer, the minimum capital base was pegged at NI00 million, broken into N60 million for general and N40 million for life operators. The regulator also expects such underwriter to operate only in one State of the federation with at least three branches or office locations, each in a different Local Government Area. A Unit Microinsurer investor must be capitalised to the tune of N40 million, N25 for general business and N15 million for life, with operation in one location within a local community. The regulator has therefore, made it mandatory for these micro insurance outfits to make themselves visible and must be seen to be serving the low-income earners grassroots. The move is focused at increasing insurance penetration from its present 0.6 percent to over two percent in the near future, as well as increases the annual premium income of insurance industry to N1trillion by the year 2020. Against the analysts’ perception that the entry minimum requirements to operate micro insurance firms are high, a recent report has it that Investors have flooded the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) with applications for operational licences. Rasaaq Salami, Head Corporate Affairs, NAICOM, was quoted as saying that the Commission had received applications from investors seeking state and unit micro insurance licences, adding that prior to the release of the revised Micro insurance guidelines some applications were received, but the applicants were enjoined to wait for the current guideline. NAICOM had vowed to properly examine the applications to ensure that fit and proper investors are granted approval to operate microinsurance business which is aimed at taking insurance to the grassroots 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.