Umuahia – Chief John Okeiyi Kalu, Abia State Commissioner for Information, has forecasted that the state would no longer depend on Federal Allocation going by the revolutionary agenda of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu. Okeiyi, who made the claim on the recent assessment by the National Bureau of Statistic, said with agricultural revolution and activities embarked upon by the administration will put to an end the perennial financial problems facing the state and other States of the federation.
To achieve this objective, the Commissioner said the State government has decided to embark on a total of 132 road projects with 26 already completed to boast revenue base of the State pointing out that 7.9 million Palm Tenerra seedlings is currently being nursed and ready for sale across board.
While applauding the governor for financial prudence, the Commissioner said the state has not attracted any loan in the time being adding that the state will not hesitate to borrow where necessary to boast the state Internally Generated Revenue “What has happened on our own is that, that report is an acknowledgment of the prudent management of Ikpazu.
“If you look at the ingredients of that report it contained the debt profile each of the States, showing how much has been borrowed as we are going with poor Federation Count unlike our neighboring state.
Over the years, especially in the past four –five years we have not being borrowing a lot and we have being managing what ever we get.
On the claim by the opposition that the State awarded Road Contract of Four Kilometer worth N6.8billion at faults Road Aba, the commissioner expressed regrets that those criticizing the governor are ignorant of the latest Technology Governor Ikpeazu used in handling the perennial flooding at Faulks Road apart from payment of compensation which was considered as part of government obligation before embarking on the project. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.