Owerri  – Acho Ihim, Imo State House of Assembly speaker, on Wednesday, restated the resolve of 20 members of the state legislature to support Uche Nwosu, the Chief of Staff to Governor Rochas Okorocha, to succeed his principal.
Nwosu is Governor Okorocha’s son in-law, having married his daughter, Uloma.
Ihim insists that “Nwosu remains the best and most plausible panacea to the issue of disjointed and often abandoned projects syndrome that hitherto constituted a clog in the wheel of progress in most instances.”
The speaker read the position of the lawmakers during a press conference in Owerri, when he led 19 other members of the House, under the aegis of Team Nwosu, to endorse the governorship ambition of the Chief of Staff.
He argued that the decision of the 20 lawmakers to ensure that Nwosu takes over from Okorocha as the next governor was taken in the overall interest of the state, adding that the legacies of the Okorocha-led administration “are so good and too numerous to be left in the hands of those who may not have any inkling of what they are, where they are or how to sustain them”.
According to the Speaker, “in a bid to ensure continuity of the numerous democratic dividends of the Rescue Mission Administration in Imo State, 20 members of the Imo State House of Assembly have affirmed their resolve to project, support and back in its entirety Ugwumba Uche Nwosu as the next governor of Imo State after His Excellency, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, come 2019.”
He continued that the lawmakers singled out for mention the reality of the free, qualitative and compulsory education programme in Imo State, which virtually all past governors and even the present crop jostling for governorship of the state describe as an impossible task.
“Our people deserve Ugwumba Uche Nwosu for a continuation of this people-oriented policy to bring succour and hope for the poor and rich in the state.”
The lawmakers that signed the endorsement letter were: Ozuruigbo Ugonna (Nwangele), Chinedu Offor (Onuimo), Uju Onwudiwe (Njaba), Ngozi Obiefula (Isu), Max Odunze (Orsu), Ikechukwu Amuka (Ideato South), Arthur Egwim (Ideato North) and Kennedy Ibe (Obowo).
Others were Nkem Nzeruo (Oru East), Lugard Osuji (Owerri Municipal), Henry Ezediaro (Oguta), Chukwuemeka Loyd (Owerri North), Victor Onyema (Owerri West), Uche Agabige (Orsu), Chika Madumere (Nkwerre), Uche Ejiogu (Ihitte Uboma, Emma Orie (Ohaji-Egbema) and Lawman Duruji (Ehime Mbano). 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.