Walt Disney once said, “Do what you do so well that they will want to see it again and bring their friends. Disney had realised that the filmmakers are the true stars, the ones who dream up their brand of magic, which they share with the world. Tunde Kelani is one Nigerian maker of sure magic, the kind of magic you view on a screen and take a second, third and fourth look. His years as a filmmaker has delivered to Nigeria a genre of quality films, fit for a nation that is the giant of Africa. In honour of him joining the league of septuagenarian gentlemen, the Crown Troupe of Africa put up their production of Wole Soyinka’s ‘The Lion and The Jewel’ on the platform of Ibadan Playhouse, at the Lagos Country Club, owing to the fact that he just adapted the same text into a movie. The dancing thespian, fondly called TK obliged the request to speak with Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade who was in attendance. How does it feel clocking 70? To be really candid, I really don’t care about birthdays. To me, birthdays are like any other day, but I do appreciate it because when I was younger, I didn’t know that I would get to age 50. Now that I am 70, I look back and I thank God for being here. Not just that, it has been a long journey and I have come to appreciate everyone that has been part of that long journey; primarily my wife, children, my friends and my family. Those are the people who indulged me and have supported me in whatever I did or when I was down or up. These are the people who never left me, so I have come to appreciate them. Of course, I have come to appreciate Nigeria our country for giving me the opportunity to excel in this geographical place and of course my people. I wont be TK without them and I wont be TK without the kindness of our audience. Because without all these people who have been with me, who have supported me and who have sacrificed along with me, I wont be here. It’s not all me or just me, it is about everybody else. Do you have plans to retire soon? I intend to share my knowledge with those coming, the maturity and the experience. I was barely 10 during Independence, and we have seen the good times, the ups and downs of the country; and I would be the happiest person on earth to see Nigeria climb from all the problems and lead Africa. Of course, win back the glory of the country. So I can’t even think of retirement, I will still continue doing what I love to do. There are a lot of things I haven’t even achieved. And I tell people that I have no business talking about retirement now when I look at some of our leaders like Professor Wole Soyinka at 82 still going on. That gives me the stamina to go on a bit longer. What I would love to do is to concentrate more and give attention to sharing my experience with youths and children, because of course, the future belongs to them. New film filmmakers emerge everyday, but you and your films have maintained a place at the top of the list. What’s your secret? I think the main focus of my cinema, which I want to share, stands on two tripods. One tripod is language, culture and technology; these are so important. The next tripod is orature, literature and technology; because I combine all of these elements, I am perhaps one of the filmmakers not just in Nigeria but Africa that has done a lot of literary adaptations. I love reading, I love books, I love writers, and I love great minds. What really tripped me about this play (The Lion and the Jewel), which I translated to Yoruba and finished the film as ‘Sidi Ilujinle’, is all the artistic traditions, they are not too far apart. You will see in the film, Sidi Ilujinle that we started from stage, we went to the film, in the middle we went back to the stage, and then to end the film, we went back to the stage. It is interesting because this play, written in English, is performed in English/ We performed it in Yoruba and it is interesting to see the treatment and the language, they are not too far apart. It gives it a different dimension which I think that to really enjoy it, it should be like a double billing where they stage the English play and then we show the Yoruba film of the same text. In that sense, I feel fulfilled. I haven’t really signed off on the film. Perhaps I will take some of the sound from this production and quickly embed it in the film just to pay tribute to Segun Adefila’s direction. So can we expect to see the much-anticipated movie, Sidi Ilujinle in the cinemas? Well, the thing as you can see, is that the film is a cultural product and not the usual kind of film. It takes minds that appreciate and love literature, love the language and the culture. It depends on the exhibitors who would be bold to say “I can show this in my cinema.” Otherwise… But I’m going to just take it round. Dr Tosin Ajayi celebrated his birthday on Wednesday and we went to show the film before the party started. For this kind of film, kabiyesis in palaces, chiefs, children, townspeople coming together to watch… that’s the objective, to take a Wole Soyinka play in English and return it to the source where it came from. That’s all. How soon will the movie hit the market? The movie will be ready soon. In fact it is more or less ready, just to tweak one or two things. This week. It is being screened at the iRep Documentary Film Festival starting March 8. If you had not been a filmmaker, what would have been your other career choice? Perhaps I would have taken to I.T. That’s because I fell in love with computing since the 80s. When I had barely left secondary school, the thing that first attracted me was the typewriter keyboard. So when personal computer came on the scene, I was curious as to why they adopted the typewriter keyboard and just added function keys on top of it. I just wanted to know what it could do. So I got into computing. Although I’m not a science person, I suppose I was really interested in database programming, because everything in life is repetitive, so apparently, I would have gone into Oracle and perhaps by now I would be manning some huge data centre somewhere. I just love information and the organisation and management of information. We have seen you produce great movies, but we have never seen you star in your own movie? No! I’m not fine enough to be in front of the camera. And there is division of labour, so I don’t have to compete with people who are naturally talented. What about doing something like a cameo? Well, no. But I appear in the unlikely film like ‘Mister Johnson’ that was produced by Worldwide Pictures and which Chief Hubert Ogunde was Associate Producer. I played houseboy to a character called Rudbeck played by Pierce Brosnan who went on to become James Bond. We were all working in Jos during the making of Mister Johnson. So sometimes, occasionally, I appear. And you know I was guest appearance on Tinsel when they have the occasional get together and I am invited as myself dressing the same way I dress. What next for you? I have a number of projects; I want to add the tag of a teacher, and then, because we started Mainframe Film and Media Institute. The idea is to focus attention on young people, and then perhaps open their mind to those two tripods that I described to you. Of all your movies, can you pick the best or your all time favourite? No. It’s very difficult to answer that because every film I have made presented more or less equal challenges no matter how small or big. And they are still the same; the same problem persists till today. So in their own way, each one is special depending on the resources available at that time. Book movie adaptation is not common among moviemakers, why? It is not I must say, because I believe that we are not reading enough. In fact, I doubt if Nigeria is a reading nation. And I tell filmmakers that I don’t see how one can become a filmmaker without reading. The thing is to read, read and read. For me, it is exciting because filmmaking gives me the legitimate excuse to learn forever. You just come in to new experiences, something you have never heard of. First of all, it reinforces your creative fantasies when you read. That’s why artistic traditions are superior to film, because when you read a book or a story and you make a film of it, you see that there is a lot missing in film that you will find in the book. Filmmaking in that sense just limits your experience. But if you are reading the book itself, you can build your own fantasies. So you will be limited by your own imagination. So the text is far more superior than the film. What’s the quality you like to see in a person before you decide to work with them? I just respond to the demand of the story at that particular time and what resources are available to me. The person doesn’t have to be a star to be in the movie. The star might affect the fortune of the film negatively, so you take chances. In this discipline, you just have to feel and then balance things out. What advice do you have for budding filmmakers? It is very difficult to advice young people these days because of influences from outside. Otherwise, I would have said that you must look inwards to tell African stories. You must look into your own and you must use your language and culture and literature to negotiate your currency to globalisation. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.