Asaba – Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, National Chairman, Chief Uche Secondus, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan, and other national and state party leaders at the weekend eulogized the sterling leadership qualities of former Governor James Ibori, describing him as a unifying figure in Nigeria. They agreed Ibori remains a factor in the politics of Nigeria Ibori who was received by the Chief Host, Olorogun J Oguma, the Udu of Olomu Kingdom and his team at the popular Olomu Bridge was led on a courtesy call to the palace of the Royal Father of the Day, HRM, Ovie R.L, Ogbon Ogoni-Oghoro 1, the Owhorode of Olomu Kingdom where other traditional rulers and Urhobo political class were on hand to receive him. lt was rousing welcome for Ibori when he arrived the Olomu venue for the thanksgiving and reception in his honour. Secondus who quoted Psalm 41, Verse 1- 2 said despite the political tribulation Ibori encountered he overcame because he is a man who believes and care for the people. According to him, Ibori considers the poor, the masses and that was why God delivered him. ‘’Your Excellency on behalf of the National Working Committee of PDP, we congratulate you, you have come back for good’’. The Chairman who noted that Ibori has come back for good, praised him for the political stability of his succession plan in the state, commending Ibori for his choice of Okowa as his decision has proven to be a right one considering that Okowa is living up to expectations. ‘’Ibori is unifying factor in the development of the Niger Delta region and Delta State in particular. He is a man of the people not just in Delta State but across the nation. Today he is a factor in Nigeria. On behalf of the masses of our country, we salute your courage because you are a man who believes in the struggle of the party’’ Secondus said. ‘’Delta State has a son that has built a political structure that is envied across the nation. Delta State remains the only state in the nation that has stability in political succession. It remains the only state where all the Governors that have ruled the state are still members of the PDP’’. Secondus has challenged the All Progressives Congress, APC to tell Nigerians what it had achieved since it took over governance apart from the N11 trillion it borrowed in three years as against the N6 trillion borrowed by the PDP in 16years. He said only the PDP has what it takes to rescue Nigeria from total collapse in 2019, saying the APC can no longer rely on propaganda to win elections. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa at the event described Ibori as a man whose good leadership has engendered a perfect succession plan in the political configuration of the state, lauding him for his enviable leadership, which has placed it on record that it is in Delta State that the incumbent Governor has the support of two past Governors who are also in the same party. According o him, Ibori remained the national leader of the party, ‘’Ibori is a national leader; he laid the foundation of development in the state and established a political structure that we are enjoying today. There was good leadership that has continued to beget good followership. And we must thank our leader because he trained us well as politician and l know l have learned it well. What sweetened me most is the recognition that Ibori is a better man’’ Okowa revealed. Immediate past Governor of the state, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan, praised Ibori for having a forgiving heart towards those who offended him particularly in politics. He said Ibori has a large heart and forgiving spirit, assuring he has forgiven those who fought him which make him to remain a unifying factor in the political arena of the state and the nation at large. According to him, all those sycophants who he said are spreading rumours of disunity to create bad blood between Ibori and himself have been put to shame. ‘’He has a very big forgiving spirit. I am sure people know we grew up together, I knew that in him, he has forgiven them for causing his misfortune. They have all been put to shame now. I am here today as the immediate past Governor of Delta State. But what is more important is that l am a blood brother of Ibori. I want to thank everybody especially our spiritual fathers who visited him where he was. I thank you all.’’ ‘’There were so many rumours in this our state that l did not visit him. So if l visited him should come and tell you? All those behind the rumours where are they today? They have been put to shame. Ibori on his return has put right all that went wrong when he was away. He is our national leader, worldwide leader and we must all give him the full support, Uduaghan stressed. Chairman, Board of Trustees of Olorogun J. U Oguma Foundation, described Ibori as a bridge builder and the one who laid the foundation for the development of Delta State, impacted positively on the state, stabilize the political terrain, as a national leader with large heart. He added that Governor Okowa has been endorsed for a second tenure in office. ‘’ “When Ibori was around, Urhobo had three representatives in the Federal Executive Council and he was away for eight years after which Urhobos never had a voice in the council.” 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.