The Federal High Court, Abuja, on Monday fixed April 24 to continue the trial of Shamsudeen Mohammed, son of former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Bala Mohammed. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), is prosecuting Mohammed and others for alleged N1.1 billion fraud. At the resumed trial on Monday, the prosecuting counsel, Mr. Ben Ikani, informed the court that the matter was for continuation of cross-examination of the first prosecution witness, Mr. Ishaya Dauda. Mohammed’s counsel, Mr. Gordy Uche (SAN), however, informed the court of his application asking the prosecution to furnish him with some documents. Some of the documents sought by Shamsudeen’s counsel included a statement made to the EFCC by one Jack Fara in October 2016 and a statement of Shamsudeen’s bank accounts obtained by the agency. The documents were tendered and admitted in evidence in spite of Ikani’s objection to their admissibility on the ground that they were not in line with the Evidence Act. However, the absence of another documents from the Corporate Affairs Commission, which the defence counsel also demanded from the prosecution led to the adjournment of the matter. Shamsudeen was arraigned together with four companies on an alleged 15-count charge bordering on money laundering to the tune of N1.1 billion. The EFCC is accusing the ex-minister’s son of making cash payments above statutory limits for construction and purchase of properties in various parts of Abuja. He is alleged to have paid various cash sums of money beyond the limit set by the Money Laundering Act for the purchase of houses without going through a financial institution. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.