Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission (NCPC) has assured that the story of Benue State and Nigeria must be changed. Rev. Tor Uja, the executive secretary of NCPC, stated this when he received members of the Benue Journalists’ Forum of Nigeria (BJFN) led by Joseph Undu, the national president, in Abuja on Monday. Uja, who is also an indigene of Benue, urged the people to invest in the state. “We must change the story of Benue, Nigeria and our people. There must be an investment platform out of which the wealth will be shared. “We need in Benue an investment platform, else we are dwelling on shared poverty. I want to assure that some steps will be taken towards industrialisation of the state.” He, however, blamed the Benue elite for the economic backwardness of the state. “Our elite lack investment culture. They are short on investment initiatives but long on talking, which never had positive effect on the citizens. “The economic backbone of Benue is the rural communities who produce food and cash crops that are been allowed to rot away for lack of industrialisation.” He lamented that the poor investment attitude exhibited by the Benue elite who have the resources to do so has kept the state perpetually at the back stage of economic development. According to him, without the culture of investment, lack of will and commitment to investment, the state will remain relegated to the background in every economic and commercial activity while other states have progressed ahead. Uja further called on the Federal Government to dredge the River Benue and establish a dry sea port as a deliberate plan to economic growth and enhance industrialisation of the state. He noted that, when completed, the project would not only provide mass employment for the teeming unemployed youths, but will turn around the fortunes of the people of Benue and other states like Kogi, Nasarawa and Taraba. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.