Lagos – The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has been told to improve its oversight functions on the operating airlines in the country in order to avoid an imminent danger in the industry. The regulatory agency was also charged to increase the funding and training of its technical personnel to be able to carry out their functions professionally. Alhaji Mohammed Tukur, the former Assistant Secretary of Airline operators of Nigeria (AON) made the statement yesterday in Lagos during an interview with some select aviation journalists. Tukur observed that NCAA had relaxed its oversight functions of the airlines in recent time, a situation, which he said has led to several minor and major incidents since the beginning of the year. He said that NCAA should carry out crew check of airlines regularly and spontaneously, stressing that this could only be done when the agency deployed more inspectors to the tarmac. “If NCAA goes to sleep, a disaster may happen in the industry soon. So, it is necessary for NCAA to deploy more inspectors to the tarmac for regular checking of aircraft as pilots’ take-off fly land. We need to address some of these issues before we have a major accident that will once disrupt activities in the industry. “NCAA should release more funds to the inspectors to effectively carry out their duties and more professionally, too. The department in charge of safety should be properly funded while training and retraining of technical personnel should be intensified. Also, the airlines should train its pilots for improved safety in the system.” Besides, Tukur, warned the Federal Government and the National Assembly to desist from attempts to politicise the industry. He made the statement against the backdrop of the National Assembly who recent called for auditing of Dana Air. He said this called amounted to undermining the responsibility of NCAA. He also observed that it would be wrong for the assembly to single out an airline for audit out of numerous indigenous airlines in the country. He declared that interference from the assembly or the Federal Government may spell doom for the aviation industry as NCAA is saddled with the responsibility of auditing operating carriers. Tukur insisted that airline business and regulations around the globe are the same, stressing that calling out an airline for audit would create unnecessary fear in the minds of air travellers. “When you undermine the responsibility of these agencies of government and go ahead to give directive without proper consultations, the result of such order may be counter-productive. The only way to avoid such situation is to allow the relevant government agency to do its job. “It is on record without mentioning names that some airlines have had problems in the recent times and so those airlines too should go through the rigour of audit. Politicians should not tell us when and how to audit the airlines,” he said. 0 comments