P/Harcourt – In a move to develop a new water supply chain for Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has inaugurated the Port Harcourt Water Corporation.
The governor also inaugurated the executive committee NAFEST to organise the 2018 National Festival of Arts and Culture (NAFEST).
Inaugurating the water board on Thursday at the Government House, Port Harcourt, Governor Wike charged the members to ensure adequate supply of water in the state capital.
“I want to advise the Port Harcourt Water Corporation to work in unity to ensure that water flows to homes for the first time in decades.
“Members of the Port Harcourt Water Corporation have the opportunity of writing their names in gold by delivering on this all-important assignment,” Wike said.
The governor explained that due to the importance of the water project, a commissioner was removed and assigned to work as the acting managing director of Port Harcourt Water Corporation because of his experience and professional competence.
He said the New Port Harcourt Water Project would be executed via a loan applied for by the immediate past administration, which was approved by former President Goodluck Jonathan.
According to him, the administration resolved to continue with the project because it is key to the development of the state capital, noting that stakeholders also stressed the relevance of executing the project.
“It will be historic that in our own time that we delivered potable water to Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor local government areas,” he said.
Responding on behalf of the Port Harcourt Water Corporation, Mrs. Doris Cowan, the chairperson, promised that the new corporation would work hard to replace the 50-year-old water structure in the state capital.
He assured the governor that members of the corporation understood the enormity of the task before them, emphasising that they would deliver on their mandate.
Wike advised that the NAFEST 2018 to be held in Port Harcourt should be a showcase of the cultural beauty of the country.
Mrs. Tonye Oniyide, chairman of the NAFEST executive committee, said NAFEST 2018 would be the best in the history of the cultural fiesta. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.