Three Nigerian women would on Sunday night spotlight themes such as human trafficking, suicide bombing, and sexism and sexual harassment at the UN Headquarters complex in New York. The event, to be held in the UN General Assembly Hall, is meant to show the strength of women as agents of change in African societies often dominated by men. “We have to see ourselves as part of the solution, not just as women reserved for sex or for the kitchen,” said Ms Blessing Itua, author of the film: “Unity in Diversity: An Evening of Art and Hope with Nigerian Women”. The film would feature excerpts from Itua’s book “We Are the Blessings of Africa” as well as monologues from Ifeoma Fafunwa’s “HEAR WORD!” and Nadine Ibrahim’s films “Tolu” and “Through Her Eyes.” The event is being organised by UN Women, UN Population Fund (UNFPA) and the Permanent Mission of Nigeria to the UN, with other partners. Itua said: “Africa is a diverse continent, rich with different countries and different cultures, and natural resources. Africa has the talent – men and women. “When men in Africa look at women, women are reserved just in the kitchen or at home. So there’s a need to shift thinking that women can be powerful agents of development, then they’re able to support and empower women. “If women understand that they have a critical role to play, they do not see themselves as just wives or women at home, they also rise up into mental engagement with the men and hopefully strategise about developing our Mother Land”. Born in Edo, Nigeria and living in the United States, Itua said she wants to create awareness and give voice to women who do not have a platform to speak out about social ills, particularly rural women. Her latest film, ‘Mrs Adams’ – which will premiere during the Commission on the Status of Women next week – follows human trafficking routes in Nigeria and Europe. It is meant to be a statement not just about brutalisation of women and sexual violence, but also highlight the economic reasons that people choose to migrate in the first place. It is also to change some of the misinterpretations about exploitative work practices, forced labour and smuggling, Itua said adding, “The issue is personal”. “As an African woman, I believe that my goal is to work with other women in creating awareness. Together we are stronger. Working together to be stronger to change the narrative coming out of Africa,” Itua said. She would be joined at the event by 24-year-old Nadine Ibrahim, whose film “Through Her Eyes” follows the internal struggle of a 12-year-old female suicide bomber in northern Nigeria. Ibrahim has said that she wants people to understand the rich and beautiful culture surrounding women, Islam and north-eastern Nigeria. The film was recorded with security on location and after the original actress’s mother pulled the daughter out of the film for fear of safety. The Sunday night event would also feature Ifeoma Fafunwa, whose stage play “HEAR WORD! Naija Women Talk True” is a collection of monologues based on true-life stories of Nigerian women challenging social, cultural and political norms in the country. A line from the play declares: “I have a vital contribution to my nation’s transformation. I am a force, a tidal wave, and I won’t hide. My destiny is not for you to decide.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.