Abuja – Following their decision to boycott a scheduled sectoral debate organised by the House of Representatives on the steel sector, focusing on Ajaokuta Steel Company, the House has passed a vote of no confidence on the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Kayode Fayemi, and his states counterpart, Bawa Bwari. The resolution followed a motion moved by the leader of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, who urged the House to pass a no confidence vote on the duo for holding the House in contempt by their refusal to honour the invitation. Speaker of the House, Yakubu Dogara, had read out a letter purportedly written by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Abubakar Muazu, informing the House of the ministers’ inability to honour the invitation. The letter was in response to invitation sent by the House on February 16, 2018 but was not responded to until two days to the debate, expected to proffer solutions to issues relating to the revitalisation of Ajaokuta Steel Company. Speaker Dogara had a fortnight ago paid an assessment visit to Ajaokuta Steel Complex following allegations of collusion by government officials to concession the facility to Global Infrastructure from India under questionable circumstances. The speaker on the basis of findings that the facility would be up and running if the two percent of remaining components is installed, initiated a sectoral debate continuing from last year with a special focus on the Ajaokuta Steel and how it can be revived. But reacting to the letter conveying the ministers’ inability to attend the session, the House leader moved that the House pass a vote of no confidence on both ministers which was seconded and passed. In another reaction to another letter sent midway into the session by the ministry wherein it said there was no other alternative to concession, Gbajabiamila doubled down on his call for the no confidence vote. “I listened carefully to the letter that was sent in by the PermSec midway into this debate, and I pondered over the language of the letter and came to one realisation that the ministry views this exercise as one in futility, which means the concession arrangement on Ajaokuta is a fait accompli. Nothing can change it. “So it’s a letter wherein the ministry doubled down on what it had earlier said, and on that basis, I want to on behalf of this House double down on the vote of no confidence earlier passed”, Gbajabiamila said. Reacting to revelations by one of the speakers at the session, Hadiza Natasha Akpoti, the House leader, said: “How does a nation concession a company that has the potential of manufacturing weapons? We all know that weapons are made of steel, and how do you leave such a company in the hands of an individual, be he a foreign or local, that’s a recipe for disaster. It’s unthinkable. “Honourable colleagues, I think it’s time for us to get down to business of finding out the why behind all these, where we all need to roll up our sleeves and get down to the gutters if need be to find out what really is going on with Ajaokuta”, Gbajabiamila said. Just like Gbajabiamila, other lawmakers condemned in strong terms the attitude of the ministers, accusing them of being responsible for the failure being recorded by the Buhari administration. In his intervention, Speaker Yakubu Dogara said, “Concession has become an avenue where unscrupulous government officials hand over key national assets to corrupt and selfish individuals for selfish gains. “And when you look back, has there been any national asset concessioned that has worked? I don’t see any. And to think that if you do one thing same way yesterday and today and think that tomorrow would bring a different outcome, I’m not that incurably optimistic. “I want to say this to the PermSec who is in the habit of writing letters for ministers that it’s a height of recklessness for any one, no matter how highly placed to engage in a boxing match with the parliament. “They should be reminded that apart from the president and the vice president, there’s no other single official that was elected in the executive. But the entire members of the parliament are elected representatives of the people, but if they think they can continue to engage us like this, then good luck to them. “And to say that we are concessioning it, no other option, to me, that’s way out of it”, Dogara said. He added that the House would constitute an ad hoc panel on Tuesday to carry out a comprehensive investigation into the Ajaokuta concession arrangement and reasons for government insistence on it, as well as the choice of Global Infrastructure. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.