The bail application of a soldier, Victor Aduba, standing trial with an alleged abduction kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike, a.k.a Evans, was on Friday denied at an Ikeja High Court. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Justice Hakeem Oshodi in a ruling said that Aduba, an army corporal would constitute a high flight risk if granted bail. “Although an accused person is presumed innocent pending the determination of his case but in granting bail, the court considers the gravity of the offence. “And the offenders possibility of interfering with course of trial and the antecedents of the offender. “The sixth defendant would constitute high-flight risk. I have noted especially his admissions in his statement of his involvement in illegal activities in which he receives payments of N20, 000. “In addition, there is no proof before the court that he has an address in Lagos. “His bail application is hereby denied,” the judge ruled. NAN reports that Evans and Aduba are also standing trial alongside Uche Amadi, Ogechi Uchechukwu, Okwuchukwu Nwachukwu and Chilaka Ifeanyi on charges of kidnapping. During Friday’s proceedings, Nwachukwu, the fourth defendant, who had opted to represent himself and not to use the services of a legal practitioner refused to cross-examine Mr Anselm Dunu. Anselm is the first prosecution witness and a brother to an alleged victim, Mr Donatius Dunu. On Nov. 3, 2017 Anselm had in his testimony, told the court that the defendants had demanded one million Euros as ransom for the release of his younger brother Donatius. A second prosecution witness could not give his testimony, due to the proceedings being stalled because of the absence of Mr Olukoya Ogungbeje, the Defence Counsel, representing Evans and Amadi. Oshodi adjourned the case until March 16 for continuation of trial. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.