Sydney Chukwukelu, an anti-corruption crusader and fraud investigator, is the Chief Experience Officer of Resource Matrix Forensics and a lecturer in fraud investigation in higher institutions. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the recent report of the Transparency International (TI) on Nigeria and President Muhammadu Buhari’s efforts to check corruption, among other issues. Excerpts: Three years into the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, would you say that the government has been able to check corruption, one of its cardinal programmes? The worst thing about this All Progressives Congress (APC) government is that they do not walk the talk. They have not been keeping to their promises. They appear worse than the previous administration. The level of corruption is out of the ordinary. Even the custodians of government have shown that they are corrupt. Now, we hear stories of snakes swallowing as much as N36 million and monkeys swallowing N50 million, while billion of Naira are being used to cut grass. The level of corruption now is strange to human behaviour. This is abnormal. Several stories are being told and the government appears not to have solution to the problem of corruption. There is no way they can convince people that they are working because they are epitome of corruption. What is your take on the Federal Government’s rejection of the recent Transparency International’s (TI) report on Nigeria? Even the blind man that is not in government will see the honesty in the Transparency International (TI) report on Nigeria. Animals are now swallowing money. People in government who were sacked because of corruption are being brought back through the back door.  The denial game of government does not mean that the TI report is not correct. The TI report is correct, whether they accept it or not. As an expert in fraud investigations, what would say should be done to check the cankerworm? Almost all politicians and governments in Nigeria are corrupt. When President Muhammadu Buhari came first as a Military Head of State, he stated that people steal according to the opportunities they have. That is what is still happening now. Corruption in Nigeria needs a wake-up call. The person to head the agency to fight corruption should not be appointed by the President, but an independent body. The non-governmental organisations (NGOs), civil society groups, and professional bodies, about 13 of them as well as well as human rights groups, could be empowered to appoint the heads of the agencies to fight corruption. The main people in committing corruption in government are in executive. The way we are going, one day, we will wake up and find out that everyone has been stolen. How does the level corruption in the country affect Nigerians doing business with foreign investors? What other challenges do you see in this regard? I have three words for you: corruption, lack of Power and poor infrastructure. These are the problems being faced with most investors who wish to do business with Nigerians. Nigerians live above their means, higher than the offices they occupy. So, they seek ways of funding their lifestyles. Foreign investors presume that every Nigerian is corrupt, takes bribe and compromises. So, foreign investors look at us with suspicion. When we go overseas to discuss issues on Nigeria and the way out, they wonder that people like us are in Nigeria and a lot of things are happening in the country. But, we are not in government. Here, money is being shared openly. Ghana-Must-Go is carried here and there and in the open.  Politics in Nigeria is bedeviled with corruption. Bribery and corruption is killing Nigeria. What is your view on the establishment of cattle colonies in the states of the federation and the enactment of anti-open grazing laws by state governments? There should not be open grazing. There should be ranches. In Igboland, people have cattle and they are managed in ranches. People go to the bush and cut grass for their herds of cattle. If two boys are controlling 200 cows, why will they not get out of control? See what they do on the roads and farms. This is unhealthy. It seems there is a conspiracy to destroy people’s farms and the Federal Government is not doing much to stop this ugly trend there is nothing like open grazing. It is wrong. I support states that have come up with anti-open grazing laws. I will encourage all the states to emulate them. Let the National Assembly speak with one voice and pass a law banning open grazing in the country. The nation has been spending a lot on oil subsidy, yet fuel shortage persists in the parts of the country. How could all these come to an end? This is where I have a challenge with the Nigerian politicians. I pray that God will Nigeria the leadership that will walk the talk. This administration at the beginning, promised us modular refineries. Now, nothing has been done so far about it. What we see now are theory and formulae talks which the government officials do not apply. Let us go back to the drawing board. This government is not transparent and honest in its policies and actions. That is a major setback of this President Buhari administration. This government appears to be deficient in the area of honest. They lack simple truth and are dishonest in approach to issues. I hope that the next government should think deep and come out with the best policies they can implement. In Nigeria, people do things without integrity. That is the difference between Nigeria and other countries. In South Africa, Dubai, London and elsewhere, you do not hear of fuel scarcity. But, come to Nigeria, every day we tell the same story. Before you know it, people in government have stolen through this area. Fuel subsidy is another way to loot. Why do they deny at first that there was not subsidy? Now, we have come to know that they pay N25 billion every month as subsidy. One of the cardinal programmes of the current administration is the emphasis on infrastructure. What would you say is the state of infrastructure in parts of the country? To be honest, if you are going to the East from Lagos, there is an improvement. Between Lagos and Ore, there is a lot of work and an improvement. But, things could be better. I have not been travelling much to other parts of the country these days. The government, I believe, is doing several roads in parts of the country. But, what Nigerians need is power. The issue of housing is according to one’s ability. There are housing estates, but they are for the elite and the middle class. But, the masses are living in squalor. Even at that, they are being attacked, chased around by the Boko Haram and the herdsman. In the South East proper, it is a strange and forgotten land. There are no roads or any infrastructure. In the area of rails, much needs to be done. This is the area that has much to do with the integrity of the people in government. Government budget a lot of money for rail development. But, the cost effectiveness of what might have been done is nothing to write home about when compared with what is happening in other countries. That is corruption at play. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.