Lagos – The Managing Director of Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, has explained why the agency stopped its contractual agreement with ASECNA and opted for Omni-Blu Aviation Services for calibration exercise. Speaking with aviation journalists in Lagos, Akinkuotu said that ASECNA could not provide its aircraft for calibration of navigation aids as the time the company needed it and so, decided to approach Omni-Blue, a Nigerian company partnership with a British company. He dismissed the notion that the company opted for Omni-Blu because its services were cheaper, stressing that the company just like ASECNA had been offering quality services to the agency. “Omni-blu is a Nigerian company, working in partnership with a British company. Are they registered? They are registered and approved. Was finance an issue? Finance was never an issue. It was a matter of a decision and we evaluated Omni-Blu to provide the right services. So they are not cheaper. But, why did we migrate? There is no bias here and it’s not like we abandoned ASECNA. “At the time when we required doing calibration, ASECNA’s airplane was undergoing maintenance. They were not available; so we had no option, but to look for a qualified calibrator to come in. Fortunately Omni-Blu being a Nigerian company, met the requirement and they were chosen, it wasn’t an issue of money, it was a question of you need to calibrate at certain times and some require you calibrate every six months, some require you calibrate annually. So, the point is we cannot wait for ASECNA to be ready”, he said. On the airlines’ debts to the agency, he said the agency had not suspended the ‘Pay As You Go’ policy, but noted that the company only applies it to recalcitrant debtor airlines. He declared that NAMA required funds to upgrade its facilities in airports and stations nationwide, stressing that most of the airline operators wanted Instrument Landing System Category 3 for instance, but would not be able to do this without funds. “NAMA is not a profit-making organisation; it is a cost recovery organisation. So, really, inasmuch as we understand their financial situations, they should please pay for services we have rendered. A workman deserves his wages. He, however, said that the debts owed it by airlines runs into several millions of naira, but hoped that the debts would be paid by the affected carriers soon. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.