The Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Skye Bank Nigeria Plc, Tokunbo Abiru,  has advised students in secondary schools across the country to take money matters seriously if they wish to be in control of their financial future. He gave the advice while delivering a lecture during a one-day seminar at Rayfield International Secondary school, Nsukara Offot, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. The seminar, facilitated by Skye Bank Nigeria Plc, was to mark the 2018 Global Financial Week organised by the Central Bank of Nigeria,(CBN), in collaboration with Junior Achievement Nigeria. The theme for this year’s edition is “Money Matters Matter”. The Global Money Week is celebrated worldwide. March 15, 2018 is however chosen by the CBN and Junior Achievement Nigeria to teach the younger generation the virtues of financial planning and management aimed at increasing the level of financial literacy while boosting the financial inclusion drive of the CBN. Represented by Raphael Abiaziem, the bank’s Regional Manager, South-South, Abiru said that the financial week celebration is aimed at empowering young people with financial knowledge that will rightly position them for the future. He said: “Money Matters matter,” adding that “children and youth need to receive the knowledge and develop skills necessary to make smart financial decisions throughout life.” Mr. Abiru noted that: “Financial Literacy is an essential life skill that is lacking in our educational curriculum which should be part of the education that we give to our children to prepare them for the realities of the world out there. “We want young people to learn how to manage their money wisely so they can become financially empowered and form part of a critical mass that will spread financial and entrepreneurial education in the country.” The GMD/CEO further stated that what the students have learnt would help them organise and plan their lives so that they can confront the challenges of the future. He added that “if they learn how to save at this stage, no matter how little, and they maintained it over time, they would become financially independent. He also noted that Skye Rainbow account (a savings account targeted specifically at children in primary and secondary schools offers every child the opportunity to start laying the building blocks for their future. “Our commitment to financial inclusion is unwavering and this is why we will continue to be in the vanguard of ensuring that we reach out to both the unbanked and the under-banked in our communities, helping them see the importance of savings and its long-term benefits,” he emphasised. Earlier in his address, Mr. John Bassey, the school Principal, commended the bank for its public spirited disposition to capacity building, education and youth development and specifically lauded management for its support to the school and pupils. “I am altogether pleased with this initiative and I am particularly excited that my school was chosen as one of those to benefit from the program,” he added. The highlight of the event was the presentation of a cash gift to the best interactive student, Blessing Emmanuel Edeke, who is also the school’s head girl. The money was used to open an account for her instantly. A total number of about 40,000 students in six schools spread across the six geopolitical zones of the country benefitted from the financial literacy seminar. Skye Bank is one of Nigeria’s leading retail banks with wide-ranging electronic solutions promoting consumer lifestyle and e-commerce experience for its customers. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.