Lagos – Chief Adegboye Onigbinde, former Super Eagles coach and Coach Godwin Izilein have differed on Gernot Rohr’s assessment of the Super Eagles as lacking clinical strikers that could help change the fortunes of a match. Rorh in an interview granted a Polish newspaper; ‘Przeglad’, on Tuesday said that he lacks great players in the mould of Nwankwo Kanu and Austin Okocha, who have the capacity to change the fortunes of a match. “But the strenght of this team is team work. Mikel Obi or Victor Moses are not the players who can decide the fate of the match, like the stars from the 90s,” he said. ‘’We really do not have an effective striker, but we have other good players like – Iwobi, Kelechi, Obi Mikel, Ighalo – they are also able to score goals.’’ But Onigbinde in an interview on Wednesday said that Rohr’s outcry has justified his call for the development of Nigerian football for ages. “If since he came (two years or there about) and now he is talking about not having strong match winners, then something is wrong,” he said philosophically while wishing him (Rohr) good luck. “When I have been saying that something is wrong with our football administration, and that there is need to overhaul it they said I complained too much; now who is complaining?” However, Izilein, a former Golden Eaglets and Falcons coach believes Rohr’s outcry does not mean that the Super Eagles “is bad.” “Agreed that in the days gone Nigeria had great players, but now there are players that can also become very great like then; they are growing. “The World Cup is very close now and the players will need to be very careful in their games, because any injury now can end the player the World Cup hopes.” Throwing his weight behind the Eagles boss, he said, “Rohr is a good psychologist, he knows what to do to get the best out of the players; his comment does not mean a hopeless situation.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.