Bashir Korede Abdulah, popularly called B.K. by his admirers, is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State.  In this interview with newsmen in Lagos, he speaks on the political situation in Ekiti ahead of the forthcoming state governorship election, predicting sound victory for his party, especially if Senator Babafemi Ojudu emerges the flagbearer of the party.  TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: There are arguments that several crises is bedeviling your party in Ekiti, what do you have to say about this? Our great party, the APC, Ekiti State chapter is devoid of any serious internal crisis. We are intact. Even though there are different interest groups within the party in view of the oncoming governorship election in the state,  that does not depict crisis. There is always disagreement in every system, especially where different people come together with different ideologies. Their opinion or way of resolving the issues will be different, but our great party- APC as one family will resolve their differences, without bitterness. To confirm that there is no rancour in the party in the state, Senator  Babafemi Ojudu, the Special Adviser to the President on political matters and a leading aspirant in the 2018 Ekiti State Governorship election primaries on the platform of APC recently sent a well publicised goodwill message letter to another leader of the party in the state and a co-contestant on his declaration. This gesture by Senator Ojudu to many observers and political analysts  is an innovation in the political system, which demonstrated a spirit of sportsmanship and a welcome development. It shows from the onset that the contest is not a do-or-die but genuine aspiration to render assistance to the good people of the state who have been impoverished and  bastardised by the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. Equally, the number of aspirants coming out to contest for the ticket under the banner of the party shows that our great party is on ground and ready to end the misrule of the Fayose’s PDP administration in the state. Indeed, if you agree that there are some in house disagreements, how can it be resolved? To resolve any misunderstanding within APC is very simple. We believe in the party supremacy. The party is bigger than every individual and there are rules and regulations guiding the party and the followers. Everyone is bound to abide by these party rules and regulations. Also, APC, is a democratic and progressive party, where things are done judiciously and equitably. And where things are done properly, there will be little or no rancour. Besides, our members see themselves as one big family, who can agree with each other and settle differences after a round table. Senator Babafemi Ojudu is throwing his hat into the ring by contesting the ticket for Ekiti governorship under the APC. What are his chances in the primary? Senator Babafemi Ojudu’s chance is so bright both at the forthcoming primaries and the general election if he finally flies APC’s ticket. I make bold to say that Ekiti people are behind him because he has the intellect and the great vision for the state. He is experienced with excellent track records of public service delivery. He fought for people and their human rights. He remains a candidate that has no record of corruption baggage on him. He has the best and a well researched ‘FINE Agenda’ and articulated  manifesto that speaks directly to the present and future challenges of the good people of the state. He is a dogged fighter for people’s economic and political freedom and rights. The Ekitis both at home and diaspora are looking forward to him because they know that he is the only aspirant that has defeated to a distance third position, the man currently impoverishing and agonising the people of Ekiti. I am also convinced at Ojudu’s capacity to still flatly defeat him and his stooge in the governorship race come July 14, 2018.  He is a promise keeper. During his tenure as Senator representing Ekiti Central Senatorial District, he provided qualitative representation and attracted many people oriented programmes to his Senatorial district and his state. For instance, he built in my home town a modern multipurpose town hall fitted with air conditioners. It may interest you to note that the people have contributed money to no avail for years to have a befitting hall which was not as large, beautiful, environmental friendly and functional like the one he built for the community. Also, this is the first of any Constituency project for the town by any Senator before or after him to date. Many youths and women benefited from his empowerment programs. He is an Ekiti man to the core. I am marvelled at his mastery of Ekiti dialect. It inspires me. He is respected, charismatic, hard working and well connected to attract investors to Ekiti. At the ward level and senatorial districts, he is the man of the people, what he did as a senator is enough for him to earn the support of the people. He played a major and leading role in enthroning democracy in Nigeria. He made sacrifices, suffered his freedom when he was incarcerated, suffered financial loss when newspapers co-founded by him were proscribed. Their tabloids-The Tempo and the News magazines were darling of the readers then, but were pains in the neck of anti-democratic forces and foremost human rights violators then. This antecedent, also endear him to the people of Ekiti backing to chase out the unwanted element currently occupying Oke Ayoba, Ado Ekiti. The people also singled him out for their support because they know that the party cannot afford to field any arrogant, controversial or candidate with baggage for the Governorship election. Senator Babafemi Ojudu manifesto and “FINE Agenda” is inspiring, first of its kind and capable of restoring Ekiti to its land of honour and delivering Ekiti from the shackles of poverty and impoverishment. We stand with Ojudu. Eventually, if he wins the party’s ticket, what does he stand to bring to the table, if eventually elected in the coming governorship election? We are convinced that by the special grace of Allah, Senator Babafemi Ojudu will win and be sworn in as the Executive Governor of Ekiti State after the elections. On assumption of office, he will restore dignity, hope and honour to Ekiti. He will implement party programs and pursue vigorously his ‘FINE Agenda’ of -Fostering Economic Growth, Invest in the people, Nurture Enterprise & Innovation, Ensure Wellbeing. He will invest in education, Agric and Agro Allied industries, health and general economic well- being of the people. He will be fair, just, transparent and accountable to the people. He will restore hope, establish agro Allied industries across the Senatorial districts and create jobs for the teeming unemployed Youths. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.