Karen McDougal, the former Playboy Playmate who alleges she had an affair with President Donald Trump, says she was in love with the then-reality television star with whom she ‘had unprotected sex dozens of times’ after they met in 2006. In her first television interview, McDougal told Anderson Cooper of CNN that she developed feelings for the then-Apprentice host during their 10-month relationship. McDougal, 46, also told CNN that she and Trump had sex on their first date and that she went home afterward ‘crying in the backseat of a car’ when he offered her cash after they made love. “After we had been intimate, he tried to pay me, and I actually didn’t know how to take that,” she said. She said she was hurt by the cash offer, which she turned down. “I don’t even know how to describe the look on my face,’ she said. ‘It must have been so sad.” McDougal says she told Trump: “That’s not me. I’m not that kind of girl.” “And he said, ‘Oh,’ and he said, ‘You’re really special’,” she said, adding that “it hurt me that he saw me in that light.” The White House has denied the president had an affair with McDougal. McDougal also tearfully recalls feeling guilty when she went to Trump’s apartment in Trump Tower and he showed her Melania Trump’s bedroom. McDougal thought it was odd that Trump’s wife slept in a separate bedroom. “I thought maybe they were having issues,” she said. McDougal recalls feeling uncomfortable walking into the apartment of a married man whose wife just had a baby. “I couldn’t wait to get out of the apartment, I think,” she said. “Doing something, doing something wrong is bad enough, and when you’re doing something wrong, and you’re in the middle of somebody else’s home or bed or whatever, that just puts it a little old stab in your heart, and I just couldn’t wait to get out of the apartment. “I wanted to go back to my hotel room.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.