Owerri – The Imo State Police Command has arrested a pastor and a female lawyer who are allegedly to have defrauded unsuspecting members of the public. Imo State Commissioner of Police (CP), Chris Okey Ezike, said on the 30th of January 2018, the officiating pastor of Deliverance Home of Comfort Assembly Ihiagwa, in Owerri West LGA, Benjamin Ndieze had arranged for one Blessing Ahamefula of Ihie Orji Umuonya Ogu Ngwa road, Aba, Abia State to come to his church at Ihiagwa with her little girl, Faith Ahamefula aged five. According to the CP, the baby was then handed over to Ndieze, who in turn handed Blessing to one of his church members, one Emmanuel Onuoha and directed him to drop Faith at the NNPC filling station control post Owerri. Ezike further disclosed that Pastor Ndieze in his trick to convince his congregation that he is a true prophet, prophesied during church service that there was a woman in the congregation who was looking for her daughter that was kidnapped from Aba by her uncle, whose name is Emeka and that the girl had been taken to Onitsha, preparatory to be taken to Port Harcourt. Continuing, the CP said, Pastor Ndieze however, assured his congregation that his powers and prayers would force the kidnappers and ritualists to drop and abandon the little girl at the NNPC control Post Owerri. He directed all who were keen and desirous to witness his powers, to go to the NNPC control post Owerri and see the little girl. The spot he earlier directed Onuoha to keep the little girl. The CP disclosed that in the course of investigation, the police discovered that the pastor was a fake, and had defrauded most members of the church with fake prophesies. In another development, the CP said, one Beatrice Obiageli Nnamuolu 35 years, of Iyiawu village, Onitsha Anambra State, who resides at Okporo Orlu in Imo State, was on the 1st of February arrested at Orlu. The CP disclosed that her arrest was after she allegedly defrauded some members of the public of various sums totaling over N342,000 with the pretext of selling auction vehicles to them having severally posed as a lawyer. In the course of investigation, Ezike said that the suspect confessed to be a fake lawyer and had been in fake practice for the past five years. “She also confessed to have forged the letter headed papers bearing “Based C. Okereke – Seat of Wisdom Chambers No 10 Orlu/Amakohia Road. A search conducted at her residence led to the recovery of lawyers’ gown, wig, collaret, letter headed papers and case diaries,” Ezike said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.