Lagos – The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said it may adopt Governor Akinwunmi Ambode as its sole candidate for the 2019 governorship election in the state if nobody within the party comes forward to challenge him for the ticket. Speaking in an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT,  Otunba  Henry Ajomale, state chairman of the party said so far, he has not seen any politician within the party challenging  Ambode for the governorship ticket. Ajomale who said that the endorsement the governor has been receiving both within and outside the party has been overwhelming said it will be difficult for any politician who decided to slug it out with the governor to win the ticket. He however said the party will still conduct a primary where delegates will decide who they want to fly the party’s flag in the governorship election. “Yes. Ambode is shoulder high than everybody.  I haven’t seen anybody that will want to contest against him because of his achievements and what he has done in Lagos in terms of infrastructural developments and economic development. Lagos is getting the best under Ambode”. “Anybody is free to contest but I have a feeling that his achievements and reputations have spoken well of him. So, I am not sure anybody will want to come out and challenge him”. “Recently, you will find out that a lot of local governments, students, youths, market women and even artisans are endorsing him already for second term”. “All the lawmakers in from  Lagos, both within the Senate and House of Reps have also endorsed him. So, within and outside the party, they have started adopting him as their preferred candidate. That is why I said that he is shoulder higher than everybody who may want to contest against him”. “All those who have adopted him as their candidates are too overwhelming for anybody to come out and want to challenge him”. “There will be primary. Anybody who wants to come out will be given the opportunity of doing so.  They have a constitutional right to challenge the governor and they will not be denied. If there is no other aspirant challenging the governor, then we will adopt the governor”. “So, far, we have not seen anybody coming out to challenge the governor. But we will do a primary. We are going to accredit the delegates and we are going to vote to ensure that there is transparency and the rule of the game is complied with” he said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.