Abuja – Members of the House of Representatives Committee on Public Petitions has asked the military authorities and other parties to stay away from the disputed land belonging to natives of Effurun in Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta State. The committee in its third sitting on Wednesday also summoned Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), to appear before it on January 30 to explain how the army acquired and resold plots out of the land in dispute. Uzoma Nkem-Aboonta (PDP, Abia), chairman of the committee, gave the ruling at the third hearing of the matter following perceived un-cooperative attitude of Major Daniel Ehicheoya who represents the army. The resolution also includes a summon on the head of the army estates to throw more light on the issue. Abonta explained while ruling that “the essence of placing a blanket order on the disputed land is due to the lack of willingness by the army to provide details on the matter,” adding that the natives who petitioned the House had supplied all necessary documents to substantiate their claims. Asked what submission the army would give to counter the position of the petitioners, Major Ehicheoya told the panel that the matter was in court, as the army had filed a counter-claim against the Effurun people which is yet to be determined. Asked repeatedly to give the name of the head of army estate, following information that the land so confiscated was not being used for any military-related enterprise but sold to individuals for commercial and residential purposes, the Major maintained that the matter was before a court. Pressed further for counter-submission against assertions by counsel to the petitioners, V.O. Otomewio whose chambers filed the petition on behalf of Effurun people in Uvwie Kingdom, Major Ehicheoya said the army had made its written submission on the matter and had nothing more to add. It took a heated persuasion by the committee chairman and Rotimi Agunsoye (APC, Lagos), his deputy, to make him promise to supply further details on the matter. Backing down from its earlier threat of concluding the matter, whether or not it is before a court, the committee adjourned decision on the matter till January 30 during which it expects Buratai and the head of army estate to provide detailed explanations on how it acquired the 1,877 hectares of land in Effurun. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.