Here are the major headlines for today, 20th March, 2018 from Independent Newspapers, one of the leading Nigerian newspapers: Herdsmen Kill Monarch, Wife, Nine Others In Kogi Attack Corruption Exists In Buhari’s Govt — Osinbajo Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has admitted that corruption still thrives in the corridors of power, even under the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari… Read More » Sale Of 9mobile Didn’t Follow Due Process, Barclays Admits The strident claim by some telecoms industry stakeholders and particularly the reserved bidder, Smile Communications, that due process was not followed in the sale… Read More » IGP Orders Immediate Withdrawal Of Policemen Attached To VIPs Ibrahim Idris, Inspector-General of Police (IGP), has ordered the immediate withdrawal of all policemen attached to very important personalities (VIPs), political and public office… Read More » You’re A Disgrace To Nigeria, CJN Tells Corrupt Judges Justice Walter Onnoghen, Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), observed on Monday that corrupt judges were a disgrace and disaster to the country’s judiciary… Read More » Milost Plans $1bn Investment  In Unity Bank Milost Global Inc. is looking to inject as much as $1 billion to recapitalise Unity Bank Plc, which is struggling to build buffers after a slowdown in the country’s economy, according… Read More » Melaye, Three Others Charged With Illegal Possession Of Firearms Senator Dino Melaye, who is challenging moves to recall him by his constituency, is in fresh trouble. The police said they have filed a case in a Lokoja court accusing him and three… Read More » Stock Market Begins Week Bearish, As NSE Index Down 0.23%… Read More » Nigeria, Gambia Sign MoU To Promote, Facilitate Trade Cooperation… Read More » Plateau, Osun States Paid Highest Prices For Fuel In February – NBS…Read More » Who Flies APC’s  Flag In Ajeromi-Ifelodun Federal Constituency?… Read More » Police Can Handle Herdsmen Crisis If Well-Equipped – Ojougboh… Read More » 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.