Lagos – Tax Justice Platform (TJP), on Wednesday, called on the Lagos State government to reverse the controversial Land Use Charge (LUC) law to ease financial burden of residents. Abimbola Junaid, Lagos coordinator of TJP, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the call was in line with stakeholders’ position during the March 27 public hearing at the House of Assembly.
However, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Ikeja branch, has declared intention to embark on another round of protest against the reviewed LUC law on Thursday, despite that March 29 has been declared a public holiday in Lagos, due to the scheduled visit of President Muhammadu Buhari.
The public hearing organised by the Lagos Assembly turned rowdy on Tuesday as Adesina Ogunlana-led team of lawyers walked out of the sitting, insisting that the notice to submit their memorandum was short.
While addressing the press on Wednesday, Ogunlana, the Ikeja NBA chairman, also lined up a protest to ‘welcome’ President Buhari to Lagos notwithstanding the work-free day declared by Lagos.
Ogunlana further said that, the protest is a response to failure of the state government to meet its demands.
The protest, according to the NBA boss, will hold at 2pm after the president’s commissioning of the new bus terminal in Ikeja.
Ikeja NBA took to the streets few weeks ago to protest against the 400 per cent increase in the LUC by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. However, barely after 48 hours after the protest, Lagos reduced the levies by 50 per cent. But that did no go down well with some stakeholders who insisted the return to status quo.
TJP aims at engaging the government in raising awareness on the need for a just, equitable and efficient tax system.
“As part of the global and national tax justice network, we demand a total reversal of LUC just like the stakeholders dictate,” she said.
Junaid said the government’s argument that it had not increased the LUC in 15 years was alarming and almost a ‘faux pas’ in economic principles.
“It proves that we have been operating on imaginary data and growth forecast as all is essential in influencing yearly budget consideration,” she said.
She urged the state House of Assembly and the state government to adopt the culture of vast consultation with multi stakeholders on cogent issues such as taxation.
Junaid advised that all household taxes, including land use and refuse charges, be collapsed into one single tax like municipal rates as done in other climes, so as not to overburden people with multiple taxation.
“It is certainly a preferred choice by residents to go by a gradual increase, rather than a huge overnight increase and a threatened penalty as stipulated in the new law.”
“We stand with the stakeholders to demand a total reversal of such outrageous charge,” she said.
The group called for continued citizen’s awareness and education campaign on all taxations.
Junaid also called for further citizens’ awareness on use of LUC assessment appeal tribunal to deal with objections within the 30 days window period.
“So also must the benefits and the relief conspicuously promoted to citizens to take full advantage of relieving them of excessive tax burdens.
“We recommend that the lawmakers as well as the government be fair and proactive in collecting taxes from all, including the elite in the state,” Junaid said.
According to her, a 2015 research conducted by the group on efficient tax complaints in the state revealed the absence of a systemic complaints system.
“It is therefore our further recommendation that the culture of effective tax complaints as well as feedback systems be put in place and issues promptly taken up.
“We also recommend a full state cooperation with civil society organisations (CSOs) in monitoring of impending complaints by tenants over sharp increases from their landlords as a result of the LUC review.
“Lagos is a role model state, a mega city in the making and it should be so in systems and practices,” she said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.