Abuja – Nigeria and The Gambia have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to encourage, promote and facilitate trade cooperation among the business communities of both countries. Nigeria, through the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) and The Gambia Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) signed the MoU to facilitate and deepen economic ties in both countries. Under the agreement, it is expected that both countries would coordinate their activities in order to establish and expand a trade network, facilitate business opportunities, collaborate in logistics matters, assist each other in organising or participating in trade fairs, exhibitions, conferences, seminars and other similar activities in particularly in areas like tourism, education, oil and gas, construction, agriculture, and technology sectors. ACCI led by Prince Adetokunbo Kayode, its President, who was in Gambia at the invitation of the GCCI, also used the occasion to address the Nigerian banking and business community in Banjul, the Gambian capital, during which he stressed the overarching importance of more business activities between countries in the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) sub-region. He noted that such business activities would help lift the people out of poverty. Kayode, accompanied by Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, the ACCI’s Vice President in charge of ICT, noted that African countries have several competitive and comparable advantages as well as large market which they must develop for the economic advantage of the sub- region. While exchanging views with Mr. Alieu Secka, the Chief Executive Officer of GCCI and its Council members, Kayode further stressed the need for all African countries to key into the new Continental Trade Free Zone (CTFZ), Africa free trade agreement in order to expand intra- African businesses. He pointed out that the new dispensation would “mark a turning point in the way we do business among ourselves. A vast market such as Africa’s should be harnessed for the overall benefits of our business communities in our respective countries”. In his comments, Mr. Secka, said the invitation was to establish a practical framework for the development of stronger trade relations between the Gambia and Nigeria, and to set forth the procedures of cooperation, which he said can enhance the implementation of reciprocal trade objectives. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.