Here are the major headlines for today, 8th March 2018 from Independent Newspapers, one of the leading Nigerian newspapers: Nigeria’s Democracy Risks Military Takeover — Ekweremadu The DSS Detention Of Independent Journalist By holding the Abuja Bureau Chief of INDEPENDENT Newspapers, Tony Ezimakor, in its custody for clear six days, the Department of State Services (DSS)… Read More » Northern Leaders Raise Committees On 2019 Poll, Restructuring, Security The Northern Leaders and Stakeholders Assembly (NLSA) has inaugurated five standing committees to strategise on a peaceful conduct of the 2019 elections… Read More » Oyegun-Led NWC’s Tenure Extension Unjustified — Tinubu Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), said on Wednesday that there was no basis for the one year tenure extension… Read More » IMF Tasks Nigeria On Multiple Exchange Rates International Monetary Fund (IMF) on Wednesday asked Nigeria to simplify its complex foreign exchange system by removing multiple currency practices… Read More » Independence Day Bombing: Charles Okah Gets Life Sentence A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has sentenced Charles Okah and Obi Nwabueze, the alleged masterminds of the October 1, 2010 Independence Day bombing… Read More » IDPs Protest Shortage Of Food In Adamawa Hundreds of internally displaced persons (IDPs) from Fufore and Malkohi camps in Adamawa staged peaceful protests over lack of food in their camps… Read More » Nigeria’s Negative Liabilities  Position To Remain Till 2021 – Report… Read More » International Remittances To Hit $600bn In 2018… Read More » Set Up Technical Team For 3000MW Power Plant Projects, Investors Tell Gov. Bello… Read More » Amosun Gripped By Development Fever  –  Soyombo… Read More » A/Ibom Has Attracted More Industries  Than Other States – Udoh… Read More » 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.