Hon. Princess Folashade Olabanji-Oba, the Executive Vice Chairman of Ikorodu Local Government, Ikorodu, is also the Vice Chairman, Association of Vice Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State.  In this interview with GBENGA AGUNBIADE, she spoke on her achievements, political ambition and other issues of national importance. Excerpt: Despite your busy schedules, you are involved in politics and other social activities. What informed your involvement in politics? Politics is a rare passion that engulfed me. I cannot explain it, but my interest in politics is more of divine call and direction. It is borne out of the resolve to serve my people and made a mark by ensuring that my primary consituency, Ikorodu, and the people within get to the next level. Having travelled far and wide abroad for over 27 years, I believe there is need to add some values to the development of Ikorodu and also give back to the community what I have been able to experience over the years from different parts of the world. I just asked myself: ‘How can I add my own to complement, especially in Lagos State, the good governance that we have already achieved.’ So, I had to make up my mind on how to go about it. Spiritually, I prayed and I made enquires about which party, which leader do I subscribe to his philosophy and leadership beliefs? I did a lot of studies and researches. As at that time, it was Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu that came to my mind. He was the man with those requisite political benefits.
As for social issues, I believe in the resounding human and developmental potentials of the people and also I have passion for humanity. As the daughter of Late Alhaji Atinuke Atobayaiye, the Iya Sunnah of Nigeria and close associate of Late Alhaja Abibatu Mogaji, the former Iya Oloja General of Nigeria, I believe there is need for me to consistently be in touch with the views and opinions of the people in their best interest. Ikorodu has continued to gain attention i Lagos State. How do you feel emerging from this area? Ikorodu is pretty much my home and because it is my home, I am very passionate about the people of Ikorodu. I equally feel that in order to be different, one has to go out of one’s way to be a bit outstanding. I have been blessed to have emerged from Ikorodu. I am resolute. One of the things about life is that we must make sure we leave the world better than we met it. Successive generations must be able to know that their forefathers were there just like we are, enjoying the grace of democracy today, because of the leaders stood up in their own time to make things happen. You are an elected Vice Chairman of the Ikorodu Local Government and also the Vice Chairman of the Association of Local Government Vice Chairman in Lagos State. How would you explain your success so far? The unflinching support we received from the staff and people has kept us going. Hon. Wasiu Adesina, the chairman, has been doing his best to ensure that Ikorodu Local Government is written on the world map. This is a result of hard work and dedication. Our government has been listening to the yearnings of the people, especially in area of welfare. We work in team to alleviate the cries of the people. These have been our success story. For me, I will say the support we got from the people has taken us this far. Your party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been grappling with crises from national to ward level. What would you proffer as possible resolutions to these crises? The APC is one family, a big one indeed. The crises people see now will soon be a thing of the past. Our differences are our strength. We are a collection of the best that God has put together to enhance our world beautifully. So, whatever may be the difference or the problems we may have now, honestly, is work in progress. To have Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu at the helm of affair, I have a very big belief and trust that all issues surrounding the party will be resolved. God has been using him mightily in the country and I believe he has what it takes and the experience to resolve all the issues. Some people will say because he is my national leader, that is why I am giving him the praises. But, the truth is that President Muhammadu Buhari did not made a mistake in appointing Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to head the party’s reconciliation team.
Asiwaju, has put in so much into the formation of the party. I know he would not want his efforts to be in futility. That is why I have so much confidence that we will resolve our issues and Nigeria will be greater and better at the end of the day. What are the chances of your party in the 2019 general elections? The truth is that we are the best party that can really take Nigeria to promises land. It has been challenging. The President said: ‘When you fight corruption, corruption will fight you back’. A lot of people enjoy and benefits immensely from the impunities of so many years. So, there will efforts by many to fight back, sabotaging the good work Mr. President is doing to ensure that we have Nigeria of our dreams. I still want to say that the best thing that happened to Nigeria in 2015 was the emergence of APC. In going forward, I still believe that very soon, everybody will feel and see better Nigeria. How do see the call that women should be given a chance to govern Lagos State? It will be nice and beautiful, but giving someone a position just because she is a woman is not what we need for now. Any woman who wants to govern a state like Lagos must build herself, be prepared and know that she is ready for the task. We are going to get there, but it is not in 2019. I don’t believe that in Lagos State we are ready for that change now. At the end of the day, it is still the party’s decision. Whoever the party decides to be our flag bearer, the electorates will key in. I still believe in His Excellency, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s leadership style and passion for the people by making sure that we have Lagos for all and Lagos works for us. These start from the foundation to where we are now. That continuity means that somebody can continue the good works and take Lagos to that next level. We now have the SMART City project that is beyond the Mega City. We need someone that understands the mission and vision. Lagos is a pace setter. If you really look across the country, most of the states are emulating what Lagos is doing. From what happened at the recently held Lagos-Kano Economic Investment Summit, we can say that we can all work together. Nigeria is one big country that is blessed with great human beings. If we come together, honestly, we will not be talking about Nigeria being the best in Africa, but best five in the world. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.