The Office of the Prosecutor (OTP) of the International Criminal Court (ICC) has in its latest “2017 Report on Preliminary Examination Activities on Nigeria” stated that it is still analysing new allegations of crimes against humanity committed in Nigeria and brought for its assessment.
According to the ICC Prosecutor, Fatou Bensouda, the situation in Nigeria and those of six other countries, namely Colombia, Gabonese Republic, Guinea, Iraq/UK, Palestine and Ukraine, are still undergoing preliminary examination.
She maintained that the OTP has only completed two preliminary examinations, which are in relation to the situation in the Republic of Burundi and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, resulting in a decision to seek judicial authorisation to open an investigation.
The OTP carries out its statutory task in hierarchical stages, starting with “Preliminary examination” of alleged offences over which the court exercise jurisdiction, namely Genocide, Crimes against Humanity, War Crimes and Aggression.
Upon conclusion of Preliminary Examination, the process would develop into Investigation; Applying for an arrest warrant or summons to appear; and finally Prosecution.
Bensouda opined that the first time the situation in Nigeria was brought before the OTP was in 2010, adding that ever since the allegations have been under preliminary examination.
This has seen her office making repeated trips to Nigeria, meeting with state authorities both in the country as well as in The Hague.
She stated: “In November 2016, the Prosecutor met with the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami, in The Hague to discuss the status of the preliminary examination of the situation in Nigeria.
“On this occasion, the Attorney-General reiterated Nigeria’s commitment to the ICC in general and cooperation with the OTP’s preliminary examination in particular.
“In May 2017, the Prosecutor travelled to Abuja to meet with Acting President Yemi Osinbajo and relevant civil and military authorities, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence.
“In May 2017, the Office held a second technical meeting with Nigerian authorities at the Ministry of Justice in Abuja to gather relevant information with respect to the potential cases identified by the Office for the purpose of its admissibility assessment.”
The conclusion of Preliminary Examination will enable the ICC to reach a decision on whether the criteria for opening an investigation (which is the second stage) have been met.
Bensouda added that “During the reporting period, the Office continued to gather and examine information on new crimes allegedly committed in Nigeria.”
The Report hinted that the OTP has within the period continued its factual and legal analysis of allegations of crimes related to clash between the Nigerian Army and members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria that resulted in the death of 349 persons.
“The Office carefully examined the events of December 2015 in Zaria, Kaduna State, involving clashes between members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (“IMN”) and Nigerian security forces,” she said.
“On the basis of information available, including the report of a Judicial Commission of Inquiry established by the Kaduna State Government to investigate the events, the Office has reached preliminary findings and will seek further clarifications from the Nigerian authorities.”
Other fresh charges of international crimes against Nigerian security agencies that have reached the OTP include the allegations of unlawful mass killing of pro-Biafra agitators in parts of the south-east geopolitical zones from 2015 to 2017.
It would be recalled that in September, last year, the Army under an operation code-name, “Operation Python Dance,” allegedly invaded Afara Ukwu, Umuahia, Abia State country home of leader of the separatist Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.
The action was reportedly aimed at quelling the secessionist agitation of the group and is said to have resulted in major casualty figures in the region.
Bensouda said against this backdrop, “The Office will continue its analysis of all new crimes allegedly committed in the situation in Nigeria and its admissibility assessment of the eight potential cases currently identified in order to reach a decision on whether the criteria for opening an investigation are met.”
Her position was also reiterated in a letter from the Office of the Prosecutor in response to a petition addressed to the OTP by a Nigerian journalist, Ahaoma Kanu.
In the letter, with reference number OTP-CR-413/17 dated March 20, 2018, signed by Mark Dillon, head of the Information and Evidence Unit at the Office of the Prosecutor, the OTP said, “Accordingly, your communication will be analysed in this context, with the assistance of other related communications and other available information.”
Dillon added that “Under Article 53 of the Rome Statutes, the Prosecutor must consider whether there is reasonable basis to believe that crimes within the jurisdiction of the court have been committed, the gravity of the crimes, whether national systems are investigating and prosecuting the relevant crimes, and the interests of justice.
“Analysis will be carried out as expeditiously as possible, but please be aware that meaningful analysis of these factors can take some time.”
How long the ICC will take in its preliminary examination of the situation in Nigeria before deciding on whether or not to commence investigation and summoning of alleged offenders for prosecution is what no one can determine for now.
However, “Time does not run in criminal matters, even in the International Criminal Court (ICC). So at the right time people will be asked to account,” assures senior lawyer, Chief Godwin Obla (SAN), in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.