The UN refugee agency for Palestinians (UNRWA) said it raised about 100 million dollars on Thursday as it attempts to fill a nearly 450-million-dollar budget shortfall at a donors’ conference in Rome. UNRWA’s budget crisis has been exacerbated by a January decision by its main donor, the U.S., to withhold funds and demand reforms from the agency. The U.S. only committed to paying 60 million dollars this year, down from around 360 million dollars in 2017. The nearly 100-million-dollar total comes from 11 countries: Qatar, Canada, Switzerland, Turkey, New Zealand, Norway, South Korea, Mexico, Slovakia, India and France. The Rome conference is being co-organized by Jordan, Sweden and Egypt. “Financing #UNRWA to enable it to follow through with its mandate is an international political, legal, moral and humanitarian responsibility,” Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi wrote on Twitter. The U.S. funding cut was announced amid tensions between President Donald Trump and the Palestinian leadership over the president’s move to recognise Jerusalem as Israel’s capital in December. No fewer than 90 countries have been invited to the Rome talks, also attended by UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres and EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini. “We are here to help UNRWA overcome the worst financial crisis in its history,” Guterres said in opening remarks. On March 9, the Swedish mission to the UN said UNRWA’s budget shortfall of 446 million dollars represented the “most challenging financial situation” since the agency’s founding in 1949. The crisis is especially serious in the Gaza Strip, where UNRWA supports about one million people with food provisions, and also runs 267 schools and 21 health facilities. Hundreds of Palestinians gathered in the Gaza Strip on Thursday, calling on the international community to support UNRWA and denouncing Washington and Israel. “We send a message to Washington and to Israel that the Palestinian refugee issue will be maintained, and the refugees will defend their cause with their lives and bodies until they are able to return,” UNRWA official Fathi Sabah said at the rally. According to a World Bank report released on Thursday, humanitarian aid can only bring short-term relief to the isolated coastal enclave, which has been devastated by three Israel-Hamas wars and a suffocating blockade maintained by Israel and Egypt since 2007. The World Bank said that international trade is essential for the Gaza economy to grow and called on Israel to ease restrictions imposed on the territory since the Hamas militant group seized control of the Strip in 2007. “The economy cannot survive without being connected to the outside world,” the World Bank said in a statement. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.