Owerri – Owelle Rochas Okorocha, the Imo State governor, on Mondayreleased 20 functional patrol vehicles to the state’s Police Command to sustain the tempo of crime control and prevention by security agencies in the state. The vehicles, which were officially handed over to Chris Okey Ezike, the state’s Commissioner of Police, at the command headquarters in Owerri, according to the governor, would be followed by other operating incentives that would be made available to security agencies in the state. Okorocha, who spoke through, Uche Nwosu,  his Chief of Staff, said the facilities were the first phase in the series of the refurbishment packages already put in place for increase in the onslaught against criminality in the state. The governor promised to remain resolute and unwavering in his cooperation and support to assist the police in the performance of its duties. He commended the people of the state for their sustained cooperation with the police in the crusade against criminality, especially as regards the whistle blowing policy of the federal government. Okorocha assured that the state government would release the remaining funds meant to procure more facilities to enhance police operations, even as he gave kudos to Ezike and his men for their devotion to duty despite some odds. He said: “Armed robbery and kidnapping are now things of the past. You are determined, committed and focused and I commend you and your men because you have done the state proud and the state government has approved the balance of funds to refurbish more vehicles for your command and other security agencies in the state.” Receiving the vehicles, Ezike commended OKorocha for his sustained support to the police and directed the immediate deployment of the vehicles to all Area Commands in the state for maximum use. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.