Lagos – A new law approved by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) which permits operators other than the distribution companies to supply meters to electricity consumers would generate N200 million investments into the nation’s power sector in three years and create more job opportunities in the country.
Dafe Akpeneye, the NERC Commissioner for Legal, Licencing & Compliance, , who disclosed this at the 25th Monthly Power Sector Meeting in Abuja, also said a new class of operators in the power sector called Meter Asset Providers (MAPs) have been mandated to join in providing the service.
He said the MAPs would henceforth be responsible for supplying electricity meters to customers, among other functions.
He explained that MAPs would not only be independent, but would be approved by the commission and contracted by the DISCOs to bridge the metering gap in the country, adding that electricity consumers would have various options open to them to meet their needs for meters.
Besides, the commissioner said, consumers would be able to have the option of obtaining their meters from MAPs under a payment plan that would allow a metering service charge spread over a 10 years period.
He revealed that the challenge of non-availability of meters for electricity consumers was a serious concern to NERC, consumers, distribution companies, financiers and other interest groups in the industry.
“We all arrived at the same answer that we have to do something different to solve the problem. We can no longer leave this very important obligation to the distribution companies alone. Other players have to come into this space. So, that was why we created the NERC Meter Asset Provider Regulation, 2018,” he said.
“In the past, NERC left metering of electricity consumers as the sole responsibility of the power distribution companies as included in their performance agreement.
“But, It’s been over four years since privatisation of the power sector and customers are still complaining about inadequate supply of meters. So, to solve this problem, we created a new class of operators in the industry called Meter Asset Providers,” Mr. Akpeneye said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.