Abuja – Out of N38.2 billion Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) made in 2017, N28 billion was paid to private firms it outsourced its critical services to, going by DAILY INDEPENDENT findings. Services like passport printing were some of the subheads for which the money was shelled out to private concerns in and outside Nigeria. Sources claim that the Nigeria Security Printing & Minting Corporation (NSPMC) has the capacity to produce passports and other immigration documents. The figure paid out thus is more than 70 percent of its revenue made between January 1 and December 31, 2017, according to details from the Comptroller General of the agency, Mohammed Babandede, who spoke at an operational review meeting with zonal coordinators and state comptrollers of the agency at its Abuja national headquarters. Babandede gave the financial details as part of the total financial summary of the agency’s activities for 2017, saying that much was accomplished by NIS, especially in the enforcement of policies from the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC). Speaking on revenue generation by the service, Babandede stated that no less than N38.2 billion was made from its local revenue sources. These sources include passport revenue (N14 billion); ECOWAS/AA (N72.1 million); Address Verification Fee (N2 billion); Non-refundable admin fees (N186 million); CERPAC (N20 billion); ePASS (N1.6 billion). The Comptroller-General further stated that another N9.3 billion ($29 million) was also made from its foreign collection which was remitted directly to the federation accounts, being a dollar-denominated revenue. The monies were collected from passports which were remitted into FG/JP Morgan account ($28.8 million) and Carrier Liability/Visa on arrival ($1 million). The statement further clarified how about N28 billion was also paid out to outsourcing agencies, leaving a balance of about N10 billion as part of NIS’ take on its local revenue collections. According to details supplied by Babandede, Iris Smart Technologies got N10.3 billion in the year under review. Iris is a passport tech-savvy firm. Others are Newwork Solutions, N1.4 billion; Greater Washington, N744 million, and Contec (CERPAC/ePASS), N15.7 billion. Fake Marriages Taking Place In Nigeria, Says Immigration Boss Meanwhile, Babandede has said that a lot of “fake marriages” are taking place between Nigerians and foreigners in the country. Babandede said their aim was to cheat the conditions for the issuance of residence and work permits to foreigners by the agency. “We have observed that foreigners, especially men, are trying to beat the system of issuance of residence permits. “A lot of fake or ‘arrangee’ marriages are going on, and that would give them permission to stay in this country without much liabilities. “The advantage is that when you are the spouse of a Nigerian, you have no limitation on the job you will do; you don’t have to pay residence permit fees; it is easier for you to stay. “So, we are beginning to face difficulties because many people are becoming married on temporary ground,” Babandede said. The NIS boss said the agency had arrested some culprits, and would tighten the conditions for the issuance of permits to check the abuse. He said that as part of the measures to check the abuse, the agency would henceforth monitor marriages between Nigerians and foreigners in the country. “We will not allow any person to come for holiday marriage, because we have also observed that people just come on holidays, arrange marriages in Nigeria and go back. “We will not allow that anymore; you have to stay for a period of six months after marriage before you get our residence permit. “You have to also enter with permission to stay in Nigeria, so you must come with the residency visa; you can’t come as a tourist and get married,” he said. Babandede further said that the agency was also planning to restrict foreign spouses to jobs for which Nigerians lacked the requisite skills and qualifications. He stated that the Federal Government, through the Ministry of Interior and the NIS, was looking into the issue, which he described as a national security threat. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.