I do not see him as a joker. He is a serious-minded politician who was once a secretary to the Federal government under the regime of Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida from 1985- 1993. He had been twice a target of herdsmen in Ondo state. He was kidnapped and taken away for a few days. As if that baptism by the roaring herdsmen was not enough they came a second time and set his farm planted with palm trees on fire. Oluyemisi Falae is the name of the two time victim of Fulani Herdemen who had constituted themselves a law unto themselves. Moved by the second incident I pulled a call to him in faraway Akure from Asaba for old time’s sake. He told me in a cool and sober voice ‘They have only succeeded in burning their regime ablaze’ How do you mean I insisted? ‘If President Buhari insists on coming for a second term then Nigerians will go their separate ways. My people will declare Independence from Nigeria.’ That statement was, perhaps, too heavy to come from an elder statesman of the calibre of Chief Olu Falae, who, in the recent past, once contested as Presidential candidate on ANPP platform against Olusegun  Obasanjo who was then drafted by the PDP movers and shakers of the time. He lost out. His people, the ethnic Yorubas, raised hell over the treatment given to him by the herdsmen who had become notorious for their various killing sprees in Agatu, Benue and elsewhere with little or no response from the incumbent President Buhari. Many Yorubas, enlightened as they are, are major stakeholders in the President Buhari’s regime with Prof Yemi Osinbajo as the Vice President and currently, the Ashiwaju himself, a former governor of Lagos state has been drafted by the President to reconcile all aggrieved members of the APC in the country in his capacity as the National leader of the APC. What Chief Olu Fale intoned reminded one of the statement credited to Chief Obafemi Awolowo on the eve of the civil war in Nigeria in 1967. The late Pa Awolowo was quoted lavishly as boasting that ‘the west will go if the east is allowed to go’. It was in the heat of the civil was led by Col Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu. The western states which make up the main prop of the APC government will find it difficult to secede or move like Southern Sudan from the main Sudan and create a Republic of its own. Pa Awo went back on his words and threat and suddenly found himself to be what we now know as the second in command to Gen. Yakubu Gowon, the former head of state who prosecuted the civil war against the Biafrans. Nigeria has passed the stage of either forceful disintegration or peaceful move of its people in the manner of South Sudan, which became a Republic after many years of fighting in the trenches. Agreed, there had been grey areas and several pockets of self -propelling groups who had long agitated for self- recognition as a people and state or Republic. We can count on our fingers the disenchanted groups who feel strongly that they will be better off in different Republic than being forced under the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Firstly, there are the remnants of the first Secessionist movement in Nigeria South East Nigeria under the umbrella of Republic of Biafra; we have the Niger Delta groups also referred to as the Oil Belt, which sustains the country with their crude Oil and Gas. We also have the children of Odudwa who have been rather shy in calling out their people for a full blown Republic. Going to the North East where the seemingly intractable terror war which started some five years ago has been going on, the Boko haram insurgents wanted a Caliphate Republic. The rumblings in the Middle Belt are yet to assume the status of a fledgling Republic of sorts, with their seasonal encounters with Fulani Cow herders. The states under siege are Plateau, Benue, Taraba and Nassarawa.  With the incursions into their farms by Fulani herders and the ceaseless deaths caused by them, the political leaders are just papering the cracks in the name of keeping power in the North under President Buhari. We should not forget that blood is thicker than water. From the present arrangement where each of the leading parties is putting forward a northern candidate, head or tail whoever becomes president in 2019 will be another Northerner. Nigeria had become an indissoluble marriage or union as thought of any group moving to Sudan is not an option. Surviving together is a plausible option and I think politicians in whichever hue should move in that direction. Lt. Gen. Theophilus Danjuma once opined that ‘no Nation can survive two civil wars.’ Danjuma who has been war tested know what it took Nigerian soldiers to contain the Biafran experience. Salvaging Nigeria from within is more reasonable than breaking away in pieces. Nigeria can be refurbished and repaired; let us do it together. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.