Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Mahmood Yakubu, announced recently that the Commission is seeking the creation of a body to be known as Electoral Offences Commission(EOC) to effectively prosecute violators of electoral laws in Nigeria. Yakubu reportedly gave this indication while speaking at a public hearing on a Bill to establish the National Electoral Offences Commission, organised by the Senate Committees on INEC and the Judiciary, in Abuja. In his submission, he said although INEC has responsibility to prosecute electoral offences,  the process is hampered. This, he rightly observed, is due to the fact that if some of the violators are INEC officials, it would be “difficult for us to prosecute ourselves”. In this particular regard, we agree entirely with him that the creation of the National Electoral Offences Commission is desirable now. By virtue of the nature of its responsibilities as sole national electoral umpire that is expected to be wholly independent, truly transparent and unwaveringly impartial, INEC cannot effectively prosecute electoral offenders and at the same time, judiciously perform its primary responsibilities as clearly stated under the Constitution and the Electoral Act. The need for Electoral Offences Commission must have been informed by failure of government institutions such as the Police and the Judiciary, to discharge their primary duties  diligently and transparently. We recall that since the return of democracy in Nigeria on May 29, 1999, the wave of electoral violations by unscrupulous politicians who regard politics as do-or-die affair with a view to winning elections at all costs, have increased considerably. In some instances, politicians perpetrated such electoral offences with connivance of unpatriotic and greedy election officials. Unfortunately, in spite of the incessant violations of electoral law by politicians, election officials and even political parties, most of which lack internal discipline and democratic tenets, successive administrations have over the years, continuously failed to demonstrate the much-required political will by ensuring perpetrators of electoral wrongdoings, no matter how highly placed, are severely penalised to serve as a deterrent to others. Consequently, government’s failure in this regard since 1999, has apparently emboldened lawless, corrupt and undisciplined politicians and election officials, as well as their collaborators in virtually all the registered political parties, to willfully engage in election malpractices which if not checked urgently, poses serious threat not only to credible elections in 2019 but could also endanger practice of democracy in Nigeria. We recall that in spite of  the fact that the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua admitted publicly that  the election that brought him into office in 2007 was flawed and assured that his administration would introduce electoral reforms to avert recurrence, eight years since his demise, successive administrations have not deemed it fit to put sustainable machinery in place to effectively check electoral violations being perpetrated with impunity across the country. This is even in spite of the fact that the Justice Muhammed Uwais’ Committee on Electoral Reforms had in the past recommended amongst others, in its report, establishment of Electoral Offences Commission, to prosecute electoral offenders. As usual, the report has since joined the growing list of reports gathering dust on shelves in government offices. This is why we regard the proposed Electoral Offences Commission as a welcome development, especially at this crucial period that another round of decisive general elections are around the corner. Although rising number of agencies, especially those playing duplication roles contributes to high cost of governance, creation of EOC is quite different. Since in its present form, INEC is heavily burdened, it should be allowed to fully concentrate on the conduct of elections while EOC will be responsible for prosecuting electoral offenders. However, beyond creation of Electoral Offences Commission, government, in collaboration with INEC and other relevant stakeholders should introduce measures to prevent electoral violations as according to the common parlance, prevention is much better than cure. This, notwithstanding, we strongly believe there is no alternative to severe punishment for electoral offenders. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.