Lagos – The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) and Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) have identified 10 products which Nigeria can leverage on to boost exports into the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) sub-region. The goods include vehicles, tractors, cycles, machinery, mechanical appliances and boilers, cereals, fuel, plastics, pharmaceuticals, fish and seafood. To this end, a committee, comprising  the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), and the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) was  set up to enhance the movement of goods within ECOWAS region. At the committee’s inauguration tagged: “Nigeria ECOWAS Export Development”, it was noted that the West African sub-region is a huge market with potential for growth if well harnessed by member states. LCCI president, Mr. Babatunde Ruwase, noted that the forum presented an opportunity to review the state of economic integration in the sub-region, identify the challenges and proffer solutions, especially from the private sector perspective. “For too long, private sector organisations and institutions have confined themselves to the comfort of their individual countries, while our counterparts in other parts of the world are advancing the frontiers of their economies and markets through integration. “In these days of the growing forces of globalisation, this individualistic disposition and outlook may not be sustainable. We need to broaden our perspectives and thinking beyond our individual countries. We should begin to develop not only national, but also continental and global outlook for our businesses and economies,” Ruwase said. He, however, emphasised the need to tackle the current barriers to trade in the sub-region, regretting that the trade treaties were not being implemented. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.