Nigeria’s net international investment position will remain in negative territory as the country’s current account returns to deficit from 2021, BMI report has revealed. It also said years of foreign investment and government borrowing from abroad have left Nigeria’s Net International Investment Positioning in negative territory despite having run years of current account surpluses. According to the report, the deepening of the country’s net negative liabilities position is only likely to continue over the coming years as structurally lower oil prices see Nigeria’s trade balance move into persistent deficits from 2021. It said at just -12.7% of GDP in 2015, the size of Nigeria’s deficit in its NIIP is small compared to elsewhere in the region. “In addition to its relatively small NIIP, Nigeria external position benefits from a low external debt burden, which reached just 9.1% of GDP in 2017 according to our estimates, compared to a regional average of 45.1%. “Foreign obligations fell dramatically in the early 2000s as growth accelerated and the country’s creditors wrote off large portions of its debt. While we believe Nigeria’s total external debt stock will steadily rise over our long-term outlook period to 2027, it will likely remain in sustainable territory thanks to a low base, rising oil prices, and a cyclical upswing in real GDP growth, with external debt average 7.4% of GDP across the next decade’’. It said the cost of servicing external debt is likely to rise over the coming years, while a  decade of unprecedented loose monetary policy in developed markets has dragged down yields across emerging markets as investors have moved their into EM markets, where they can usually get a higher return. It said likely currency devaluation and the subsequent weakness of the Naira’s official exchange rate will also heighten debt servicing costs. It added that central bank’s policy of pegging the official exchange rate to the US dollar over the past 18 months has stabilised the cost of servicing the government’s external debt. “However, in 2018, we believe the central bank will look to consolidate its multiple exchange rate regime into a single, more fiexible rate, beginning with a devaluation that entails higher debt servicing costs on foreign obligations as the price of hard currency subsequently increases’ ’it said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.