Steve Babaeko is the Chief Executive Officer of Xreme Ideas and Xtreme Music Record Label, which manages singers Praiz and Simi. In this interview with Ifeoma Ononye, he speaks on his struggles to success and why he wears black most times. Xtreme Ideas and Xtreme music are the two companies the linked? Are they the same company? They are related but they are separate companies that are into separate ventures. I hardly go to Xtreme Music. What do you do in both? Xtreme Ideas is into communication and we do advertising, strategic and creative work for different brands like Glo mobile, DSTV, Access Bank, but Xtreme Music is obviously a record label. We manage artistes like Simi, Praiz and others. In your younger days, did you ever dream or see yourself where you are right now? Yes and no.  I have always been very ambitious. I have always wanted to be successful but the odds against me were so much because of my background. My parents were very poor, so at every point of the way, I had to fight my way through, running away from poverty, trying to just succeed at all cost but still not wanting to do any bad thing.  I wanted to keep it positive but sometimes, you just feel you are not going to make it, but you have to encourage yourself that you have to keep moving. As regards your poor background, were there times you couldn’t go to school or you couldn’t pay your school fees or other things? Of course, when I was in high school, that is secondary school, my name was always among the people that will be chased out of the class for not paying school fees. That was standard, it was normal, so after my secondary school I had to join other people to work and raise money to train myself in the university. So I had to pay for my university education myself. So those days, what were the dreams you had, did your parents want you to be a lawyer or to be something else? My parents would have had to pay for my school fees first before they start to decide for me. There was nothing much that they could do for me, so they could not tell me who to become. Almost all the major decisions in my life were taken by me, because I became independent at a very early stage. At 16, I was already on my own, so every decision about what I wanted to do, down to my responsibilities. I took my own decisions because I was paying my own bills. To some extent I believe every parent, no matter how poor may have one or two dreams for their child’s future like wanting their child to be a doctor, did they share those kind of dreams with you at some point? I wasn’t even living at home.  I was on the streets trying to survive so there was no room for sitting down to discuss their dreams for me because I already knew that I was going to survive. I had to go fight my way through. Where did you grow up? I grew up in Kaduna. So you were one of those people that see Kaduna of now and wonder how it just changed from what it used to be? Sometimes, it is a little sad because the Kaduna that I grew up in was a very peaceful town, where the Southerners and Northerners lived together. There were a few riots here and there but it was still peaceful. I grew up in Costain Quarters. Kaduna was very sweet, Kaduna was a fantastic place, it was an awesome place to be but with all the things you read these day, sad. So you hustled then to survive or see yourself through school, did it stop you from being one of the happening guys in the university back then? You know, the more important you are, the more you want to happen. I had very interesting friends. My friends were more troublesome than I was. Actually, I used to be a very quiet guy, book worm, always in the library reading to make good grades, but my friends were very troublesome and they changed me a little bit which I am actually grateful for today because in this life and in this country, it is not nice to be too quiet. So those days did you have time for women? No, not much because you are broke half of the time so even if you have time for women, which woman will have time for you without money. I was a book worm, I really loved my studies. Everybody knew me for my academic standards and my records. What course did you study? I studied Theatre Arts, I studied Drama in Amhadu Bello University, Zaria. As a theatre artist major, how come that you never featured or acted in a movie? I have acted in a movie before. Which movie is that? I usually tell people that if I tell you I have to kill you because nobody is supposed to know. I can’t tell anybody. Why? Do you think you are that bad at acting that you would kill whoever saw the first and last movie you acted in? I don’t think I am good.  I actually ventured into directing so I was more interested in being behind the camera. I never studied Theatre Arts to be an actor. Actually, theatre art prepares you for life, there are many things you can adapt to. Everything you act in drama is related to everyday life, so it was good for me. It was good discipline and I used to be a very shy guy but drama helped me overcome my shyness. So, at what point did you decide to manage artistes and go into advertising? I think it was around 1998, when I came to this town. I was around 27 or so. I used to know a friend of mine Papi Owen and we used to be friends with Dede Mabiaku. Fela had just passed and Dede Mabiaku was very distressed. So he started playing his own band after Fela passed and he had a manager. One day, he drove to the office where I was working and said he has fallen out with his manager and they are no more working together.  So I said, that is serious, so what are you going to do? He just looked at me and said you will be my manager and I am like are you crazy? I don’t know anything about managing an artiste. He said, ‘you will figure it out’ that was how I started managing Dede Mabiaku and his band for two years. I think in working with Dede Mabiaku, I learned so much about the entertainment industry. I studied the industry and saw the gaps that were there and I felt there was need for me to set up a record label in the future. So, when you came into this town did you really work for people that much? Yes I did. I worked for people for 17 years.  From 1995 that I came to this town, I worked for people till 2012 before I set up my business. To people that started just like you, what kind of advice will you give to them? I would say,  believe, hang in there, I mean sometimes it is difficult, there is no successful man you see out there today that will not have a story that will blow your mind about how they struggled. Life is all about struggles that is even the fun part of life, believe me. When you start making it, it is even hard to remember those hard times, so enjoy it while it lasts because once you believe that you are going to get through it, you actually will. At some point, you will look for those struggles, you won’t see them because they are so far away from you. Success does not come over night. I mean, when you see a successful person, the person must have been working on it for about 10-20 years and when the person finally succeeds, you will say he just came from nowhere.  So, the advice is, keep working, believe in God and keep believing in yourself, you will find a way. One of the things that people like about you is your style, when did you start up the dreadlocks? It was a long time ago. I just keep cutting it because my wife doesn’t want it to be too long, so I keep trimming it. What do you like about dreadlocks? I think because it is natural and I don’t have to stress myself cutting my hair and other things. Anytime I wake up, I am on the move. And again, you remember me easily. It is difficult to see me more than twice and not remember me. If I carry low cut like every other man out there, I will be probably be missing in the crowd. You always wear black, don’t you like other colours? Your office is filled with colours but not your clothes. Yes. I love black. It’s just the way Femi Otedola always wears white. Maybe I don’t have much money like him that is why I chose black. It is just looking for something to get yourself differentiated. I like black, it is the original colour of the first man. There is strength in the colour. Do you ever wear other colours? Sometimes I wear other colours. I just shock people. When I want to surprise people or surprise myself, I wear other colours. So it will be so dark in your wardrobe having all those black clothes. Yes I have a lot of black. You are getting more muscular by the day, do you go to the gym that often? Yes, I work out. If you live a busy life style, you need to work out. It is good for your heart and your system. So, I have a trainer and I have a gym in my house. My trainer comes to the house three times in a week. I could do better but I try to work out as much as possible. With all the time you spend at work, business meetings, do you miss anything like your social life? My work is my social life.  Seeing me anywhere else just know that it is a client that has a function that I am attending. I hardly have time for any socialisation.  I also play golf a little bit.  So if I want to socialise, I play golf, if not, I am at my work or my house. I make out time for my family. Family is important. No matter how successful you are, if you are not successful at home you have failed. So I always try and make time for my family. Do you have a favorite kind of music; do you love Nigerian music? Yes, I love Nigerian music. Not because you manage artistes? No, Nigerian music is the best in Africa, if not in the world. They are outstanding. I love Nigerian music, I also love our movies especially the ones they do these days. There are two kinds of movies that I love, the old classic Yoruba movies. You will find me on youtube watching some of them and then, the new Nollywood movies, the new premium production that we do these days. Your surname confuses me, where exactly are you from? I am from Kabba in Kogi state.  Some people will say we are a Yoruba, but I personally don’t think so. I do speak Yoruba and I can write it equally, just like I can speak and write Hausa. I think Yoruba language is one of the most profound languages in the world. I taught myself to speak the language. I have a broader view about this country and where we come from. If you were not into advertising and managing artistes,  what other career would you have loved? I would have wanted to be a broadcaster. I wanted to be a broadcaster all my life. But I think it is too late now. I actually did my NYSC in NTA Kano, back in the day. I was presenting a program called Corpers’ Forum. I have been begging everybody in NTA not to allow that tape see light of day. Why didn’t you continue? In NTA Kano I realised that people look beautiful on Television but after reading the news, they can hardly afford transportation. I told myself that I need to find a profession that will give me more resources to take care of my family problems 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.