Jeep and Mopar have teamed up to build seven concept vehicles for the 52nd Annual Easter Jeep Safari in Moab. The wild rides joined thousand of off-roaders as they descend on eastern Utah to become rock stars this last weekend. “Pushing the limit is something the Jeep brand is no stranger to and these seven new, exciting and capable concept vehicles are the latest example of that,” said Mike Manley, Jeep head in a statement. “When it comes to customisation, no vehicle can match the Jeep Wrangler,” adds Pietro Gorlier, Mopar parts and service head. Here’s a peek at the 2018 Easter Jeep Safari concept vehicles that you can hunt for while you are out enjoying the trail. The Nacho Jeep started out as a gooey yellow 2018 Jeep Wrangler and sports a bright hood that is accented with a black hood graphic featuring the all-new JPP badge. It packs a 2.0-litre turbocharged I-4 engine that resides behind its satin black Mopar grille and Warn Winch kit. The Nacho features Automotive Lighting LED header lights and a rear off-road scouting light that uses four-color LEDs to communicate trail conditions. A 2-inch lift kit helps off-road clearance and includes new 2.5-inch diameter aluminum body shocks. It rolls on 37-inch tires that wrap around 17-inch beadlock-capable wheels. The Jeep Sandstorm is inspired by Baja desert racers and is powered by a 6.4-litre V-8 engine that’s mated to a six-speed manual transmission. It sports a vented carbon-fiber hood, vented high clearance front and rear fender flares, and a cage. It has high clearance front and rear tube bumpers, modified rock rails, an integrated on-board air compressor, race-style fuel filler, KC Carbon series front auxiliary lights, and a chase light says Jeep. The front axle has been moved forward four inches and utilizes a heavy-duty longarm four-link suspension and track bar. The rear axle has been moved back two inches and utilizes a triangulated trailing arm four-link suspension we are told. The Sandstorm concept includes heavy-duty front and rear Dynatrac 60 axles with a 5.68 gear ratio, 17-inch beadlock wheels, and 39.5-inch BF Goodrich Krawler tires. The Jeep B-Ute concept features a hood with heat extractors, wider flares, a 1.5-inch lift kit, a roof rack, and rock rails. Under the hood, a 2.4-litre Tigershark engine is mated to a nine-speed automatic transmission. The concept rolls on 17-inch wheels with a 30-millimeter offset that are wrapped in BF Goodrich T/A Baja Champion tires. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.