Umuahia – Sen. Ifeanyi Araraume, governorship aspirant on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo State,  has described education as one of the best gifts that can be offered to any child especially at the basic level to make him stand a chance of contributing meaningfully to the family and the society. Speaking while handing out funds meant for the payment of the West African Examination Council  (WAEC) as well as those of National Examination Council (NECO) fees for the indigents in his country home,  Isiebu in Isiala Mbano council area,  he insisted that it was his desire to see that every child enjoys education no matter the status of their parents. He added that no fewer than 500 indigent students in the zone were enjoying the same magnanimity. Araraume,  a two-time senator for Okigwe zone was fulfilling the promise he made when stakeholders of Osuachara urged him to assist in offsetting  the secondary examination fees of the wards from the area,  who may not be able to settle the bills for the current year. Araraume told them that he was conscious of his upbringing and the many obstacles he had to surmount to arrive where he was now, insisting that whatever help he could render to the society would bring joy and fulfillment to him. The governorship hopeful explained that over the years he had settled the bills of students across the 27 local government areas in Imo State and that it would remain one task he would forever cherish as he receives people from all walks of life who introduce themselves as one of those that enjoyed his support in education. Receiving the funds on behalf of the Osuachara community Ebere Osuji assured that the funds would be used for the intended purpose of the governorship aspirant. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.