Lagos – The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has been urged to maintain rotation number for manifest of ships coming into the country. The call was made by the Shipping Association of Nigeria (SAN), during a meeting with the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) and Nigerian Shippers’ Council in Lagos recently. Speaking during the meeting, Mr. Val Osifoh, the chairman of the association, said maintaining rotation would eliminate the situation of running around for new manifest when a ship arrives. He said: “When the ship comes, it needs rotation number from Customs, and what has been agreed is that once the manifest has been received and it has rotation number, we are suggesting that the rotation number should be maintained, which means for instance, it the ship passed through Cape Town and we have lot of cargoes from the town, you don’t need to give another rotation number, it is just adding the manifest. So, an importer knows that these are details he or she needs to fill,” he said, adding that the role of Customs in this regard is very critical. He pledged that his association would cooperate towards ensuring conducive business environment even as he appealed to the Federal government to ensure that obstacles hindering the growth of businesses in Nigeria are removed. “The issue of getting manifest across to NPA is achievable. We have challenges and we highlighted those challenges and subject to those challenges being addressed and in normal environment these things don’t happen. We have assured them that they will get all the cooperation that they want. Their duty is to make business really work as it should work. We want it to operate the way it should operate internationally. So their duty is to remove obstacles. It is driven by the Vice President to show you how serious it is.” Usifo, who decried the recent ultimatum given by the Nigerian Navy to Truckers to vacate all the bridges, said the ultimatum was a temporary recipe. “Once these bottlenecks are addressed, things will work. The bottlenecks are everywhere like they are removing tankers out of the way now. If you are an importer, you will know that they are doing a temporary recipe. It is a different thing, they should work together not in competition. This is because when you work together, for the same government but in competition, things don’t move.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.