The Nigeria Union of Petroleum & Natural Gas workers (NUPENG) has debunked alleged insinuations of tenure elongation of its National Executive Council as reported in some national dailies. The Union at the weekend stated that there is no iota of truth in it, as the union is working assiduously to conduct its National Delegates Conference in March 2018. NUPENG stresses that at the last Central Working Committee (CWC), National Executive Council (NEC) meetings on December 3 & 4, respectively in 2017, there was nothing like a heated debate but a vote of confidence passed on the leadership.  It was at that meeting an extension of 90 days was ratified by the NEC to prepare for a smooth transition. The Union reiterates that the utterances from the Petroleum Tanker Drivers Branch of NUPENG are a family issue which is normal in labour parlance and in every facet of our society and was due to a breakdown in communication which is been addressed. NUPENG assures that there is no crack, no division, no crisis of any kind in the Union as we remain strong, united and resolute. The issue of the global oil glut, insecurity has adversely affected the Union in depletion of membership strength thus affected our finances and organising a National Delegates Conference is therefore not a tea party. However, the Union states that the various Committees, Logistics, Accreditation and Resolutions are working round the clock to give the Union members a befitting election. NUPENG also wants to put it on record that the President, Comrade (Dr.) Igwe Achese has at various fora, that is the NAC, CWC, NEC and the Veterans Forum stated that election will be held in March 2018. A statement signed Joseph Ogbebor, General Secretary The Union said that an Emergency National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the Union comes up on Tuesday, March 13, 2018, to fine-tune the progress made so far with a view to getting a consensus date. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.