Officials said two militants and four civilians were killed in army firing in restive Indian-controlled Kashmir, pushing region on the edge. The firing took place on Sunday late evening at village Pohan in Shopian district, about 53 km south of Srinagar city, the summer capital of Indian-controlled Kashmir. According to Indian army spokesperson, on Sunday late evening, militants fired upon their Mobile Vehicle Check Post (MVCP) in Pohan village and in the retaliatory fire, a militant and three people accompanying him were killed. Army has not suffered any casualty in the attack. Locals including the victim families however refuted the army version and said four people killed in the incident were civilians. On Monday morning body of another civilian was found near the spot. Reports said his body was found dead behind the steering wheel of his car. Police said the investigation of the case has been taken up and bodies were handed over to their families. According to police spokesman, the body of another militant has been found. “The preliminary investigation suggested the death of said militant is part of chain of incident at Pohan,” the police spokesman said. Massive protests in the area began immediately after the word about civilian killings went across. Locals including young women and children took to roads shouting anti-India and pro-freedom slogans demanding punishment to the army. Thousands of people participated in funeral prayers of the civilians and militants. “The situation is tense and a sea of people have gathered to stage protests against the civilian killings and participate in the funeral prayer,” Mohammed Younis, a local told Xinhua over telephone from Pinjura village. “There is lot of anger and tension among the locals over the killings.” Eyewitness said in another village of Malikgund, six rounds of funerals were held for a slain youth and women were seen beating their chests and throwing flower petals and candies in mourning on the civilians. Mobile internet services in twin districts of Shopian and Pulwama have been snapped fearing it would mobilise crowds to participate in anti-India protests. Authorities have ordered closure of all the educational institutions in the region and postponed all the scheduled examinations for the day. Schools in the region were supposed to open on Monday after a three-month winter break. A complete shutdown against the civilian killings is being observed in the region on the call of separatist groups demanding an end to New Delhi’s rule in India-controlled Kashmir. Authorities have imposed restrictions in several parts of Srinagar city. The domestic rail service has also been suspended in wake of the prevailing tension. Reports said clashes broke out in Anantnag town between students and police. Police used force to disperse the protesting students and detained many among them. Anti-India sentiment runs deep in the psyche of majority of Kashmiris. Irate residents defying curfew and restrictions took to roads at several places and clashed with police. The youth throw stones and brickbats on contingents of police and paramilitary, who respond by firing tear smoke shells, pellets and bullets, which often proves fatal. In January, protests erupted in the region when three civilian youth were killed in army firing. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.