After the change of governmc ent in South Africa few days ago, the new president, Cyril Ramaphosa, will have to confront some obvious challenges as he strives to shake off the country from the oddities left behind by his predecessor, Jacob Zuma.The country handed to Ramaphosa is clearly not the rosy South Africa that anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela envisioned in which he had promised shared prosperity and racial harmony. Over the years under Zuma, some of the country’s most important public institutions were abused and weakened even as the former leader and his top aides, including family members, were caught up in a string of corruption scandals. The economy dipped into recession in 2017 for the first time since 2009. Unemployment hit an all time high, in over 14 years, hovering around 30% and it’ was reported to be even higher among young black citizens. Zuma had resigned under mounting pressure from his party, the African National Congress (ANC), leaving both the leadership of the ANC and the continent’s second-biggest economy in the hands of Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa, 65, was elected by the South African Parliament as the fifth president after apartheid. His election marked a turning point for the country following the systemic collapse of the ruling ANC. The ruling party had encouraged Ramaphosa to begin in earnest the implementation of  economic reforms,including a controversial policy of redistributing land, which had for decades been a long struggle between the majority black South Africans and minority whites. Ramaphosa has given hope to South Africans that the country will rise again. He promised to retool the dipped economy. He said he would fight corruption in government. We expect the new leader to walk the talk. His declaration that he will fight corruption must be pursued with vigour to retain for his government the huge public support it currently enjoys and win back investors confidence in the system.Certainly, the new president is on a familiar turf having been together with frontline apartheid activists since Mandela’s days and only lying in wait as ANC leader to contest for president in next year’s general elections before fate threw him into office. Ramaphosa must know that rebuilding trust in the criminal justice system and holding accountable people associated with corruption in the country will be a crucial parameter by which his government is measured. He will have to reckon with the vast economic divide between millions of poor black South Africans and the upper class who have cornered the nation’s commonwealth. Ramaphosa must muster the courage and political will to do this as one who also belongs in the class of the nouveau riche. According to 2015 estimate published by Forbes magazine, the new president had in the past two decades built a fortune in the banking, mining and insurance sectors worth a staggering $450 million. He must, like Caesar’s wife, strive to be above board. The scenario that led to the change of government in South Africa should speak to Africa and African leaders. The key lesson politically is to acknowledge party supremacy, without which the imperative for developing robust democracy in any nation will continue to be a mirage. Zuma’s resignation on ANC’s order was a respect for party supremacy and the democratic institutions in the country. We therefore salute South Africa for leading the way in deepening African democracy and call on other nations to emulate the good examples set by ANC and Zuma. The world will look forward to Ramaphosa in reconfiguring the image of the nation and her citizens as being unfriendly especially over the cases of xenophobic attacks on fellow African brothers living in the country. This he must give critical consideration as his government and indeed the country strengthen its diplomatic relations with other nations. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.