The past week has had a lot of interesting stories break and happen from politics to business and to sports all over the world. Independent Newspapers bring you this week’s top trending news in Nigeria and beyond: Panic As Angry Youths Burn Police Station, Church In Kaduna Youths in Bayan Dutse Area of Nairayi in Kaduna State, on Thursday, burnt down a police station and a church. The rampaging youths were said to have razed a Narayi parish of Celestial Church of Chrish, over the death of a youth in the area, who was working for the church when he died… Read More » Lagos Assembly Gives Commissioner, Monarch Seven Days To Remove Traditional Ruler Lagos lawmakers on Tuesday asked the Commissioner for Local Government, Muslim Folami, and a monarch, Oba Rafiu Salami, to revoke installation of a new traditional ruler in the state… Read More » I Will Soon Hand Over APC Flag To Bode George – Ajomale Chief Henry Ajomale, Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Lagos state chapter again reaffirmed his belief that Chief Olabode George, a former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will soon join the ruling party saying he will in no distant time handover APC flag to him… Read More » Crisis Looms In Nigeria’s Largest Senatorial District Crisis is brewing in the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over the battle for the soul of Lagos West Senatorial District, the largest senatorial district in the country… Read More » Unending Crisis At LASU Pits VC Against Lecturers The unending crisis at Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, has pitched lecturers against the vice-chancellor. LASU, established in 1983, is notorious for being among institutions in the country that have witnessed turbulent times with lingering unresolved staff agitations… Read More » Buhari Wasted N40bn On Failed Oil Exploration In Northern Nigeria – Fayose Ayodele Fayose, Governor of Ekiti State, has accused President Muhammadu Buhari of wasting a whopping N40billion on failed Oil Exploration in the North… Read More » Buhari’s Economic Plan Doesn’t Address Nigeria’s Needs — Bill Gates Bill Gates, Co-Chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, observed on Thursday that the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) of the Nigerian government, with its lofty ideas, does not fully reflect the genuine needs of the people, although it identified ‘investing in the people’ as one of its core objectives… Read More » Gaddafi’s Son, Islam, To Run For President Saif Gaddafi, the second son of late Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, is in a secure spot in Libya and will soon address the people in a televised speech, his lawyer said… Read More » World-Largest Brewer To Begin Operations In Nigeria Anheuser-Busch InBev, AB InBev, the acclaimed largest brewer in the world, has indicated interest to invest in Nigeria. The Belgium-based beverage firm which has its $250 million brewery built in Shagamu, Ogun State, may begin full operations in the middle of the year if the word of its Head of Africa Operations, Ricardo Tadeu, is anything to go by… Read More » 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.