Lagos – Musa Bility has given reasons why he wants to step down as Liberia Football Association (LFA) president after choosing not to run for a third term. Bility, who took charge in 2010, will be replaced in April’s elections.
“It became clear to me that it was impossible for football to develop in countries like mine unless it was properly managed at the level of CAF and FIFA,” Bility wrote in a letter informing FIFA president, Infantino of his decision to step down.
“Being who I’ve always been, I never hesitated to take on both institutions as an agent of change.
“The international attention that came with this fight became very costly to me, my family and even, at times, my ability to properly oversee the affairs of my FA.
“From an unjust suspension by CAF and the misuse of ‘integrity checks’ by people in FIFA who themselves would later be disgracefully removed from office, I have suffered a reputational damage that still haunts me today.”
Banned for six months by CAF for violating ‘statutes relating to the use of confidential document,’ Bility only served out four months after CAF ended his ban early. At the time of his ban, Bility had been involved in fighting CAF rule changes that effectively allowed Hayatou to be re-elected unopposed earlier that year. Following Ahmad’s election victory last year, Bility became an Executive Committee member of the organisation he used to fight – namely, CAF. “There is much more of me to come at the levels of CAF and FIFA,” he said. Ranked 160th in the world by Fifa when Bility took over in 2010, Liberia broke into the top 100 three years later – for the first time since George Weah, the legendary player who is now the country’s president retired. They have since dropped to their current ranking of 135. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.