Jazz musician and filmmaker, Miller Luwoye, has given more insight into the much-anticipated Nigerian animation movie, SADE. In a recent chat I had with him, he says his plan was to make SADE a melting point of culture and great value, which is the hallmark of a people’s identity. Miller, who has written a number of ‘edutainment’ materials for children, including acclaimed animated nursery rhymes and other children songs, is furthering his flair for family entertainment with SADE, his first feature film. A Greathouse Entertainment Network production, SADE tells the story of a little girl, Sade and her family who adopt Tej, a wandering dog and victim of a hit-and-run driver.  Soon, the society discovers that Tej is not an ordinary dog; hence the race by the ‘powers that be’ to abduct the dog from Sade’s family begins. Miller said he conceived the SADE idea while on a flight to Los Angeles in 2013 and it has been a purposeful journey since then. “If anyone knows about animation here, it’s a journey; it’s a big journey… so I started watching CBeebies, Toy Story series to get some ideas. And I thought it would be good for SADE to be a melting point of culture and great value.” According to the entertainer, SADE rekindles the African folklores, using the modern cinematic technology. “I grew up in Lagos before going to the United Kingdom to study. I thought of the then NTA with Jimi Solanke, and I wanted SADE to make a statement,” said Miller who described Solanke as the Walt Disney of Nigeria. He also has praise for actors like Bimbo Manuel, Norbert Young, Omowunmi Dada, Gabriel Afolayan, Biodun Aleja, Jude Orhorha, Yemi Shodimu, Judith Audu, Kate Adepegba, Deji Adenuga, Ngozi Nwosu and others who voiced the different characters in the movie. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.