While mentioning the status of the Companions (ra), the Promised Messiah (as) stated at one occasion that: “The revered Companions, may Allah be pleased with all of them, are a clear proof of the character of the Holy Prophet (sa)…Thus, only that person can truly respect the Holy Prophet (sa), who respects his revered companions. One who does not esteem the revered companions; he can never ever truly esteem the Holy Prophet (sa).”
Now, I will narrate some accounts of some of the Companions.
Abu Dujana Ansari was a Companion. He accepted Islam, before the migration of the Holy Prophet (sa) to Medina. He was a resident of Medina. He also had the honour of participating in the Battle of Badr along with the Holy Prophet (sa) and he exhibited the virtue of most excellent bravery. Likewise, he also had the opportunity to participate the in Battle of Uhud. After the turning point during the battle – that is, when the Muslims were first gaining a victory and then the battle took a turn, because the disbelievers attacked again due to the designated place being abandoned and thus the battle turned against the Muslims – among those Companions, who remained the closest to the Holy Prophet (sa) at that time was also Hazrat Abu Dujana (ra). And he sustained many wounds, while defending the Holy Prophet (sa). However, he did not retreat despite those wounds.
When the Holy Prophet (sa), at one occasion, raised his sword and asked, “Who will put this sword to its rightful use, today?” It was Hazrat Abu Dujana Ansari, who came forward upon hearing this. He said that I promise to fulfill the right of this sword. The Holy Prophet (sa), seeing his passion, handed his sword over to him. Then, he gathered the courage once again and asked, “O Messenger of Allah (sa)! How shall the right of this sword be fulfilled?” The Holy Prophet (sa) replied that this sword shall not cause the bloodshed of any Muslim, secondly, the enemy from among the disbeliever shall not escape from it and it is only to be used against those enemies from among the disbelievers who seek to wage war against the Muslims. Hazrat Abu Dujana (ra) was martyred whilst fighting Musayilimah Kazzab during the battle of Yamama. Once when he was ill, he said to his companion that perhaps Allah the Exalted will accept two deeds of mine. Firstly, that I do not indulge in any vain discourse, nor speak behind anyone’s back. Secondly, I do not hold any grudge or malice in my heart against another Muslim.
Then, we find the mention of Hazrat Muhammad Maslamah (ra). Muhammad bin Maslamah (ra) also took part in the battle of Uhud and remained by the side of the Holy Prophet (sa) with great resolve and steadfastness. One of his distinctions was that a prophecy of the Holy Prophet (sa) was fulfilled in his person. On one occasion, whilst handing him his sword, the Holy Prophet (sa) said that as long as you fight the idolaters, you should continue to fight them with this sword. However, when the time comes when Muslims start fighting with one another, you should break this sword and stay at home until someone attacks you or death overcomes you. He acted in accordance with this guidance and he did so following the martyrdom of Hazrat ‘Uthman, may Allah be pleased with him. In order to safeguard himself from the disorder at that time, he went into isolation and used to say that until the disorder is not resolved, I intend to spend my life in isolation.
Today, we observe that the internal disputes between Muslims have exceeded all bounds. Furthermore, another prophecy of the Holy Prophet (sa) has been fulfilled that following an era of darkness, when the time of light approaches, when the time of the Promised Messiah dawns, you should accept the Promised Messiah and join his community, as all blessings lie in this.
One of the very early companions was Hazrat Abu Ayyub Ansari (ra).
He was fortunate to have received the honour of hosting and receiving the Holy Prophet (sa) during the initial days of his time in Medina. The house had two floors. Abu Ayyub Ansari (ra) stayed in the upper floor and the lower floor was presented to the Holy Prophet (sa). Abu Ayyub Ansari (ra) was on the upper floor one night, when a vessel or pot of water broke. Abu Ayyub Ansari (ra)and his wife spent the entire night drying it with their covers.
The following day, he related the incident that transpired the previous night to the Holy Prophet (sa) and requested the Holy Prophet (sa) to stay on the upper floor. The Holy Prophet (sa) accepted his request and stayed with him for approximately six or seven months. He tried his level best to fulfill his duties and responsibilities of hospitality. Hazrat Abu Ayyub Ansari (ra) participated in all the battles in which the Holy Prophet (sa) was also present.
During the Battle of Khaibar the Jewish leader was killed. When his daughter, Hazrat Safiyya was married to Holy Prophet (sa), the morning after, when the Holy Prophet (sa) came outside to lead the prayers he saw Abu Ayyub Ansari (ra) stood watching guard. The Holy Prophet (sa) then prayed for him in the following manner, “O Lord! Keep Abu Ayyub always under your protection just as he readily stayed the whole night protecting me!” Hazrat Abu Ayyub Ansari (ra) also participated in the battle of Rome despite his old age.
He only participated in order to witness (the fulfillment of) the prophecy of the Holy Prophet (sa) regarding Constantinople. Nevertheless he also fell ill in that duration. When he was asked as to what his final wishes were his reply was to convey his greetings to every Muslim and for his grave to be as far as possible within the land of the enemy. Henceforth, after his demise during the night his coffin was taken to the furthest possible point in the land of the enemy where he was buried. Even today his grave is present in Turkey and it is said that whatever one prays for at his grave, those prayers are accepted.
Then we have the companion of the Holy Prophet (sa), Abdullah bin Rawahah (ra) who was a renowned poet of Arabia and was also known by his title of the Poet of the Messenger (sa). After the battle of Badr had ended he was the one who delivered the message of victory to the people of Medina. Once the Holy Prophet (sa) was challenged by Abdullah Bin Ubayy (a strong hypocrite) after he preached the message of Islam openly, he said: “ So return to where you came from and tell this message to only those who come to you”. Hazrat Abdullah bin Rawaha (ra), who was also sat there said ‘O Messenger of Allah! You may come to our gatherings; we would very much love this. This was the sense of honour and love which Abdullah bin Rawahah (ra) overwhelmingly expressed for the Holy Prophet (sa) and did not care one bit for the chiefs.
There is one account in which ‘Urwah bin Zubair narrates that the Holy Prophet (sa) appointed Zaid bin Haritha (ra) as the army commander. He stated that if Hazrat Zaid (ra) is martyred then Hazrat Ja’far bin Abi Talib (ra) will be the commander. If he too is martyred, then Hazrat Abdullah bin Rawahah (ra) will assume control. If Abdullah (ra) too is martyred, then the Muslims should appoint whoever they desire as commander. When the time came to see off the army Hazrat Abdullah bin Rawahah said that by God I have absolutely no love nor any desire for the world. However, I heard the Holy Prophet (sa) speaking with regards to the Quranic verse: ‘And there is not one of you but will come to it. This is a fixed decree with thy Lord.’ Saying that every man must face the fire once. Hence, after having treaded this delicate path that is the day of reckoning, I do not know what my state will be. During the battle of Mota the Holy Prophet (sa) said regarding the army commanders that I have seen them in paradise seated on thrones of gold. Thus, these were the people who fulfilled their objectives. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.