One is perhaps more amazed at the United States (U.S.) crying foul over the growing spread of Chinese influence in Africa. Can we say the U.S. is crying more than the bereaved? Instead of carrying out its own development programmes for the Continent, the US seems envious of the giant strides being made by China, building bridges of cooperation with African countries which its President, Donald Trump, described as ‘Sithhole countries’. Africa is in dire need of development, especially in terms of its infrastructure- roads, railway lines and fast ways of transportation. The self- styled  Big Brother of the world which sees itself as the only Super power on Earth now sees the growing threat of China’s influence all over the globe, with its Belt and Road initiatives, which is literally linking the world for better trade and business deals. The unrelenting competition from China is something the U.S. did not envisage, but gradually, it is now dawning on the U.S. that it now has a new competitor, who does not impose its will on countries, and those who failed to follow its path of exceptionalism is collapsing by leaps and bounds. This is plain envy, if you ask me. America’s sweeping condemnation of Chinese loans and developments in Africa had been defended by the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov, who is also visiting Zimbabwe. The just fired U.S. Secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, averred in his remarks that China ‘encouraged dependency, utilised corrupt deals and endangers Africa’s resources and its independence’. The new campaign by the US is to make new alliances and trade deals with African countries; but African countries seem wiser than before  and more circumspect with America’s overtures. The US envoy’s campaign of calumny is to the effect that the Chinese projects do not trickle down to the locals, even as the giant projects are being built by Chinese labour without passing on the techniques of building those long bridges in Kenya and Tanzania and elsewhere. Tillerson says ‘We are not in any way trying to keep Chinese dollars from the African continent.’ I think that precisely this is the sole purpose of the U.S. antagonism against China’s spectacular inroads into Africa countries. African countries are largely war torn, like in the Congo and crisis ridden country like Libya after the U.S. orchestrated the overthrowing  and killing of Muamar Gaddafy, the US no longer shows any interest in that North African country, torn apart by war. Its leaders are now controlling different sections of the country. It appears the US area of interest is in building military bases on the Continent. Most poverty- stricken countries are interested in policies and programmes that can put food on our tables, improve health care and educational institutions and not military bases to boost the US military prowess around the world. Not too long ago, Nigeria bought five fighter jets from the US to enable it prosecute the Boko Haram insurgency in the North East at great costs while the overriding demand was how Nigerian troops can capture the leader of Boko Haram Shekau, who has evaded capture and arrest for the past five years. When US is preaching that African leaders must read between the lines in the various business transactions they enter into with the Chinese  government, it seems to suggest that in any case of default we might lose our capital and facilities to the Chinese government, thereby endangering our independence status as countries. While American President, Trump, has promised to make  US great again, China is busy spreading Belt and Road initiative across the globe linking the world with the fastest train service  in modern history. As President Trump kept trumping and intimidating Kim Jong, leader of North Korea, with fire and fury rhetoric the world had ever seen, China the former underdog, is fast overtaking the U.S. in most areas of science and development without too much noise, sound or fury by its leader Xhi JiPin, whose swagger and charisma now has a greater appeal to the world passing the U.S. by. It seems President Trump’s verbal aggression against the tiny North Korea nation has begun to lose its boastful stance and there appears to be a visitation arranged by South Korea, so that the U.S. cowboy President could meet with  Kim Jong. There is palpable change on the international power order and both U.S. and Russia supported by China, France and Britain are in for a shock if they fail to learn that the bully in Uncle Sam no longer enjoys a monopoly of super power vis a vis the other super powers mentioned above. The sand is fast sinking beneath the U.S. pride and glory and in the next ten years is likely to be the Super Powers’ power on Earth. Wake up U.S. before it becomes too late. Shed your pride and braggadocio and come to terms with reality that other countries are growing in the sciences and technology, without boasting of the democratic credentials the US flaunts around the globe. The Chinese are coming and very fast on the heels of the U.S.Make hay Uncle Sam. Africa is open for genuine business without threats of gun boat diplomacy and military bases dotted across the continent . 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.