Lagos – Coaches Kadiri Ikhana and Zachary Baraje have faulted Super Eagles attack and recovery rate in their preparation for the summer World Cup in Russia. The coaches who spoke to our correspondent on Tuesday premised their comments on the friendly against Poland last Friday.
Despite winning the friendly 1-0, the coaches believe that the still have a lot to do in how they attack and how they recover after losing balls.
Ikhana, former Super Eagles defender, who has coached a number of clubs in the country, said that the team’s attack still lacked bite, especially judging with their 1-0 win over Poland in Wroclaw on Friday.
“It is building up well; they are going on well but we cannot judge them now until after the friendly matches. They did not perform well in attack and midfield during the Poland match and they were not recovering well when they lose balls. We can tolerate them because a player like Mikel was missing,” he said.
Baraje, another renouned coach in the country, said: “The cohesion and understanding are coming back to the team. But maturity is lacking in some areas. The central attack is lacking.
“The attack was not very consistent. Victor Moses must improve in his dragging of opponents. Rohr should work on the attack and the midfielders that support the attack. Our recovery after losing ball is slow, and Moses must improve in his dragging opponents. In all, they may spring surprises at World Cup if they will not lose focus.”
Meanwhile, Zlatko Dalić, the coach of Croatia, has said that his focus remained their World Cup opener against Nigeria.
“Argentina, I think, is one of the main favorites for the title in Russia, but we are primarily focused on Nigeria, the first opponents in the group,” Dalic told the Croatian Football Federation official webpage. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.