Abuja – A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has dismissed all the 13-count charges bordering on money laundering and passport fraud filed by the Federal Government against a serving Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Sylvester Ngwuta. Following a raid on his residence in October 2016 by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS), the Federal Government alleged that Justice Ngwuta had committed an offence, punishable under the law. The FG had claimed that the DSS had at the end of the search operation recovered several sums of cash, including the sum of N35,358,000.00; and $319,596.00. In addition, FG alleged that 25,915 Pounds Sterling and EURO 280.00 were recovered. Consequently, he was arraigned on corruption related offences on a 16-count charge in November 2016. On March 16, 2017, the FG amended the charge and reduced it to 12 counts. In the cause of trial, the prosecution counsel, Mrs. Fatunde Olusegun, secured the leave of the court to further raise the number of charges to 13. However, as the trial was going on Justice Ngwuta through his counsel, Kanu Again (SAN), filed an application challenging the validity of the charge, on the grounds that Ngwuta ought to have been referred to the National Judicial Council for probe before charging him to court. Ruling on the application on Friday, the trial judge, Justice John Tsoho relied on a judgment delivered by the Court of Appeal, Lagos Division, in the matter involving the EFCC against Justice Hyeldzira Nganjiwa, of the Federal High Court. In the judgment delivered on December 12, 2017, the appellate court had stated that a serving judge could not be investigated or prosecuted without being first disciplined by the National Judicial Council. Therefore, placing reliance on the decision of the Court of Appeal, Justice Tsoho held that the pre-conditions for filing charges against Justice Ngwuta were not exhausted before he was charged to court. Justice Tsoho, maintained that FG ought to allow the National Judicial Council, NJC, to “appropriately scrutinise” allegations against judicial officers, before charging them to court. 3 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.