Lagos – The newly-acquired telecoms operator, 9mobile, has won a global recognition emerging the mobile operator with clearest voice quality ahead of other telcos operating in the country. The rating was contained in the latest result of the annual mobile network test conducted by P3 Communications, the largest European and international leader in mobile telecoms benchmarking. The mobile network test which was conducted across countries in the world including Nigeria, considered data speed and voice clarity as key parameters. An on-device testing methodology was used to measure speed and latency of the four largest broadband operators in Nigeriaincluding MTN, Airtel, 9mobile and Glo on the road. In the industry report, 9mobile emerged the overall best scoring 257 points ahead of MTN which scored 182 points; Airtel, 142,and Glo, 130. Travelling at a measuring distance of 9,000 km with 17 per cent population measured, the test route covered different parts of the country such as Lagos, Ibadan, Benin, Port Harcourt, Ilorin, Abuja, Kaduna and Kano. The global test has been conducted in several countries across the world including the United Kingdom, Sweden, Germany, Australia and Netherlands amongst other key global markets. Commenting on the newest global recognition, Director, Network Operations, 9mobile, Abdul Adegbuyi, expressed delight at the feat and said it affirmed the unalloyed commitment of the telco to continuously innovate and investing human and material resources as well as technology that impact positively on the delivery of qualitative solutions to customers and relevant stakeholders. “9mobile is synonymous with innovation, and in living up to this brand value we have continuously infused innovative thinking in all that we do. At 9mobile, our passion for innovation has resulted in the development of innovative services and solutions, thereby delivering high value to our customers. Most recently we reloadedMoreblaze – the fastest data package in Nigeria; all these typify our spirit of innovation, and valuable products and services which enrich the lives of our customers”, he stated. Adegbuyi assured that 9mobile would not rest on its oars as it would continue to raise the bar of excellent service by innovating many more positive ways technology can be leveraged as an enabler of national development. P3 Communications is a German company that provides broad service portfolio for network operators, equipment vendors, device manufacturers, public safety organisations and regulatory authorities worldwide. It also conducts and publishes the industry-leading annual mobile network test across different countries. 9mobile recently revved up the data market in Nigeria with the reload of Moreblaze – the fastest data package in the country that enables individuals and enterprises to enjoy uninhibited positive online and browsing experience. The data package will see 9mobile renowned forits ultra-fastspeed data, set the universal standard data benchmark in Nigeria and further bolster its position as the leading innovative telecom company in Nigeria. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.