Lagos – Rauf Aregbesola, the Osun State governor, has described Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye,  the Global General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), as “the voice of peace and comfort in a troubled and edgy world.” Aregbesola, who also said that Pastor Adeboye is harbinger of hope to millions of souls across the world, stated this on Saturday in a message to congratulate the RCCG overseer at his 76th birthday. The governor, in a statement by Mr. Sola Fasure, his Media Adviser, said Pastor Adeboye is a beacon of hope for the numerous hopeless souls, reconciling them with God through his sermons and evangelical engagements all over the world. Aregbesola stressed that few people are chosen by God for this kind of evangelical mission in a generation, saying that such people are rare breed and special creation, who sparingly grace this earthly terrain. The governor said that Pastor Adeboye is an epitome and embodiment of knowledge, deep faith and a messenger, who spread the word of God across the globe untiringly despite his graceful old age. The statement read in part: “Pastor Adeboye is a well educated man, who gave up his brilliant academic career to do the work of God. He is a man of deep faith with apostolic fervour, who has taken Christian evangelism to the nooks and crannies of this nation and the uttermost parts of the world. “There is virtually no community in Nigeria where his church is not firmly established or any part of the world where there is no parish of the RCCG… “On behalf of my family, the government and the good people of Osun, I wish this invaluable jewel a very happy birthday and many more decades of service to humanity.” Meanwhile, Pastor Adeboye, has urged individuals to make God their ally by connecting and staying connected with God. The cleric made the appeal at the special Holy Ghost service held at the church’s campground at the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. In his sermon centred on the theme of the service: ‘Stronger Than Your Enemies (3)’ and sub-themed: ‘Give Me This Mountain,’ he stressed the place of being rightly connected while citing some biblical and life characters (including himself and one of his financiers) who attracted divine interventions in the midst of difficult and life threatening situations because of their alliance with God and true servants of God. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.