Lagos – Stakeholders have commended the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) for their preparation for the summer World Cup, with regard to the international friendly matches between the Super Eagles and Poland and Serbia, which come up on March 23 and 26 respectively. The stakeholders, who spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT separately, were unanimous in their belief that Coach Gernot Rohr and the NFF at ensuring a Super Eagles successful campaign at the summer World Cup coming up in Russia. Speaking to our correspondent, Adegboye Onigbinde, former FIFA and CAF instructor, who once handled the Super Eagles, said that the coach had shown that he was in charge of the team, and also commended the NFF for their support to Rohr, asking Nigerians not to unnecessarily criticise the coach. “If we say his list (for Poland and Serbia matches) is not perfect, are we the coach to know what pattern he wants to play. Whomever he invited suits to the pattern he wants to play so we should support him and also the NFF for their own support to Rohr for the World Cup,” Onigbinde said. Speaking in the same vein, Henry Nwosu (MON), former captain of the team said: “The list is a nice one. “I am a Nigerian and my interest is to see the Super Eagles fly in Russia, which the coach and the NFF have shown that they are up to,” he noted Peter Rufai, former goalkeeper of the Super Eagles, while lending his voice, said that the coach had done well, even as he asked the national team players to play with caution against Poland and Serbia. “We should be very careful in the friendly matches but I think both the coach and the NFF are doing well ahead of the World Cup,” he said to our correspondent. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.