Ado -Ekiti – Controversy surrounding the rumoured governorship ambition of Dr. Kayode  Fayemi, Mines and Steel Development Minister, may have been laid to rest as his wife, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, on Monday confirmed that her hubby was actually interested in the contest. Mrs. Fayemi who stormed the All Progressives Congress (APC)  secretariat in Ado-Ekiti told women in Ekiti State to support the yet-to-be declared governorship ambition of her husband . Erelu as she is fondly called by her admirers did not mince words on the matter which had left co-aspirants in the dark as the race to Government House hots up. Mrs. Fayemi who was Ekiti’s First Lady between October 2010 and October 2014 was instrumental to the passage of many gender and child friendly laws in the state. Hundreds of Ekiti women home and abroad were also empowered through her foundation and Ekiti development fund. She was received by the Deputy Chairman of the party, Mrs. Kemi Olaleye, Women Leader, Mrs. Dupe Bakare and all the women leaders from all over the state. Mrs. Fayemi told the women she was there to ask for support for her husband Dr. Kayode Fayemi in the forthcoming Ekiti State gubernatorial election. She promised to continue to support Ekiti women and ensure they are not left behind. In her response, Mrs. Kemi Olaleye thanked Erelu Fayemi for her visit. She said the ex-first lady is a true champion of women and she has demonstrated this over the years. Mrs Olaleye described Mrs. Fayemi as ‘tried and tested’. She called for peace and harmony in the APC family and end to all acrimony. The crowd at the Secretariat was massive as many people showed up to catch a glimpse of Erelu who is a famous mobiliser of women. The women present commented that Mrs. Fayemi is the only one they trust and they would go with her wherever she goes. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.