Over the weekend it was reported that the first reading of a proposed Bill on Hate Speech got underway at Senate plenary session on Friday. Sponsored by Senator Sabi  Abdullahi (Niger-APC), the Bill, according to Premium Times, prescribed the death sentence for a certain category of hate speech. From this highlight alone, this is not only another obnoxious but also a dangerous Bill. What is it with Niger State legislators? First, it was the Kure woman with her proposal for the creation of a Commission to parcel out land as grazing reserves in all 36 states of the federation for Fulani herdsmen, now this! My worry is that this proposal is as harebrained as the other. While, indeed, we worry about the increasing incidence of hate speeches, found even in high places, I am not sure this Bill is well thought out or based on any painstaking research on the matter. That was how after wasting many legislative hours debating the grazing reserves bill under three Sessions of the National Assembly, it was finally thrown out for the simple reason that the matter was outside Federal legislative list. Had there been an elementary exploratory study before introducing it, we would have been spared the wasted years and the needless acrimonies that followed the debates. Whatever form this law may eventually take, it is bound to generate controversy coming on the eve of another General Elections; it will no doubt raise suspicion of the government’s intention to muzzle political opposition. The 2015 electioneering campaigns were characterised by unprecedented hate speeches. The opposition PDP has famously equated President Muhammadu Buhari’s “baboon and dog” allegory to a hate speech. But a documentary aired by the same PDP on a private television prior to the elections is also adjudged to be unadulterated hate mongering. For these reasons, we all desire to see that hate speeches are curbed in this country. However, the method of doing so is where we may differ. As I will explain, the matter lies at the critical matrix of Freedom, Law and Policy. What constitute freedom of speech and hate speech? There appears to be scant universal acceptability of what these mean and approaches differ as to where to lay emphasis. Much of the legislative attention focuses on source of threats especially those that would affect larger size of the population; in Nigeria hate speeches are more frequently loaded with ethnic and religious undertones. In contrast to the Western world, African countries are yet to see sexual orientation or gender reassignment as rights equally demanding protection under the law. In fact, as demonstration of the lack of universal acceptability of the principles of equality and non-discrimination, certain sexual orientation and marital partnership are out rightly outlawed by Nigerian laws. Therefore in legislating against hate speeches we must make two clear distinctions: a law to safeguard public order and a law to safeguard human dignity. Laws on public order require a higher threshold of severity for prosecution than others. For example, hate speeches which can lead to violence or genocide are generally prohibited by international law. Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide (1948) (Genocide Convention) and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (1998) (Rome Statute), (ICC) consider this type as criminal requiring prosecution. But there are many cases, which some people may find offensive but are constitutionally protected as free speech. Although repressive governments for reasons of expediency do seek to criminalise free speech with legislation, they have no basis for such in either national or international law. The danger of the present Bill arises from the suspicion that opportunistic political elements are desperately attempting to restrict our freedom of expression by conflating it with hate speech. In the Nigerian situation, we must distinguish hate speech from the following: a) Deeply offensive speech: We should not justify the prohibition of speeches just because governments or some vested interests find them deeply offensive. Such mechanical approach will encourage repression of dissenting views without an attempt at understanding the reason for the so-called “hate speech.” For example, some elements have said that the term “Fulani herdsmen terrorists” is hate speech, but in reality it could be the only expression by an aggrieved community that has lost members in the hands of “armed herdsmen” who are “Fulani.” Rather than see it as hate speech, it should provide government an opportunity to explore dialogue and settle outstanding disagreements between the aggrieved parties. b) Blasphemy laws or defamation of religion: international human rights laws protect people; hate speeches targeting people on the basis of religion are prohibited. But international law or national laws of a secular nation like Nigeria never seek to protect abstract ideas or belief systems. Many states in Nigeria have introduced blasphemy laws after adopting Sharia laws not only has this given rise to acute religious intolerance but it has also created a perilous constitutional situation. Any attempt by this Bill to further smuggle similar laws into our national laws, under the guise of hate speech, spell the end of national peace and unity.  Blasphemy laws justify the suppression of the freedom of expression simply to protect some religions, associated ideas, symbols and feelings of believers from offence or criticism. The danger minority groups often face in such situations is like the unfolding events in Myanmar where the plight of the Rohingya Muslims is best described as a humanitarian crisis. Although many of us condemn it but within Nigeria, minority religious groups are suffering under such blasphemy laws! Lastly, do our public policies reduce or conduce to hate speeches? The disparity in educational standard in the country; when a child from a certain state has to score 70% to gain admission to the same school another has to score only 11%? What about national access to dividend of democracy: how can we explain the “97% versus 5%” formula? More fundamentally, what policies are government pursuing to unite and integrate Nigerians of all ethnicities and religions? 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.