Lagos – The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has employed a female nutritionist for the Super Eagles and she will join the team on Saturday in London. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the players would welcome the nutritionist on arrival in London for next Tuesday’s friendly tie against Serbia. Sources close to the Super Eagles disclosed that the idea to have a nutritionist in the national team’s camp came after discussions between officials of NFF and the squad’s tactician, Gernot Rohr. We learnt that the diet expert, who would be expected to educate the players, coaches and officials on what food to eat and others to avoid, as well as how, when, why and where to eat particular meals, should be in London before the team arrives from Warsaw, Poland. A survey recently revealed some of the values of having a nutritionist in a football team, tops of which is restricting players to the right diet and habits, as well as conditioning them on when and how to go about restocking themselves after lost calories in training or matches. The survey stated in part: “Choosing high quality foods and being consistent with a diet year-round provides a solid foundation helping players perform at their highest potential. “Football players rely heavily on glycogen stores for energy. Carbohydrates are the go-to source of energy for intermittent sports, like football, where glycogen stores are often depleted during workouts and training. “The amount and frequency required will vary based on the time of year (i.e., off-season, pre-season, etc.), the player’s specific goals, and their position. Meanwhile, Friday’s friendly against Poland inside the 43,000 –capacity stadium formally opens the first phase of the Super Eagles’ preparation for the summer World Cup in Russia. After Tuesday’s game with Serbia in London, Nigeria will play a Send –Forth match against the Congo DR in Nigeria, before returning to London for another friendly against England on 2nd June. Four days later, they will play Czech Republic in Austria, and another friendly game is on the cards before the squad jets out to the World Cup finals on 11th June. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.