Prince Nwoye, the fast-rising lightweight boxer has vowed to end the unbeaten run of Oto Joseph, reigning African Boxing Union and Commonwealth Africa lightweight champion, when they meet at the GOtv Boxing Night 14 on 14 April at the Indoor Sports Hall of the National Stadium, Lagos. Nwoye said Joe Boy has enjoyed an unbeaten run because he was yet to fight him since they both turned professional. As amateurs, he said, he used to beat Joe Boy fun, a trick he has vowed to repeat at GOtv Boxing Night 14. “I will show him that I am a policeman. I was beating him while we were in the amateur ranks and I will beat him again. After beating him, I will handcuff him, so he would know that I am a policeman,” bragged Nwoye. Responding to his opponent’s taunting, Joe Boy said that he would make Nwoye understand that “boxing ring is not an extension of the police station.” He dismissed Lion’s claim as an impotent threat, saying being the African and Common wealth Africa lightweight champion shows that he is many tiers above Nwoye. “For saying he used to beat me during amateur trials, I will beat him so much that the Police Force will have no option than dismiss him for the shame he would bring on the institution. I do not want to waste my time talking about an insignificant boxer, who will not last the distance,” the champion said. GOtv Boxing Night 14 will feature a total of seven fights, including the African Boxing Union featherweight title bout between Nigeria’s Waidi Usman and Michael Nyawade of Kenya as well as the West African Boxing Union welterweight title bout between Djossou Basile of the Republic of Benin and Nigeria’s Rilwan Oladosu. A national lightweight boxing title bout is also scheduled. It will feature the flamboyant Rilwan Oladosu against Kazeem Badmus. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.