The Federal Government last week rejected the recent Transparency International (TI) report on Nigeria. According to the government, the TI report was not the true situation in the country as regards corruption, considering the President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti-graft stance and achievements recorded so far in the crusade. According to the TI report, Nigeria ranked 148 out of 180 countries assessed in 2017 on the perception of corruption in the annual Corruption Perception Index, CPI. The index, published last week Wednesday, showed that out of 100 points signalling maximum transparency and no corruption, Nigeria scored 27 points. However, presidency sources maintained that an internal government review of the report indicated that although TI gave Nigeria an overall lower ranking, the country did well in majority of the areas reviewed by TI, and remained stable in others, but fell back in only one aspect. Since the report and its ejection by the government, Nigerians have been wondering if it was right for the government to have rejected it Why FG Rejected TI Report Major reasons why the Buhari administration rejected the latest corruption perception index released by Transparency International emerged last night with the government, claiming that the report was off the mark and did not capture its consistent fight against graft. President Buhari On the basis of its sustained anti-corruption drive, which it claimed had resulted in blocking major corruption sources in the country, the Presidency promptly renounced the TI’s report as a fiction geared towards embarrassing the government. The source explained that contrary to TI’s report, the country actually waxed stronger, according to other reports, turned in by other organisations. Mr. Laolu Akande, a Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity in the Presidency stated that under the Buhari administration, there have been clear procedures and accountability governing the allocation and use of public funds in Federal Government’s Ministries, Departments and Agencies, MDAs. Akande confirmed the outcome of an internal review of the TI report. For instance, he noted that the implementation of the Treasury Single Account (TSA) by this administration has also helped the country to save billions of naira. In addition, through the TSA and other interventions, the Federal Government has made sweeping reforms to block several leakages of public funds, he explained. Govt Has Right To Reject TI Report – Lawyer Jefferson Woghiren, a Benin-based legal practitioner, maintained that the Federal Government has the right to reject the TI report if it finds reasons to do so or if there is evidence that the parameters of measuring the level of compliance by Nigerian government is skewed and unfavorable and not well thought out. He said: “Government has right to say it does not agree with it. If the government’s perception of corruption index is rising they can say okay, we accept that we are failing because of this rising index. “But, if there is a drop, then they have right to say, look we are doing so well in this area, we have done so much in bringing corruption to the front burner of our policy and we should be commended and encouraged. “So, I think government has a reason and every right to say we reject it and if you ask me personally, government is right. We cannot say that we are not aware of the effort to combat corruption as espoused and pursued by this government so far, he may not have been very successful but it is seriously being pursued. “So, if we take it from the step to the high level, we are pursuing and envisaging, another government comes tomorrow and take it, in ten/twenty years, corruption issue will becomes a different illustration. So, I think we need to encourage this government to do well, they have done well substantially, of course corruption fight back, you cannot fight corruption and expect corruption to fold their hands, corruption is a very deep menace here and they have roots and to try and uproot those roots require very strong policy and enforcement. “And so, we should be able to encourage our people like especially the government to sustain this fight. Do not forget we are a country of very complicated culture and political myths and so when you talk about corruption people do not see it as corruption they see it as entitlement. “A man is given an office to go and superintend, he see it as an opportunity to enrich himself and his family and when you challenge such a man he does not see why you are fighting him because as far as he is concerned this is my time, this is my opportunity, I do not know when I will get this kind of chance again. “When cultural practice becomes a reason for corrupt practice, it becomes a very big embarrassment to deal with. So, government has done well considering where we are coming from. “Our culture is very permissive of corrupt practices with due respect, everybody see the man in office as opportunity to take care of their own side and then they tell you, look it is our time do something for us, do something now when you are there, what are they asking the person to do, they want to steal, bend the rules so they can get their own time because they know when you leave there they will not get the chance again. So, it is like turn by turn corruption is incorporated.” TI Is Absolutely Correct – Lawmaker Hon. Reuben Yakubu Izeze, a member representing Ughelli South in the Delta State House of Assembly, stated tha Transparency International is absolutely correct in its report on Nigeria. He said: “The perception index is indeed an irrefutable truism. The rebuttal by the Federal Government is simply in her character of propaganda and falsehood. The fact remains that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) Federal Government has failed woefully in the area of security, which is one of the cardinal purpose of government as clearly and unambiguously stated in Section 14(2)(b) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria(as amended). “Check the indices, from Kaduna to Benue, Ibadan to Zamfara, Adamawa to Rivers and of course Borno/Yobe to Enugu. Insecurity has simply traumatised the ordinary people (the masses) of this country, while a tiny microcosm of the population represented by the government officials/business moguls have hijacked 80% of our security forces for their private protection. “And all these are happening under the ‘watchful’ eyes of a retired Army General? This is an indictment and a failure of monumental proportion on President Muhammadu Buhari and his APC led Federal Government. “Do not forget that the Armed Forces and all other security agencies are on the Exclusive Legislative List and thus under the general control and direction of the Commander-In-Chief. There is therefore absolutely no room for buck passing here.” Activist Faults TI Report Comrade Amitolu Shittu, the National Coordinator of Committee for Democracy and Right of the People (CDRP), faulted the assessment on the ground that it was not total and fair on the part of the administration. He said that everybody is aware that corruption is fighting back at the administration and those already fingered in corrupt practices, who are still in the position of authority, are not ready to readily give up like that. According to him, “all these actions accounted for lapses in the fight against corruption and if anybody says corruption has not reduced in the country it is a big lie.” Shittu noted that “the fight against corruption is a one-man show and there is extent to which it can work out, but it is a good thing that we have somebody that is not corrupt and trying to sanitise the country of corrupt tendencies of Nigerians. “With time, the corrupt nature of Nigerians will reduce and other soldiers will join in the crusade for the betterment of the Nigerians.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.