Abuja – Ahead of the passage of the 2018 budgetary appropriations, arrangements have been concluded for President Muhammadu Buhari to launch special laboratories on the sidelines of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) on Tuesday, March 13. Udo Udoma, Minister of Budget and National Planning, confirmed that recent growth projections and statistics released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) indicates that Nigeria has fully recovered from recession. He noted that in the last quarter of 2017, the economy grew by 1.92 per cent, representing a slight increase of 1.40 per cent in the previous quarter. “I presented a briefing to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) today, the most recent Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and other related economic performance numbers as released last week by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). You will recall that the NBS indicated that in the last quarter of 2017 the economy had continued its positive growth trajectory by growing by 1.92 per cent. This is higher than the previous quarter when it grew by 1.40 per cent and higher still from the second quarter, when it grew by 0.72 per cent. “The numbers clearly show that the economy has fully exited recession. Council members were particularly pleased to note that this growth is very broad-based, with agriculture growing at 4.23 per cent from 3.06 per cent in the third quarter. “Other sectors such as transportation and storage, electricity and gas production, metal ores, and industry all grew. Particularly noteworthy were the growth recorded in trade (2.07 per cent and services (0.10 per cent) after six quarters of negative growth. Council members were also happy to note that overall the non-oil sector grew by 1.45 per cent, its strongest since 2015. “Inflation is also trending downwards moving down from 18.72 per cent in January 2017 to 15.13 per cent in January 2018. Council members were also happy to see the increasing private sector confidence in the ERGP, and other policies and programmes of the Buhari administration, as evidenced by the increasing capital inflows. “Capital inflows in 2017 were $12.228 million, a growth of 138.6 per cent over the total inflow in 2016 of $5.124 million. This has been a factor in the build-up of our foreign reserves, which have grown from $23.81 billion in September 2016 to almost $42 billion. “Council members, however, agreed that while these positive results are most encouraging, particularly in the light of where we were in the last few years, the current growth rate is still rather modest and we have to continue to work even harder to achieve the goals of the ERGP of diversifying the economy and achieving our growth targets of 3.5 per cent this year, and seven per cent by 2020. And, of course one of the ways we are intensifying implementation of the ERGP are the ERGP focus labs which will be launched on Tuesday, March 13, by Mr. President,” Udoma said after the FEC meeting chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.