Lagos – A World Bank report yesterday painted the gloomy future for education in the African continent red, saying that severe learning crisis may fail to eliminate poverty and create shared opportunity and prosperity for all. According to the new study by the World Bank, with about 50 million children still out of school, the continent faces a “severe learning crisis” that undermines economic growth and the well-being of its citizens. The study lamented that most of the children who attend school are not acquiring the basic skills necessary for success later in life, saying that that learning levels across the region are alarmingly low. “Among second-grade students assessed on numeracy tests in several Sub-Saharan African countries, three-quarters could not count beyond 80 and 40 per cent could not do a one-digit addition problem. In reading, between 50 and 80 per cent of children in second grade could not answer a single question based on a short passage they had read, and a large proportion could not read even a single word. Observing a mixed progress in some countries including South Africa and Zimbabwe that have universalised access to basic education, the study noted that other countries like the Central African Republic, Liberia and Chad affected by conflict and political turmoil are lagging behind even in primary school access. Conversely, the study added that despite rapid advances, richer children, urban children and boys have the highest access to lower secondary education. “Providing a high-quality basic education for children across the region is an economic necessity, as well as a moral imperative. “This report provides a sobering look at Africa’s learning crisis and the region’s potential to solve it. Young Africans can transform the region and create lasting economic change, but they need to be equipped with the skills and human capital to do so,” said Jaime Saavedra, the World Bank’s Senior Director for Education. To alleviate the sobering effect, the study suggested concrete steps in four priority area that include: providing universal basic education with a focus on equitable access, quality and retention; ensuring effective management and support of teachers; increasing financing for quality education and boosting institutional capacity. Specifically, the report urges countries to focus on student progression in early grades where children are stuck for many years with little learning and are often taught in a language they do not fully understand. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.