Owerri – To some political scientists and those versed in the game of partisan politics,  the word politic simply means  a game of numbers, a zero sum game in which the winner takes  all and the loser, invariably goes home empty handed. To these school of thought, politics is also an act of protecting and projecting an interest especially in an environment characterized by cut throat cum rat race competition. However, to some stakeholders Imo State, application and adherence to this ideology in a democratic setting where mutual recriminations, shouts and complaints of marginalization have become the order of the day might become Achilles heels of the state invariably known as the Eastern Heartland. It was a result of this that a group of some major stakeholders in the state, 2 decades ago came up with a novelty Christened Imo Charter of Equity. The vision of the charter is to allay fears of domination and segregation by any particular section of the state against others. Although unwritten, the charter established a zoning system whereby the governorship seat of the state should rotate among  the three senatorial districts of Owerri, Orlu and Okigwe invariably know as  Imo East, Imo West  and Imo North accordingly. In retrospect it was this arrangement that produced ex-governor Achike Udenwa(Imo West) who ruled the state from 1999 to 2007 under the platform of the PDP. Udenwa reportedly secured the gubernatorial ticket of the party from Chief Humphrey Anumudu (Imo East) who was said to have won the party’s primary  but was prevailed upon to release it for Udenwa whose zone at that time had not tested  the governorship  seat in the annals of the history of the state created in 1976. Okigwe and Owerri zone had before then, had their turns through the late Chief Sam Mbakwe and Chief Evan Enwerem respectively. While the former completed 4 years (1979-1983)  with a truncated second tenure–no thanks to 1983 military intervention in politics, the latter only called the shot from the government house Owerri for a brief period of 18 months (1992 – 1993) consequent upon the late General Sani Abacha coup which intervene in the nation’s political administration and dismantled all political structures in the country. The charter of equity which had enjoyed warm credibility and relevance in the political equation of the state was to suffer a major setback in 2011 when the hope of a second tenure  for Imo North through  ex-governor Ikedi Ohakim was dashed and power was returned to the Imo West through the incumbent Governor – Rochas Okorocha who will be completing his second term  in office next year. Thus, with the countdown to the next general election,  it is not surprising that this has opened  a flood gate for agitations and counter agitations for the state’s  number one  seat  between Owerri  and Okigwe. Already, the people  of Owerri senatorial zone have vowed  to do everything legally possible to ensure that the 2019 governorship slot does not elude them again. They took the decision at the formal launch of IMO EQUITY MOVEMENT held at the country home of one Dr. Uzoma Obiyo Ugirike, in the Ikeduru LGA  of the state recently. Obiyo in his address titled; “Imo Governor 2019 for equity and Justice (Ofo na Ogu), noted that since the creation of Imo State in 1976, Owerri zone only occupied the Douglas House” one year and 10 months; Okigwe zone ( 8 years and 3 months) and Orlu zone (16 years). “The obvious disparity and inequality in the power shifts therefore births the need for an Owerri son to arise and break the trend  by producing the next Governor for Imo State come 2019”. “As firm believers in democratic ideals and the plurality of views, the importance of zone cannot be overemphasized as it not only ensures equitable transfer of power but equal political participation leaving no room for disenfranchisement” he noted. Obiyo maintained that the nexus of election in the State is keeping faith with sacred agreement reached by leaders of the state that power shall rotate among the three zones of Olru, Okgiwe and Owerri. “We, Ndi Owerri will be consistent, persevere and persist in spite of all obstacles, discouragements and impossibilities in 2019 because it is these that in all things distinguishes the strong fromteh weak. Ndi Owerri Umu Nnemu, Unuekwe-kwala”. He stated. Speaking to journalists earlier, Obiyo boasted that the people have the capacity and everything it takes to assume the position of governor of Imo State, adding that Orlu and Okigwe people are not greater than them, (the Owerri people). He maintained that Owerri zone must rise today while orlu and Okigwe zones must go behind, stressing that people from other zones can no longer buy them again. In his contribution, one of the facilitators, Barr. Kingsley Ononugu commended Governor Rochas Okorocha for working very well with one of their sons and leaders Prince Eze Madumere, the deputy Governor of Imo State. He however added that it is only proper for Okorocha to hand over to an Owerri person in 2019. Ononuju stressed that Imo Equity Movement is a body that will not disappoint the people of the zone, and called on other groups to joint the body. On the other hand, a socio-cultural group known as Okigwe for Okigwe 2019 has been formed in Okigwe zone. The aims and objectives of the campaign group as gathered by our correspondent include amongst other things, to agitate for the completion of Okigwe tenure in the Douglas House Owerri as a Governor of the State in 2019, to support any political party which gives and Okigwe son the party ticket for the gubernatorial election for the one tenure and to support the candidate in any form they can irrespective of the political party he or she belongs. The group made up of mainly middle aged people in their large number met at the Town primary school Umuelemai in Isiala Mbano local government area during which they carried placards like “Okigwe mandate 2019” a chance for Okigwe zone to complete their one term, No Okigwe zone= No Owerri zone, “He who comes to Equity must  come with clean hands”. The group who was followed by large crowd Okada riders and some market women marched throughout the Umuelemai roads shortly after their inaugural meeting, voicing their slogan as “Okigwe for Okigwe-“2019”- Okigwe zone” conspicuously expressed joy and optimism of realizing their goals come 2019. Speaking to newsmen, the chairman of the forum, Barr. Ralp Nwanebu, a Human Right Activist and the immediate past Chairman of the LGA Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) said the forum’s aim is to claim what is due for the people of Okigwe zone in the State. Nwanebu argued that until Okigwe zone is allowed to complete their remaining one tenure in the Douglas House, the agitation would continue, stressing that “Owerri zone must wait and support Okigwe zone to complete their one term before they could talk of equity”. Owerri zone cannot talk about equity now because they rejected the offer in 2011 as declared by the Governor Ohakim in his campaign for 2nd term, when they would have allowed an Okigwe son to complete the tenure and handover to them in 2015. We have leaders with full capacities like His Excellency Dr.  Ikedi Ohakim, distinguished Senator Ifeanyi Araraume, Senator. Athan Nneji Achonu, Hon. Emeka Nwajuba, Prof. Maurice Iwu, Sen. Ben Uwajumogu, Rt. Hon. Acho Ihim, Hon. Chike Okafor, Hon. Patrick Ndubueze, Prof. Nnamdi Obiaraeri, Engr. Ebere Udeagu, Chief Tony Chukwu, Chief Lingers Anyanwu, Chief George Egu, Chief Chlnedu Chukwuone (CUDOC), Chief Stanford Onyirimba, Hon. Semi of Iwunze, etc, and we believe that a combined workforce will take Ndi Okigwe back to the Douglas House come _2019” Ba Nwanebu said. With the count down to the 2019 great battle, the poser on the lips of the Imo Indigenes is this “will Imo charter of equity dictate who takes over from Okorocha?” The people are watching. 0 comments