Lagos – Chief  Orji  Uzor Kalu, a former governor of  Abia state stirred the hornet’s nest on  Tuesday when he threw a big challenge at  President  Muhammadu Buhari , asking the president to prove he is sincere about waging a total war against corruption by instituting a probe against  former president Olusegun Obasanjo. Kalu, a chieftain of the ruling  All  Progressives Congress (APC) made the remarks at the quarterly public lecture series of National Institute for Cultural Orientation (NICO) held in Abuja. According to him, President Buhari should be bold enough to prove that he has gotten the guts expected of him to salvage Nigeria from bad governance by arresting Obasanjo for taking away $16 billion fund meant for power under his regime. This he said is the only way the the administration will be considered as fighting corruption. The former governor who is being tried by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for alleged N2.9b fraud described his trial as political, saying it was one of the consequences of his fight against Obasanjo’s third term agenda. “My prosecution is political. Our accounts in Abia state were transparent under my watch. The US knows, the UK knows. I have been given a red carpet in these two countries. I have been given a red carpet in China. In fact, I am stronger in fighting corruption than President Buhari because he is not fighting it well. “I have recovered peoples’ money and given them back. I am a creator of wealth at every level. If any court finds me to be corrupt, it should jail me. Corruption is the bane of this country. “A corrupt judge, corrupt politician are worse than an armed robber. “Nigerians should start electing presidents that have meaning and gut to take decisions. “President Buhari has got some guts but he should arrest Obasanjo for us to know that corruption is working. Without arresting Obasanjo, he has not started fighting corruption because Obasanjo took away our $16 billion electricity money. So, unless he arrests Obasanjo, corruption is not being fought in Nigeria.” While some Nigerians lauded Kalu for the courage he exhibited in speaking out against his party and the president’s lopsided anti-corruption war, others argued that as someone who is also undergoing trial for corruption, he has no moral right calling for the probe of others. Some also alleged that he wants Obasanjo disgraced at all cost for withdrawing the licence of his two companies, Hallmark Bank and Slok airline. Some Nigerians, however argued that Kalu’s statement is mischievous as the president had said in July 2015 that he will only limit his probe to the administration of his predecessor, Goodluck Jonathan.  They argued that  Kalu, in his desperate bid to get at  Obasanjo at all cost wants to cause problem for President Buhari, knowing fully well that it is an uphill task for any leader in Nigeria today to institute probe against  Obasanjo. However to some of the president’s loyalists, the timing of Kalu’s call is wrong. To them, instituting a probe against Obasanjo now will be perceived as a political witchhunt, especially coming at a time the former president had written a public letter to Buhari asking to him to resign and perish the thought of seeking reelection in 2019. Since he left office in 2007, a lot of Nigerians have called on successive governments to probe how Obasanjo administered the affairs of government in his eight years reign but that was not done by the late  Umaru Musa Yar’Adua and his successor,  Goodluck Jonathan. In a recent interview, a former federal legislator, Senator Joseph Waku said that probing the former president was inevitable because most of the corruption cases the country witnessed started when he held forth between 1999 and 2003. He said: “President Muhammadu Buhari should have started probe from Obasanjo. I insist that the Obasanjo should be probed. The entire corruption and privatisation saga we are witnessing today started during his administration.” The former lawmaker said that Obasanjo’s government privatised majority of the nation’s public outfits to the detriment of the poor masses, thereby enhancing corruption. He urged Buhari to revoke sale of federal government assets sold to individuals and their cronies. Also, a civil society group, Movement For Nigeria has alleged that Obasanjo converted some national assets into personal use during his time as President.  The group said the action of the ex-president amounted to stealing of assets belonging to Nigerians and called for his immediate prosecution by anti graft agencies. Addressing journalists in Akure, Olaiya Ayomide, National coordinator of the group listed the national assets to include Obasanjo Farms Ota, Bell University, amongst others. He expressed surprise on the inability of successive administrations to recover such national assets converted to personal properties by Obasanjo. He said in the interest of justice, equity and fairness, consistent with the treatment meted out to other treasury looters, the federal government must immediately take over all the assets that Dr. Obasanjo acquired with Nigeria’s money. “In fact, it is most worrisome that his days of appropriating our commonwealth date back to his first coming as a military leader when appropriated Operation Feed the Nation (OFN) and converted same into Obasanjo Farms Nigeria (OFN) Limited. This was to later metamorphose into his current Ota Farm. He has therefore converted Federal Government property into his personal asset in what has remained one of the world’s worst case of abuse of office. “This same farm in Ota has been used as a conduit for siphoning public funds using bogus contract for the supply of livestock at inflated prices to the Presidency during popular festivities and holidays. The practice remained in place until the present government put a stop to it as part of cost saving measures and to judiciously use public funds”. “ It remains to be seen if this discontinuation of the fraudulent contract is one of the grouses that the former president has against Nigerians and the basis on which he is today doing everything to punish us all by instigating instability” Though President Buhari has demonstrated a strong will in fighting corruption especially as witnessed in ordering the probe of past military chiefs who allegedly misappropriated funds meant for prosecuting the Boko Haram war under the immediate past administration, something that former leaders in the country shied away from, it remains to be seen if he will accept the challenge by Kalu by instituting a probe against the Owu-born retired General. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.