Lagos – A member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) serving in Lagos State was on Thursday crushed to death by a train along the Ikeja-Along bus stop railway level crossing at about noon. The female corps member who was attached to an organisation within the Ikeja Local Government Council Area and was said to have telephone earpiece attached to her two ears, immediately lost three of her fingers and suffered severely fractured bones. Confirming the incident to DAILY INDEPENDENT, Prince Mohammed Momoh, the Lagos State Coordinator, who had earlier announced that the corps member survived the accident, later informed that she died at about 7 p.m. in the evening while receiving treatment at the intensive care unit of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTGH). “We lost the corps member just now. I heard the neurosurgeon and the orthopaedic doctors said they would conduct further investigations on her. But regrettably we lost her. Momoh, who commiserated with the family of the deceased corps member commended the kind gesture of Mojeed Alabi Balogun, the Ikeja Local Government Council chairman that joined NYSC to foot the initial bills. The coordinator who failed to disclose the identity of the corps member corroborated that her two ears were blocked with earpiece, saying that she was probably playing a loud music that prevented her from heeding to the warning and loud horn from the moving train. He disclosed that her next of kin had been informed about the incident. It would be recalled that a postdoctoral student of Economics at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) identified as Fatai Mutiu Abolade, who was receiving a phone call, was crushed by a train along Ikeja railway line about three weeks ago on the same spot. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.