Here are the major headlines for today, 26th March 2018 from Independent Newspapers, one of the leading Nigerian newspapers: We’re Engaging Boko Haram On Possible Ceasefire — FG Oyegun-Led NWC Tenure Extension On The Cards As APC Meets Today The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will today begin its national caucus meeting in Abuja where critical issues relating to the progress of the party would be discussed by stakeholders…  Read More » Danjuma’s Comment Threat To Military Operations In N/Central —Army The Nigerian Army Headquarters on Sunday frowned at the comment made over the weekend by Lt-Gen. Theophilus Danjuma, a retired Chief of Army Staff, indicating that his comment was a threat to the ongoing military operations in the North Central region of the country… Read More » Dino Melaye Denies Fleeing Nigeria, Blames Bello For Travails Sen. Dino Melaye said on Sunday that he had not fled the country as being reported in some quarters. The senator, who is representing Kogi West Senatorial District, said this in a statement personally signed by him in Lokoja… Read More » Recovered Funds: Why I Wrote Magu — Adeosun Kemi Adeosun, Minister of Finance, on Sunday said that she had no ulterior motive behind the letter she sent to Ibrahim Magu, acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Commission (EFCC), on cash assets recovered by the anti-graft agency between May 2015 and January 2018… Read More » UBA Offers N0.85 Dividend, Declares N105.3bn Profit… Read More » Blue-Chips’ Sell-Offs Drag Equities Market Down By 1.1%… Read More » Lagos Business School Emerges First African On CEO Magazine’s Global Ranking… Read More » Why Generator Servicing, Repairs Is Huge Industry For Trained Engineers… Read More » PDP, APC Bickering Over Dapchi Abduction, Release… Read More » Selectocracy, Bane Of Nigeria’s Development –Durotoye… Read More » 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.