Senator Shehu Sani, representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly recently revealed that Senators earn N13.5 million monthly as running cost. According to him, the amount is in addition to over N750,000 monthly consolidated salary and allowances of each member of the Senate. He kicked against payment of allowances, saying that Senators should be paid only salaries. Senator Sani’s revelation has sent mouths wagging across the nation. Many now wonder if it is right for senators to receive such jumbo when Nigerians languish in abject poverty. Others wonder if it would not be wise to stop paying the nation’s lawmakers such huge amount. RMFC Should Address Issue Of Lawmakers’ Pay  – PDP Chieftain Dr. Wilson Imogan, a medical doctor and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) State Auditor, and former Commissioner for Health in Edo State said: “Well, Senator     Sani is one of the beneficiaries. So, the first thing he should do is to stop earning it. That will mean he is serious and his campaign will be meaningful. You cannot be earning it and saying stop it, when you are going home with the jumbo pay. It makes no sense. “More seriously, I think it is an issue that should be addressed by the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Commission (RMFC) because it is their duty to fix salaries and allowances. So, let that commission fix the salary of National Assembly members. If you now say it is jumbo and you are earning it, stop earning it.” ‘Let’s Sack NASS Members To Be Able To Peg Their Pay’ Oladipo Laleye, an agriculturist, said that Senator Sani’s revelation is not new to Nigerians. On, whether it should be stopped, he wondered who will do that. According to him, “Former President Olusegun Obasanjo failed when he tried to meddle with the monthly take home of each Senator and members of the House of Representatives. We know how they deployed all their arsenals to fight Obasanjo. As part of Nigerian poor masses, I would support the jumbo pay be stopped. “But, doing that wouldn’t be easy because they have long enjoyed the sharing of our collective wealth and it seems we, the masses, live on crumbs that drop from their tables. It is not impossible to stop it,t but certainly not when they are there enjoying the money. “The only way to end the jumbo pay is to sack all the Senators. But, it is not going to be possible. So, it is the duty of Nigerians to reduce the National Assembly members’ jumbo pay by voting in fresh people into the two Chambers. But again, we shouldn’t deceive ourselves to believe that pushing the current Senators and House of Representatives members is going to be easy.” ‘Who Has The Political Will To Reduce Lawmakers’ Pay?’ Alhaji Suleiman Hadejia, a grassroots politician, described Sani’s revelation as a welcome development as Nigerians had for long been looking for the information He said: “It is my sincere belief that for us as a nation, such wastefulness should be discouraged and stopped. How do you give somebody a running allowance of #13.5million? For what purpose? Nigerians are a wasteful lot. “If we must do things right, such funds can be channelled into more useful purposes for the development and good of the country. This is totally absurd. But, we shall be deceiving ourselves if we think it can be stopped. “There must be a concerted effort for a complete reorientation of the way things are done in this country. The corruption level across board in Nigeria is just too high. Even the cosmetic attempts by the Federal Government at fighting the scourge are also laughable. “The question before us is not if the jumbo pay for National Assembly members can be stopped, but who has the political will to carry it out? This is the question before us.” Dr. Chimankpam Reuben Iwumba, a member of the National Conscience Party (NCP), said: “Senator Sani’s revelation is nothing short of a divine revelation. Hunger, poverty, frustration and destitution have come to stay with us and have become part of our national life.  The masses have host hope for survival in a land that is richly endowed with human and materials resources due to sheer greed, avarice selfishness and insensitivity of her leaders. “Nigeria is said to be the giant of Africa and the most populous black nation on earth, blessed with abundant national resources. But, what do we have to show for this other than crushing hunger, lack of basic necessities of life, including  non existing health care delivery services and illiteracy? “Yet, those we elected to represent us are wallowing in stupendous affluence. The stoppage of the jumbo pay of lawmakers is quite over due. The resources can be channelled to areas that will alleviate the woes of the man in the street. I pray that we should have more of the likes of Senator Sani. Lawmakers’ jumbo pay should be discontinued – SDP Chietftain Nzeh  Ohakara  Dennis  Nwabugwn, former House of Assembly aspirant for Owerri North constituency under the Social Democratic Party (SDP), stated: “I quite align myself with Senator Shehu Sani. The jumbo pay should be stopped because it has sent the wrong signal that we have first class, second class and  third class citizens in this country. “The picture now is that ‘he who has, will more be given; and he will have in abundance. But, he who has not, even the little he has will be taken away from him. “Members of the National Assembly have all the good things of life at their disposal and enjoy the comfort  without   caring  whether  the people who elected them are dying or not.  The jumbo pay should be discontinued and if possible, the ones already paid to them recovered.” Nigerian Lawmakers Are Parasites – Rights Activist Comrade Amitolu Shittu , a human rights activist and National Coordinator, Committee for Democracy and Right of the People, blamed the nation’s lawmakers for the country’s poor economy. While describing the lawmakers as parasites who only feeds on the nation’s resources without contributing a dime to it, said they do not generate money, but only spends it. Shittu said: “You must remember the fact that the National Assembly does not generate any income. It is only the executive arm that does. Even when the Appropriation Bill is passed, it is the executive that cashes back their prepared and approved legislature budget. “He said that the stand of the present crop of lawmakers are worse than what the country had, stressing that they do not have the interest of the masses at heart. According to him, “the revelation by Senator Shehu Sani that each of the senators receives monthly allowances running costs or allowance of N13.1m furniture allowance, housing allowance, transport allowance (loans to purchase cars) and constituency projects of not less than N200million apart from their salaries has exposed our lawmakers and portray them as wicked and unpatriotic. “All our past governors in the Senate are only using the chamber to protect their loots and still amass more, while people of their respective states and community are suffering. “Here is a country where minimum wage is N18,000 per month, yet some states were yet to implement it. Others states could not even pay their workers. He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to issue an executive order to reduce the allowances and other emoluments of the National Assembly members.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.