Abeokuta – Ogun Waterside Local Government Area of Ogun State was Monday thrown into mourning mood when a suspected mentally ill man, identified as Lekan Adebisi hacked two pupils to death. The suspect was reported to have carried out the killing on the two pupils of Saint John’s Anglican Primary School, Agodo during the lunch break in the early hours of the day. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that following the sad incident, parents and guardians thronged the school and withdrew their wards while security agents battled to unravel the mystery behind it. He was said to have emerged from a nearby bush and attacked some pupils who were playing on the school field which led to the death of two kindergarten pupils identified as Mubarak Kalesowo and Sunday Obituyi. Pictures of the deceased obtained by DAILY INDEPENDENT showed a deep machete cuts inflicted on the victims which left them in the pool of their blood. Immediately he committed the crime on the pupils who were said to be aged four years, an eye witnesses said, the suspect fled the scene. Sources close to the school said the school had perimeter fence but lacked gates. Abimbola Oyeyemi, the state Police Public Relations Officer, confirmed the incident in a telephone interview with our correspondent. Oyeyemi, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, however, said the police were on the trail of the suspect and would get him arrested as soon as possible. He disclosed that security operatives led by the Area Commander and Divisional Police Officer, Abigi had already been deployed in the area to fish out the suspect. He said, “The incident happened at 11:15am during lunch break. They (pupils) were on the field playing. The guy (suspect) just emerged from the bush and hacked two of them to death and immediately he did it, he ran away. “Those who know him (suspect) said he is a madman and also an indigene of that place. But we are not relying on that. We are on his trail; we want to get him arrested. “It is only the medical expert that would confirm whether he is a mad person or not. Our ultimate aim is to get him arrested. As I’m talking to you now, the Area Commander and the DPO Abigi are at the scene. We have set machinery in motion to get him arrested.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.