Scores of security men including officials of the Department of State Security (DSS) led by DCP Operations, Lagos State Police Command, A. Mohammed, have invaded the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) office, Ikeja branch. The siege followed a threat by the NBA led by its Chairman, Adesina Ogunlana, to call out members on a protest today to coincide with President Muhammadu Buhari’s visit to Lagos. The policemen numbering about 50 were armed with an invitation from the Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi, for the NBA boss. The letter with Ref No. AR:3000/LS/XS/ADM.2/Vol.27/ is entitled, ‘Invitation Letter, Re: Case of Threat to Public Peace/Conduct Likely to Cause Breach of Peace’. It reads: “This office is investigating the above mentioned case reported through a petition to the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Command, Ikeja. “In furtherance to my investigation, you are requested to report to the undersigned on the 28th of March, 2018 by 7.00 p.m. through O/C “X” Squad, who has been detailed by the Commissioner of Police to investigate the case. Your co-operation in this regard will be highly appreciated please.” The policemen came in more than 25 pickup vans. According to the letter made available to newsmen, the men of the Lagos State Police Command are investigating a petition to the effect that Ogunlana and members of the NBA, Ikeja branch, are likely to cause a breach of public peace. The policemen who were still at the NBA office as at 8.10p.m., were insisting on arresting the NBA chairman, while a number of lawyers were also on ground ostensibly to resist his arrest. Earlier, NBA had at a news conference announced a protest slated for today and that he was being “threatened” over his posture on the Lagos Land Use Charge. The NBA chairman said that in spite of the reduction of the rates and levies under the Land Use Charge the protest would go on as planned. Ogunlana said: “The protest is far from being over as lawyers have declared their intention to embark on another round of street protest tomorrow (March 29). The reduction is a sham and a calculated ploy to hoodwink the people of Lagos State.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.