Gombe – Stephen Ayuba, permanent secretary in the Gombe State Ministry of Economic Planning, says the state government must prevent and treat cases of malnutrition at the same time, if it wants to win the war against malnutrition. The PermSec, who spoke on behalf of the Commissioner during an advocacy visit paid to the ministry by Civil Society Scaling Up Nutrition in Nigeria (CS-SUNN), said the state government was very much aware of the reality of the cases in the state. According to him, the state government had long come to the realisation of the situation in the state, but stressed that the government and other partners must come together with a two-pronged approach of prevention and treatment of existing cases. He said the negative statistics in the state was already a big challenge to the government, and therefore expressed the belief that collaboration with stakeholders would go a long way in winning the war. Government, he added, had been partnering with organisations such as United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Save the Children International, among many others, as well as releasing counterpart funds in that direction. A memo, he said, is currently with the State Executive Council (SEC) aimed at strengthening the activities of nutrition in the state. Earlier, Mrs. Comfort Ali, the state coordinator of CS-SUNN, stated that the purpose of the visit was to partner with the ministry in the area of food and nutrition, a situation that is calling for adequate resource allocation and timely release as well as mapping out a clear roadmap with responsibilities for the various stakeholders. Areas of partnership, she said, include creating implementable milestones for mainstreaming nutrition in key ministries, agencies and departments (MDAs) of government, as well as strategies to scaling up nutrition in public spheres including communities. Her words: “According to the 2017 MIC’s report, 32.5 per cent was the stunting rate in Gombe State. To remain on track to achieve SDGs 2 in 2030, Gombe State needs to reduce stunting rates to 13 per cent by 2025. UNICEF’s recent report shows that the North is worst hit, as millions of children are malnourished.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.