The death toll on the fresh violence that erupted on the Mambilla Plateau in Sardauna Local Government Area of Taraba State on Saturday, has risen to 20, residents said on Sunday. At least 300 cows were said to be missing following the fresh outbreak of ethnic violence. Saadu Mogogg, a native who was leaving the community, claimed that his house was attacked at Leme suburb of Gembu. He said two of his brothers were killed on Saturday evening and their cattle rustled by the Mambilla militia. “As I am talking to you, we are yet to bury their corpses,” he told journalists. He added: “The ethnic militias attacked our residence in Leme where they killed our father last month. “During this attack, the Mambillas took away our over 100 cows.” According to him, “My two younger brothers reported the matter to a nearby military base and a soldier was attached as escort to retrieve the stolen cows. “Unfortunately, in the process, my younger brothers were both killed while the soldier fled with injury,’’ he said. Also, Abdu Gagarau, another resident of the area, who said he was speaking from hiding, said: “The burning and killing of the Fulani continued until early this morning. As I am talking to you now, from last Thursday they have been attacking our settlements and over 20 people killed. Some were buried and over 300 cattle stolen by the militias.” Ahmadu Nguroje, a Fulani community leader in the area, called for government and security intervention. “At least 20 people are feared killed, looting of houses, shops and burning down to ashes by the Mambilla militias along Tapare and Yerimaru axis have been recorded here in Sardauna LGA of Taraba State. “About 12 others were also wounded and are on admission at a hospital in Gembu,’’ Nguroje said. The lawmaker representing Nguroje and Gembu constituency in the state House of Assembly, Bashir Muhammad, confirmed the latest disturbances. He said: “There have been silent and systematic killings of Fulani nomadic herdsmen in the remote areas in Mambilla Plateau. “It is unfortunate that while efforts are being made to restore peace, the killings continued unabated and many people feared killed between Thursday and Sunday, just as dozens of livestock were killed or injured. “I was even told that over 200 cows were rustled. “Security is grossly inadequate because some of the affected villages are remote and in hinterlands that can take one or two hours to be reached. “We want the presence of more security, particularly soldiers, to ensure peace,’’ the lawmaker pleaded. Darius Ishaku, the Tarba State governor, has reacted to the report of the attacks. Ishaku, who spoke through his Senior Special Assistant on Public Affairs, Emmanuel Bello, called for an end to the violence. “Anyone who takes any life, irrespective of religion or tribe, is a criminal, whether it is on the summits of Mambilla or the plains of Southern Taraba, and anywhere in this state. And we shall deal with them as criminals.” Bello said the governor was committed to an amicable resolution of the crisis in the state and peaceful co-existence of all ethnic nationalities. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.