Dutse – Poor funding for federal roads construction and rehablitation would be a thing of the past, as the Federal Government has injected enough funds in this year’s budget to cater for the completion of abandoned and on-going federal road projects across the country at the end of this year, Engr. Olalokan Busari, Director Highways in-charge of the North-West, has said. Engineer Busari who spoke in Jigawa while on a working visit added that there was a presidential directives to complete all the on-going road projects within the zone before the end of this year. Speaking while inspecting the on-going Hadejia-Birniwa-Nguru federal road, he told reporters that President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the release of enough funds, and given directives for the immediate completion of all the on-going Federal Government roads across the country. He said, “Because of the importance of these roads to the people within the zone, Federal Government has released enough funds for the completion of these projects. “The phase one of this road has been completed; out of the 70 kilometres, about 32 kilometres was completed while the remaining from Birniwa to Nguru will soon be completed.” He lamented that the road project that was awarded since 2010 has suffered neglect due to poor funding and the recession that characterised the beginning of the current administration. Engineer Busari said now that the FG has released enough funds for the completion of the road, he could assure that with the pace with which the contractor was working on the road, it might be commissioned at the end of 2018. He added, “This road if completed will be of immense ‎benefit to both motorists and communities residing along the road which would definitely improve the economic development and welbeing of t:he people in the area.” “Federal government has shown its readiness towards the completion of the abandoned 70 kilometer Hadejia-Nguru  federal road which was awarded since September 2010 at a cost of N7.5 billion but abandoned due to poor funding but will be completed at the end of this year. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.