Asaba – The Presidency on February 6th 2018 announced that President Muhammadu Buhari has designated Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to lead the consultation, reconciliation and confidence building efforts in the All Progressives Congress (APC). The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, in a statement said Tinubu’s assignment “will involve resolving disagreements among party members, party leadership and political office holders in some states of the Federation.” The party in recent times was bedeviled with crisis. Prominent among the states that APC leaders and political office holders were having disagreements are Kano, Oyo, Rivers, Kogi, Kaduna, Zamfara and Osun states. In Delta, there is a lot for the Tinubu Committee to do and how it can resolve the logjam, have all hands on deck and all the party leaders pulling in one direction may be a herculean task. Fresh trouble emerged when the State APC Working Committee dismissed the decision of Delta North and South chapter of the party to zone the 2019 governorship to Delta North Senatorial District. The party’s SEC also declared that no other organ of the party shall henceforth express any contrary positions on the issue of 2019 governorship ticket of the party. Delta North leaders of the party comprises of Minister for State Petroleum, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, former Speaker, Hon Victor Ochei, Dr Cairo Ojougboh, former Deputy National Chairman of PDP, top state officials of the party from Delta North among others, had fortnight ago taken the decision to zone the governorship ticket to the Senatorial district at the home of Kachikwu. Corroborating, Delta South APC leaders had backed their counterparts in Delta North to zone the ticket to North, thus shutting out Delta Central strong man of the party, Chief Great Ogboru and others who also want to contest for the ticket in the forthcoming guber primaries. A communiqué issued at the end of the closed door meeting hosted by Kachikwu, in his Onicha-Ugbo home, Aniocha North Local Government Area, the Delta North leaders of the party had urged all eligible governorship aspirants from Delta North Senatorial District to indicate interest so that their candidature can be marketed to the two other senatorial districts in the State. The communiqué which was signed by Delta North Caucus of the party, Engr. Chief Hyacinth Enuha, and read to newsmen by Mr. Iwedi Nwaha, said; “From the inception of the Third Republic, the Central and Southern Senatorial Districts of Delta State have successfully completed two gubernatorial terms and as a result, the right of the Delta North Senatorial District to complete its second term, under the banner of the APC is only equitable. “APC is solidly on ground in Delta North Senatorial District and has the capacity to win the 2019 gubernatorial election with the support of the other Senatorial Districts. The Delta North leaders had hinged their decision to back only Anioma candidate on the reported ‘gentlemanly’ zoning agreement between the three senatorial district of the state which purportedly ‘zoned’ the governorship position in 1999, starting with Chief James Ibori of Delta Central. According to them, it is only equitable for the Senatorial District to complete its two gubernatorial terms since other Districts have done theirs through PDP Candidates but they insisted to support only APC candidate who can be use to replace Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, an Anioma PDP incumbent Governor. Similarly, the decision by Delta South leaders was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of an enlarged meeting held on Sunday 4th March, 2018 and was attended by Senatorial Executive members, LGA Chairmen, Leaders and Stakeholders from the South district. The meeting which was convened by the Delta South Senatorial Chairman, Yemi Omaghomi, agreed to support Delta North governorship candidate, but on the condition that such a candidate will only do one term in line with extant power rotation in the state and to allow the zone complete its eight year tenure. But the State Working Committee of the party in a counter statement after its meeting declared that the party has no intention of zoning its gubernatorial ticket to any Senatorial District, noting that no elective position in the state will be zoned. This was contained in statement signed by its state Publicity Secretary Engr. Leonard Obibi. “We shall continue to position the party in a state of readiness that enables free, fair and credible primaries, with an assurance that there shall be no imposition of candidates under any circumstances that will exclude fair participation of any party member with legitimate rights to engage in or contest for any elective office. “State Working Committee also resolves at the meeting held on Thursday, 8th March 2018, that no other organ of the party shall henceforth express any contrary positions. We urge all party members to support the no zoning directive to ensure that every eligible contestant is free to participate in the party’s primaries. We assure all party members and leaders that we remain committed to the progress of our party in a manner that will ensure victory in the forthcoming 2019 general elections”. The fear of Ogboru, who reportedly cross carpeted to APC to get the governorship ticket is that he may be on his way out again as his chances of picking the tickets may have been removed from Delta Central Senatorial District where Ogboru used to command serious followership. Political pundit says Ogboru currently doesn’t enjoys overriding followership in Delta central because some other party leaders believes that Delta North should be supported to complete a one tenure governorship position for the sake of equity and fairness. Another crisis which the Tinubu Committee has to contend with is the ego between leaders of Light of APC, a pressure group in Delta APC and leadership of Mainstream Delta APC, MDA, and another pressure group with the state APC. Recently loyalists of the MDA halted a move by Light of APC to get APC LGA Chairmen to endorse Ogboru as the party’s sole governorship candidate in 2019 election. The leaders of Light of APC had planned to use the meeting which was called by Mr Valentine Egbe’s led Delta State APC Chairmen/Secretaries Forum to get them to endorsed Ogboru as the party candidate and Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as the party’s state leader. Sources at the meeting which was hosted in Ogboru’s home at Abraka, revealed that one of the LG Chairmen who was part of the plot, moved a motion for Ogboru’s endorsement as party sole governorship candidate and it was quickly seconded by another. However, things took a different turn when some of the LG chairmen who were not aware of the agenda of the meeting hatched another plot, hijacked the attendance sheet and ran out of the meeting, frustrating the plan of using the attendance list to publicize the endorsement. Following the failed move to endorse Ogboru as the party governorship candidate and Senator Omo-Agege as the party state leader, the leadership of Mainstream Delta APC, MDA, Olorogun O’tega Emerhor as their leader moved swiftly by issuing statement cautioning its members to be wary in attending group meetings. The statement which was issued by MDA State Coordinator, Chief Alfred Oloko, titled “Important Notice To All MDA Members,” the group cautioned its members to select meetings to attend, stressing that it will nominate candidates for various elective positions including the House of Assembly, the House of Representatives, the Senate and the Governor of the state. They equally resolved to field candidate to slug it out with Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, the senator representing Delta Central senatorial District at the National Assembly, for the party ticket come 2019, saying that the Senator is not an aspirant that MDA supports 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.