Abuja – A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has sentenced Charles Okah and Obi Nwabueze, the alleged masterminds of the October 1, 2010 Independence Day bombing near the Eagle Square, Abuja, to life imprisonment. Justice Gabriel Kolawole gave the verdict in a six-hour judgment he delivered on Wednesday. Counsels for the prosecution and the defendants had adopted their final addresses on February 21. Okah, Nwabueze, Edmund Ebiware and Tiemkemfa Francis-Osvwo (aka General Gbokos) were initially arraigned before the court on December 7, 2010 over their alleged involvement in the bombing that left about 12 people dead and several others injured. Francis-Osvwo later died in prison custody, while Ebiware, who had his trial conducted separately, has been serving life sentence upon conviction in 2013, leaving Okah and Nwabueze. The Federal Government’s charge against Okah and Nwabueze was marked suit no FHC/ABJ/CR/186/2010. Delivering its ruling, the court stated, after painstakingly reviewing facts of the case, that “in conclusion, the defendants are found guilty as charged in five out of the eight count amended charge, dated January 10, 2011, which relates to each of them. “They are accordingly convicted as charged.” The court dismissed the convicts’ plea for clemency, and agreed with the prosecuting counsel, Dr. Alex Iziyon (SAN), who had urged the court to discountenance the convicts’ allocutus (plea for mercy). “The convicts are hereby sentenced to life imprisonment,” the court ruled. In the course of trial, counsel for the prosecution, Izinyon, called 17 witnesses to prove that the defendants actually committed the offence. As the prosecution closed his case, the defendants filed a no-case-submission. But on June 1, last year, Justice Kolawole dismissed the submissions made by Okah’s lawyer, Emeka Okoroafor and Oghenovo Otemu (for 2nd defendant) in respect of the application. While dismissing defendants’ no-case-submission, Kolawole held, “The prosecution has made out prima facie case through testimonies of witnesses which linked the defendants with the charges that require them to offer explanation.” Consequently, the court ordered the defendants to open their defence on July 5, 2017. On December 15, the defence team closed their case after calling seven witnesses. Meanwhile, Okah had urged the court to discharge and acquit him following the failure of the prosecution counsel to prove the Federal Government’s case against him. Similarly, lawyer to the 2nd defendant, Otemu, adopted his final address, urging the court to hold that the Federal Government had failed to prove its case against Nwabueze, due to contradictory extra-judicial statements of a prosecution witness. “My Lord, the PW2 in ‘trial-within-trial’ gave evidence that the 2nd defendant made voluntary statement on 18th, August 2010, at the headquarters of the SSS,” Otemu submitted. “This was corroborated by the prosecution witness; my lord, until now, that statement is not before this court and the prosecution tactically left it out. “This amounts to concealment of evidence.” He, therefore, urged court to hold that the concealed evidence was favourable to the 2nd defendant. On his part, the Federal Government’s counsel, Izinyon, while adopting his address, urged the court to convict the defendants as charged and sentenced accordingly. Izinyon described Okah as “a schemer and the facilitator of the terrorism act of October 1st, 2010.” He added, “The 1st defendant is likened to fox in a folk play. He is neck, head and toe deep in terrorism act.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.