Mrs. Nkechi Ali-Balogun is a name that rings a bell in the world of Public Relations (PR). She set up her own PR firm NECCI, 23 years ago after many years of heading the Corporate Affairs Unit of Nigerian Export-Import Bank (NEXIM). Nkechi indeed is a gifted strategist with intuitively creative abilities, she is always an in-demand industry facilitator, motivational speaker, and mentor in her career. Speaking in a recent interview in Lagos with INDEPENDENT, she explained that it is not easy to set up a personal business as one should be ready to suffer abandonment from former colleagues who would have been of help. “When you are about to set up your own business, you may think your colleagues will support you, but none will come to your aid as they will give you one reason or the other. But your ability to rise above this will give you an edge in your profession.” Stating that she has no regrets starting her own business, she added that when she   started, she discovered that there was a training gap in Public Relations. “I knew I was good in that area by virtue of my background, so, I focused on that. Also, beyond the start off capital, your passion and drive are two major factors that will keep you moving. I started my business from my house, way back then, I did not take any loan and I’m happy I took that decision,” she noted. On the other hand, she revealed that she has not seen any challenges in her career, but rather solutions. Explaining further, Mrs. Ali-Balogun who is also a motivational speaker and a former chairman of Nigeria Institute of Public Relations said: ‘I always say to myself that the best man for this job is a woman. I was always ready to speak up and I ensured there was inclusion of men and women on every committee. But, I work well with women, I relate with them in a positive and proactive manner. My company is standing tall today because of my ability to think locally as well as being global, coupled with content, creativity and innovation, which have taken us to greater heights.” Recalling her experience as the chairman of Nigeria Institute of Public Relations, she said it was a good one and added that the position humbled her. “To get to that level really humbled me because I remember how I started my career. I never knew I could take PR as a career, but when I did, I gave it everything I had. I am a very committed person. “So, the experience was indeed a nice one because I had the support of everybody in the chapter and it opened my eyes to so many things even though I was coming from the banking sector. That position gave me a new platform that enlarged whoever I was before I took over the position. It added much value to my life and exposed me the more. It gave me more knowledge and insight into the profession,” she noted. Also, she observed that more women are now into Public Relations unlike before when the profession was dominated by men. Explaining further, she said: “There are more men than women then because of their misconception about what PR is all about. But today Chief Executive Officers are becoming more knowledgeable coupled with the fact that PR experts are now beginning to show their mettle. They now realised that it is not a gender issue, but rather knowledge and skill.” During her working days in NTA and the banking sector, she recalled that she did not notice any form of gender-based discrimination against her. “I’ve never noticed that, I am not saying that it doesn’t exist, but it did not stop me from moving forward. Even while I was the Assistant Manager in a government establishment and for a long time I was not promoted, I was not deterred.” Speaking on the reason behind violence against women generally, the Public Relations expert blamed the situation on the patriarchy system in Nigeria where males hold authority over females. She regretted that women who should be in the forefront of correcting the situation are not doing much. Maintaining that women can play a vital role in the elimination of violence in the society, she said: “Women can start from parenting. Male children should not be made to realise that they are superior to the females. The boys should be taught how to cook and do   house cores just like the girls. “Women should recognise and accept what is listed as violence, when their sons batter their wives, they should speak against it,” she advised. Therefore, she stressed the need for women groups to form a critical mass of women that are ready to force government to fully domesticate signed international treaties such as the Convention on Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). According to her, if CEDAW is fully domesticated into local laws, it will eliminate   Gender –Based Violence (GBV) in the society as men who batter their wives will face the law. Delving into how she has been able to combine her career, motherhood and marital duties, she said:  “It is very simple. My family always come first. My career would not run away and it is not a do or die affair. I go by my pace and I run away from anything that would hurt my family. “I am a family woman and family is very important to me. There are ways you can balance your career and family life. “From when my daughter was in nursery school till she left for the boarding house, no driver picked her from school. Whether I was in a boardroom having a presentation or not, I must be in my daughter’s school to take her home. It may not be possible for some other mothers, but there are many retired teachers, female nurses that you can make arrangement with to take care of your child. There are many ways you can do it. “I am the first person to hear my daughter’s story after school. There is always a story after school and that is when you will know whether your child is doing well or not. Being a mother, a wife and a career woman is a choice that you will make. You just have to learn to balance it. I believe that my primary assignment is my family,” she added. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.