Uyo – Etido Inyang, the Chairman, Board of Directors, Ibom Power Company, has declared Governor Udom Emmanuel’s reelection bid come 2019, a done deal. Inyang said Governor Emmanuel’s approach to governance and rare leadership capacities in all spheres has left majority in the state with no alternative choice than to massively support Emmanuel’s reelection bid. Further advancing reasons for his expressed optimism, Inyang listed the building of substations and other power infrastructures across the state as investment fillip and economic stimulus, adding that the gains will soon become more visible. Inyang who noted that the state’s power sector has recorded significant leaps in the last two and a half years, maintained that the governor’s bold initiatives and significant commitment to turning around the fortunes of Akwa Ibom people as it concerns power cannot be faulted. His words “The governor is not just making efforts to light up the cities. He is as much committed to powering the hinterlands because these are where many industries will birth. It is a conscious drive to opening up new economic opportunities for sustainable development.” On the ongoing efforts at partnership between government and critical power stakeholders, he submitted that the context of such partnerships raises hopes of accelerated reforms and huge gains that will enhance overall service delivery to consumers. Commenting on the industrialisation policy of the present administration in the state, the IPC chairman faulted the clamour in some quotas that government should establish and run the industries since industrialization is the policy thrust of the administration. He considered such expectation as misplaced, as such is not a sustainable economic model anywhere in the world. “The governor is a visionary planner who is more interested in the sound verdict of the future than in the loud, but ephemeral ovations of today.  The governor’s industrialization race is on course; the metering company, on-going flour mill, syringe and coconut factories are key indicators of such drive”. He said 0 comments