Yola – Chief Emmanuel Bello, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Adamawa State, has announced his defection from the party from March 3, 2018. Addressing newsmen and his political associates in his residence in Jimeta, Yola, the state capital on Saturday night, Chief Bello said, “I am gladly defecting from APC and joining the Social Democratic Party (SDP) at my ward in Garkida in Gombi Local Government Area of the state.” Chief Bello maintained that after his relentless search for political serenity in Nigeria, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) has propelled on him an appropriate platform that is based on the ideology and philosophy of the founding fathers of Nigeria, hence the need for him to move away from the confusion of the APC. Chief Emmanuel Bello, a former member of the Federal House of Representatives at the platform of the now opposition PDP, explained that “SDP is a party that represents the philosophy, idea and fundamental political positions of Nigerians.” He said, “Since joining the Social Democratic Party, I have found great relief working with people of like minds and democrats who believe in the Nigerian projects than their personal interests at all time,” he boasted. On reasons he had earlier defected from the PDP where he won the election as a lawmaker, he explained thus, “I then moved to the APC to seek refuge and get social justice for my people in Adamawa State.” “I envisaged then that moving to the APC would help me realise my ambition to better the lots of our people in terms of growing unemployment, insecurity, breakdown of health system and complete collapse of the school and education infrastructure in the state,” he stated. He said, unfortunately, the hope, aspirations and desires were never realised in the APC even as another round of elections into public offices were around the corner in 2019. He lamented that, since he became a member of the APC in the state, he had never been invited for a meeting of any structure of the party, stressing that in technical terms, “the APC is dead in Adamawa as its relics are in the pocket of a few.” He added, “Today, the truth is that what is left of the APC, lacks cohesion and unity required to present a common front as, according to him, “it is obvious that we had strange -bed-mates in Adamawa State APC.” Bello expressed the hope that his broad based consultation among politicians with same ideology of the service to the people within the APC and outside the party has resulted in registering over a thousand members into SDP from the few local government areas so far visited. Commenting on the security situation of the state, Chief Bello blamed both the Federal and State governments of not allowing the ordinary citizens to sleep with their two eyes closed. He urged members of the National Assembly to wake up from their slumber and pressurise on the presidency to stop the persistent and the senseless violence of herders and farmers in the interest of peace and development. He however described the current lawmakers from Adamawa State as not doing enough to protect the interest of the common citizens who voted them in to the offices they are now occupying and urged them to stop sleeping but to face their constitutional obligations. Bello also cautioned Governor Mohammed Umaru Jibrilla to stop deceiving the electorate about the road construction in the state capital. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.