Emmanuel Ode, the Chief Executive of Dominion Global Logistics Limited, in this discussion with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on crucial issues concerning the nation’s economy. Excerpts: We understand that you were part of a business mission to France recently. What was the purpose of the mission? It was a trade mission organised by the Lagos Chamber for Commerce and Industries (LCCI) to France for some corporate organisations and individuals to attend the European Trade Exhibition in Paris, France. It is a yearly event organised by the Europain Group. Europain is the name of the trade exhibition where they showcase various technologies, technological inventions in manufacturing, trade in France. The purpose is that it is a forum where businessmen and women manufacturers in all sectors of the economy meet one-on-one to share ideas, partner and do a lot to enhance the growth and development of their businesses endeavours. The trade mission lasted from February 3  to February 7, 2018. What would you say were the features of the trade mission? It was a forum for businessmen from Africa and all over the world to share ideas and discuss how they can partner to improve or expand their business activities. Business growth is about connection, sharing of ideas, coming together to form a common front by which business is strengthened and enlarged to attain lofty heights. Such fora are keys to business growth and expansion. At this mission, there was a showcase of technological improvements in terms of production, seminars, conferences, exhibitions and business meetings. What was your impression of the exercise? It was a nice event. I have been. I have been attending this type of events. I have established new relationships and frontiers which are keys to our development. I have attended such events in several countries and this is an addition. As a businessman and entrepreneur, it opens one to opportunities in parts of the world, which we have to tap into to enlarge our coasts. Several people from Nigeria attended this even and we benefitted a lot from it for the good of our businesses and the Nigerian economy. Would you say that the mission achieved its purpose and objective? Yes. Even though we are yet to finalise our relationships with some of the interest groups and companies we entered into discussions with. On the whole, it is a very useful contact which will translate into rewarding business relationships in the nearest future. What would you say is the volume of trade between France and Nigeria? I am not in government circle. But, I think the business relationship between Nigeria and France is healthy. But, it is the government that can give details, either in the area of trade or manufacturing. But, there is a lot of business relationship between France and Nigeria, which I know that both countries are benefitting immensely from. After the trade mission, what is the next step for the participants? We have been communicating and discussing with companies and groups on how these relationships can be cemented. The essence is for us to grow our companies. I am certain that we are on the right path. What are the challenges doing business with foreigners and what could be done to boost trade between Nigeria and French businessmen? The challenges are not far-fetched from what the foreign media are talking about Nigeria.  Most information being dished out is not palatable to earn the trust of international communities in doing business with Nigerians. Once we approach them, their response is always very cautious in their willingness to do business with Nigerians. That is not to say that they are not willing. But, you can feel their reservations and caution. Having noticed such, we have to put our axe together to make them realise that we are real and our proposals are real and that we have the capacity to do a mutually beneficial business. Don’t you see some government’s policies as hindrance to doing business with foreigners? If we depend on government policies for what to do to further your business, you will be discouraged. For instance, February 2018 has come to an end and we are now in March. Up till now, we have not known of any policy direction of government for 2018. The 2018 national budget is still seeping at the National Assembly unattended to. So, when you are taking major business decisions, it has to be a cautious one because you do not know the direction of government. So, any major decision you are taking, id in due course, it is hampered by government policy, it will affect the business colossally and will also affect the resources put into it. This is because of the unhealthy and uncertain environment, business policies are made to slow down unnecessarily. The duty of government is to create conducive business environment for business to thrive. In so doing, business expansion will be achieved, which will generate employment for the teeming youths that will take them off the streets which will reduce their availability and proneness to crime, an adage says that an idle hand is the devil’s workshop. Government alone cannot absorb all the teeming youths in Nigeria. That is why the private sector has come to the rescue. When businesses are being stunted by lack of policy or near-no policy by government, it leads much to be desired. I therefore appeal to government to do something in this direction. Now that you have mentioned the budget, do you see the National Assembly passing the budget by March ending so that its implication can start at the second quarter of the year? The issue of budgeting is serious. Because government sees it as a yearly routine, they have not attached elements of seriousness it deserves. That is why every year, the budget is packaged haphazardly. That is why it creates problems at the committees at the National Assembly, thereby delaying the passage. I do not see this year’s budget as different from those of the previous years. One would have expected that the recession should have made it necessary for government to put all hands on deck to reverse the previous trends in budgeting to address squarely the recession, so that the suffering of Nigerians will be eased off. So, I do not see the National Assembly passing the budget until April or May. I know the National Assembly will tinker with the budget and there will be issues bordering with presidential assent. With the emphasis of the Federal Government now on agriculture, what products could be exported to France and other European countries to attract more foreign exchange to Nigeria? What agriculture are you talking about when the Fulani herdsmen have taken over the land for farming? This is worse in Benue, a state that is the nation’s food basket. The people are being killed and the farms are being destroyed. There is no farming going on there now. The menace is all over the country. Farmers are no longer free. They are gripped with fears. It is only in pages of newspapers that the government is talking about agriculture. Nothing is happening in the sector now, except destruction of farmlands and farm produce by the herdsmen and their cattle. The Nigerian government is not serious. The issue of herdsmen rampage is being handled with kid gloves by the government. I do not expect the killings and destruction by the herdsmen will stop in the nearest future. It will bring serious famine in Nigeria. At the end of the day, the government’s talks about agricultural export will be a mirage. Do you think the Federal Government has done enough to check the menace of the herdsmen? The Federal has not done much. People claim to be in government without an agenda. The current federal administration has nothing to offer Nigerians. For the first six months, the President could not appoint ministers. The government announced several road projects, but as I travel pats of the country, nothing has been happening on these projects, for which a lot of money had been budgeted. After four years, the projects will not be done and another government will re-award the contracts. So, this government has not been up and doing to check the menace of herdsmen, not only in the North Central, but in parts of the country. This is embarrassing. Now, they are all talking of second term, both at the Presidency and the state Government Houses, when people are being killed on daily basis. What is your take on the calls for the Federal Government to declare the Myetti Allah Cattle Rearers Association as a terror group? What are the characters of a terrorist? They have the characters of terrorists and the Federal Government should declare them terrorists. What would you suggest as the way forward to check the herdsmen and farmers’ clashes? The way forward is to ensure that the anti-open grazing laws are implemented to the letter and the farmers defended. The senseless killings must stop. I want to encourage well-meaning Nigerians to rise up to coerce government to action to ensure that this is done without delay. How you see the Federal Government’s resolve to establish cattle colonies in The issue of cattle colonies and ranching should not be discussed in the public domain. It concerns individuals or business people involved in the business of animal farming. It should not be the issues for the public or the government. It should concern people who took to that area of endeavour as business. I get worried that it has become a national issue that all and sundry, either in that area of business or not are now discussing. How many Nigerians are into cattle farming? To me, it is a negligible number. Why must an issue that concerns very few be a government and national matter? Is it right for government to buy land for cattle farmers? To me, it is wrong. Any government that has to do that should tell what shares Nigerian government or state governments have on that. So, why should ranching or cattle colonies be priorities to the people or government? It is not the business of government to buy and fund farm land for crop farmers or cattle farmers. The Federal Government should hands off the issue of setting up ranches or establishing cattle colonies for the herdsmen. The issue of ranching or cattle colonies is not that of government. What the Fulani are doing is animal husbandry, which is their own brand of farming. It is not the business of government to provide ranches of cattle colonies for them. Since it is their business, the Fulani should approach land owners to acquire lands for ranches. How do you see Federal Government’s policy on oil subsidy? I think the Federal Government should tell Nigerians the true state of affairs. The secrecy about the sale of petroleum products is becoming unhealthy. There is no product that the cost of landing cannot be determined. The uncertainty in the oil and gas industry is becoming more pronounced. It is high time this problem is solved once and for all if this government is really fighting corruption One of the cardinal programmes of the current administration is the development of infrastructure. Three years into the administration, what would you say is the state of infrastructure in the country? Government is not serious. They award contracts that run into billions of Naira and there is nothing to show. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) award contracts and it ends there. There is nothing to show. If the funds are not being d well spend, there should be physical infrastructures on ground for people to see. Nigerians are worst hit in terms of physical development. How do you see the efforts of the Laos State government in the area of infrastructure? We have seen massive efforts at development in Lagos. I hope this will translate to completion of projects embarked upon by the administration. However, every action of Nigerian politicians is not really intended for the benefit of the masses. It will therefore, not be totally wrong to say that this may be a ploy to secure the sympathy of Lagosians towards the 2019 election. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.