The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has guaranteed African Tourism Ministers of the best experience of Nigeria’s creative industry as the nation prepares to host them in June. Mohammed gave the guarantee at a meeting the ministers held on the sidelines of the ongoing International Travel Trade Fair (ITB) in Berlin, Germany on Thursday. Nigeria won the right to host UN World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO)/Commission for Africa (CAF) meeting scheduled to hold in Abuja from June 4 to June 6. A statement issued on the meeting of the Ministers in Berlin was made available to newsmen in Abuja by Mr Segun Adeyemi, the Special Adviser to the Nigerian Minister. According to the statement, Mohammed personally extended the invitation to the ministers, assuring them that they would experience the best in the area of the Creative Industry, where Nigeria’s competitive advantage is widely acknowledged. ”I have tried to contact, individually, every Minister. “I have sent an email to every Minister, reminding them of the meeting and assuring them that we will leave no stone unturned to host a very successful meeting. ”The truth is that no matter the level of preparation that is made, if you are not there, it is not a success. “So, I really wish to appeal to all of us to please attend the CAF meeting in June,” the Minister said, shortly after handing over the invitation letters to his African colleagues. The minister also has urged the global tourism body, UNWTO, to involve African Heads of State in its plan to rebrand the continent and make it more attractive to global tourists. Contributing to the debate on the UNWTO’s  rebranding process for Africa in Berlin, he said Ministers other than those of tourism should also be involved. ”The UNWTO could make Presidents and Heads of State from across Africa honorary Champions of Tourism as a way to get them involved. “There could also be a forum where UNWTO will invite other ministers, including those of Finance, Budget and Planning, Health, Interior, Foreign Affairs, Infrastructure and Agriculture.” The minister urged his colleagues to come and hear firsthand information on how tourism impacted their various portfolio. ”Tourism is the barometer through which the world will feel the temperature of any country. “There is no area of governance that is left untouched by tourism.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.