Now that our protesting Ahiara Catholics have succeeded in drawing the attention of the world to their foolishness and unruly behaviour which has led to the resignation of Most Rev (Dr.) Peter Okpalaeke, Bishop of Ahiara Diocese, Mbaise, Imo State, what will be their next line of action, since the meaning of the universality of the church is completely lost on them?  Will they still be thinking that the rest of the Catholic Church will, henceforth, hold them in any esteem? To serve as a background, permit me to refresh the memories of some of our readers on the issue between the Catholic Church led by the papacy and some misguided so-called Catholics from Ahiara diocese. Upon the death of Bishop Victor Chikwe, the pioneer bishop of the Ahiara Diocese, the papacy appointed a Catholic priest, Rev. Peter Okpalaeke, who hails from Awka, in Anambra State, to serve as the bishop of the diocese in 2012. However, six years after Bishop Okpalaeke’s appointment, he remained outside of the diocese as a section of Mbaise priests, backed by a segment of the laity, continued to oppose his choice by the pope. On June 8, 2017, Pope Francis, in a show of papal authority issued a seemingly unprecedented threat, giving the priests of the Diocese of Ahiara a marching order to either write to him within 30 days, promising “total obedience,” or face suspension. In the letter, the Pope mandated every priest from Mbaise nation, whether residing at home or abroad, to write a personal letter of apology and allegiance pledging their loyalty and promising to accept the bishop he had appointed. It was also reported that following the instructions of His Holiness, Pope Francis, during the months of June and July 2017, over 200 letters from individual priests of the Diocese of Ahiara, in which they manifested to him, obedience and fidelity, were received by the pope. So, taking into account their repentance, the Holy Father decided not to proceed with the canonical sanctions. Every priest was urged to reflect on the grave damage inflicted on the Church of Christ and expressed hope that in the future, they will never again, repeat such unreasonable actions, opposing a Bishop legitimately appointed by the supreme pontiff. The rest, as they say, is now history as Okpalaeke recently resigned his appointment as the ordinary of the diocese. In his place the Bishop of Umuahia, Most Rev. Lucius Iwejuru Ugorji, was appointed the Apostolic Administrator. For sure, these people are not sorry and are not genuinely repentant. After over six years, they should not be trusted. Their arrogance, self-glorification and open celebration on the news of the bishop’s resignation must not be ignored. What one finds particularly disgusting and irritating is why these people think they can hold the church to ransom. At the heat of the crisis in 2017 they had arrogantly told the world that they have produced several priests scattered all over the world and so the church must pick one of them to be bishop of the diocese. However, given their well-documented penchant for pulling others down and petition writing, this should not come as a surprise. In responding to the position of the church hierarchy in Nigeria, who fully backed the choice of Okpalaeke by the pope, a priest of the diocese was reported to have said, “We are not disobeying the Pope and we cannot disobey the Pope. What we are saying is that we should not be suppressed. They are subverting the truth. They are shielding the Pope from the truth. Let the right thing be done. If someone says that Catholic priests in Ahiara Diocese are not up to 700, in America alone we have over 70 priests ordained there, we have many of us ordained in other parts of the world. Here in the diocese, over 40 deacons have been denied ordination since the saga started.” What a shame! Indeed, many are called but few are chosen. How were they sounding to themselves when they were making this demand? Who told them that it was priests of these quality that made the church what it is today. That they produce millions of priests is no use to the church if all they are doing is breeding division along ethnic lines and tribal sentiments. Who needs this quality of priests in the church, anyway? How would they feel if any of them were to leave that diocese for any other and be rejected? After all there are several of them serving as parish priests within and outside the country. What if the people of these areas refuse to accept them? They are simply not attuned to the very nature of the church which makes it unique and what it is. If these priests are not satisfied let them quit and go into politics. They are no good to the church. Until now, many Catholics do not really bother where their clergy are from except those who have ulterior motives. Why should they attempt to bring division in the body of Christ and still claim to be Christians? They should begin to place emphasis on the quality and not quantity of the priests they churn out because they are clearly not serving the church any good. For God’s sake Okpalaeke is from neighbouring Anambra State. What would have happened if the Pope had appointed somebody from Sokoto, Kano or even Ghana? In order not to give a false sense of victory to those shameless members who might think they have had their way with the resignation of the bishop, the papacy should ensure that no priest from Ahiara is made substantive bishop of the diocese both now and in the future and that those who were part of the rebellious group, as clergies, never rise to become bishops of the church. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.