Dutse – Babura Local Government Council was thrown into confusion yesterday, when a Custom Officer, attached to Babura-Baure border post, in an attempt to scuttle a smuggled 15 prado jeep to one Umaru Musa Babban Mutum, shot dead the smuggler. Umaru, it was gathered argued with the customs officer, over the seizure of the car and along the line, one of the officers fired at the driver, who was hit on the leg. But, it was speculated that  no fewer than 500 people mobilized, stormed Katsina, attacked some customs checkpoints and eventually set the points ablaze, where four cars were belonging to the officers  were burnt. Mohammed Ibrahim Zaki, Chairman, Babura LGC told our correspondent that the mob went to the police station threatening to burn the place down, until the DPO convinced them that there wasn’t any  custom official in their custody. The deceased has buried by his relatives at Babban Mutum under Baure local government area of Katsina state, a distance of five kilometers from Babura town. When contacted the Jigawa/Kano area command comptroller of customs for further comment proves abortive as the comptroller was not in office. Contacted  the Public Relations Officer to the command,  Malam  Isah Danbaba confirmed the incident  saying “We are in the process of investigating  the matter , assuring  Kano head office of the Nigerian Custom services will made its stance public shortly” A source in the command who spoke to our reporter on condition of anonymity said “it was really unfortunate; the angry mob burnt five of our utility and personal vehicles of our officers during the rampage. Also all our camps and check points were attacked during the incidence. The source maintained that “the man was a perpetual smuggler who often smuggled cars illegally into the country without paying custom duties as proscribed by law. “The failed paid custom duties of the said  illegal smuggled brand 16 Prado jeep stood at over fifty million naira, adding for god  sake how  do you expect this to go unchecked denying federal government  internally generated revenue, stressing this  is economic sabotage which  could not allow to  go unchecked” Meanwhile, normalcy has returned to the ancient town as security operatives and the council officials of the area have since swing into action in ensuring that peace prevail, and people be allow to continue with their routine businesses, as confirmed by the Council Chairman, Muhammad Ibrahim. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.