At least 64 people have been killed and dozens injured in fire at a shopping centre in Russia. A further 16 people were still missing after flames broke out at the four-storey Winter Cherry mall in the city of Kemerovo in Siberia, according to Russian Emergencies Minister Vladimir Puchkov. The fire was extinguished in the morning after burning through the night. Parts of the building were still smouldering and the floors of the cinema hall had caved in in places, another emergency official said. Up to 41 children could be among the victims, the BBC reported. Television pictures showed people jumping from the windows of the mall, which was engulfed in black smoke. The fire started in a part of the shopping centre that contained an entertainment complex and a cinema. In two of the halls that formed part of the cinema, the ceiling apparently collapsed, according to the BBC. The exact cause of the blaze is not yet known but authorities have launched a criminal investigation. Russian state investigators said four people had been detained over the fire, including the owners and leasers of outlets inside the shopping mall. The Investigative Committee, which handles major crimes, said it was trying to bring in the centre’s principal owner for questioning. Kemerovo, a coal-mining centre in Siberia, is located 3,600 km (2,200 miles) east of Moscow. The shopping centre opened in 2013 and also included a petting zoo, children’s center and bowling alley. Russian President Vladimir Putin, elected to a new term last weekend, spoke by telephone with the governor of the Kemerovo region and with the head of the Emergencies Ministry. The Russian president “expressed his deep condolences to the relatives and loved ones of those who died”, the Kremlin said in a statement. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.