Lagos – The Federal Government on Sunday said it was willing to continue engaging the Boko Haram insurgents in meaningful dialogue on the release of hostages and broader engagement of conflict mitigation such as reduction of violence, possibility of ceasefire, protection of civilians and increased humanitarian access. This is the first time the government has said it is talking to Boko Haram about a ceasefire in an insurgency that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged the North East. President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has, however, repeatedly said it is willing to hold talks with the group. Addressing journalists in Lagos, Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, also said the government would continue in its efforts to account for the remaining six students who were still missing following the February 19 abduction of students of Government Girls Science and Technical Secondary School, Dapchi, Yobe State. He said: “We thank all Nigerians for their support and prayers. We are grateful for their belief in the ability of this government to secure an early release of the girls. “We will continue with the ongoing efforts to account for the remaining six Dapchi girls, and indeed to bring back our remaining Chibok girls. “In the words of Mr. President, this administration remains committed to the fight against terrorism and insurgency. “The security services have since been directed to put in place further measures around all schools vulnerable to attacks to ensure the safety of pupils/students and teachers and school workers. “The president has also tasked all the security agencies to work to ensure that we do not witness any recurrence of these incidents. “Let me emphasise the government’s position that while the military efforts are necessarily ongoing, we are willing to continue engaging in a meaningful dialogue which is not only about the release of hostages, but intended as a broader engagement on conflict mitigation (reduction of the violence, possibility of ceasefire, protection of civilians, increased humanitarian access). “Government is therefore willing to engage on measures which can lead to stopping the bloodshed and finding long-lasting solutions to the conflict.” The minister also described as fake a viral news of a certain Nigerian Christian soldier, Sergeant David Bako, from the Middle Belt, Plateau State, who revealed how the Dapchi schoolgirls kidnap drama was plotted and executed. In an email sent to a Paris based news outlet, the said Sergeant David Bako said the plot was planned and rehearsed for two weeks by Buhari’s loyalists in the army of which he was one. He said the desperation by Buhari to rule Nigeria for another four years drove him on to employ all means to make sure he remains in power. Alhaji Mohammed who described the news as disinformation and fake news, said there was no soldier bearing the name, David Bako, in the Nigerian army, adding that the intention of those behind the fake news was to cause disaffection between Christian and Muslims. While urging Nigerians, especially the media, to be wary of fake news being bandied about, the minister who said many nay-sayers who were desperate to unseat President Muhammadu Buhari were behind the fake news, added that the administration’s prompt response in securing the release of the girls was causing nay-sayers a lot of heartaches. “Let me use this opportunity to react to the fake news making the rounds concerning a supposed Sergeant in the Nigerian army, named David Bako, who said he was part of an alleged conspiracy by the government to abduct the Dapchi girls. “This is a classic example of what I have just said: Disinformation and fake news! I can tell you categorically that this David Bako is fake. There is no such soldier in the Nigerian army. “There was no conspiracy anywhere. The intention of those behind the disinformation and fake news is to cause disaffection between Christians and Muslims, and between Southerners and Northerners. “This administration’s success in seeking an early release of the Dapchi girls has ruffled many feathers. It has upturned a lot of plans by naysayers. They have not been able to sleep since the girls came back. “Their campaign to unseat President Buhari is fuelling their desperation. Nigerians should prepare to see more avalanche of disinformation and fake news. But they should not lend any credibility to such reports. They belong to the trash can!” Mohammed said. The minister also revised upwards the number of kidnapped Dapchi schoolgirls as well as the number of released girls. Last week, he said a total of 106 abducted persons, comprising of 104 Dapchi schoolgirls, one other girl and a boy were freed by the insurgents. But on Sunday, the minister reviewed upwards the figure of abducted persons based on “a lot of developments.” “Gentlemen, a total of 111 girls were abducted from the Government Girls Secondary and Technical College (GGSTC) in Dapchi on February 19, 2018. “That means one student was not captured on the list of 110 abducted students that was compiled by the school, on the basis of which the Federal Government gave the number of abducted schoolgirls as 110”, he said. “Also kidnapped were two other persons, who are not students of the college. They include a primary school boy who came to the school to sell pure water and another primary school girl. That brings the total number of abducted persons on that day to 113. “So far, a total of 107 persons, comprising 105 Dapchi schoolgirls and the two non-students, have been released by the insurgents. “Six Dapchi schoolgirls are yet unaccounted for. All efforts will be made to secure their release,” he said. Also shedding light on why the girls were promptly released in contrast to their counterparts in Chibok who were kidnapped in 2014, the minister who insisted that no ransom was paid to the insurgents by the Federal Government, said it was due to the directive given to the security agencies to do everything possible in rescuing the girls as well as collaboration from international mediators. “As I have said at many fora, we neither paid ransom nor swapped any Boko Haram member to secure the release of the girls. This is a fact, irrespective of how a section of the press has tried to spin the story. “The insurgents brought the girls back to the location of the kidnapping themselves as an apparent gesture of goodwill, following relentless efforts by the government to find long-lasting solutions to the conflict. “Recall that President Muhammadu Buhari had directed all security agencies to do everything possible to bring the girls back unharmed. That dictated the method we adopted. Back-channel talks with our international friends as mediators, and the result was the release of the girls”, the minister said. He also added that the quick release of the girls was made possible owing to the swift response of the president when the news broke compared to how former President Goodluck Jonathan reacted when the Chibok abduction happened in 2014. “As I have said time and again, there is no government that will not face tragedies. What makes the difference is how such tragedies are managed. “President Buhari put this in perspective when he said the response of his administration is a marked departure from the attitude of the preceding administration in the aftermath of the kidnap of the 276 Chibok girls in 2014.” 3 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.