“We cannot prevent the black birds of evil from flying over our heads, but we can prevent them from building their nets in our hairs” – Chinese Proverb Given all of Westerhof’s achievement while in Nigeria, it is without doubt that he had not have a track record when he was appointed and it showed. In any event, most of Westerhof’s excellent work was done off the pitch, especially in exposing our players to the world of football and managing the team. That is not to take away his achievements of winning all the laurels in the CAF Nations’ Cup, especially his exploit of Tunisia ’94; playing back the tapes of Nigeria – Zambia where Nigeria won the gold fourteen years after 1980 victory during President Shehu Shagari’s administration en route US ‘94 FIFA World Cup for the very first time ever, though, his technical deficiencies were there for all to see at the period of all his crucial matches! In other words, the Dutchgerian was a better tactician than all the foreign managers and our locals put together in sequence. The way and manner with which coach Westerhof treated Nigerian local and foreign players was a yardstick with which he succeeded immensely. He succeeded in building the players, developing them and enhancing their professional careers abroad. What this development actually produced was positioning the Super Eagles of Nigeria in a very vantage position in Africa nay the world. At a time, the Eagles were rated first position in Africa and fifth on FIFA’s chart. But today, the story is quite different. The Eagles remained a deadly, invincible and indomitable team that every strong football nation would like to trade tackles with to earn FIFA’s respect. Nigeria became the bride of World class football, and Nigerian players were in hot demand across the globe, even though, Westerhof had no strong coaching antecedent before he was brought into Nigeria by late Chief S. B. Williams of blessed memory! When the present NFF President, Amaju Melvin Pinnick resumed the Abuja Glasshouse, he sounded a warning that he will have nothing to do with indigenous coaches, then, late Stephen Keshi was in charge of the Eagles. Before his arrival, the national team was already in shambles with little or nothing to write home about the Eagles. The reign of Pinnick and Keshi was not palatable, even though, the Ilah born coach won the 2013 CAF Nations’ Cup hosted in South Africa, the duo relationship had already gone sour considering all the misgivings during the CAF tournament proper in South Africa where he was almost sacked before Nigeria won the championship by providence. Alas, the NFF sacked Keshi for playing a double standard position with the Ivorian FA over a coaching contract of the Ivorian national team whilst still with the Eagles. Keshi was investigated and was subsequently sacked for that offence. Pinnick having thrown Keshi away with ignominy, employed the self styled “Pep” of Africa (In Amaju’s emphasis) coach Sunday Oliseh in the most shady circumstance, paid him three months salary up front without the consent of some of the F.A members and the Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung, who was aggrieved over the actions of Pinnick. Even the antecedent of Dalung over the issue really did not help matters concerning the growth of Nigerian football since his ministerial appointment. Coach Oliseh came into Nigeria from Belgium and further destroyed Nigeria’s football, quarreled with all the players, his crew members and the NFF officials. He succeeded in chasing away our most dependable pair of safe hands, Vincent Enyeama. I have no doubt in my mind that as the Eagles of Nigeria stand now under Gernot Rohr, Enyeama has not got a replacement in the team! The exit of Enyeama from the Eagles as it were was due to the arrogance of Oliseh, his temperament, pride and personal aggrandisement also cost Nigeria the failure for Equatorial Guinea AFCON qualification. At the end, “the Pep” of Africa absconded Nigeria! Pinnick reluctantly employed German Rohr for the Eagles when it was dawn on him that Nigerians had divorced their national team and every football bed fellow in the country was ready to start throwing stones at the Glasshouse for consistent abysmal performance in every match the team had always played with all minnow countries reducing Nigeria to tatters! The Eagles no longer fly as it were having their wings clipped beyond redemption. Thank God for Rohr, who came and started on a good note even amidst criticism that trailed his credentials and the last country (Niger) where he worked before coming to Nigeria. The same trend of criticism that greeted Westerhof during his time, which also spurred him to success. But Nigerians must not forget one good reason that the criticism helped to make Westerhof. Having said this, Westerhof had a good NFA Chairman, Sports Minister and a football loving Military President! This is wishing Rohr’s Eagles well in their quest to come out in flying colours in Russia 2018. Perhaps, to surpass the record of 1994! 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.