The Organised Private Sector (OPS), comprising the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines & Agriculture (NACCIMA), Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), National Association of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (NASME) and National Association of Small Scale Industries (NASSI), yesterday kicked against the proposed hike of Land Use Charge Law (LUCL) hike by Lagos Stage government.
OPS which represents businesses and enterprises of all sizes in all sectors of the economy, has a membership strength of over 15, 000 enterprises in Nigeria.
In a statement issued by body, the sector said no one will argue over the need to review upward the land use charge, given the fact that no increase has been effected since 2002.
“Though, due to government’s negligence by not exercising the right granted it by the law to review every five years. So, our issue is not about whether a review is necessary or not.
“However, in reviewing the rates, we totally disagree with the huge increase which the new law has imposed on tax payers. Nobody put money aside or save to pay tax. Hence, an increase, the very minimum of which is 200 per cent for some fortunate few is totally out of question. Would rental income go up by 200 per cent? Would existing lease contract be reviewed for the landlord to be able to pay this new rate? Certainly not. So, where would you want the tax payer to source the income to pay this tax?
The statement further stressed the need for Lagos state government to retain the old base percentage.
“The doubling of the base rate and the unusual increase in the assessed market rate of the property are steps that have led to the punitive increase in the demand notice slammed on the tax payers. We strongly recommend the retention of the old base percentage applicable, while the assessed market value should be discounted by not less than 50%. Even at this, the net effect of the increase in the rate payable should not be more than 100% of the rate paid in 2017.”
OPS said the severe sanctions/penalties in the LUCL should be reduced and advised Lagos state government to place more emphasis on expanding the tax net to cover over 400,000 property owners that have not been paying the land use charge rather than overtaxed the responsible residents that have been fulfilling their civic responsibilities.
“While we recognise the power of the sovereign to rule and govern, we will, however, caution against a non-consensual pronouncement which will not assuage the pains and agony of the residents. We, therefore, trust that His Excellency’s pronouncements will bring to an end the pervasive and growing agitations that have trailed the introduction of the Land Use Charge Law, 2018,” OPS cautioned. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.