Abuja – In 2017 alone, about 2,400 Nigerian migrants died while trying to get to Europe. Others were abducted or abused, sold by one human-trafficking group to another or forced into hard labour. This revelation was recently made known by the Mandate Secretary, Social Development Secretariat (SDS), Alhaji Oladimeji Ali Hassan, during a sensitisation workshop organised for youths in the Federal Capital Territory. The theme of the workshop, which focused on curbing illegal migration in Nigeria, was, ‘Youth and the Challenges of Illegal Migration.’ According to Ali-Hassan, the programme seeks to expose the hazards involved in such illegal venture into which not a few young people have keyed. “Migration, both legal and illegal, involves exit of people from home; and when the youths are involved this means loss of the manpower required to harness the untapped resources of our nation,” he said. He noted that the reason given by illegal migrants for venturing into such high-risk movement is the harsh economic condition in Nigeria. He stressed however that as challenging as the state of the economy may be, that alone is not a justifiable excuse for the youths to expose themselves to the dangers involved in embarking on such tortuous journey across the Sahara Desert and the Mediterranean Sea. “Not all the travelers are lucky to reach their destinations alive as many ended up in modern slavery,” he said. According to reports, Nigerian illegal migrants on this illicit route may be charged up to N450, 000 by human traffickers for a trip that may even cost the life of the immigrant. “Meanwhile, this amount, if used properly, is enough to set up a small scale business in Nigeria,” he said. Ali-Hassan therefore called on relevant government and non-governmental organizations to key into the sensitization effort of educating the citizenry concerning the dangers of illegal migration and the need to look inwards for solutions into the challenges being faced by young people in Nigeria. In his welcome address on the occasion, the Director, Youth Development Department, Mr. Ereodichukwu Anulunko, said the recent cases of torture, killings and enslavement of young Nigerians in Libya calls for deep reflection on the part of the youths. “There is need for young people to look inwards so as to use their potentials to realise their dreams in Nigeria,” he admonished. He added that Nigeria is a land of abundant resources, which are not yet tapped, saying it is only those who invest their energies in tapping these resources that can harness them for their individual as well as national development. Anulunko stressed that Nigeria is a nation endowed with abundant human and natural resources, saying that a little effort by the youths to tap into these resources will go a long way in improving their living standard. It will also help them to meet their needs with little or no reason to look outside the country for greener pasture, he said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.