Asaba – Twenty-six years old man, Monday Johnson has been arrested by a police team of Dragon Patrol while trying to escape after an alleged successful kidnap operation in Jesse town, Delta State. The Delta State Commissioner of Police, Muhammad Mustafa said he was arrested after a tip-off following the arrest of the first suspect, Umukafe Obakparoro whom the victim’s Toyota Camry was recovered from. He said Monday Johnson of 51, Ugbede Street, Mosogar, was arrested along Orerokpe Road and two locally made guns were recovered from him before being handed over to SARS and later SAKCCS. While admitting to the crime, Monday Johnson said he joined armed robbery about a year ago and kidnapping in September last year. According to him, he is a guru in the workings of computer and computer software, explaining that he was working with one Saco Computer Stores in Sapele where he was introduced to kidnapping. He said two guys, Victor and Emma were always coming to flash phones in their shop and they got acquainted. He hinted that the shop was booming because of him but later left when the boss’ wife began to accuse him of diverting money from sales of computer accessories and repairs. “Before I left, I had become friend with Victor and Emma who then introduced me to armed robbery. We later started kidnapping in September last year. And so far, I had partaken in three kidnap operations where we got N650, 000; N850, 000 and N1.5 million respectively. Speaking further, the young suspect who talked authoritatively on computer operations, said they were using two software to survey their locations before kidnapping. He said Network Monitor would enable them to find network when switched on in a location where there is no network, while Network Jam was always useful in shutting down network when switched on in a location where there is no network. The young suspect confirmed being caught with one cut to size gun, his laptop and tracking software along Orerokpe Road on his way to Warri. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.