Lagos – International Monetary Fund (IMF) on Wednesday asked Nigeria to simplify its complex foreign exchange system by removing multiple currency practices and unifying the exchange rate as quickly as possible just as it recommended an immediate removal of restrictions on foreign exchange access for 41 categories of goods. This was among recommendation of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the concluded Article IV consultation with Nigeria. The Fund said that the complex foreign exchange system was used to reduce the impact of dollar shortages, which has left large gaps between official rates and various windows that certain groups can use to access other rates. The report said the Fund recommends “removing multiple currency practices and unifying the exchange rate as quickly as possible”. It said the move would increase confidence, remove market distortions, and increase transparency. “Exchange rate unification for all transactions and interventions should be supported by sound macroeconomic and structural policies. The unification would increase confidence, remove market distortions, and increase transparency, including in public financial reporting”, the report stated. The exchange rate policy, according to foremost economist, Rewane Bismarck, has helped Nigeria to build capacity in healthcare, food and education. “There are more people educating their children today than before. So, that is a response to an adjustment. The adjustment should be holistic. What the IMF has said in the report that the economy is still vulnerable did not come to me as a surprise. “Restriction or no restriction, every day I eat basmati rice myself. You know basmati rice is on the restriction list. If we are growing rice and people can get it at N11,000 nobody will tell me which one to buy. “Our total non-oil export was $382 million last year. That is through intervention. It is all that took us down and oil has brought us out. Let’s use the policy to support the economy”, he said. Though it agreed that the restriction on FX for 41 categories of products has been successful in increasing competitiveness of targeted local industries and reducing imports, the report, however, said the CBN should consider such restrictions to be temporary. “The removal would help eliminate the parallel market premium in a sustainable manner, and could encourage investments in certain industries, in particular, where banned items are used as intermediate goods. “Distortions also arise from capital flow management (CFM) measures—such as payment limits on naira-denominated credit cards for overseas transactions, a repatriation/surrender requirement on export proceeds, and the prohibition of FX purchases in the official market for foreign currency bond and share investments—which should be removed …to help eliminate the parallel market premium in a sustainable manner, and could encourage investments in certain industries, in particular, where banned items are used as intermediate goods”. Commenting, Rewane said multiple exchange rates breed corruption and it is inefficient. “So we need unified exchange rates and exchange rate policy that is flexible such that when our resources are robust they will appreciate and when they are deficient they will equally depreciate and bring about equilibrium. Foreign exchange market is a market and we have the resources to do it now. If we cannot do it now we may not be able to do it later”, Rewane said. The report also called for strengthening of external buffers to reduce potential risks from capital reversals and uncertainties surrounding oil prices. “At end-December 2017, gross reserves of $39 billion would represent about 100 percent of the IMF reserve adequacy metric, adjusted for an oil buffer—which is based on plausible risks to exports, short-term debt, portfolio flows and capital flight—compared to a recommended level of 100 to 150 percent according to this metric”, the report added. However, the report added that Nigeria was slowly exiting recession but remains vulnerable because its growth is tied to oil prices with improved revenues restricted to the energy and agriculture sectors. Cyril Ampka, an Abuja-based economist, said it is no more a news item that Nigeria’s economy is still vulnerable. “The country exited recession with a fragile recovery and the recent Q4 2017 GDP report by the NBS also attested to the fact that the economy is still vulnerable”, he said. However, it added that all these factors have not yet boosted non-oil non-agricultural activity, brought inflation close to the target range, contained banking sector vulnerabilities, or reduced unemployment. A higher fiscal deficit driven by weak revenue mobilisation amidst still tight domestic financing conditions has raised bond yields, and crowded out private sector credit. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.