Abuja – People’s Democratic Party (PDP), has enjoined the presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to be ready to answer to Nigerians over what appears to be stage-managed abduction and rescue of Dapchi girls in Yobe State rather than lash out at the opposition and observant members of the public on the matter. The party made this response after APC and the presidency condemned PDP over its allegations on Wednesday that the return of the Dapchi girls abducted and held in captivity for 32 days was stage managed by the ruling party as a means of shoring up Buhari’s image ahead 2019 general election. Lai Mohammed, Minister for Information, Tourism and Culture, in his response to the opposition party had offered a crash course on opposition politicking having himself been a spokesman of the APC when it was in the opposition. But in a press statement signed by Kola Ologbodiyan, PDP explained that it owes the public the duty to tell the truth on matters of national importance. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has told the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government that it will always reply its lies with facts and continue to be firm on the side of the people as always. “The party also told Lai Mohammed that it does not need his so-called crash course on opposition politics as such will be full of advanced syllabus on lies, falsehood, deception, and propaganda, which are patent trademarks of the APC and its controlled Federal Government. PDP national publicity secretary said that the Federal Government should rather hide its face in shame, having been busted in its numerous lies in governance, the latest being its complicity in the abduction and return of the Dapchi School girls. “We hope Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the APC as well as the Federal Government are following the reactions and comments of Nigerians on this latest ruse and noting how their party and government are being mocked. “Lai Mohammed need not be in a hurry to defend his dishonest and dysfunctional government as he would soon have more than enough to chew. “This administration will at the appropriate time provide an answer to allegations that while the nation sorrow, agents of the APC are busy in financial rackets and criminal round-tripping of ransoms, in foreign currencies, to service APC interests. “The minister should be ready to explain, at the appropriate time, those behind the transactions, who got what and under what agreements, as well as the truth behind allegations of clandestine deals with insurgents. “Our promise to the APC, the Federal Government and of course, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, is that the PDP will never condescend to lies, deception and propaganda as we do not have any need for that,” Ologbodiyan said. 3 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.