Yenagoa – Daniel Iworiso-Markson, Bayelsa State Information and Orientation Commissioner, has called on his Ogbia kinsmen to sustain the peace and unity engendered by the Governor Dickson Unity Cup Football Competition which ended at the weekend in Ogbia Kingdom.
He said the sustenance of peace and brotherliness in Ogbia Local Government Area would attract more development to the area for the benefit of all.
Iworiso-Markson, who was the promoter of the ‘Ogbia Challenge 2018’ said in a statement on Sunday in Yenagoa that the successful hosting of the event had shown that the people of Ogbia are united for peace, security and development. He thanked Governor Seriake Dickson for providing a stable leadership in the state which allowed for such communal event to take place without rancour. He also commended the governor for fulfilling his promise of reconstructing the Imiringi and Opume bridges and internal roads, among others, which have made Ogbia a huge construction site. Iworiso-Markson also expressed immense appreciation to the Deputy Governor, Rear Admiral John Jonah (rtd),‎ for gracing the final match as a Special Guest of Honour, as well as the Secretary to the State Government, Kemela Okara. He equally commended all political appointees from Ogbia, the council chairman, Naomi Ogoli, for her role in the competition, the monarch of Ogbia Kingdom, chairman and members of the Opume Council of chiefs and members of the Ogbia Restoration Caucus. ‎He also appreciated the efforts of the governor’s Senior Special Assistant on Youths in Ogbia, Ossanya B. Osaanya, who led all youths, including the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) in Ogbia, to show solidarity and support for the competition in all the communities leading up to the final. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.