The Governing Council of the University of Osun says it will implement the “no-work-no-pay’’  policy against striking members of its Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) if they failed to resume work on April 10. Mr Gafar Shittu, the Registrar and Secretary to the Council stated this in Osogbo on Tuesday in a statement. Shittu said that any non-academic staff who fails to return to work on or before April 10 would no longer be paid. It would be recalled that the non-teaching staff under the aegis of the Joint Action Committee (JAC)  had on March 5 embarked on an indefinite strike over non-payment of earned allowances among other demands. The Registrar said that a  register of attendance would be opened in every college and departments for non-teaching staff members who are willing to resume work immediately. Shittu, however, said that the council had agreed during its emergency meeting on Monday that the N300 million balance of the 2014/2015 Earned Allowance would be paid in instalments at N10 million monthly beginning from April 30. “It is apposite to state at this juncture that the University has been unable to pay the Earned Allowance because of the shortfall in its finances. “Nevertheless, of the total sum of N524 million being the cost of the accrued allowances for the 2013/2014 and 2014/2015, N224 million has since been paid while the university is not owing to any arrears of salary till date. ‘‘It is on this note that the management reiterates its long-standing appeal to the striking non-teaching staff to return to work and join once again in the arduous task of the growth and development of the university,’’ he said. Reacting to the development, Mr Isaiah Fayemi, the university’s NASU Chairman, said the Joint Action Committee (JAC) of the institution would meet later in the day to decide the next line of action. “We are presently in the state House of Assembly premises but once we are through, JAC will meet to take a position on the issue,” Fayemi said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.