Here are the major headlines for today, 6th March 2018 from Independent Newspapers, one of the leading Nigerian newspapers: Nigeria’s 2019 Election  Our Major Priority — U.S. Help Salvage Liberia’s Economy, George Weah Begs Buhari President George Weah of Liberia met President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday and practically appealed for financial assistance from the Nigerian government… Read More » #FreeTonyEzimakor: OURMUMUDONDO To Occupy DSS HQ Wednesday The civil society organisation, OURMUMUDONDO Movement, led by Charles Oputa, a.k.a. Charly Boy, has vowed to occupy the headquarters of Department of State Services… Read More » Smile Alleges Lack Of Due Process In Sale Of 9mobile Teleology Holdings Limited has emerged the preferred bidder for 9mobile and has been asked to deposit $50 million in March, according to reports… Read More » NNPC Reduces Cost Of Producing Crude To $20 The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has brought down the cost of producing a barrel of crude oil to $20 even as it now targets producing the black gold… Read More » Eni, Shell Trial Over Kickbacks Postponed Till May A trial for oil giants Eni and Shell over bribery and corruption allegations in the purchase of an offshore oilfield in Nigeria was delayed for two months on Monday, reports AFP… Read More » Oyegun-Led NWC Tenure Elongation A Done Deal — APC The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday said while it is true that it has fixed another National Executive Council (NEC) meeting for this month, the controversy… Read More » Blame Yourselves For Nation’s Bad Situation, OBJ Tells Nigerians Former President Olusegun Obasanjo celebrated his 81st birthday on Monday and used the opportunity to tell Nigerians that they were the architects of their own fate… Read More » Don’t Divert $1bn Agriculture Fund  To Politics, NANTS Cautions FG… Read More » DPR Sanctions 39 Filling Stations For Profiteering… Read More » Africa’s Learning Crisis May Fail To Eliminate Extreme Poverty – World Bank… Read More » I Knew Another Abduction Will Take Place After Chibok Saga –Chidoka…Read More » George Weah, NNPC, 2019 Election, President Buhari, Shell, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, APC, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, DPR, World Bank 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.