The Upper Chamber of the National Assembly yesterday passed the Digital Rights and Freedom Bill, following in the footsteps of the House of Representatives, which earlier passed the bill on December 19, 2018. In a statement following the passage of the Bill at the Senate, pan-African digital rights organisation, Paradigm Initiative, commended the two legislative houses for its passage. A product of civil society efforts led by Paradigm Initiative beginning at the 2014 Internet Freedom Forum in Abuja, the Bill “provides for the protection of human rights online, to protect Internet users in Nigeria from infringement of their fundamental freedoms and to guarantee application of human rights for users of digital platforms and/or digital media.” In 2016, Hon Chukwuemeka Ujam sponsored the bill at the House of Representatives where it underwent rigorous legislative process before its eventual passage last December. The bill was first tabled before the Senate for concurrence on January 16, 2018, and was finally passed yesterday. Boye Adegoke, Digital Rights Programme Manager, speaking on the importance of the bill, Paradigm Initiative said: “By the passage of this bill, the legislative arm of government has shown a commitment to the development of digital rights in Nigeria. “I am most excited about the provisions in this Bill regarding freedom of expression online. The bill will ensure that citizens can freely express their opinions online without interference. This is such a positive development at a time when Nigeria is moving into an election season and there are legitimate fears that there may be moves by some political interests to gag free speech in the country. The positive leadership of the National Assembly on the issue is quite commendable.” Also speaking on the passage, Tope Ogundipe, the Director of Programmes of Paradigm Initiative, said: “Nigeria has demonstrated remarkable leadership on the continent by passing this bill. The bill is quite important to the future of innovation and Nigeria’s digital economy in essence. It represents the needed framework to attract the partnership of global brands in the digital economy.” The Bill will now be presented to President Muhammadu Buhari for the presidential assent to transform the bill to a law, making it Nigeria’s first law on human rights online. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.