Abeokuta – Joint Negotiating Council of Labour Unions has said that Ogun State government has technically joined the league of states owing salaries of workers. Comrade Abiodun Olakanmi, Ogun State Chairman of the council, who made the declaration in Abeokuta, at the state Congress of Amalgamated Union of Public Corporation, Civil Service Technical and Recreational Service Employees (AUPCTRE), explained that the sixteen months salary deductions owed the state workforce by the government was more than four months gross salaries hence the need to list Ogun state among states owing workers’ salaries. He said, “As speak today, you know the month of March has not ended, by the end of the month, it will be seventeen months of deductions of Cooperatives and four months of check off dues. “We have separated global deductions from check off dues. We are talking of payment of salaries, if somebody is to pay you your gross salaries and such a person is paying you your net salaries, it is part of our salaries that is the accumulated salaries, definitely part of our salaries is the accumulated sixteen months salaries. “So technically, Ogun State government is owing salaries, by calculations if one month deductions is just twenty-five percent of the salaries, definitely sixteen months will be four months full salaries.” Comrade Olakanmi who noted that the council would continue to engage the state government toward the payment of the workers said except the deductions were paid Ogun State government was also technically owing workers salary. “We cannot go to sleep while the government is owing us; since we suspended our strike of November 2016, we have been on the neck of the state government, for them to pay this money. “While we went on strike in November 2016, it was 12 months, after the strike, the government paid six months, with the bailout fund, now it has gone back to 16 months at the end of February,” he stated. Comrade Seyi Adebanjo, representative of Ogun State Governor at the event and Consultant to the Government on Labour Matters, while speaking assured the workers that the state government had scheduled a meeting to resolve the deduction problems before the end of the month. He stated that the state government would not take the worker’s support for granted. Comrade Christopher Ojeleye, Outgoing Chairman of AUPCTRE in Ogun State, lamented that the non- payment of deductions had gone a long way to cripple activities of the union and urged the state government to pay all check off dues owing the workers. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.