Abdulrasheed Maina, former chairman of the defunct Pensions Reform Task Force, says those who looted pension funds are after his life, in their bid for cover up.
Abdullahi Usman, media adviser to Maina, disclosed this in a statement made available to newsmen on Friday.
According to Usman, “The dream of those that looted pension funds is to do away with Mr. Maina by all means necessary, including but not limited to using all available plots like assassination, illegal arrest, threat of arrest, intimidation and what not.”
The statement entitled ‘Re: #2.1b Pension Fraud: Our case against Maina, by AGF, EFCC’ was said to be in reaction to publications on some national dailies.
“Our attention has been drawn to a publication by some of the national dailies with the above headline. Upon reading through the lines, it became very clear that the piece was simply intended to blackmail the chairman of the defunct Pension Reform Task Force, Mr. Abdurasheed Maina, using deliberately concocted lies and insensitive kangaroo journalism, a style which the papers concerned adopted.
“The paper tried to drag the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice into Maina/EFCC issues without mentioning the fact that Abdulrasheed Maina has never had any such issue with the Attorney General and Hon Minister of Justice.
“The Maina/EFCC feud is nothing new, and all Nigerians now know that Maina’s misunderstanding with the EFCC is politically-motivated.
“The claim that the EFCC is searching for Maina remains unsubstantiated, because the same EFCC in a sworn affidavit at the Kaduna Federal High Court said that they never said Maina was wanted by them, rather what exists is only a personal intent by the EFCC chairman to clampdown on an opponent tribesman using the opportunity of public office,” according to the statement.
It explained that Maina had no case to answer with the Attorney General of the Federation or any organ of this administration.
“Maina has in fact been working with the Minister of Justice and other security agencies in recovering looted funds for the Buhari administration. Why is it then that some of the compromised media houses still go on tarnishing Mr. Maina’s image?” It queried.
Maina’s media team said it was also aware of sinister moves to paint him in bad light.
“We are not unaware of the paid plot to assassinate Maina’s character. Indeed we still recall a meeting held with known pension thieves who are currently facing prosecution, including some top members of the Nigerian Union of Pensioners (NUP) with some Nigerian editors at a very popular Chinese restaurant in Maitama, Abuja, where some of the editors were paid to not only blackmail Maina but to also put pressure on the government to expel him.
“This is a man who recovered over N282 billion within 11 months of his Pension Task Force Reform operation (January to November 2011). Maina also recovered N1.3 trillion from an undisclosed source in January 2017 for this current government.
“The N1.3 trillion recovery took place during this administration which was as a result of the meeting that took place during the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to Dubai, where Maina’s support was solicited in solving the issue of funds recovery problems facing the country,” the statement pointed out.
It argued that going by these revelations, Maina deserves commendation not condemnation. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.