AWKA – Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, has promised to absorb all the students that excelled in their departments who were celebrated Tuesday as best graduating students of the university. Professor Joseph Eberendu Ahaneku, Vice Chancellor of the university, announced this at the prize presentation ceremony for the graduands. But Ahaneku said those to be retained must have been found worthy both in character and learning after at their places of primary assignments in the course of their one year national youth service. He said the event, the second in the series, offered the university the opportunity to celebrate excellence targeted at challenging others to strive harder for better performance. “We are giving all the best graduating students the opportunity to join us if they so desire. We can’t afford to allow our best brains to waste away,” he said. He urged them to reciprocate the knowledge and skills acquired in course of their stay in the institution by giving back to their alma mater through projects and researchers. “We look forward to the time when most of you must have been established and will come back to improve the lots of the university by taking up the projects of your choices,” he said. Ahaneku reiterated the commitment of the university to producing self-reliant graduates in tandem with the motto of the institution of excellence and self-reliance. He congratulated the students for the giant feat, and reminded them that they already had a good name which they should guard jealously by reflecting it in whatever assignment they would be engaged in the outside world. He also commended their parents and guardians for their labour and commitment which translated into the outstanding performance. He reiterated the university’s readiness to assist indigent students with work ‘aid assistance noting that at the moment the university had 76 of them and plan to increase the number to 150. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.