Aminu Dahiru is an Assistant Controller General of Customs (ACG) and Zonal Coordinator, Zone ‘A’, Lagos, of the Nigeria Customs Services (NCS). In this interview with ANDREW UTULU, the Customs boss vows to tackle smuggling and ensure that full revenue due to the government is generated into the coffers of the Federal Government.  Excerpts: How would you access the various formations in Western Zone after your visit late last year and what are your plans for this year? Thank you very much, that visit was like an eye opener. I saw things for myself. Areas where there are needs for improvement are being looked into. We have seen the strength of officers we have in this zone. This and many factors confirm that this is the biggest zone. We have the biggest assignment, which entails the highest collection of duty, suppression of smuggling and excise duty. With regards to our plans for this year, we know the motivation is high. A lot of training and retraining programmes are being carried out. We are putting strategies in place to improve on our service delivery and continue to encourage diligent and uncompromising service delivery. There is improved welfare concern. We are looking at accommodation of officers. This is why we are inspecting our quarters to ensure that only deserving customs officers are accommodated there. From the reports I have received, some transferred and retired officers have not vacated their allocated apartments. I know that ongoing barracks expansion is on in Ogun Command.  Another area of focus this year is the NICIS 2 training, which is Information Communication Technology (ICT) based. We are keen on improving officers’ knowledge as well as that of importers and agents. Last year the service made over a trillion naira seizure, tell us about the contribution of your zone to the entire seizures. It is a known fact that this zone made over 75 per cent of the entire collected revenue of Nigeria Customs Service in the previous year. With all sense of modesty, I wish to state that we have about 16 commands under our zone and our collections were almost 100 per cent achieved. If we are to put it in percentage, our collection was over 80 per cent. Our zone collected N851billion. For sure, we have contributed our quota and for last year, we are ready to do better than what we achieved. Particularly with the strong commitment of our Comptroller General of Customs (CGC) to provide additional logistics support to assist us in doing better. The CGC talked about getting approvals to acquire more vehicles for the service, what are we expecting from this? Limited logistics have been our challenge in the service and the CGC expressed concern about addressing it. We have assurances that it will get attention it deserves. It will be addressed or before the end of first quarter 2018. This is a major challenge affecting many commands and management is aware of it. This zone has vast borderline starting from Seme to Idiroko through Shaki up to Kwara State. We need a lot of vehicles to discharge our enforcement functions. Stopping the smuggling of rice and vehicles through the border has been one task we are serious about. In recent times, the smuggling of petroleum products has been attempted at the borders and creeks and we are not allowing it. We have been making seizures and we won’t allow it to succeed. This is serious economic sabotage. My attention has been drawn to a large number of petrol stations situated along border areas where there is very minimal population of people. We expect the regulatory bodies licensing fuel stations to look into it, one wonders why the large number of fuel stations approaching the borders. Representative of the Finance Minister talked about plans to increase customs welfare package at the last International Customs Day celebration, how do you feel about this? Prior to that pronouncement, I knew my CGC had said two things he wants to achieve before leaving. One, he wants to see the increase of customs salary and the other wish is to be the one to lead us into our new corporate headquarters, which is being worked on. We are hopeful, it will be achieved. Improved welfare will help us do more for the service and the country. I believe this issue of corruption will be reduced. I can tell you there are very many honest and dedicated customs officers. They have good minds towards the country and the service. They just need a little tap and encouragement to do more. I boldly say this. Petroleum products were being seized recently in Seme, Idiroko and Western Marine Commands under your watch, are you feeling the pinch of having additional responsibilities? We have to feel it. In some cases we have paucity of junior officers to carry out the assignment. Something has to be done, not only on our area, but also on the part of authority. Like doing sensitisation against fuel smuggling to border communities. People are smuggling petroleum products in large quantity. We have improved communication channel and a stronger resolve to enforce discipline among our rank and file. This will go a long way to improve our output in revenue generation. Petroleum product smugglers are being encouraged from outside the country to smuggle something that is for our consumption as citizens of Nigeria. It’s likened to a situation where your children are hungry yet you take food meant for them to outsiders to eat. Is there any sense in that? We will continue to fight them without compromise. You went round the border areas late last year talking about payment of duty and total compliance with the law to your officers and host communities; do you hope to do same sensitization over petroleum products smuggling? My job here is administrative. I don’t mind going out again to remind our officers and their host communities even in their churches and mosques. We seized 76,000 litres of petrol and kerosene that we auctioned to the public and we will not relent in seizing more and arresting perpetrators of such acts. Give us an overview of training programmes for your men and their relationship with other security agencies? This is one area we are improving on. Now, you don’t need to travel all the way from your base to Kaduna for arms training. There are simple arrangements with the nearest army formation that can offer the training. After my visit I realised that the facilities in the training college are under utilised. Before I came here, I visited the training college in Kano and my observations were the same. We want to revive a culture of training, doing what we used to call refresher courses for various cadre of officers. Presently, our staff officers all over the federation are gathered at Customs Staff College, Gwagalada undergoing training. Tell us about your relationship with other agencies of government, how would you rate the cordiality? One example is the cordial relationship we enjoy with the army. Maybe because of the influence of our CGC who is an ex-military man. Our collaboration with other agencies is fantastic, far more than what it used to be. Before I came here, I was in investigation. A seizure was made by another agency of government shortly after the consignment was released from the port. This was an indication of not sharing information. Otherwise, the container would have been held at the port. I am not trying to apportion blame, but the Nigeria Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) then felt the information should not be shared. But, now we are all working closer together with other agencies of government. We share information and intelligence to fight crime and criminals. We all realise we are working for the same government to achieve common goals through different directions based on our areas of specialties. We jointly nip challenges in the bud. I have plans to visit the zonal coordinator of Federal Road Safety Corps and the army General Officer Commanding (GoC) soon. What measures do you have on ground to ensure importers and their agents who are privileged don’t deviate from fast track cargo clearance rules? I think from many reports it has been established that fast-track was grossly abused. It was suspended and they were asked to revalidate their records if they must benefit from it. It is a vehicle meant for trade facilitation. It is no more for everybody except those truly deserving to have it. What was the level of collection of post clearance audit in 2017? They collected N16billion last year. I believe this is due to the high competence of the officer in charge there in person of Abdullahi Babani. For me, it’s a kind of mixed feelings. If Post Clearance Audit is making high collections, it means our officers on the field are not doing the right thing. On the other hand, it shows trade was facilitated without delaying clearance for accurate duty collection. How would you rate the casualty level in your operations and what is being done to achieve much safer anti-smuggling operations? A lot of our officers are facing various degrees of hazards. Just last month, we lost two officers who were hit to death by vehicles suspected to be smuggled while evading arrest. We are appealing to the public to be more patriotic in showing support for officers working to protect our national economy rather than standing in support with smugglers. The smuggler is standing on his own and not working in our interest. He brings in dangerous goods, evades duty payment, run away from arrest and attempt using innocent people for protection to evade arrest. Citizens should support us by handing smugglers over to us. Our officers are dying in the course of duty, but it’s not reported. However, whenever by mistake, we injure or cause an accident, papers will be awash with negative reports. What is your message to your officers and stakeholders? Our officers should be more dedicated to their jobs. There will be sanctions for corruption and unlawful acts. Last year, in this zone, we had 36 cases in courts, nine were criminal cases. We are ready to keep prosecuting people who violate customs laws. It will continue this year. I have said it before and will keep to it that we arrest and prosecute violators of customs laws. Clearing agents and importers are part of our critical stakeholders, I am ready to meet with them always and we urge them to see NICIS 2 training as a transparent tool for trade facilitation. I encourage all of them to keep abreast by acquiring the needed knowledge for efficiency. What is your view about seizures being made without suspects? I said it last year during my visit to various commands under Zone A that efforts should be intensified to ensure that seizures are matched with suspects. I can say we are achieving some improvement in that direction. When we keep making seizures, without arresting the suspects, the whole job still appears half done. But when you arrests suspects and diligently prosecute them, you not only deter other would be smugglers; you also reduce the number of criminals involved in smuggling activities. There will be no hiding place for evaders of customs duty who smuggle in vehicles for sale in car shops as operatives are out to ensure that such smuggled vehicles are tracked through intelligence and enforcement relying on the Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA) provisions for search without warrant where necessary. I urged them to evoke the powers of Section 147 of the CEMA as amended to enter anywhere suspected of being used to warehouse smuggled goods and Section 157 to patrol anywhere in the country. I keep telling them to be vigilant not only to make seizures but also to arrest those behind the crime. We don`t have enough customs offenders in jails. This is one area we must improve. We aim at achieving zero tolerance for unlawful activities while ensuring that compliance level for customs laws is increased. Like I said earlier, we are blessed with very resourceful and productive manpower that can help us build the customs of our dream. Smugglers and duty evaders will not like what we are doing now because we are increasing our operational heat on them and we will not compromise on that. Our zone plays a vital role in the overall goal of the service, if we fail in zone A, it will impact on the service, but I can tell you that with a passionate and result oriented Comptroller General that we are having the entire service and indeed our zone must succeed in its core functions and responsibilities. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.