A prominent governorship aspirant in Plateau, Mr Gwaman Datong, says he is seeking the support of the citizens in the state to become governor in 2019 for the socio-economic development of the state. In a statement issued in Abuja on Thursday, the aspirant said he had held consultations among various political interests across the state and was convinced that he had solutions to some challenges facing the state. According to him, Plateau has a lot of potential in agriculture, tourism, education, information technology and engineering, among others, that only a visionary governor can harness. “I urge the citizens to contribute to my quest to better the state as a governor in 2019; it is not about me, but about us and the development of the state. “It is not also a contest, but collaboration because I need a good team to solve any problem; I would like you to help me by pointing out any issues that you feel needs attention and also ask how I intend to resolve it. “I will also be glad if your questions are not just a test but a genuine desire to make the state better,’’ he said. Datong, who said he would contest on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), promised that if he was elected as the governor of the state, he would work hard to ensure a positive resolution of conflicts in the state. He listed part of his contributions to the state development to include solar-powered borehole and skill transfer for building of metal water towers for welders at Namu, Quaan Pan Local Government Area of the state. Others, according to him, are completion of abandoned four-classroom block at Science Primary School, Namu and skill transfer to 200 youths at same local government. He said if he was elected governor, he would raise the income base of farmers through
mechanisation and agricultural extension services and introduce ICT as a means of local and
foreign exchange to citizens. “I will also encourage the participation of local companies in road and building construction and re-engineer government processes for efficiency. “My administration will ensure effective management of conflicts among various groups by
monitoring the conflict indicators in collaboration with surrounding states to develop a friendly coexistence. Apart from this, there will be free healthcare for people above 70 years of
age from a revolving fund,’’ he said. Datong, therefore, sought the support of the citizens in the state to give him a chance of ruling the state in 2019, promising that such support would be taken seriously. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.