The Information Communications Technology (ICT) sector has become Nigerian economic catalyst to other industries. Several past reports issued by national statistics bodies, indicate that the telecoms sector contributed and still contribute immensely to the economy of Nigeria. It now seems that the heydays for the telecoms sector are gradually ebbing out. JUSTUS ADEJUMOH, CHRIS EBONG, NKASIOBI OLUIKPE and ISAAC ASABOR writes. Undoubtedly, Nigeria the giant of Africa – with an estimated population of 194 million people, remains the largest mobile market in the continent – and still has more potential for growth and for competing on a level-playing ground with the developed nations. The country’s telecom investment, especially Foreign Direct Investments (FDI), has been put at $68 billion. Although the economic growth of the country might not be as fast-paced as its counterparts’, it is full of hopes and promises. The mobile trends published in the 2017 Nigerian Mobile Report, by Jumia Nigeria, an e-commerce platform, provided some convictions for this belief. In summary, the report examined how the market has democratised mobile internet use, the consumer behaviours driving increased smartphone adoption and the role of the different stakeholders within the sector. Jumia is set to release the 2018 edition of the Mobile Report, which will focus on various mobile trends in the country and in Africa at large. And Juliet Anammah, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Jumia Nigeria is as excited as everyone else about the report. But, while we patiently wait for the report pending its release, let’s examine some facts and figures from the 2017 report. There were about 150 million mobile subscribers equivalent to 81 per cent penetration (as a percentage of the population) in 2016. Internet penetration was at 18 per cent with 216 million internet users while Nigeria’s internet penetration was much higher at 53 per cent; its mobile subscription was similar to Africa’s at 81 per cent penetration (960 million mobile subscribers). To benchmark this data, a similar report by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) put the number of subscribers – by the end of December 2016 – at 154 million. This subscriber base is a sum total of all the active subscribers for telephony services on each of the licensed service providers utilizing different technologies. The difference in the number of subscribers presented by both reports can be attributed to the lack of accurate census in the country. Meanwhile, the percentage of internet penetration widened increasingly; number of internet subscribers peaked at 97.2 million (more than half the number of mobile subscriptions) by end of 2016, which represented a much higher penetration rate than the rest of Africa combined. The subscriber base of internet users in the country was predicted to increase by at least 30 per cent by end of 2017. With the number of Nigerians having access to the internet – mostly through smartphones – growing in leaps and bounds, it’s a clear indication that there is a huge potential for e-commerce in the country. For instance, Jumia recorded 394 per cent growth on the sales of smartphones between 2014 and 2016, mostly driven by an increasing range of lower smartphones price points. And 71 per cent of website visitors on Jumia Nigeria in 2016 used their mobile phones to shop, whereas only 53 per cent of Jumia African customers did so. Although, the contribution of the telecom & mobile sector to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was indeed a small fraction, according to a report by the NCC – only 9.13 per cent was directly or indirectly accrued from the sector. Yet, it is worthy of note to mention that it was a great leap from the previous year. e-commerce companies like Jumia – present in 15 African markets – are facilitating the promotion and distribution of both high-end and low-end price points mobile phones in Nigeria. The NCC is not also relenting in exercising its power to regulate the operations of the licensed telecom operators especially in the area of voice and data tariff. Recently, ahead of the 2019 general elections, the National President of the Nigeria Computer Society (NCS), Prof. Adesola Aderounmu called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to adopt a technology driven approach to facilitate what he described as a smooth electoral process. Aderounmu, who is also a Co-Centre Leader, Centre of Excellence in Software Engineering at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, believes that the use of technology will ensure smooth facilitation worthy of a 21st century nation in our electoral processes for the Nigeria’s electoral body. According to him, “Using ICTs to elect leaders could motivate successful transition into a valid and credible democracy that would truly represent the will of the people. All over the world the use of technology in election processes has become more paramount. Though, the introduction of technology into the electoral process is generating both interest and concern among voters, as well as practitioners across the globe as most electoral management bodies around the world use new technologies with the aim of improving the electoral process.” To witness an improvement over the previous years will require a collective, yet individual effort from both the private and public sectors. Primarily, the growth of the sector, among other things, depends on the availability of affordable mobile phones & data tariff.  To the former, Jumia is committed – with its partners – to facilitating and leading the charge in this regard. The week of March 15 – 25, 2018 will be interesting and exciting for the entire country for two reasons: the 2018 edition (4th report) of the Nigerian Mobile Report will be released at a press conference; and secondly – although still related to the first event is the commencement of Jumia Mobile Week (an entire week dedicated to the sales of mobile phones at the best prices in Nigeria). Nothing beats the excitement of getting your dream mobile phone at nearly half the price and such was the frenzy all over the Nigerian cyberspace in 2017. From the moment you spot the juicy deals, the swift race for the fastest fingers, the sigh of relief when you have successfully placed your order and the short wait for your order to be delivered. Last year, Jumia Mobile Week featured 3 mouth-watering flash sales everyday at nearly 50 per cent off; both night crawlers and day troopers had a piece of the pie. MTN also gave out free MTN 4G SIM and 20 per cent data bonus on their data plan every time you recharged for the first three months. There were also juicy discounts on mobile brands like: Infinix at 40 per cent off; Tecno at 20 per cent off; Motorola at 50 per cent off, and Innjoo at 20 per cent off. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.