Abeokuta – Osara in Gbagba area in Obantoko, Obafemi Owode Local government Area of Ogun State was a Mecca of sort, Friday, as people of the community trooped out en mass to catch a glimpse of a murder suspect, Owolabi Musiliu who secretly buried his concubine who had allegedly died in his custody. A team of police officers and journalists was led to the community by the State Commissioner of Police Ahmed Iliyasu after the suspect had been busted and arrested for alleged murder. Owolabi, a father of three, is a landlord and one of the leaders of the community and chose the cover of night to secretly bury the deceased on a plot of land with foundation behind his own house. INDEPENDENT SATURDAY gathered that the deceased, Fausat Babatunde Idowu had told her mother, a food vendor not far from Owolabi’s mechanic village in the same area, on 1st February, 2018, that she was going for a naming ceremony at Bode Olude area of the state capital. Instead of going to the naming ceremony, Fausat was said to have put calls across to two of her boyfriends, briefing them of her availability to be made love with, and waited patiently for whoever comes first. Owolabi heeded the call before the other, took her in his car and the love birds, dating for about six months, drove to Rocky Gold Hotel at Iyana-Apakila to enjoy themselves. But what was supposed to be enjoyment turned sour for Owolabi who’s now cooling his feet in police custody for alleged murder of his mistress. A younger brother to the deceased, Ahmed Idowu had gone to the Obantoko Police Headquarters to report the case of her missing sister. Speaking with journalists at the crime scene, the Police boss said a technical intelligence based investigation was conducted by the detectives at Homicide section of the Command based on available information. In the process, Iliyasu said, the call log of the deceased was profiled which revealed that she last spoke with two boyfriends, including Owolabi before going missing. The police commissioner said the first boyfriend, name withheld, was arrested and spent about a month in police custody during investigation while Owolabi was in the forefront of helping the family to search to the missing divorcee. The Police boss said, “The suspect was arrested through painstaking technical intelligence by our men at State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for culpable homicide. “His lady friend, one Fausat Babtunde Idowu was earlier reported missing by her younger brother, Hameed Idowu when she left home since February 1, 2018, but yet to return since then. “On the strength of reports, a technical intelligence based investigation was embarked upon by detectives at Homicide section, her telephone call log was profiled and revealed that the last person she spoke with was one Owolabi Musiliu who was tracked and apprehended on 19th of March, 2018 at Camp area, Abeokuta. “On interrogation, the suspect admitted taken the deceased to Rocky Gold hotel at Iyana-Apakila for pleasure, where he claimed she fell ill and later took her in his vehicle, but died under mysterious circumstances, in the car. “He further confessed that he took the corpse to a nearby bush, dug a shallow grave and buried it without disclosing same to anybody. This made the circumstances of her death mysterious as well as questionable, which is condemnable.” It was a cry of sorrow, agony and wailing as the decomposing perfectly buried remains of the deceased was unearthed by the suspect in front of multitude of crowds, police, journalists and members of the Police Community Relations Committee. Narrating what happened at the hotel before the incident, Owolabi said it was the deceased who invited her but that she started complaining about heat immediately they were on motion to start the business for which they were in the hotel. According to him, Fausat was quickly dressed up and moved out of the hotel room for fresh air in front of the hotel but getting out, it was discovered that she might need more than fresh air. Owolabi said one of the attendants at the hotel directed them to a nearby hospital but that Fausat gave up the ghost before getting any medical help. Owolabi who spoke in Yoruba said, “On February 1, she called me and asked where I was, I told her I was in Camp and she told me that she would call me when she gets to Camp. She called me later when she got to Iyana Apakila and we went to the hotel. “As we wanted to start having sex, she started complaining of heat, I thought she was deceiving me and I asked her to move to the front of the hotel for fresh air but the complaints continued. “I took her inside my car and somebody directed us to a nearby hospital but she gave up the ghost on the way and the only thing that came to my mind was to go and bury her because I was scared. “I didn’t know the owner of the plot and I regret my action but it was because I was scared that led me to this.” The Commissioner of Police said he would soon be charged to court. 3 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.