Owerri – Imo State Police Command has disclosed that it has arrested a total of 61 suspects in January and February this year. The during the period, four kidnap victims, four children and 12 assorted firearms were rescued and recovered. The Commissioner of Police (CP) of Imo State, Mr. Chris Okey Ezike who paraded the suspects before newsmen at the police headquarters in Owerri said, those arrested were involved in various crimes ranging from kidnapping, armed robbery, suspected cultists, child stealing/trafficking, false pretence and unlawful possession of firearms. According to Ezike, while one Chetachi Ogbonna aka Nwaotu from Umuopara Amuzi in the Obioma Ngwa LGA of Abia State but resident at Mbalu Road Onitsha in Anambra State was arrested on 20th January at Grazilia Hotel Orogwe in Owerri, one Okoro Uchechukwu Godwill of Isieke Awommama, Oru East council area was apprehended at Amafor in the Ohaji Egbema LGA where he resided. Ezike disclosed that, “Okoro used to provide his father’s house at Awommama for the detention of kidnapped victims until ransom was paid,” adding that two expended AK47 ammunition were recovered from him. Continuing, the CP said that Chinwendum Ahalonu Sylvester an ex-convict of Amaraku, in the Isiala Mbano LGA but resident at Mbali road Onitsha, Anambra State was also arrested at the Imo State Airport, on Aba Road Owerri, just as one Victor Uzoaku Izuchukwu a secondary school drop out of Onoguru Amamdugba, in the Isu LGA who specialized in changing vehicles plate numbers and original colours of stolen vehicles was on 31st of January arrested in Port Harcourt. The CP gave details of his command achievements in respect of those arrested for various crimes. Other people arrested were Onyeka Chidera aka chiboy, an active member of a kidnap gang from Umukabia Nsokpo Ogbaku, in the Mbaitoli LGA was arrested on the 7th of last month, while Cajethan Uche from Okwu Ogbaku in the same Mbaitoli council area of the state was arrested after which he confessed that his role in kidnap operations was to spy the movement of victims and to pass information to the gang and thereafter collect his share of the ransom. The police boss listed other armed robbery/kidnap suspects arrested to include: Ogbonna Chukwure Frank of Umuobe Umuopara in Umuahia South council area of Abia State. Gloria Ogbonna (35) also of Umuopara in the same Umuahia South LGA of Abia State, Udeme Anyanwu 26 of  Umuoru Chokoneze, Ezinihitte Mbaise LGA of the state, Umukamara Chinonso (aka Akahs) 28; Amuka Amiri, Oru East LGA, Chinonso Osuigboleku 20 years of Umunegu Irette, Owerri West LGA, Chibuike Chibuzor 23 years of Umuezela Chokoneze Eziniihitte Mbaise, Chinyereugo Odum 28 of Ovuru Ahiara Ahiazu Mbaise LGA, Chigozie Christopher (28) m of Olokoro Umuahia South LGA of Abia state but resident at Mile 1 Umuorii Uratta, Owerri North LGA. CP Ezike disclosed that kidnap victims were recused. One of them he said, is one Dr. Ferdinand Ndukwu of Obodo Ahiara, in the Ahiazu Mbaise council area, Jude Nwahiri of Amaohuru Nguru in the Aboh Mbaise LGA and Priscilia Emenike of Oboama Nguru, the Aboh Mbaise LGA who all paid N1 million and N1.5m respectively to regain their freedom. Following the kidnap of the above at different locations in the state on 17 and 28th November 2017 and on 24th of January this year, respectively, Ezike said that operatives of the command Anti-kidnapping unit, acting on credible intelligence and tracking analysis arrested the suspects and successfully rescued the victims unhurt, stating that the suspects all confessed to the crime and highlighted their various roles in the saga. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.