Abuja – The Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) on Wednesday finally agreed to share N647.39 billion to federal, states and local governments as revenue generated in the month of February. The FAAC meeting had deadlocked on Tuesday after state commissioners of finance had refused to collect their states’ allocations accusing the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) of submitting less than expected allocation for February. Kemi Adeosun, Minister of Finance, while briefing newsmen on the outcome of the monthly FAAC meeting in Abuja, said after deductions for cost of collections had been made to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Nigeria Customs and the Department of Petroleum Resources, the Federal Government received N257.92 billion. Adeosun said in accordance with the revenue sharing formula, the 36 states governments received N130.82 billion, while the local government councils received an allocation of N100.86 billion. In addition, she announced that N57.35 billion representing 13 percent of the mineral revenue generated in the month of February was also shared among the oil producing states. To this end, Adeosun said the nation generated N444.29 billion as mineral revenue and N112.99 billion as non-mineral revenue in February. On the states’ dispute with the revenue paid by the NNPC into the Federation Account, the minister said the FAAC would reconcile the revenue figures with the top management of the corporation led by the Group Managing Director, Maikanti Baru. “The NNPC is a major channel of our mineral revenue. Some issues have been raised by the states on the revenue paid into the Federation Account by NNPC. “These are being looked into and within the next 48 hours, we will have a joint meeting with the NNPC Group Managing Director to address the concerns of the states. The reconciliation of the revenue figures is part of a healthy process to ensure transparency and accountability,” Adeosun said. The Chairman, Commissioners of Finance Forum, Mahmoud Yunusa, said the state governments agreed to collect the available funds so that Nigerians would not have a bleak Easter. “We have agreed last night to hold the meeting as it were, move on to our respective states and pay the salary so that everybody will celebrate the Easter. Be that as it may, the account as submitted by NNPC is still not acceptable to us. “We will sit down with NNPC to ensure all the grey areas are trashed out. What we expected from NNPC is less than what was submitted. We, the commissioners of finance, are not happy the way NNPC is running this business. We are major shareholders in this business but yet we are not happy with the way NNPC is handling it. “We won’t take this anymore. NNPC will have to sit up and do its job. We are not taking this anymore. We would not come here, spend days without holding the meeting. So in the spirit of Easter, we would take this account, go home with it; pay salary and come back to meet NNPC to pay us our balance. We have to find out wherever the error is”, Yunusa said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.