Gernot Rohr has warned that the Super Eagles are not World Cup favourites despite their 1-0 victory over Poland in Friday’s international friendly at the Municipal Stadium, Wroclaw. Victor Moses’ 61st-minute penalty worked the magic as the three-time African champions extended their unbeaten run to six. Notwithstanding their victories over Argentina and the Polish side [teams placed fourth and sixth respectively on FIFA ranking], the German urges the players to remain humble and continue the momentum ahead of the World Cup. “We were lucky to have won this game against a very solid Polish side. Poland created at least four good chances and we scored a penalty,” said Rohr after the match. “The opponents were better in the air. But our young goalkeeper, who first played for the Nigeria national team from the beginning, did well. “They created some big opportunities to score and were dangerous from set pieces that we found difficult to cope with but I praise my team for their victory. “We won the match without our captain – Mikel John Obi. Previously, we lost against South Africa without him. “After beating Poland, the sixth team in the FIFA ranking, I warn against too much optimism. We will not be the favourite of the World Cup, even the advancing to the knockout phase is uncertain.” Rohr added, “This team is a young team but also a team of leaders. If we stay humble and continue to work hard to improve our play we have huge potentials, but beating 2 FIFA top 10 teams in friendlies doesn’t mean we are now World Cup favourites. “In today’s game there were injuries to two players – it was not a ‘friendly game’, no one wanted to let anyone go, both teams wanted to win, hence many fouls. ”We can learn from the European teams on the pitch, watch positions, discipline and organisation. We must also remember that at the World Cup we will be one of the youngest teams.” Nigeria will continue their preparation with another friendly match against Serbia on Tuesday at the Hive Stadium, London. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.