Lagos – The Federal Government on Friday listed Chief Uche Secondus, national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Raymond Dokpesi and Olisa Metuh as some of the looters of the nation’s treasury. Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information, made the disclosure at a press briefing in Lagos on Friday. He said, “The PDP has challenged us to name the looters under their watch. They said they did not loot the treasury. Well, I am sure they know that the treasury was looted dry under their watch. “Yet they decided to grandstand. This shows the hollowness of their apology to Nigerians. “Let’s just give them a teaser with this list: PDP Chairman Uche Secondus, on the 19th of February 2015, he took N200 million only from the office of then NSA; then PDP Financial Secretary, on the 24th of October 2014, he took N600 million only from the office of then NSA; then National Publicity Secretary Olisah Metuh, on trial for collecting N1.4 billion from the office of then NSA and Dr. Raymond Dokpesi, chairman of DAAR Communications, on trial for taking N2.1 billion from the office of then NSA. “Former SSA to President Jonathan, Dudafa Waripamo-Owei, on trial over N830 million kept in accounts of four different companies and former President Jonathan’s cousin Robert Azibaola, on Thursday, a Federal High Court ruled that he has a case to answer for collecting $40 million from the office of then NSA. “This list is just a tip of the iceberg, and the PDP is aware of this. We did not make these cases up. Many of these cases are in court and the records are available. “Some of the people on this list are seeking to plea bargain, and that is a fact. “We insist that Nigeria was looted blind under the watch of the PDP, and that the starting point in tendering an apology is for them to return the loot. “It’s like a robber admitting to stealing your car and apologising, but then saying he will keep the car anyway. It doesn’t work that way. “The PDP is a hypocrite. And that reminds me of what English writer William Hazlitt said: ‘The only vice that cannot be forgiven is hypocrisy. The repentance of a hypocrite is itself hypocrisy.’ “We will not stop talking about the massive looting by the PDP. They brought Nigeria to this sorry pass. We are now looking around for loans to build infrastructure, and they ask us not to talk about it. We will talk about it,” the minister said. Also, in a statement yesterday, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has urged all of its former members who were part of its 16 years reign and are now in the ruling party to comply with the Federal Government’s directives and return looted funds in their custody to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The party in a statement by Uche Secondus, its national chairman, said while it is ready to comply with the suggestion made by Alhaji  Lai  Mohammed that the party should back up its apology to Nigerians by returning all looted funds stolen during its 16 years reign, such action should begin with PDPmembers who are now in the APC. Among those listed by the PDP include Bukola Saraki, Senate President, Yakubu Dogara, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transportation, Adams Oshiomhole, former governor of Edo State and Orji Uzor Kalu, former governor of Abia State. The statement reads “In line with the directive of the ruling APC government that PDP should return all looted monies for Nigerians to accept our apology, PDP hereby wholeheartedly agrees to abide by this suggestion and will get its members to return the said looted money. “Accordingly, the following are directed to immediately report to the EFCC with their loots:- “Rotimi Amaechi, Timipre Sylva, Bukola Saraki, Aliyu Wammako, Sullivan Chime, Orji Kalu, Chris Ngige, Rabiu Kwankwaso, Abdullahi Adamu, Abubakar Mohammed, Gov. Lalong, Bello Hayatu, Sen. AbdulAzeez Nyako, Sen. Alkali Mohammed, Dr. Aliyu Modibbo, Sen. Andy Uba, Sen. Nazif, Sen. Magnus Abe, Engr. Dakuku Peterside, Sen. Silas Zwingima. “Sen. Binta Masi Garba, Mal. Nuhu Ribadu, Dr. Idi Hong, Adm. Murtala Nyako, Sen. Bello Tukur, Jummai Al-Hassan, Sen. Hunkuyi, Sen. AbdulAzeez Ibrahim, Sen. Adamu Aliero, George Akume, Joshua Dariye, Speakers Aminu Masari, Aminu Tambuwal, Yakubu Dogara, Ghali Na’abba, National Chairmen Barnabas Gemade and Audu Ogbe, COAS Dambazau, Oserheimen Osunbor, Musliu Obanikoro, Adams Oshiomhole, Jim Nwobodo, Governors Atiku Bagudu, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, Nasir El-Rufai, Samuel Ortom, Ishaku Darius, Rochas Okorocha, Bindo Jibrilla, Abubakar Sani Bello,  Abdulfatah Ahmed of Kwara, Saidu , Danjuma Goje,  Sen. Heineken Lokobiri and Chinwoke Mbadinuju. “While awaiting the publication of more names, I trust Nigerians will now see our sincerity and accept our apology.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.