Abuja – Comrade Timi Frank, Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged its National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun to “honourably resign his position to embrace farming in his hometown instead of politics.”
The APC stalwart also urged his party to take some lessons in party administration from the main opposition People Democratic Party (PDP), just as he challenged the National Working Committee of the ruling party to announce to the public whether President Buhari is no more the leader of the party.
APC through its National Publicity Secretary Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi had told newsmen shortly after its NEC meeting that the decision on tenure elongation that was taken by the party still subsists and this is despite strong admonition by President Mohammadu Buhari.
Reacting to the President’s rejection of tenure elongation for the current National Working Committee (NWC) and its executives at all levels, Frank observed that Chief Oyegun’s tenure as the party’s National Chairman had done incalculable damages to the ruling party.
He said: “I’m telling Chief Oyegun to retire now before he disgraces President Buhari because it is shameful and disgraceful for NWC to say Buhari is not the leader of the APC. This is a way of disgracing him before Nigerians and the entire world that President has no say in his own party.
“I remember several times the party under Chief Oyegun could not hold meetings, not to talk of taking any decision because the President, who they claimed to be the leader of the party then was not available. So, we want to know what has changed now? When it is time to take a decision in their favour, Buhari is the leader of APC but when the president takes a certain decision against Oyegun and his NWC, Buhari is no longer the leader. This is an embarrassment to the president.
“I expect our National Chairman and APC to go and learn how to run a ruling party from PDP. There is no crime in learning what you don’t know.”
The deputy spokesman, while commending President Muhammadu Buhari for his opposition to what he described as illegality, maintained that Oyegun ought to have been fired long before now due to lack of respect for APC constitution and other impunity under his watch.
Frank, however, declared that he will resign his position as the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of APC at the expiration of his tenure to pave way for new leaders, saying “I will not be part of an illegal tenure extension.”
According to the Bayelsa born politician, it was surprising that NWC under Chief John Oyegun has failed to resolve one crisis out of many, rocking nearly all the state chapters of the governing party could ask for tenure extension.
Frank said he has no regret whatsoever for opposing Chief Oyegun style of leadership and laudably spoken against it ever since he discovered that such leader (Oyegun) lacked the capacity to lead a ruling party.
He reasoned that had the presidency and other national leaders of APC listened to him when he was speaking against impunity and selfishness of Oyegun led-national excos, maybe the crisis APC is going through would have been minimised. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.