Lagos – President of the Nigeria Wrestling Federation (NWF), Daniel Igali, has expressed the confidence that his wrestlers will perform creditably at the forthcoming Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia. INDEPENDENT gathered that his confidence is base on the performance of the wrestlers at the recently concluded African Wrestling Championship in Port Harcourt. Twelve wrestlers comprise of six male and six female will represent Nigeria at the Games. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has finalised preparations for the Games in a meeting held on Wednesday with the 10 Federations’ Presidents whose athletes will be taking part in the Games. The Federations are Athletics, Basketball, Wrestling, Weightlifting, Boxing, Table Tennis, Gymnastics, Para table tennis, Para Athletics, Para Powerlifting. A total of 90 athletes and 43 team officials will be making the trip to the Gold Coast which will start From April 4 to 15, while the Athletes Games Village opens on March 25. Wrestling has 12; weightlifting 4; athletics 37; table tennis five; Para table tennis two and Para athletics two and basketball 28. Meanwhile, the NWF will send three female freestyle wrestlers to the Beat the Streets event in New York on the invitation of United States Wrestling Federation (USWF). The one-day event will hold on Thursday, May 17, 2018. The wrestlers who will be drawn from the 55kg, 57kg and 59kg weight classes, will be accompanied by a coach and a team leader, with their flight tickets, accommodation and other logistics, to be catered for by the organizers of the event. The Team is expected in New York on May 14 and depart on May 18, a day after the competition. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.