Abuja – The United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Mr. Edward Kallon, has said only 15 per cent of Nigerian women have bank accounts. Speaking on the occasion to commemorate International Women’s Day in Abuja, Kallon also said only 1per cent of Nigerian women have access to capital from formal financial services. He further lamented that women have less access to education, and there is an increasing and widening gap in literacy rates between boys and girls, especially in the rural areas. The UN Resident Coordinator also bemoaned a situation where women constitute majority of the productive labour force in the country, yet they earn less and produce less with limited access to productive resources, opportunities and assets. According to him, “In Nigeria, gender inequality not only exists, but remains at highly worrying levels. There are gender gaps in almost all areas of human development: low levels of women’s representation in elective positions, inequalities in access to paid employment; significant gap between men and women in the labour market, sexual violence and exploitation, and discrimination in public decision-making and resource allocation. “Even though women supply between 50—70 per cent of the labour, they have less than 20 per cent of the agricultural assets and own only 7 per cent of the land. “Women account for just 1 per cent of access to capital from formal financial services and hold only 15 per cent of bank accounts.” To this end, he advocated that the norms that perpetuate gender inequalities must be systematically addressed, adding that positive practices should be scaled-up to bridge the gaps. Ms. Comfort Lamptey, the UN Women Country Representative in Nigeria, in her remarks, underscored the need to improve the living conditions of women, especially those living in the rural areas. Lamptey said a lot of women both in the rural and urban areas need to build alliances and work together to bridge gender inequalities in the society. She, however, stressed the need to break cycle of poverty among women in the rural areas, adding that the worrisome issues of violence and sexual assaults against women should be addressed by government and other critical stakeholders. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.