Lagos /Abuja – Justice Ahmed Mohammed of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Wednesday barred the National Assembly from taking any action aimed at overriding the refusal of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2018, into Law. The ruling was a sequel to an oral application made in a suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/232/2018 filed by the Accord Party against the National Assembly, the Attorney-General of the Federation, and the Independent National Electoral Commission – 1st, 2nd, and 3rd respondents, respectively. In the ruling, the court ordered parties to “maintain status quo ante bellum” pending the determination of the motion on notice. The plaintiff had approached the court with a motion seeking an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the National Assembly from taking any further action or actions on the bill, entitled Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, 2018, particularly, to convene to pass the said bill into law by a two-thirds majority of its two chambers, pending the final determination of the substantive originating summons. Muhammad Nalado, who deposed to an affidavit in support of the suit, said he was the Deputy National Chairman of the applicant in 2007, as well as the National Vice Chairman (North West). Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) filed the suit on behalf of the plaintiff, while Chinelo Ogbozor, represented the 1st defendant (National Assembly). Earlier, Ogbozor had resisted attempts made by Olanipekun to move his motion on notice seeking a restraining order against the National Assembly on the grounds that the application was not ripe, and pending the service of hearing notice on the AGF. The NASS’ lawyer said they were served barely 48 hours and insisted that the matter could not proceed. In view of Ogbozor’s opposition, Olanipekun pleaded the court for Ogbozor to make an undertaking that the NASS would not take any action on the subject-matter, but she refused. Though the court noted that the motion on notice was not ripe for hearing, however, it took notice of the oral application made by Olanipekun, brought in line with Section 58(5) of the constitution. It was the apprehension being entertained by the plaintiff that the 1st defendant could go ahead and pass the bill into law if the subject matter of the case was not preserved that informed the court’s ruling. Justice Mohammed held that Section 58 of the constitution did not stipulate any time frame for the NASS to pass a bill the president had refused to assent to. “Interestingly, there is no time frame for NASS to pass the bill into law,” the court noted. In view of the foregoing, Justice Mohammed asked: “What if the court adjourns and the NASS convenes tomorrow to pass the bill into law?” However, Justice Mohammed stated that the court was not granting the prayer contained on the motion paper but “is making the preservative order to safeguard the integrity and sanctity of court.” Consequently, the court directed parties to maintain status quo ante bellum at least between now and next adjournment. Justice Mohammed made the order pursuant to Section 6(6) of the constitution. The matter has been adjourned to March 20 for hearing of the motion on notice filed by the plaintiff. By the suit, the plaintiff is claiming against the respondents, jointly and severally, “A declaration that the 3rd defendant is the only body and or institution constitutionally vested with the powers, vires and duties to organise, undertake, and supervise elections to the Offices of the President and Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Governor and Deputy Governor of a state, membership of the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the House of Assembly of each state of the federation, including fixing or assigning dates for the said elections and the sequence of same. “A declaration that the legislative powers vested in the 1st defendant by the constitution do not empower or imbue it with the right, liberty, or authority to pass or purport to pass any ‘Bill into Law’ which attempts to interfere with or undermine the independence of the 3rd defendant, as guaranteed by the content, spirit and tenor of the constitution. “A declaration that the legislative powers vested in the 1st defendant by the constitution do not empower or imbue it with the right, liberty, or authority to control or dictate to the 3rd defendant, the way and manner it should organise, undertake and supervise elections to the offices of the President and Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Governor and Deputy Governor of a state, membership of the Senate, the House of Representatives and the House of Assembly of each state of the federation, including fixing the sequence and dates of the elections into the said offices. “A declaration that the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, 2018, passed by the 1st defendant, particularly clause 25 thereof, which directs, commands, and mandates the 3rd defendant to follow a particular sequence of election into the offices of President and Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Governor and Deputy Governor of a state, membership of the Senate, the House of Representatives and the House of Assembly of each state of the federation as provided in the said amendment, is unconstitutional, illegal, ultra vires, null and void, and of no effect whatsoever. “A declaration that the 3rd defendant is under a duty to organise, undertake and supervise the 2019 general elections into the offices of the President and Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Governor and Deputy Governor of a state, membership of the Senate, the House of Representatives and the House of Assembly of each state of the federation, including announcing the sequence of the said elections only as dictated and mandated by the clear provisions of the constitution, and not in any other way or manner, particularly as dictated or mandated by the 1st defendant in clause 25 of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, 2018. “A declaration that by Section 153(1) and item 15(0) of the Third Schedule to the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), the order or sequence of holding the general election is already prescribed such that election to the offices of President and Vice President come first, while elections to other offices follow in the said prescribed order. “A declaration that having regard to the exercise by 3rd defendant of its constitutional power(s) and in furtherance of its function and duty to organise, undertake and supervise all elections to the offices of President and Vice President or the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Governor and Deputy Governor of a state, membership of the Senate, the House of Representatives and the House of Assembly of each state of the federation as prescribed by sections 76(i), 1 16(1), 132(1), l53(i)(f) and i78(l) and sections 25 and 30 of the Electoral Act, 2010 and having come out with or announced a schedule or timetable for 2019 general election, the 1st defendant cannot subsequently make a law to re-order or prescribe a sequence/schedule inconsistent with the schedule or order earlier on made by 3rd defendant.” Reps To Re-Present Rejected Electoral Amendment Bill Ten bills rejected by President Muhammadu Buhari including the Nigerian Peace Corps Establishment Bill, 2017, are to become law any moment from now, through the override of presidential veto, the House of Representatives has said. Addressing journalists on Wednesday over the president’s letter to the National Assembly withholding his assent to the Electoral Amendment Bill, Abdulrazaq Namdas, Chairman, House Committee on Media and Publicity, said that the House has examined the reasons advanced by the president leading to its present decision. President Buhari had written to inform the lawmakers that he would not sign the Electoral (Amendment) Bill 2018, citing inconsistencies with the 1999 constitution as amended. The president said that his decision was pursuant to Section 58(4) of constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), saying that some of his reasons for withholding assent was “that the amendment to the sequence of the elections in Section 25 of the principal Act may infringe upon the constitutionally guaranteed discretion of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to organise, undertake and supervise all elections provided in Section 15(a) of the Third Schedule to the constitution.” “The amendment to Section 138 of the principal Act to delete two crucial grounds upon which an election may be challenged by candidates unduly limits the rights of candidates in elections to a free and fair electoral review process, and “The amendments to Section 152(3)-(5) of the principal Act, may raise constitutional issues over the competence of the National Assembly to legislate over local government elections”, the president stated in a letter dated March 8, 2018, which he said decision to decline assent was reached on March 3, 2018. Namdas said that the House has agreed with him over his reason that the amendment to Section 138 of the principal Act to delete two crucial grounds upon which an election may be challenged by candidates unduly limits the rights of candidates in elections to a free and fair electoral review process. Also, he said the House agreed with the president’s reason that the amendments to Section 152(3)-(5) of the principal Act, may raise constitutional issues over the competence of the National Assembly to legislate over local government elections. However, Namdas said that the House disagreed with him on his reason that the amendment to the sequence of the elections in Section 25 of the principal Act may infringe upon the constitutionally guaranteed discretion of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to organise, undertake and supervise all elections provided in Section 15(a) of the Third Schedule to the constitution, averring that it was the duty of the legislature to make laws to guide the electoral body. He said that by Section 4, Item 22, on legislative powers, the National Assembly has the powers over elections into the Office of the President, Vice President, Governors, Deputy Governors, and any other officer elected under the 1999 constitution, excluding elections into local governments. Namdas averred that Section 76 stated that the elections shall be conducted on a date appointed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in accordance with the Electoral Act. He said that it was true that INEC had the powers to schedule elections but even at that it could not do it without an Act of Parliament. Reminding about the entire Electoral Act talk over organising election, Namdas said “that means we don’t have powers, to make Electoral Act, and this Electoral Act is illegal.” He further reminded that INEC could not legitimately use its card readers until it secured an Act of Parliament, as its use was challenged in court and the court held that there was no law backing it at the time. “In view of this, we will re-gazette the Electoral Act and expunge those areas we are in agreement with the president and bring it back for first reading, debate, pass it and transmit again to the president for assent”, Namdas said. He, therefore, announced that “we are in the process of overriding the president’s veto on ten bills, excluding the Electoral Act.” Namdas said the House would override the president’s veto on the Nigerian Peace Corps Establishment Bill, Chartered Institute of Treasury Management Bill, Nigerian Council for Social Works Bill, Currency Conversion Bill, Police Procurement Fund Bill, Environmental Health Officers Bill, Chartered Institute of Loans and Risk Management of Nigeria Bill, Chartered Institute of Public Management Bill, Chartered Institute of Export and Commodity Brokers of Nigeria Bill, and Federal University Wukari Bill. How Buhari Fueled Election Reorder Bill Facts emerged on Wednesday on why the National Assembly embarked on the amendment of the Electoral Act which perfected the change of sequence in the conduct of the presidential, National Assembly and gubernatorial elections earlier released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). By the rescheduled sequence, the amendment reverses the order announced by INEC, which fixed National Assembly and presidential elections for February 16, 2019, while the state Houses of Assembly and governorship elections would come up two weeks later on March 2, 2019 The lawmakers insisted that election date is the prerogative of INEC, while extant laws of the land gives schedules for such elections as the sole responsibility of the National Assembly. However, President Muhammadu Buhari declined assent to the amendment citing probable infringement of the constitution. Speaking on why the National Assembly decided to reorder the election schedule, a member of the House of Representatives, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they were miffed by a statement allegedly made by President Buhari during the peak of the faceoff between the executive and legislative arm of government. According to the lawmaker, the president was reported to have described them as rascals who rode on his popularity to get elected into the National Assembly. “The whole issue was fueled by the remarks made by the president during the face-off between us and the presidency. We were told that he described us as rascals who rode on his popularity to get elected into office. He said if not for him, many of us will not be where we are today. “That is essentially why we kick started the process in the House of Representatives. We want to make a point that we are popular in our various constituencies and never rode on the popularity of the president to be elected. So, why is the presidency jittery about the whole thing and the president has refused assent to the Bill?” He asked. Also speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), who backed President Buhari’s decision to veto the bill, said the action of the lawmakers are illegal and unconstitutional as they are not backed by law to alter the order of elections. While asking INEC to ignore the National Assembly and proceed with its original timetable, Sagay, who also accused the lawmakers of pursuing their personal interest, advised them to approach the court if they felt aggrieved by the action of the president. “What they wanted to do was illegal and unconstitutional. The National Assembly has no role whatsoever in organising the schedule of elections. It is the sole responsibility of INEC. The constitution clearly established that on the issue of the timetable and order of elections, INEC has exclusive powers. “So, short of amending the constitution, the National Assembly cannot achieve what they are trying to do. They only debated the issue in the two chambers, they didn’t take it across the states for constitutional amendment. So, it is illegal and the president was right to veto it. “My advice is this: since it is illegal ab initio, it doesn’t exist in law, so INEC should ignore it and carry on with the way they have already planned the election. If the National Assembly feels aggrieved, let them go to court and let the court decide”, he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.