Hon. Afe Olowookere is the lawmaker representing Akure North/Akure South Federal Constituency of Ondo state in the House of Representatives. In this interview, the All Progressives Congress (APC) legislator bares his mind on issues ranging from local government autonomy, sequence of elections and delay in the passage of the 2018 Appropriation Bill. OJO OYEWAMIDE brings the excerpts: Could you tell us what is delaying the passage of the 2018 Appropriation Bill? The National Assembly is seriously working on the document. I am sure before the end of March, we should have passed the appropriation bill into law. It is not as easy as people assume. There are over a thousand ministries, departments and agencies. For us to do a thorough job, we have to invite the leadership of these MDAs to defend the money appropriated to them in the year 2017. If you cannot justify what was given to you last year, you don’t deserve to be given money. These things take time to attend to. We cannot just pass the bill leaving one or two out. We just have to attend to all of them. We are already doing that. You will agree with me that after the bill was presented to us, we went on recess for Christmas and New Year celebration. That took some from the time we were supposed to spend on it. Also, don’t forget that the appropriation law has a life circle of twelve months. It doesn’t matter if we start the implementation of the law in either May or June. You are a supporter of local government autonomy. Why do you think the third tier of government should be autonomous? My position stems from my experience as a councillor between 1991 and 1993. That period can be referred to as the golden era of the local government system. There is nothing better than for the local governments to be autonomous. State governments are using two things to hold down local governments. These are the State/Local Government Joint Account and the State Independent Electoral Commission. I sponsored bills on the abrogation of the two when we were considering constitutional review. As long as SIEC exists, we will not have local governments that will be autonomous because the state governors will continue to use that instrument to determine the party that wins council elections. You are aware that there has never been any state in the country where opposition parties won council elections. That is always made possible by the SIEC because who pays the piper dictates the tune. Even in Lagos, when an opposition party won, APC candidate was declared winner and the opposition candidate was asked to go to court. What do you think are the benefits of local government autonomy to the Nation’s democracy? I was one of the first set of legislators at the local government level. And that has helped me a lot. In fact, the experience I gathered while in the council gave me an edge over and above my colleagues when I was a member of the Ondo State House of Assembly. Also, the experience coupled with the one I had in the State Assembly gave me an edge over other first timers like me in the House of Representatives. If you are a professor, if you get to the legislative house, there are some things that require technicalities that your professorship will not enable you to do. It may take you two or three years to understand what’s going on there. There are technical ways of writing bills and motions. And by the grace of God, the 16 motions that I have moved so far in the National Assembly were written by me. Also, I was the one that prepared the six bills that I have sponsored. The amorphous arrangement that exists at the local governments today has deprived our people the opportunity of learning at that level. That is why you will have some people in the National Assembly that will not even second a motion in four years. Local government autonomy is the best if we really say we are practicing democracy. If at that level, we can’t practice it, what is the essence of our democracy. Local governments should be run by democratically elected councils. It is there in the constitution. It says people should be allowed to participate in their government. And it is at that level that they can really participate in their own government. Does National Assembly have the constitutional powers to determine the sequence of elections in the country and why did it take the decision? The National Assembly has the constitutional power to determine the order of elections since they have to pass the electoral act. And the arrangement for elections is part of the electoral act. The act is the prerogative of the legislative arm. So, it is the constitutional duty of the legislature to do that. By the special grace of God I read political science in the university. There is a concept that is called majority tyranny. And what does that mean? Majority tyranny means that the majority may be wrong but that since they are in the majority, their decision prevails. It happened to me when I was a member. of the Ondo State House of Assembly. A certain decision was to be taken and I opposed it. We were 24 at that time. We put it to vote. At the end of the day, it was 22 against two. Only one person supported me. But I was convinced that it was majority tyranny that was at play. Because I was not satisfied, I decided to be different. I wrote a letter to the speaker and the clerk then that I was not going to be part of it. The re-ordering was an idea of some members. They brought it in form of a bill and it was discussed. But there were some of us who were not in support. There were some of us who argued that the re-ordering would even cost us more money because instead of having the elections two times, it will now be three times. But since the majority opinion favoured re-ordering, it is binding on all of us. All of will have to accept responsibility for it. Even though I have arguments against it, I also have arguments for it. This is not the first time we are going to have it like this. I remember that I contested a House of Representatives seat in 2003 on the platform of the Alliance for Democracy. That was the order of elections then. The National Assembly elections were the ones conducted first. So, this is not the first time. And if it is not the first time, there is no basis for any controversy. The president still has the power of assent 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.