Senator Gbenga Ashafa, representing Lagos East Senatorial District in the National Assembly  has called upon the Federal Government to explore the various opportunities which lies in Nigeria’s underground space and consider tunneling in planning its infrastructure and spaces. He made this statement while delivering a Keynote address at the 2nd Nigerian International Tunneling and Underground Space Conference held at the Shehu Musa Yar’adua Centre in Abuja, organised by the Tunneling Association of Nigeria. While delivering his address Ashafa said “Considering the advancement that has been experienced in the tunneling industry in so many countries of the world, tunneling is almost a virgin space in Nigeria. Not because we do not have any tunnels, but because our infrastructural architecture and drive has refused to tap into the immense possibilities of our underground space” Supporting his argument for the need to explore tunneling in Nigeria,  Ashafa said “a 2017 report by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, specified that Nigeria will be world’s third most populous country by year 2050. According to this report, this explosive and scary population growth could be happening without proportional amenities and employment to sustain that growth. The report, titled ‘World Population Prospects: The 2017 Revision’ disclosed that “by 2050, the third most populous country will be Nigeria, which currently ranks seventh, and which is poised to replace the United States.” Ashafa further said that based on this projections Nigeria needs to become more pro active about the way and manner in which we plan our infrastructure and spaces. He said “We must take into cognizance our fledging population. While we do this we must also be mindful of our limited resources and continue to seek strategic partnerships that contemplate the realities of the years to come. We must seek partnerships that combine the potentials of expertise and the capacity to fund such projects”. Partnering with the International Tunneling Association and the Tunneling Association of Nigeria to explore tunneling in Nigeria is one of the ways of preparing for the realities of years to come he said. Ashafa stated that it is his hope that with the adoption of Nigeria as the 74th member of state of the International Tunneling Association and the passion of the Tunneling Association of Nigeria, soon Nigeria will also be a beneficiary of all the advantages available within the tunneling sector, notably in the areas of physical infrastructure, manpower development, social amenities and overall improved living standard by the Nigerian people. Present at the summit were the board of trustees and executives of the International Tunneling Association led by its President Prof. Tarciso Celestino. Senator commended the tenacity of the President of the Tunneling Association of Nigeria Mr. Bidemi Agwor and further stated that he believes the summit will provide solutions to some of Nigeria’s infrastructural deficits and assured them of the National Assembly’s support with requisite legislation. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.