The deaths, last month- February 2018- of two  secondary school students as a result of corporal punishment inflicted on them, have again brought the issue of corporal punishment to the spotlight.  In the first case,  Queendaline Ekezie, a 15-year old , JSS 3 student of Army Day Secondary School, Obinze, Owerri, Imo state, was reported to have collapsed after being  subjected to intense frog-march for coming late to school by two soldiers in the institution.  According to  Delight Aguocha, a JSS 2 student, who came late at 9.00am with Queendaline, they had been subjected to frog-march, but unlike others who did the exercise once, the soldiers made their set do the exercise three times because they alleged they were not doing it well. Queendaline, who was said  to have collapsed after the exercise, started vomiting blood and screaming “my back, my chest”.  She was rushed to the army hospital. Her senior sister, Immaculate, an SSS 3 student in the school, gave a harrowing account of the hospital treatment :” I was called around 10am that she was in hospital. They didn’t put her on oxygen and the drip had stopped flowing. When I saw her, she was vomiting blood and shouting. She suddenly became still and the nurse asked us to leave. They announced that she was dead”. That must be a very traumatic experience for the elder sister. The father  was  reported to have fainted  when he learnt of the tragedy. In the other incident, a teacher in Government Day Secondary School, Sankalawa in Bungudu local government area of Zamfara state was alleged to have flogged a student to death, a development that drew the ire of the  State House of Assembly.  Deputy Speaker of the House, Alhaji Muhammad Abubakar-Gummi, had lamented about the incident and others where students had received injuries as a result of corporal punishment, adding that the punishments discourage the children from acquiring education and also showed the poor attitude of teachers in the state. Corporal punishment  in schools, at the elementary and secondary school levels,  has remained a contentious issue in the country and instances of tragedies, as shown above, indicate that government must take a firm stand on the matter to avoid future tragedies. We believe that while some measures would need to be taken to maintain discipline in schools, there has to be state-sanctioned rules and regulations guiding such action. It should not be left to the whims and caprices of teachers, many of who visit their frustrations and anger  on the hapless students. We, therefore, take the stand that no teacher should be allowed to administer corporal punishment on pupils, spontaneously.  Infringement of rules and unruly conduct by students must be reported to school heads who will decide on appropriate sanction, as prescribed in the rule book. Maintaining discipline should not be allowed to remain arbitrary. Even in earlier times, corporal punishment was streamlined with students being caned on the palm or the buttocks, under the supervision of the Headmaster or Principal. In some other cases, students were made to cut grass or clean certain areas in the school premises. Today, what obtains in many schools is violence against students, under which some students have suffered permanent disabilities. This cannot be allowed to continue. It is important we create a conducive learning environment of love so that children will be happy going to school. We advocate continuous training for teachers in managing relationship with students. There is also the need for closer teacher-parent collaboration in ensuring that difficult students imbibe disciplined conduct. When shortcomings of students are made known to their parents, it reduces the coping stress of teachers. We decry  the tragic incidents in Imo and Zamfara states  and consider the actions of the soldiers in the Army Day Secondary School in Obinze as  excessive brutalisation.  Civilian students in an army secondary school cannot be treated as army recruits undergoing endurance tests  in an infantry training school. We demand that in the two cases of corporal punishment leading to deaths, those involved must be appropriately sanctioned to serve as deterrents. State government must also evolve rules and regulations guiding discipline in schools accompanied with consistent monitoring. We commiserate with the families of the deceased. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.