Lagos – When President Muhammadu Buhari in November 2017 declared opened the Federal Executive Council (FEC) Retreat On Education Sector, he had decried that the state of education in the country saying it calls for a serious concern. The president who listed the effects of decades of neglect suffered by the sector as including an estimated 13.2 million children out of school, high illiteracy level, infrastructural deficit and decay as well as unqualified teachers and inadequate instructional materials also said his administration was determined to turn around the sector for the better and also enjoined well-meaning Nigerians to join hands with his government in ensuring a better educational system for the country’s future leaders. Determined to contribute his own quota towards the educational advancement of the nation and support the president in his efforts to turnaround the sector, Omoba Babatunde Ajibulu, a Lagos State based business executive, philanthropist and member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) last week registered hundreds of final year secondary school students of Ijumu Local Government Area, Kogi West Senatorial District for the  West African Senior School Certificate  Examination (WASSCE) through his pet project, Babatunde Ajibulu Education Endowment Fund . Ajibulu,  a native of Ekinrin Adde made the gesture through his education endowment, human capital development and rural areas development empowerment programme office. In his effort to ensure every youth has access to tertiary education in courses of their choices, the philanthropist took a step further by paying the tuition fees for hundreds of less privileged students in his Ijumu Local Government Area as a first step towards an all inclusive programme that will eventually cover the entire Kogi West senatorial district. Also speaking, the Coordinators the Babatunde Ajibulu Education Endowment, Human Capital Development and Rural Areas Development Programme Office, Bamidele Ibitomi and Rev Ajayi Ajibulu stated that giving slots to less privileged candidates is a new development borne out of a burning desire to enhance the abundant existing intellectual capabilities of Ijumu youths. They stated further that N19,910 was expended for the registration of each student. Meanwhile, beneficiaries from the various wards across the Local Government were ecstatic, elated and full of gratitude, and thanked  Ajibulu for the initiative which has given them the opportunity to further their education. Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Saliu Kudirat Opeyemi expressed profound gratitude to  Ajibulu and prayed that Almighty God continue to strengthen him to do more. “ We are grateful for this kind gesture. It means a whole lot to us and we want to assure  Omoba Ajibulu that we will make judicious use of it and we will make him proud” she said. Speaking on the initiative, Ajibulu said it is own little way of giving back to the society and to develop the youths in the senatorial district for the tasks ahead. He also expressed gratitude to his friends and associates who expressed interest in the initiative and have been supporting  the Babatunde Ajibulu educational endowment fund financially and in other ways. “This gesture which is first of many more to come and which will hopefully become an annual activity aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 4, of ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education”. “ With the gift of education,  the youths are empowered and anything is possible. It is a launching pad. With an education,  you don’t need hand outs or charity as nobody can take your education away from you” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.