Yenagoa – Mr. Daniel Iworiso-Markson, the Bayelsa State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, has said that the state is blind to tribal and ethnic considerations. This, he explained, was why the state government, under Governor Seriake Dickson, had been appointing non-Bayelsans into positions of trust since 2012.
Iworiso-Markson explained that the yardsticks for the appointment of several non-indigenes by the governor were competence and value the individuals could bring to bear on their tasks.
He was speaking when the leadership of the Supreme Council of Non-Indigenes in Bayelsa State paid him a courtesy call at the Information House, Yenagoa.
Iworiso-Markson stressed the need for Nigerians to embrace peaceful co-existence and promote unity to achieve accelerated national integration and development, adding that Bayelsa was home to all.
He noted that the high turnout of quality projects in the state in the last six years was indicative of Dickson’s forward-looking leadership style, which he added, recognises the migration of people of different cultures into the state.
He commended the leadership and members of the organisation for their roles and called for their continuous support to the government.
The commissioner congratulated the council for the peaceful conduct of its recent election, assuring them of the government’s support.
Alhaji Ade Bakare, the President-General of the orgaanisation, commended Iworiso-Markson for the professional manner he had managed government’s image since his assumption of duty.
He also thanked the governor for appointing nine members of the council as Special Assistants, and assured him of their unflinching support. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.