In July this year, members of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) picketed offices of telecommunications mobile service provider, MTN over alleged non-compliance to labour laws. The NLC officials picketed MTN offices in various parts of the country including, Kano, Akwa Ibom, Ilorin and Enugu were alleged to be non-compliance to labour laws and the refusal of MTN to allow unionism. In Kwara State, Comrade Yekini Agunbiade and Issa Aremu led labour officials to picket MTN office in Ilorin, the state capital. The MTN offices were blocked and workers were prevented from gaining entrance to the premises. Aremu claimed that MTN did not just disallow unionism but also pay below national minimum wage and constantly sack their workers without benefit. He noted that the picketing will last for three days pending when the Labour leaders will decide the next line of action if the company did not yield. He urged the Ministry of Labour to ensure that all private establishments especially telecommunication companies adhere to the Labour laws for the benefit of Nigerian workers. The organised labour in Akwa Ibom state also picketed the MTN office in Uyo. Chairman of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in the state, Etim Ukpong who led the protest said the company’s labour policies are against civilised labour practices. Meanwhile, MTN in the reaction described the picketing and destruction of their properties as a sad development noting that the safety of their employees is of utmost priority. In a statement signed on Monday by the Corporate Relations Executive, Tobechukwu Okigbo, MTN said all workers have rights that should be protected. They added that they will continue to champion the rights of their workers whether they are part of a union or not. “As always our primary concern is the safety and well-being of our employees, some of whom were attacked by supposed NLC operatives and have sustained injuries. “We do not prevent our employees from associating amongst themselves as they deem fit and owe our employees the obligation to ensure they are not compelled to join associations. “MTN supports the freedom of association as enshrined in the Nigerian Constitution,” the statement read in part. MTN said dividends were never paid on preference shares. It said the value of preference shares have not changed. On the tax bill, MTN said its total payment of around $700 million over the 10-year period fully settled the amount owed under the taxes in question. The Public Relations Manager of MTN Nigeria, Funso Aina, said that the company will continue to categorically and unequivocally deny all charges related to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) investigations into the company’s CCIs and unpaid taxes respectively. “As previously disclosed the CBN has alleged improper dividend repatriations by MTN Nigeria and requested that $8.1 billion be returned “to the coffers of the CBN” whilst the AGF has alleged unpaid taxes on foreign payments and imports and that approximately $2.0 billion in relation to these taxes be paid to the Federal Government of Nigeria (and now directed that the payment of the $8.1 billion is dealt with through his office rather than as directed by the CBN). MTN Nigeria has denied these allegations and claims. Furthermore four commercial banks were issued fines in respect of the administration of the CCI and irregular dividend repatriation and requested to return, in aggregate, the same $8.1 billion. “In order to protect MTN Nigeria’s assets and shareholder rights within the confines of the law, we have applied today in the Federal High Court of Nigeria for injunctive relief restraining the CBN and the AGF from taking further action in respect of their orders, while we continue to engage with the relevant authorities on these matters. Commenting on the developments, MTN Nigeria Corporate Relations Executive Tobe Okigbo said: “The allegations being made involve issues that appear to be complex and so are easily misunderstood and misinterpreted. They are made even more confusing when the relevant authorities send conflicting messages and instructions and act in a way that appears un-coordinated and at cross purposes. “The simple reality is that MTN Nigeria has never repatriated dividends on the CCIs referenced by the CBN and that MTN is fully compliant with Nigerian tax law. “With situations like these, it is vital for both the government, regulators and the company to have absolute clarity on the nature of both the allegations being made and the processes that are being followed. In the absence of this clarity, our only option is to seek judicial intervention and to ask the courts to act as adjudicator.” “MTN remains fully committed to Nigeria and remains resolute that the company has not committed any offences and will continue to defend its position vigorously. The company will continue engaging with the relevant authorities, and further information will be provided as and when available,” the statement read. Speaking on the impasse, Mr. Olusola Teniola, president, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) said the industry does not understand what the CBN intends to achieve by the directive to an operator on which it has no regulatory oversight. He frowned at the order issued by the apex bank on MTN to pay $8.1 billion, saying that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has no powers to order MTN Nigeria to refund the said amount. He said: “It is very important to note that the figure referred to has almost been fully paid by MTN and that the $8.1billion doesn’t belong to CBN but belongs to MTN. So, on this basis, it is hard to understand what CBN seeks (to achieve) by its demands on MTN that it doesn’t have regulatory oversight over.” On how the logjam could be resolved, he said dialogue and transparency would do the magic. “Clarity, transparency and continued dialogue among  CBN, the banks and MTN to amicably resolve this matter in the interest of the wider stakeholder community, especially, potential investors closely watching developments on this issue. “At the moment, processing of CCIs (Certificate of Capital Importation) is shrouded in confusion in what should be a relatively straight forward process in between the banks and CBN their regulator. “A refund is very unlikely. The size of the demand and timing is unreasonable and not in the interest of the country. After all, the Naira equivalent will have to be returned to MTN Nigeria. It is then an interesting situation that this seeks to redress events that occurred when CBN had full oversight and approved the transactions. How do they intend to do that?” According to Teniola, the matter should be between the banks and the apex bank and not necessarily the banks’ customers (MTN). “This I believe is a matter that should be in between the banks and CBN and not the client of the banks. NCC may decide to intervene if events unfold that threaten the survival of MTN and the telecom industry that they regulate. For now, it is too early to see which way this will take,” he said, adding, however, that he is not in an official capacity or position to quantify or qualify the impact of the development to corporate brand of the telco. “I fully believe MTN will continue to engage with the relevant authorities to resolve this latest setback,” Teniola said. As a way to establish its innocence, MTN Nigeria, last week asked a Lagos Federal High Court to restrain the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) from taking further action on the $10.1 billion financial infractions against the company. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 