Benin – Africa Network for Environment and Economic Justice (ANEEJ) has observed that one of the challenges of institutions in Niger Delta region, including the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), was lack of commitment to fulfill obligation to the people. Although ANEEJ attributed this to paucity of funds and political considerations in the allocation of projects, it, however, noted that over four years since it began advocacy with other CSOs in the region, about 35 abandoned projects have been completed in three states namely, Edo, Delta and Cross River states, while several others were revived by NDDC. Rev. David Ugolor, executive director, ANEEJ, who made the observation at a media briefing in Benin City, and described the project as that of Niger Delta Institutions (NDI) under the Strengthening Advocacy and Civil Engagement (SACE) funded by USAID through Chemonics. Ugolor said the first two years of this project, which started in October 2014 with ANEEJ/Lite-Africa as well as their cluster, members undertook specific activities to strengthen the capacity of CSOs to engage the Niger Delta Institutions to promote transparency, accountability and effectiveness. Against this backdrop, according to him, research on the mandate of NDIs was carried out and performance established in the Citizen Report Card (CRC). “Outcome of the research and CRC was condensed into policy papers and used to engage the respective NDIs”, he said. ANEEJ boss said the second phase of the project was expected to end in October this year, adding that the body has developed the Niger Delta Institutions Transparency Index platform with 49 indicators under five categories to promote transparency and accountability of the NDIs in pursuit of their mandate. Besides, he said the index, which was also aimed at promoting healthy competition among the institutions as well as increase citizens participation and knowledge of the NDIs activities, have over four years now achieved a lot. He listed some of the achievements as published by NDDC in its first quarter report on its website in 2016 with budget and expenditure details; inauguration of independent CSO project monitoring committee by NDDC, completion of some abandoned projects among others. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 