The emerging new sector in Nigeria is the health sector where over one billion dollars is expended on medical tourism in Nigeria annually which is due basically to lack of required health infrastructure. We are trying to partner with organisations to ensure that medical facilities are available for diagnosis and treatment in the healthcare sector. Identifying the significant improvement leasing has had on Chinese, American, German and other economies of the developed world, Emonuwa said all Nigeria needed to do is to continue to create the right awareness for the industry. “The government must reciprocate by creating a friendly operating environment and build capacities to be able to meet the demands of the economy,” Emonuwa added. The non-bank lessors, however, accounted for about 80 per cent of customer base mainly from the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs). Some capital market operators and other companies were attracted to the leasing industry to tap into the opportunities and as means of hedging against other non- performing product offerings. Also, vendors and service providers (telecom and oil) increased their participation in the leasing industry. In terms of asset categorisation, about 40 per cent of leased assets are vehicles including trucks for haulage and buses for inter-state commercial transportation, which have been a major attraction in recent times. Financing of specialised assets is emerging in the market, especially in the health sector. No doubt, leasing services have played a positive role in the maritime sub-sector of the Nigerian economy. This, by extension, has contributed its quota to the economic development of the country. There is no gainsaying that port concession itself, which brought about the transfer of various terminals in the ports to private operators was lease services. Most of the terminal operators that handle the ports have the mandate to operate for a number of years. Like the APM Terminal which has an agreement with the government to handle the Apapa Container Terminals for 25 years. Others in various ports across the country signed a lease agreement for between 10 years and 20years. Speaking about the gains of lease services in the maritime sector, Ismail Aniemu, a maritime analyst, said it brought about improved modernisation of the ports system and equipment used in their operations. Aniemu said that prior to the concession; the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) dominated the system, adding that there was no healthy competition to spearhead economic development. “The lease services, which brought about port concession, also brought about the rivalry and stiff competition among companies and operators that handle different terminals. You see the operators of Tin Can Island Container Terminals competing with APMT and others. This has brought efficiency in the ports system, unlike when the NPA monopolized the system,” he said. Aniemu added that the problem with the system was how to check and control operators by the government so that their excesses and profiteering, which are detrimental to the importers, agents and other stakeholders in the maritime sector, as well as the government are checkmated. Speaking in the same vein, Lucky Eyis Amiwero, President, Association of Managing Directors of Nigeria Customs Licensed Agents (AMDNCLA), said that leasing services thrive when you have equipment or services to lease out, saying that outsourcing is another form that turns things around in the maritime sector. With this, Amiwero said that operators will engage the services of experts in areas they lacked competency, saying that these are applicable to the NPA, the Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, the Nigeria Customs Services and even the terminal operators and shipping companies. Also, Chief Eugene Nweke, former President, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), said that leasing system thrives very much in the maritime sector of the economy. He said that apart from Maersk Line, most of the vessels that are in the country’s territorial water were on lease. According to him, “The lease agreement ranges between 20 years and 30 years. The country should come up with an economic system where we will have all these as well and generate revenue through a lease. It thrives more in maritime than in other sectors. “Once upon a time, there are instances when available cranes could not discharge vessels and the government had no choice but to lease cranes. Go to the Philippines, anything you are leasing, the government will assist you in financing it because there is a huge revenue in lease services in the maritime sector than any other sector.” Nweke lamented that as at today, the country neither has a factory manufacturing containers nor has any company leasing it. “All these are manufactured abroad and leased out from abroad. If you go to Onne port, lease services thrive in every aspect of their operations”. He tasked politicians who are interested in stashing funds abroad to invest in lease services to create wealth and employment for the teeming unemployed youth. “When you concession the port for a period of time, what are you doing? You are leasing. We have different types of lease services in the maritime sector. We have an equipment lease, vessel leasing among others. Leasing business is a serious business,” Nweke enthused. Contributing to the discourse, Deolu Ogunbanjo, President, National Association of Telecommunications Subscribers (NATCOMS), said the better way for any company to survive, especially, at this period of economic recession, is to go for leasing services instead of outright of equipment. “In view of the recession in the country, corporate finances should be well monitored by organizations, if they wish to survive for a long time. “In the telecoms sector, the network operators already embrace leasing services in various ways and if they fail it will show in their financial records. This is because the Average Revenue Per User (ARPU) is not as healthy as what obtains in the past. The ARPU index calls for proper management. Telecom companies are already patronising equipment leasing. Most of the masts and towers are on lease. The same applies to some of their departments. The security services exit through outsourcing as well as customer service departments. The impact of leasing services cannot be overemphasised. In other sectors, both private and public, would look inwards and go for leasing option instead of spending so much to buy equipment and even pay for services, they will be better for it. The leasing sector can create reduce financial wastages and create so much wealth for companies and even the government. The fact is that patronizing leasing service is a win-win situation for the lessors (equipment providers) and lessees (customers). Also commenting, recently on the importance of lease service system, Olusola Teniola, President, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), said lease system is overdue in modern day businesses and governments. He said: “The wholesale market in Nigeria is pretty well advanced, and it is normal for a lease agreement to be in place with specified Service Level Agreement (SLA) within 24 hours upon request. We see the leasing agreements migrating to long-term tenure type structures to bring down the unit costs associated with the short-term lease agreement.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 