Lagos – The Minister of Youth and Sports, Barrister Solomon Dalung has expressed sadness over the death of a one time President of the Cycling Federation of Nigeria (CFN), Rev. (Dr.) Moses Iloh on Sunday, September 16. Others like former Sports Minister, Sanni Ndanusa, and Dr. Segun Akinlotan among others also mourned the sports administrator who died at the age of 88 years. While mourning Iloh who was until his demise the General Overseer of Soul Winning Chapel, Dalung said he contributed immensely to the development of cycling in Nigeria and a strong advocate of the less privileged. The Minister eulogized the elder statesman and cleric for his contributions to nation building and development exemplified through his pastoral teachings. “This is sad news to the sports fraternity especially now that we need experienced sports administrators to assist us in rescuing some sports that are almost moribund and dying gradually. Rev Iloh was a seasoned sports administrator who had deep passion for cycling.” Dalung sympathized with the immediate and extended family members of the late renowned sports administrator who was also a Patron of Lagos Chapter of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN). “I sympathize with his family, friends, associates and other well-wishers who are affected by the death of this Reverend gentleman. I pray Almighty God to grant the elder statesman eternal rest.” Ndanusa said: “There is no doubt that we have just lost a seasoned administrator and disciplinarian. We will miss him in our midst and our sports will also miss him in years to come”, said Ndanusa. Akinlotan, who described the late Iloh as a trust worthy Nigerian, said he lived a fulfilled life and urged other sports administrators to emulate his legacies. “He had done his best and his legacies will live long with all of us. In fact, we have lost a dedicated Nigerian and we will surely miss him in the sports circle”, said Akinlotan. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 