Abuja – There was a curious twist in the 2019 presidential election campaign on Wednesday night when Abraham Olujonwo Obasanjo, son of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, wrote President Muhammadu Buhari, declaring his unalloyed support for the president’s second term bid. In a personal letter he wrote to Festus Keyamo, Director of Strategic Communication, President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organisation, the younger Obasanjo said he took the personal decision to support Buhari’s re-election bid with “sincerity and loyalty”, saying he was available to contribute his quota to the cause. Olujonwo said he took the decision to make the public declaration based on his conviction that the administration was laying a firm foundation for the growth and development of the country. The position of the younger Obasanjo is in sharp contrast to that of his father who, in a number of open communications to President Buhari had urged him not to seek re-election on account of poor performance. Abraham Obasanjo, in a two-page attachment to his letter, said the government was serious in its developmental trajectory and should be embraced and supported. “The government is serious about development and has given new life to the steel industry and the Buhari administration is determined to industrialise the country and make her a producing nation, and the completion of the Ajokuta Steel complex, the Baro and Lokoja ports are examples. “The present administration has sought to address our importation of petroleum products through the relocation of refineries. These are a few examples. A whole book is needed to put the achievement and successes of the current administration in details,” he said. He said the Buhari administration has also made huge investment in education, health, agriculture, security, and road infrastructure to boost economic growth. According to him, “The ingenuity of the administration in proffering solution to problems is commendable.” He noted that no human or government anywhere in the world was perfect as perfection belonged only to God. Consequently, he urged all youths to join forces and support President Buhari in his strides to rescue them from past bondage foisted on them by past leaders. While he urged the youths to thrust forward for leadership, as it would not be handed to them on a platter of gold, the younger Obasanjo urged the elderly to mentor the younger generation so as to assume greater responsibility in the building of a great nation. On the Melinda and Bill Gates report that predicts that Nigeria and Congo will produce 40% of the world’s poor by year 2050, Abraham said poverty in the country did not arise solely from the three-year action of the present administration. Besides, he said, the report was a product of data collated in the past 58 years. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 