Prince Obadeyi Luqmon Omotayo is an aspirant for Obafemi Owode Constituency in Ogun State on the platform of the African Democratic Congress (ADC). He spoke with IKECHI NZEAKO on his priorities if elected. Excerpts: Why did you join politics? I am into politics because I want to better the lot of my people who have suffered deprivation as a result of bad governance they have been subjected to over the years. Why are you running on the platform of the African Democratic Congress (ADC)? I joined the party because its principles and core values align with mine. The party’s leadership provides a level playing field for everyone to seek whatever positions they like. There is no imposition of any kind. Everyone is treated fairly. There is no godfather who dictates what happens in the party. This is unlike what happens in the All Progressives Congress (APC) where I was a member, where candidates are imposed on members by the leadership. I love to express myself and say my mind. I cannot stay in a party where a few people decide what happens. So, I switched to ADC where the leader in Ogun State and its governorship candidate, Prince Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, allows all members to partake in its activities. I joined a party where I can express myself and be listened to. This has been happening in ADC. The party is about fairness, equity, justice and freedom for all. These ideals are dear to my heart and that is why I am contesting to represent the Obafemi/Owode State Constituency in Ogun State on the platform of ADC. What are the chances of the party in the state given that it is new? Yes, the party is new. But, we have been taking it to all parts of the state. The people have been receptive to the party because of its ideals and principles. Again, the people have not got good governance by the current administration in the state. They are, therefore, seeking an alternative that will pprovide positive change in their lives. Again, the party’s leader in Ogun State, Prince Isiaka, is not a stranger to the politics of the state. He has been doing a lot for the people of the state without being in government. The current government in the state has concentrated projects in the state capital to the exclusion of other parts, especially towns and communities in the border with Lagos State. The candidate of ADC has studied and understood the challenges that people in the border areas face. He has promised to find a solution to them. What have you been doing in your constituency before seeking to represent them in state House of Assembly and what experience do you have? I have empowered many people in the constituency. As a leader, I am known in many communities in my constituency. I am a Lagos State University graduate of Public Administration. I am also the Chief Executive Officer of a Lagos-based company. I am a leader of men. I will provide quality representation to my people, What will be your priority if elected? My major priority will be to work for the establishment of a special agency that will lead to infrastructure development for Obafemi Owode constituency in line with the vision ADC governorship aspirant, Gboyega Nasir Isiaka. Though the primary responsibility of the House of Assembly is to give adequate representation to the people as well as carry out oversight of the funds appropriated for projects by the executive, but being an indigene of a border town and having spent most of my life in Mowe, I can conclude that towns like Arepo, Asese, Owode, Pakuro, Olowotedo, Mowe, Orunkole, Ofada, Arigbabowo, Obafe, Adesan, Loburo, Alekun, Ayanmo, Kajola, among others, deserve a special agency that will lead to development in these towns. They have resources that can improve the fortunes of the state, if properly exploited. The border towns have not seen development under the current administration. Those that have represented the constituency have been taking part in the passage of budgets for the state over the years. But, the constituency have not benefitted from the budgets. I plan to change all that. The constituency will begin to benefit as a constituent part of the state. How do you intend to bring development to the area? What I have done is to key into the vision of the governorship candidate of ADC in Ogun State in the person of Prince Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, who has done an extensive study of the border towns in the state. The governorship candidate of the party in the state has held consultative meetings with the stakeholders and residents of the border towns.  I attended some of the interactive sessions where he told the stakeholders and residents of the town the results of his finding. According to him, there are only primary health centres in the Owode Obafemi Constituency and that there are secondary health centre where people can access treatment for serious health conditions. He told them that he would build secondary health centres in the constituency, adding that they would be able to afford because the cost would be low. The governorship candidate also said that he found that most of the schools in the constituency are dilapidated and has promised to fix them. He stated that the roads in the constituency are bad promised to repair them and construct new ones. He has promised to set up a special agency that do this great promises he has made to the people of the constituency.  I have keyed in the vision of the governorship candidate of our party to see to its realization. I will mobilise members of the House of Assembly to create agency that will drive development in the constituency and that is why I am asking the people of Owode Obafemi Constituency to vote for me so that I can give them effective representation. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 