Comrade Oladimeji Odeyemi is a member of the Global Agenda Against Terrorism. In this interview, the President of the National Committee of Yoruba Youths (NCYY), speaks on the war against insurgency in the North East and other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: The insurgency war is still ravaging some parts of the North East despite the efforts of the Nigerian military. What do you think is responsible for this? I want to first correct the use of the word ravaging in your question because that is not the true state of things in the North East. What we are having now is a pocket of isolated attacks on some soft targets by the few remnants of the decimated, but now very desperate Boko Haram terrorists and we must eulogise the military, especially the officers and men of the Nigerian Army for this audacious feat. I think we must first cast a glance at the back and look at where we are coming from as regards the timeline of insurgency in Nigeria; that way we can appreciate the enormous work, which is still in progress, that the Chief of Army Staff and his troops are doing on field. The Boko Haram issue first started as an uprising in 2009, in what was a conflict between Boko Haram, a militant fundamentalist group, and Nigerian security forces. Violence occurred across several states in Northeastern Nigeria, which resulted in more than 1,000 dead, with around 700 killed in the city of Maiduguri alone. And that was how a full scale war had ensued since then. Boko Haram appeared in the consciousness of most Nigerians outside of the Northeastern zone, for the first time toward the middle of the year in August of 2011. The escalation of what started as a mere uprising developed into a full scale war toward the end of 2012 in which from Bornu state the Boko Haram Terror spread to the whole of the Northeastern states. It was this situation that became the focal point upon which the last administration of President Jonathan lost the 2015 elections after a three year period that produced minimal victories that left open the vulnerability of the military, especially the army, resulting in heavy casualties, low morale and mismanagement of resources. A dangerous situation it was for both the fledgling Nigerian democracy and the continued existence of a United Nigeria. Such was the country President Muhammadu Buhari inherited and a more severe and precarious circumstance Lieutenant  General Tukur Yusuf  Buratai inherited as the New Army Chief of Staff. What makes the Boko Haram war different from other killings? It is very important at this juncture in this discourse to point out the very issues that the army under General Buratai has been dealing with in this war against Terror since 2015. Boko Haram has many arms and appendages. The most dangerous reality about the Boko Haram is perhaps its political arm, of which any army is not going to be so equipped to deal with by the book and neither by their training. It is not uncommon to see this scenario play out, that a decision be made at the very top of the Army command and within minutes such intricate policy decisions made in secrecy is already known to the Terrorists. Many times, the terrorists will be waiting in ambush to intercept the soldiers carrying out a mission regarded as a most secret maneuver and tactics. No sooner after debriefings are done and personnel deployed, would the same terrorists will, by information somewhat obtained, know of it and launch an attack. The leaks were mostly done by politicians who are aiding and abetting the Terrorists. This situation and many of such are what the Army Chief has had to face in his three years in the saddle. To say the truth, General Buratai has succeeded where others have failed in tackling the ever difficult challenge of tackling the political arm of the terrorists. And we must say where we have the volatile mix of politics and religion, a very serious challenge ensues but not insurmountable as the Nigerian Army under General Buratai has succeeded in locating, arresting and decimating the support systems of the Terrorists. The Nigerian  Army under General Buratai has also through ‘Operation Lafiya Dole’ made a heavy breakthrough when it arrested a Caretaker Chairman of Mafa Local Government Area of Borno state, Alhaji Shettima Lawan Maina for hiding a top Boko Haram Commander. Such are the few examples of the progress the Army Chief has made toward what has now largely been seen as a worn war over Boko Haram Terror. Being able to fight a largely unseen enemy, in an unconventional Terror war meant employing more than conventional weapons and tactics. This has also been a war of wits and bravery. Lieutenant  General Tukur Yusuf Buratai himself is from Biu local government of Borno State, right in the midst of all that has transpired so far in this war on Terror that started from Borno state. As the General himself has demonstrated, In the Military, he has learned the essence of people. He has learned to be impartial. In General Buratai, we have seen so many examples of self-sacrifice and moral courage, even waging a war upon those who might be friend, acquaintances and family. In the whole of different endeavors, not just in the Army alone, you don’t get that many opportunities to be sure of such loyal impartial leaders who would administer decisions with such precision and total loyalty to his country over and above sectional interests. There have been criticism about the reportage of the activities of the sect and the effect on the war. What is your take on this? For any patriotic mind the question is what exactly is the rational for promoting terror, and sentimentally publicizing the activities of the sect. As patriotic Nigerians, we must realise that the challenge of the insurgency is beyond partisanship interest and no one is immune to the consequences of the dastard acts of these terrorists For example, look at the way some online newspapers especially the Premium Times News are disparaging the efforts of our military who left their respective homes to keep vigil in the North East day and night; can you imagine the way they are accusing them of not doing enough, make a lot of baseless and unsubstantiated accusations against the Army and it’s leadership, then call for a change of personnel!? The poignant issue here is who this section of media serving is and whose interest are they protecting? Can a servant serve two masters!? I think rather than blaming President Muhammadu Buhari, the leadership of the military  and our troops for pockets of insurgent attacks still being experienced in the country,  the administration deserves being commended for its efforts especially in the milestones so far recorded, leading to the return of IDPs to their ancestral homes and also building international support and synergy to tackle the monstrous group. I think it is in our collective interest that these Fifth Columnists disguising as Fourth Estate of the  realm to desist from all forms of actions and statements that seeks to further embolden these terrorists at the detriment of the innocent people of the affected communities and our gallant troops, who are putting in their best to ensure that our country is rid of all insurgency at the earliest possible time. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 