Lagos – Sheer courage, focus and commitment have been be the driving force behind Tiger Woods’ success in recent times, if his latest victory at the Tour Championship in Atlanta is anything to go by in his career. It was his first success in five years after some career-threatening issues ranging from health to social activities. With the ongoing Ryder Cup in Le Golf National, Paris, Woods remains the talk of the moment and the man to beat; he is the worries of the European Team. There is one thing which is paramount in the life of Woods – breaking the record of Jack Nicklaus who has 18 majors’ records. Woods has 14 so far before his ups and downs. Very few sportsmen and women, if any, could match the tenacious records of Woods even when it was thought to be over but now seemed to be the beginning of the journey for him. Build up to the Tour Championship, Woods has said that he was “very proud” of his achievement this season and he eventually won the championship. It is axiomatic that Woods could be on his way to doing something enigmatic in his career at 40s, though golf is said to be a “game for life and of life.” Woods otherwise returned to the Tour in January after successful surgery on his spine following four injury ravaged years. At 42-year-old, he has been mightily impressive, racking up six top-10 finishes that included runners-up finishes at the Valspar Championship and the PGA Championship. He was also in contention during the final round of The Open in July. Woods finished the recent BMW Championship tied for sixth place to secure place at East Lake for the first time since 2013 and said this season has been an unqualified success despite not managing a win. “I think the season itself has been amazing,” he said. “To be able to have played this well after coming off of what I came off. I didn’t know how many tournaments I’d play in and next thing you know, here I am in the Tour Championship. “There are some guys that can’t say they’ve accomplished that, have got into the Tour Championship, but to have come back from where I’ve come back from and to get here has been a pretty tall order and something I’m proud of.” Tiger Woods was moved to the brink of tears after capturing his first title since 2013 with a two-stroke triumph at the Tour Championship in Atlanta on Sunday that proved he was far from washed up at the age of 42. Tossing aside five years of career-threatening injury woes, Woods reasserted his status as the best frontrunner in the history of the sport, leading throughout the final round and finishing at 11-under-par 269 at East Lake. With the massive gallery chanting his name as they stampeded the final fairway in scenes reminiscent of British Opens of yesteryear, Woods moved within two victories of Sam Snead’s all-time record of 82 PGA Tour titles. “I was having a hard time not crying coming up the last hole,” he said. “All of a sudden it started hitting me I was going to win the tournament. “I’ve been sitting on 79 (wins) for five years now. To get 80 is a pretty damn good feeling.” After carding 71, Woods walked off to a big kiss from girlfriend Erica Herman and a hug from agent Mark Steinberg as security tried to keep the frenzied fans at bay. The victory capped off a season that started with questions over whether Woods, now 10 years removed from his 14th major title, would even be able to play a full schedule after undergoing spinal fusion surgery in April 2017. “My body was a wreck,” recalled Woods, who hoped the operation would alleviate debilitating back and leg pain. “The low point did not know whether I would be able to live pain-free again. “I was beyond playing. I couldn’t sit, I couldn’t walk, I couldn’t lie down without feeling the pain in my back and leg.” That the procedure worked was evident on the Sunday as Woods was never seriously challenged after starting the day with a three-shot cushion over Rory McIlroy and Justin Rose. Had Rose not picked up a shot at the last, Woods would have taken the FedExCup as well, although that was hardly an issue for the American, who now seems odds-on to surpass Snead’s record for tour victories. With his 43rd birthday approaching in December, Woods remains a long shot to win five more majors to overhaul the career tally of Jack Nicklaus even if the Golden Bear himself was not ruling it out. “Maybe Tiger’s got another 40 majors to play,” 18-times major winner Nicklaus said. “Out of 40 majors can he win five of them, I don’t know?” Out of 40 majors can he win five of them? That is the right question to end the journey for Woods in golf and sport generally. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 