AWKA – The Directorate of Igbo Village and Centre for African Civilization (IVACAC) of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University under the leadership of Very Rev. Bonachristus Umeogu had a big outing last week when it hosted the maiden edition of iri ji (new yam) festival in the university. During the event, the university received dignitaries mostly from the traditional institutions as Prof. Joseph Ahaneku, the Vice-Chancellor, led the university community on the occasion tagged: ‘Iri Ji UNIZIK Na Ezi-na-Ifite Igbo Heritage Conference 2018’. Addressing visitors and the university community, Ahaneku advised Ndigbo to hold firm to their cultural heritage, tradition and other good attributes that define them as a hardworking, committed and visionary ethnic group in the country. According to him the new yam festival, which is a huge cultural activity of the Igbo nation, gives them the opportunity to thank the creator for a successful farming season, good weather and gift of life to the farmers. The celebration is also an opportunity to showcase the culture and tradition of the Igbo nation as they congregate with their families, friends and neighbors to make merriment in the spirit of a successful farming season. Ahaneku said that his administration decided to set up the Directorate of Igbo Village and Centre for African Civilization with a mandate to research into, revive and revitalize Igbo language and culture, because of the relevance of culture in a people’s life and being mindful of the often expressed fear of the threat of the extinction of Igbo language and culture and commended the IVACAC for living up to expectation. In his remarks, Obi Gibson Nwosu, the royal father of the day, and traditional ruler of Awka, commended the university and the vice-chancellor for upholding the culture and heritage of Igbo peopl. He encouraged the university to sustain the event. Also speaking, Ezeji Elugwaraonu Augustine Agbakwuru gave kudos to the university for celebrating the Yam festival in line with customs of the Igbo. Speaking at the event the Director of the IVACAC, Umeogu described iri ji as a way of embracing the culture of Igbo land where God is honoured for his kindness and gift of life to humanity. He said that iri ji is an age long tradition of the Igbo and should not be seen as idol worship which is a very wrong perception held by most people. Umeogu said that the Iri Ji UNIZIK which is the first of its kind in the Ivory Tower has come to stay and will be an annual event. Among those who attended the occasion were the traditional ruler of Okpuno, Igwe SundayOkafor, the traditional ruler of Ifitedunu, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ilouno, Ezeji Nnayerugo of Itu, Ezinihite, Mbaise, Chief Cliff Nwogwugwu, among numerous others. Highlights of the occasion were the traditional yam roasting, masquerade and cultural displays, presentation of tubers of yams and other gift items from different visiting groups and faculties to the IVACAC. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 