Lagos – To ensure the outcome of free and fair exercise in Nigeria’s forthcoming elections, the British Deputy High Commission in Lagos has outlined measures it has put in place to ensure the success of the polls. Laure Beaufils, British Deputy High Commissioner, Lagos, speaking at the weekend during an interactive session with journalists to mark the 2018 International Day of Democracy showcased what the United Kingdom (UK) is doing to partnership Nigeria on free, fair and credible elections next year. At the event, tagged: “Deepening Democracy in Nigeria,” which held at the British Deputy High Commission in Lagos, the envoy, who noted that “the UK is a long-term partner and friend of Nigeria in all spheres, including politics,” added that the Prime Minister, Theresa May’s, visit to Nigeria is a testament to the fact that the two countries have a cordial relationship. Beaufils, who noted that the British High Commission is commitment to spending 47. 4 million pounds on Deepening Democracy in Nigeria Programme Phase 2 (DDiN2), added that the DDiNs is a programme funded under the Department for International Development (DFID), arm of the Commission geared towards supporting democratic governance around the world with focus on Nigeria. The envoy said that the “UK has no preference for any party or candidate,” adding that the UK is making frantic efforts to give advocacy and campaigns to support citizens-led groups to curb electoral violence. Damilare Babalola, Programme Coordinator, Deepening Democracy in Nigeria (DDIN2), noted that the British Deputy High Commission is working tireless with relevant stakeholders to deepen democracy and to, within the next six months, ensure free and fair polls and best elections outcomes. Babalola said the DFID-UK funded programme has been in existence for the past four years to ensure successful 2019 polls in the country, adding that it is working with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), relevant security agencies, among other groups, to ensure voter-participation, participatory governance so as to support electoral process and strengthen electoral process, as well as improve voter-participation in the polls. The programme coordinator, who said that DDIN is an on-going process that supports civil society organisations, provides periodic intervention with public, added that DDIN works with relevant stakeholders to ensure an all-inclusive political process in Nigeria, as well as reaches to the grassroots to ensure issue-based politics, peaceful and non-violent political process come 2019. Speaking on how to curb vote-buying among politicians, Babalola said “that there is so little that INEC or UK could do about that but the intervention of other stakeholders would help ensure that thuggery and violence are reduced to the barest minimum.” He noted that “Vote-buying is a threat to peaceful elections if not contained,” and urged all stakeholders in Nigerian politics to eschew all forms of vote-buying and threats to peaceful polls. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 