Osogbo – The stage is becoming clearer how September 22nd 2018 Osun Governorship Election would go following the conclusion of primary elections by the participating political parties. The participating political parties, 48 in number have so far submitted the names of their gubernatorial candidates as well as their running mates to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to meet the August 8th deadline. The events before, during and after the primaries, which led to the emergence of candidates of participating political parties and their running mates will be subjects of debates for some time to come. The party primaries, irrespective of the mode adopted, were characterized by intrigues, manipulations, financial inducement or vote buying and alleged imposition resulting in alignment and realignment of forces by party members. Political watchers in the state have therefore come to conclusion that the outcome of the forthcoming election may be difficult to predict because with the trend of things underdog political parties may spring surprises. The chances of winning Osun Governorship seat come September 22nd is now among five political parties such as Social Democratic Party (SDP), Action Democratic Party (ADP), African Democratic Congress (ADC), All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) unlike in the past when it was always a straight fight between APC and PDP. In the current political calculation, the former Deputy Governor of Osun State, Senator Christopher Iyiola Omisore, former Secretary to the State Government under PDP, Alhaji Fatai Akinade Akinbade and hundreds of their supporters had left Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) at different stages to become the governorship candidates of SDP and ADC respectively meaning that members of the old PDP in the state had fragmented into three. Also, members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have divided into two following defection of the immediate past Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Alhaji Moshood Olalekan Adeoti and substantial members of State Working Committee (SWC), local and ward executives of the party into Action Democratic Party (ADP). In SDP, Senator Omisore is counting on past love and glory to clinch the governorship seat in the state believing that only workers in the service of the state government and local councils as well as retirees would deliver the state to him going by the assurances he gives to them. He must not also forget that he garnered much votes when he was in PDP which the party members delivered to him as party candidate in 2014. Senator Omisore had been nursing the ambition to govern the state since 1997/1998 during the time of defunct UNCP when he was the sole candidate but the ambition was scuttled with disbandment of the party. He later joined Alliance for Democracy (AD) with the ambition but was persuaded to deputized Chief Adebisi Akande who became the governor in 1999. Omisore left the party for PDP at the heat of the political crisis that engulfed the then ruling party in the state in 2001. In 2003, he became the senator representing Osun East Senatorial District and was in the national assembly for eight years and finally contested the 2014 governorship election with Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola which he lost. Now that he is in a new political party, Social Democratic Party (SDP), voting pattern is likely to change as most political parties and major stakeholders in the state are agitating that the next governor after Aregbesola should come from Osun West Senatorial District in the spirit of fairness and justice whereas Omisore is from Osun East Senatorial District, the same district with the current governor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola of APC. For Alhaji Akinade Akinbade, the gubernatorial candidate of ADC, he is also a grassroots politician loved by people. He is gentle and generous. He participated in various administrations as commissioner both under military and civilian in the state. He was former State Chairman of Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) and later appointed the Secretary to the State Government by Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola’s government and after failed attempt to clinch the PDP’s gubernatorial ticket, he dumped the party for Labour Party and lost the 2014 governorship election to Aregbesola. Akinbade returned to PDP last year and after another failed attempt to get the party’s ticket, he announced his resignation and join ADC along with his followers. Akinbade is also from Ogbaagbaa in Osun West Senatorial District and stand the chance of winning the governorship seat. The ruling party in the state, All Progressives Congress (APC) is worse hit by realignment of forces when the immediate past Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Alhaji Moshood Olalekan Adeoti resigned his membership from APC to become the governorship candidate of Action Democratic Party (ADP) over alleged imposition of Alhaji Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola, cousin to National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and current Chief of Staff to Governor Aregbesola as APC gubernatorial candidate. Adeoti’s exit attracted nine out of sixteen State Working Committee members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), 580 local government executives out of 780 executive and 5,620 out of 8,632 ward executives into the Action Democratic Party (ADP). The nine state working committee members that dump APC are Alhaji Azeez Issa Adesiji, Deputy State Chairman, Alhaji Tajudeen Agbeti, Ex-officio, Prince Ademola Bamidele, State Auditor, Alhaji Rasheed Bakare, Assistant General secretary, Mr. Akinola Morakinyo, State PRO, Mr. Wole Adunola, Ex-officio, Dr. Idayat Bakare, Assistant Welfare Secretary, Mrs. Ogundare Aina Afolabi, Assistant PRO and Alhaji Sikiru Karim, Assistant Treasurer. The Deputy State Chairman of APC, Alhaji Azeez Issa Adesiji who led APC’s SWC, local government and ward executives to ADP cited nepotism, godfatherism, impunity of the highest order, unconcerned attitudes of decision makers with the party, abandonment of party members, unbearable influence of national leader of the party, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu on the state makes it difficult for them to remain in the party. According to Adesiji, “we object to the idea of Osun state being run as an output of another state. The principle of fairness and even development in which the creation of Osun State was agitated has been abandoned by APC cabal in Osun State. As at the time of filling this report, crack has already crept into Governor Aregbesola’s cabinet following the resignation of Special Adviser to Governor on Cooperatives, Barrister Gbenga Awosode of his position and party membership. It was further learn’t that more blow is still coming in the couples of days even as some cabinet members currently serving under Aregbesola were said to have sympathy for ADP’s candidate and likely to work for him in the coming governorship poll. Alhaji Moshood Olalekan Adeoti, is another grassroots politician of note. He is an underdog in the current political formation in the state. He was the State Chairman of the then Action Congress before the party transformed into APC with others parties. He is an old politician and started as councilor. The reason why Adeoti is having overbearing influence on APC executives, which is nucleus of the party is that he was in charge when members of SWC of APC were elected into office. Moshood Olalekan was also in charge as AC State Chairman when Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola came from Lagos to contest the state governorship election. He was appointed the Secretary to State Government (SSG) by Aregbesola but was allegedly schemed out with direct method of July 20 2018 primary election of which all arrangements aimed to allegedly favour Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola. It will be recalled that it is only in Osun State that direct mode of primary election was adopted in picking gubernatorial candidate of APC in recent time whereas delegates system was being used all over. Efforts by Governor Rauf Aregbesola to mend the fence and stop the mass exodus of party men and women in APC failed as most aggrieved members approached claimed that it was too late for such consideration adding that series of complaints and petitions in the past had been ignored by the Government and party leadership. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 