Lagos – Senator Gbenga Ashafa, lawmaker representing Lagos East senatorial district has lauded the Lagos state chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress  (APC) for sticking to the direct primaries model as the mode of selection of candidates for the forthcoming general elections, saying through the model, power has been given back to  the people to select those who preside over their affairs. Addressing a world press conference on Monday where he briefed his constituents on his achievements in the senate and his aspirations towards the 2019 elections, Ashafa who is the Chairman, Senate Committee On Land Transport while appreciating his constituents for their support so far, also solicited their cooperation  for another opportunity to represent them in the upper chamber of the national assembly beyond 2019. “Dear Good people of Lagos East Senatorial District, slightly over 7 years ago in 2011, we began a new phase in the advancement of our Senatorial District in the area of representation at the National Level. We began this journey together when on the platform of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), you gave me a mandate to be the face and voice of our district in the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I am very grateful for the solidarity and support you have given me from the very beginning to date and I do not take your support for granted. To the people of Ibeju Lekki, Kosofe, Ikorodu, Somolu and Epe I say thank you”. “I made a commitment to you then and indeed in 2015 when on the strength of your votes, I returned to the National Assembly to continue the assignment. My commitment to you has remained that I would continue to provide qualitative representation to every single constituent of our district. This entails that I ensure that everything that accrues to our senatorial district and indeed our state from the center is attracted and delivered to our people. This also entails that I carry myself in a way and manner befitting of the legacy of brilliance, good character, good conscience and personal leadership that have become characteristic of the Senators from our district since the inception of the 4th republic in 1999”. “You would agree with me that our district currently stands tall on the legislative precedents that have been laid down by the succession of Senators that have represented us since 1999. My distinguished predecessors Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, my immediate past predecessor and brother whom I fondly refer to as my teacher, the most Distinguished Senator Olorunimbe Mamora and my humble self. It is a legacy of excellence which the Eastern District of Lagos has worked hard to maintain and improve upon. Nothing short of excellence is expected and nothing short of excellence is deserved by the resilient, industrious and hardworking people of Lagos East. It is a privilege to stand on this legacy as I address you today”. “In the past 7 years, through your support, I have been able to deliver 96 verifiable and functional projects, 26 Bills, and 12 Motions of local and National importance”. “Together we have been able to deliver poverty alleviation programs that have benefitted over 50, 000 of our constituents directly and through them even more. Together we have constructed and rehabilitated schools across our Senatorial District, we have provided ambulances for some hospitals and embarked on various free healthcare initiatives for our people”. “Politically, we have remained one. We have remained resolutely committed to the progressive and democratic ideals of our National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and our great party the All Progressives Congress. Despite the influence of my rank as your Senator, I have made sure that I tow the path of consensus of the leadership of the party in the State and our District in arriving at the choices of leadership at various levels within the party and Local Government Structures. It is not in our character to impose leaders on you but to consult with you all and with you align with your choice as the strength of our party”. While urging the people of Lagos East to make informed decision in the primaries and elections, Ashafa who said his track records as seasoned lawmaker speaks for him, added that  his experience as a ranking lawmaker will count if he is elected to represent the people of the district for a third term. “Therefore, I say to you today that the choice before us in 2019 is a choice between consolidating on the legacy of qualitative and excellent representation with proof or taking a blind gamble on a path with no proven reward. The track record of each and every one in the race for the Lagos East Senatorial District Senatorial Ticket is right before you. It is therefore only wise that our choice is made based on the strength of character, track record of service, competence and trust”. “On the 2nd of October, 2018 the members of our great party would file out in line with the democratic standards laid down by our National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to participate in the direct primaries to elect our representatives at various levels in the upcoming 2019 general elections”. “The power has been returned to the people. Therefore I commit myself to you with the promise that we are taking the representation of Lagos East Senatorial District to the next level. In 2015 we improved on our work in the term that commenced in 2011, as at today on the strength of work done, we make bold to say that together we have taken it up another notch. Our sacrosanct commitment to you is that together we can do much more” he said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 