Otuekong Inibehe Okori, a former banker and businessman, recently declared his intention to join the 2019 Senatorial race for the Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial district under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with Idongesit Ashameri, he speaks on his chances of winning and other issues. Excerpts: What are your chances of getting the APC’s ticket considering the fact that Hon. Ekperikpe Ekpo from same federal constituency with you is vying for the same seat and the incumbent senator, Senator Akpabio, is also seeking reelection? I don’t want to condemn anybody and I don’t want to contest against any man but I know you are aware that I won the election in 2015, and I’m sure to win again, but this time, I will not be deprived. You can write that down; I will win again! Because, I’m sure INEC has set their records straight; they have done well in Ekiti, Katsina, cross River and all the places where by elections were conducted. For me, we will present ourselves and the most popular candidate would win and I am the most popular person. Akpabio was an underdog to me in 2015, except he was being helped by the security forces of the federal government. He was even condemning Buhari, that he was the worse person and that he will die, but today he is dancing around him. Gentlemen let’s not forget history, I am here for a serious business and I want us to discuss business. There are two contestants from the Abak Federal Constituency, what if the party appeals to you to step down for the other, so that both of you would not lose the chance of getting the ticket. To answer you straight: Never! Never will I step down for him. Any person is free to contest, besides the party had adopted direct primaries so why would they say that? As I said earlier, let us go and test our popularity and the most popular person would have it. There is a controversy surrounding the idea of direct and indirect primaries in your party, what is your take on that? Well the party has agreed on direct primaries and I wouldn’t want to kick against that. The party has taken a position and the President endorsed it. The president cannot endorse something and somebody would come at the middle of the game and change it. It is not possible to have two rules at the middle of the game; you cannot say direct primaries then consensus, you must choose one and then tell INEC, this is what we want. My party under the chairmanship of Adams Oshiomhole who I support says direct primaries and that is where I stand and I believe that, with that, there will be credibility in the party’s primaries. People are also saying that the cost of nomination form is very exorbitant, as an aspirant what is your take on that? For me, the cost of the form is not exorbitant, I said so because this process has been bastardised for too long and Chinua Achebe wrote in Things Fall Apart, since the bird has learnt to fly without perching, the hunter has learnt to shoot without missing. Nothing is wrong for a party to say this is how much I want to sell my forms. This could be a way to weed off unserious candidates, besides you cannot come from nowhere, decamped to a party, buy form and contest and you do not have any proof. Many high profile members of APC received Senator Akpabio into their fold with excitement, what value is he bringing to your party? What value people have or may claim to have would be so presented at the appropriate time. What is not disputable in life is time and the time is here, thank you. What is the zoning arrangement in Ikot-Ekpene Senatorial district? If you are coming into the party that I helped to form since 2014 till date, you would know that without my efforts and influence the party would not have stabilised in the area. So the zoning arrangement this time is in favour of Abak Federal Constituency, made up of Abak, Etim Ekpo, Ika, it excludes Ukanafun and Orukanam from the contest. Abak, Etim Ekpo, Ika is the biggest ethnic group in that zone, and has never produced a senator to represent the people since its inception. We have been saying that this is our position far back in 2015 and this is the ending of 2018, we are still saying the same thing. In a zoning arrangement presented and endorsed by the party under the leadership of the former chairman, Dr. Armadu Attai, the committee came up to say that it was the turn of Abak, Etim Ekpo, Ika to produce the next senator for Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District and we stand by that zoning arrangement. A fraction of your senatorial district is bedeviled with security challenges; that is Etim Ekpo and Ukanafun, how would  you ensure that people of that area vote for you, considering the volatile nature of the area? Etim Ekpo is very safe, I live there, I sleep there; will I like to die in Etim Ekpo? just like when I was in Newyork, a man met me and said Nigeria is not safe , there is insecurity in Nigeria. The man was just talking out of ignorance, that something is happening in Yobe and Borno does not mean that the entire Nigeria is condemned. Same thing is applicable to the question, as I am talking to you I just drove down from my village freely to have this interview with you in Uyo. So Etim Ekpo is very safe Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 