Abuja – There is palpable tension at Police Force Headquarters Louis Edet House Abuja, over the dismissal of some officers and disbandment of the Tactical Squad of the IGP over the invasion of the Abuja residence of elder statesman, Chief Edwin Kiagbodo Clark last week in Abuja. Investigations by Sunday INDEPENDENT revealed that senior police officers across the country are unhappy with the action of the IGP for dismissing the three junior policemen, leaving behind the head of the Squad, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Yusuf Kolo, who they allege was the authorising officer. Besides, they argue that with the status of EK Clark in the society, there is no way DCP Kolo and other senior police officers would not be aware of the search of his residence. Some of them who spoke to Sunday INDEPENDENT under strict anonymity, said that there was no justifiable reason for Idris to dismiss the junior policemen  leaving Kolo and others who were involved unpunished. One of them said, “The action of the IGP is discouraging, because we (police officers) act on information. Most times information passed to us are genuine. We cannot confirm or wave off information until we act. And most times we nip in the bud criminal activities based on intelligence information we get.” This officer disclosed that sometimes information passed to the police may not be true, “but that does not discourage us from acting on other information passed to us.” The officer also noted that, “suppose they saw cache of arms, would the IGP not celebrate the officers and commend the informant?” Another officer also stressed that, “it is unfortunate, the three policemen have been sacrificed for doing their lawful duties. But it has its negative impact, because tomorrow you send a junior officer for investigation activities involving a top Nigerian, and the officers decline to carry out your order, citing EK Clark’s case, would you discipline them for refusing your order?” Most police officers (including rank and file) who spoke to Sunday INDEPENDENT strict anonymity urged the IGP to have a rethink on the whole issue in the spirit of fairness and equity. On Tuesday September 4, at about 2.30pm policemen from the dissolved Tactical Squad invaded EK Clark resident in Abuja on the premise that the elder statesman had stocked pilled arms in his residence. The action drew the ire of prominent Nigerians. Feeling embarrassed Clark petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Security Adviser (NSA), Major-General Mohammed Babagana Monguno (Rtd). Although the elder statesman says he has forgiven them, he insisted that the issue should be thoroughly investigated to ascertain those involved. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 