Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has urged the National Assembly to open an investigation into an alleged diversion of over N10 trillion by the cabal in the presidency under President Muhammadu Buhari. The party said the act was concealed while Kemi Adeosun was Minister of Finance. Accusing the Federal Government of using the former minister as agent to siphon trillions of naira from the national treasury, the party said its position was predicated on allegations that the Buhari presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) were aware of Adeosun’s NYSC exemption certificate liability. The PDP, in a statement by its Spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Sunday, urged the National Assembly to probe the books of the Finance Ministry during Adeosun’s tenure as well as the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, under President Buhari. It said this would expose those behind the alleged N9 trillion fraudulent oil contracts detailed in the NNPC leaked memo; the N1.4 trillion fraudulent oil subsidy regime; the alleged diverted N1.1 trillion worth of crude oil through 18 illegal companies linked to APC interests, among others. The party also insisted that Mrs. Adeosun must be made to explain how the $321 million (N115 billion) repatriated by Switzerland was opened up for re-looting by the presidency cabal and corrupt APC leaders at a time she was in the media telling Nigerians that the fund was being transferred to the poor and vulnerable under what the party called a discredited social safety nets system. Part of the statement reads, “Mrs. Adeosun must also be made to tell Nigerians how a cabinet minister close to President Buhari directly stole $16.9 million (about N7 billion) from the returned $321 million as nonexistent legal fees before the fund became an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) for members of the presidency cabal and APC leaders. “The former minister should also be made to expose where the pressure that compromised the system for the stealing of over N25 billion National Health Insurance Scheme fund (NHIS) from the Treasury Single Account (TSA) was initiated. “President Buhari, as ‘Mr. Integrity’ has refused to order any investigation into huge allegations of corruption and stealing under his watch, particularly those in the petroleum sector, where he directly presides as minister. “In fact, the presidency has suddenly gone dumb after the PDP challenged President Buhari to start his declaration to jail looters by allowing an open inquest into the Petroleum Ministry, as well as allegations of corruption against his ministers, special advisers, and leaders of his party. “Since it has become clear that Mr. President is providing official cover for corruption under his regime, the PDP urges the National Assembly to subject all officials of the Buhari administration to an integrity test, as Nigerians can no longer bear consequences of a pretentious administration run by very corrupt individuals and fraudulent characters.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 