LAGOS – Even though the implementation started immediately after the last FIFA World Cup in Russia, the new model for calculating the FIFA/Coca-Cola World Ranking (FWR), otherwise called the Elo Formula, was developed over two years during which time a large number of different algorithms (calculation rules) was tested and extensively discussed. FIFA, starting two years ago, wanted to look at the best algorithm that will ensure the real accuracy of the system and makes sure that fair and equitable opportunities were giving to all countries when the ranking is made. For instance, in the previous ranking, which was entirely a point base calculation, concentration was paid on only average points and not subtracting or adding points on the strength of matches. About the new formula The Elo method of calculation adds/subtracts points (as opposed to averaging points) for individual matches to/from a team’s existing point total. For instance, if Nigeria has, say, 2000 points, losing a match will mean subtracting points (base on calculated standards as a result of certain factors as will be discussed later), and winning will mean adding points. The points which are added or subtracted are partially determined by the relative strength of the two opponents, including the logical expectation that teams higher in the ranking should fare better against teams lower in the ranking. For example, Germany will be expected to fare better than Nigeria if the two countries meet, so Nigeria will win more points beating Germany. Termed by FIFA as ‘SUM’, the new algorithm, Elo Ratings, developed specifically for the new ranking was fine-tuned to reflect a number of FIFA’s considerations, including the following: – Adjusting the games on the strength of weight: Less importance rating is given to friendly matches and more importance rating given to final round competitions, such as the FIFA World Cup Finals. Also, more importance rating is given to knock-out stage matches than group stage matches in final competitions – Excluding losses in knock-out rounds of final competitions from the calculation, the formula for the SUM algorithm is as follows: P = Pbefore + I * (W – We), where: ‘Pbefore’ means Points before the match ‘I’ means importance of match: Under this, 05 point is given for friendly matches played outside of International Match Calendar windows. 10 for friendly matches played during International Match Calendar windows 15 for Group phase matches of Nations League competitions 25 for Play-off and final matches of Nations League competitions 25 for Qualification matches for Confederations final competitions and for FIFA World Cup final competitions 35 for Confederation final competition matches up until the QF stage 40 for Confederation final competition matches from the QF stage onwards; all FIFA Confederations Cup matches 50 for FIFA World Cup final competition matches up until QF stage 60 for FIFA World Cup final competition matches from QF stage onwards ‘W’ means result of the match Win gets 1. 0.5 = draw gets 0.5 while loss gets attracts point ‘We’ means expected result of the match We = 1 / (10(-dr/600) + 1) With dr meaning difference in ratings of the two playing teams, i.e. dr = [Pbefore of Team A – Pbefore of Team For Example: Team A has 1300 points before a match and wins a continental qualifier against team B that has 1500 points. For team A, the formula is: P = 1300 + 25 * (1- (1 / 10(-(1300-1500)/600) + 1)) For team B, the formula is: P = 1500 + 25 * (0- (1 / 10(-(1500-1300)/600) + 1)) Thus, team A wins 17 points and has P = 1317 points after the match. Team B loses the same amount of points and thus ends up with 1483 points after the match. Additional Conditions A few additional conditions included within the new ranking formula to address specific issues in international football and these include: Penalty shoot-out (PSO): Matches decided in a PSO are treated as a draw for the losing team and as “half a win” for the winning team: W for the winning team is 0.75 instead of 1.0 for a win after regular or extended time. If PSO, then W for losing team= 0.5 W for winning team= 0.75 Note: In some instances, games end with a winner after regular or extended time, but still include a PSO to determine the team that eventually will get to the next round. These games are treated as normal wins and defeats. Knock-out rounds of final competitions: Teams that earn negative points in the knock-out round of a final competition (e.g. as a result of losing or even winning after PSO against a weaker team) do not lose any points: If (W – We) < 0 then P = Pbefore This condition was introduced in order to protect the point totals of teams that have progressed to the knock-out round. With respect to the introduction of SUM, it was important to transit smoothly from the previous ranking formula to the new one. For the initial seeding of teams in the new FIFA Ranking, teams were evenly distributed over a range of approximately 800 to 1600 points. The point difference between two adjacent teams was set at 4 points. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 