The National Assembly members have been on a long vacation. But, the Presidency has urged the lawmakers to suspend the break to attend to requests by President Muhammadu Buhari. Among the requests are the supplementary budget for the 2019 general elections and purchase of Tucano jests from the United States of America. Senator Ita Enang, the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), made the position of the Presidency known in Abuja, saying the failure to approve the requests would frustrate other organs of government. Following the request, observers have been wondering why the lawmakers’ scheduled vacation would affect governance adversely. This is as a cross section of the populace has been examining the implications of the failure of the National Assembly not resuming their holiday long vacation will have on the polity. NASS Vacation Will Have No Effect On Polity – Lawyer Isaac Ebudin Imadegbogie, a Benin-based legal practitioner, said, “The National Assembly’s long vacation will no longer have any adverse effect on the polity because the politics of INEC budget for the general elections has been resolved by the House Committee. “The budget has since been approved by the committee and no more noise about the issue. Since their long vacation, some of the National Assembly members have been involved in either supervising their constituency projects or commissioning those they have completed. “The only area we will now look at is whether their long vacation will not infringe on the number of days they are supposed to sit as prescribed by the constitution. “The constitution specified the number of days the National Assembly will sit in a year. Since they are also conscious of this section, they will not flout it. “We may not expect members of the National Assembly to do any serious work from now till when the elections will be held in February next year, because, almost all of them are seeking reelection and will be involved in electioneering campaign. Thus, the effect of their long vacation will not be felt or have any implication on the polity.” NASS Vacation Legally Wrong, Morally Right – Jonah Comrade Kindness Jonah, Convener, Voice from the East (VEAST), said: “Legally speaking, the vacation is an abnormality, but morally right. “It is an abnormality. They are there to make law as situations arise. In other climes, it is an eyesore because they are representing the people. “Morally, they are right, because, Nigeria is not operating democracy as it should be. Nigeria is operating ‘first past the post’ where winner takes all. They achieve it by brash brigandage. Whosoever is stronger destroys the other person. They are morally right, otherwise, superior forces will impeach and crush them. So, it is legally wrong and morally right,” NASS Vacation Threat To Democracy – GDPN Stalwart Chief Oweni Zebulun Amanna, former council chairman, now a chieftain of Grand Democratic Party of Nigeria (GDPN), stated: “Honestly speaking, the drama that is playing out at the National Assembly is something I cannot understand. It should be a concern to all lovers of democracy. “It is a threat and a dangerous omen to our democracy and if not arrested now, I am afraid our current democracy may go the way of the previous republics. “The legislature is the engine room of any democratic society. It plays the exact role, which petrol plays to a vehicle. Can a vehicle move without fuel? So, what are we talking about? I am not a prophet of doom. But, I can assure you that if the NASS fails to resume its long vacation, we may be thrown into a state of anarchy. “The executive cannot function without the legislature, neither can the legislature function without the executive. We are no longer in a military regime whereby power emanates from only one source and whereby power flows from the barrel of the gun.” It Shows Collapse Of Nigerian Democracy – PANDEL Scribe Sir Peterson Onyeagwada Urunwa, Secretary, Peoples Alliance for National Development and Liberty (PANDEL), added: “The implication is very simple. Our democracy has collapsed because we can no longer claim to be part of the democratic world. “Can any nation claim to be under democratic governance without a law making institution? Even American, globally acknowledged and revered as world custodian of democracy, cannot operate without a legislature. This is why I am appealing to NASS to thread softly and resume its long vacation. “Democracy without a legislature is like a dish without salt. The legislature is the oil that lubricates the wheel of democratic governance and so if the NASS remains unyielding, then our democracy is in jeopardy.” Executive Has Not Been Treating Legislature Well – Don Dr. Reuben Omale, a lecturer, stated: “The implications of the failure of the National Assembly to resume after its long vacation will definitely rob off on the nation’s polity. As an arm of government, the role of the legislature, as the current dispensations winds down, will be missing. This is certainly not in the best interest of the polity. “However, I am a candidate of due process and collectiveness in whatever we do. Whatever has brought our polity to its current comatose could have been avoided if there is sincerity among those in leadership positions. “I believe the National Assembly decided to embark on indefinite break because they felt sidelined or that all was not well with the way and manner in which the executive arm of government was handling some sensitive national issues bothering on the lives of the generality of Nigerians. “These include the undeserved silence over Fulani herdsmen’s killings and lopsided in appointments into key positions in Nigeria today which favoured a particular region against others or generally lacking in federal character. “I heard that the President refused to sign the amended electoral law by the National Assembly. That is not a good commentary for Nigeria. It shows that indeed there is a serious problem. The country is sitting on a time bomb and if not properly managed can explode any moment. “President Muhammadu Buhari came to power with the votes from all eligible Nigeria. So, why should his personal interest override that of the entire Nigerians? That is what is creating problems now. We in the education sector are indeed not happy that politicians have thrown caution to the dogs and doing whatever they liked. Today, we have what I can describe as ‘a wild judiciary’, aggressively protecting a weak and shaky executive. “I refer to it as shaky executive because we have a President who transfers power to his Vice as Acting Presidents because he spends more time abroad, thereby seems not fully in control of the government. That is why some lawmakers can turn into political thugs, mobilising similar like minds to turn the National Assembly into theatre of war in the name of trying to defend President Buhari as if Nigeria is their personal property they can do whatever they like with against the wishes of Nigerians and without any input from other arms of government. “Democracy is all about checks and balances. But, my fear is that only the executive and the judiciary are excluding the legislature. I don’t know what Nigerians will get at the end. Of all the four Estates of the Realm, Executive, Legislature, Judiciary and the Press, while the executive and judiciary seem to have ganged up against the legislature, the Press, like an orphan, is not spared by the executive as journalists are being harassed here and there by government in power. “I even heard that in Kaduna State, journalists now sleep with one eye open because they could be arrested and imprisoned on the orders of the state government, just to silence the Press at all cost. This is not the democracy and the change Nigerians envisaged. “Without mincing words, the executive needs to carry along other arms of government to succeed. If not, it will rob off on the in-coming dispensation. The in-fighting by the government in power, the ruling party, has brought government and governance to its knees. Everything is grounded. Things are not moving well no matter how much propaganda they deploy to cover up. How can government be working where nothing is working? Or, where two arms of government team up against the legislature, the Press and Nigerians that exercise their freedom of speech?” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 