BENIN – As the Local Government Primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC ) is drawing closer, members of the party in Esan South East local government have passed a vote of confidence on one of its leaders, Mr. Victor Eboigbe for what they described as his excellent leadership quality, and in a different vein This was contained in a communique issued at the end of an emergency meeting held at Ohordua Community Ward 04 of the Local government on Monday night. The Communique signed by Chris Oseiwe Oribhabor, Senior Special Assistant to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Esan South East Local Government Matters on behalf of all the Special Assistants in the local government area,   stated that the attention of the party members in the council area have been drawn to a statement credited to Louis Imhandegbelo on allegation  to undermine the integrity and leadership style of Mr. Victor Ebiogbe which could be described as most unfortunate and unbecoming of him. “While we are not out to join issues with Louis Imhadegbelo, we find it very comparative to set the record straight because, all the allegations against Victor Eboigbe, our great leader are malicious, inhuman, callous and misleading to ridicule him. “The allegations leveled against our great party and able leader Victor Ebiogbe in some of the national newspapers on the 12th of September, 2018 by Louis Imhandegbelo who was Ward 04 Special Assistant to the governor in Esan South East Local government was in bad fate. To be candid, Imhandegbelo was relieved of his appointment as S A as a result of anti-party activities and gross incompetency In fact, he was never at any time loyal to the leaders of our great party APC in the Local government as he was always holding parallel meeting whenever we are holding our party’s meetings. “We detest his malicious attack on the person of our most distinguished Leader,  Mr. Victor Eboigbe that carry along all party members and loyalists and as such we stand to say without any reservation, that his attack was reckless, baseless, unfounded and of no effect. “We stand to affirm with other Governor’s Aides in the local government that Mr. Victor Eboigbe as a Leader is highly democratic and patriotic, because he has listening ears to his party members. “That Mr. Victor Eboigbe has his cabal in the Local government is a statement that cannot be substantiated by Mr Imhandegbelo who got wind of his sack as a result of his anti-party activities, preemptively ran to the media to say he had resigned his appointment. “We want to say without fear or favour that we have implicit confidence in the able leadership of our great party led by Mr Victor Eboigbe and other Ward leaders to win all the forthcoming general elections in the local government come 2019.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 