LAGOS – It was indeed a joyous occasion for supporters of Venerable Funso Awe, an Anglican Priest turned politician, when he emerged the governorship candidate of the Lagos State chapter of the National Conscience Party (NCP) last Saturday. This was the high point of the party’s primaries held at Logos Centre, Oregun, Lagos, during which all the candidates emerged unopposed. The event, which was witnessed by five-member Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) team, also attracted hundreds of the party’s supporters. Awe’s candidature was however endorsed by the party members through an open-secret ballot. Speaking after the endorsement, Awe pledged to deliver good governance to the people of Lagos, if elected governor in the 2019 election. Awe, former Chaplain of Chapel of Christ The Light, Alausa, Lagos, who spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT at the venue of the primary, said he would uplift the life of Lagosians as a governor. Elated Awe said he would run a masses-oriented administration in line with his party’s 10-CARE Programme, which he stressed was all-inclusive in taking the state to the next level. He promised to provide Lagosians with drinking water, and tackle the health, education and housing needs of the people, empower the unemployed, take away the youths from the streets and restore Lagos to its former glory. Also elected unopposed were the party’s aspirants for the House of Assembly, House of Representatives and the Senate. Among them were the party’s state chairman, Comrade Fatai Ibu Owo, who emerged candidate for the Oshodi/ Isolo Constituency 1 and Comrade Fatai Olaseni, the party’s Director of Publicity and Publications, House of Representatives candidate for the Alimosho Federal Constituency. Comrade Ayodele Akele, the party’s National Secretary, emerged candidate for the Lags West Senatorial District. Marcus Eyahino (Lagos East) and Onajobi Hector (Lagos Central). The primaries, watched by hundreds of the party’s members and the media, were hitch-free, devoid of crisis. Ibu-Owo, the state chairman, re-stated the chapter’s stand against the Coalition for United Political Parties (CUPP), adding that NCP in Lagos would have nothing to do with both the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). He stressed that the NCP Lagos chapter would only go into an alliance with political parties, which ideologies tilted towards the masses and had similar programmes with his party. Comrade Gbenga Komolafe, the General Secretary of the Informal Workers Federation of Nigeria (FIWON), who gave a speech on “The Need for Pro-Masses Administration”, lamented the suffering of Nigeria under the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration. He called on Nigerians to utilise their votes better in 2019 to chase of the current administration, both in Lagos and at the federal level, and enthrone the NCP government for the masses to enjoy better life. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 