Samuel Ogidan and Seyi Taiwo-Oguntuase When the National Assembly came up with the idea of amending the 2010 Electoral Act, it was with the intention of making the electoral process more transparent and gives credibility to results of elections in the country. However, months after the process kick started, Nigerians are yet to see the amended document, expected to contain new provisions, with the latest information that the president had withheld assent over what it called drafting issues. For quite some time, election results had lacked integrity and have been subject of court litigations, except, probably, for the 1993 presidential election, which was believed to have been won by the late business mogul, Chief Moshood Kasimawo Abiola. But more worrisome, according to some analysts is the high prices on forms for elective offices by both the ruling All Progressives Party (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which they claim is making it impossible for poor, honest Nigerians, including civil servants to aspire for top positions in the country from the parties. They argue that at the N45 million the APC fixed for its presidential form, it would take a honest civil servant about three life terms to earn such a sum to be able to vie for the position within the party, which prides itself as championing the cause of ordinary Nigerians, according to the Cable, an online newspaper. The APC, in a statement last week reeled out its prices for nomination and expression of interest forms with the least being N850,000 for the state houses of assembly. From the build-up to the 2015 general elections, the party asked those aspiring for president to pay N27 million for both forms (expression and nomination). That fee has now been increased to N45 million in 2018. The PDP, though far less, is not different in the contest of millions; although the party reduced its fees compared to 2015. The party pegged its presidential nomination and expression of interest form at N12 million as against N22 million in 2015, while that of governorship is N6 million, N5 million less the 2015 fee. Indeed, the election that brought the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari was allegedly fraught with malpractices, with allegations of child voters brought against it by local and international observers. The timely intervention of elder statesmen who mounted pressure on the former President Goodluck Jonathan was said to have averted another elongated litigations that may have snowballed into anarchy. Sunday INDEPENDENT investigations and interactions with stakeholders showed that last week’s rejection of the amendment by the President signals the fact that the country may have to live with the malpractices witnessed during the 2015 elections. A review of the provisions of the bill showed  that 41 clauses provide for the elimination of electronic voting, put safe keeping of voters register only in Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) headquarters in federal, state and local government areas, disqualification of any candidate involved in electoral violence, allows the use of card reader machine only for voters accreditation and also prescribes electronic transmission of election results from polling unit to collation centre, among others. As against Section 53, which addresses the question of over-voting and stipulates that the results of a polling unit where the number of votes cast exceeds that of registered voters should be declared null and void. The proposed amendment states that the results should be cancelled when the number of votes cast exceeds that of accredited voters. Section 63(4) of the “old” electoral act addresses the issue of counting of votes and forms. This subsection says the presiding officer should count and announce the result at the polling units. The amended version to this subsection strikes out COUNT and simply states that the presiding officer should announce the result. Explaining to the general public recently why the President withheld his assent, Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly matters – Senate, Sen. Ita Enang said that President Buhari ‘’declining assent to the Electoral Amendment Bill due to some drafting issues that  remain unaddressed following the prior revisions to the Bill.’’ Calling on the Senate and House of Representatives to address some of the issues raised by the President before assenting to the Electoral Amendment Bill, Enang said, “there is a cross referencing error in the proposed amendment to Section 18 of the Bill. The appropriate amendment is to substitute the existing sub-section (2) with the proposed subsection (1A), while the proposed sub-section (1B) is the new sub-section (2A)’’ ‘’The proposed amendment to include a new Section 87 (14) which stipulates a specific period within which political party primaries are required to be held has the unintended consequence of leaving INEC with only 9 days to collate and compile lists of candidates and political parties as well manage the primaries of 91 political parties for the various elections. This is because the Electoral Amendment Bill does not amend sections 31, 34 and 85 which stipulates times for the submission of lists of candidates, publication of lists of candidates and notice of convention, congresses for nominating candidates for elections.’’ Although most of the senior lawyers, who spoke to Sunday INDEPENDENT on the condition of anonymity said the only way out is to revert to the old document in the event that both parties could not reach a common ground as it amounts to ‘abortion of pregnancy,’ they were quick to add that giving the chequered history of election and electioneering in this country, an amended electoral bill is desirable. But, speaking against the backdrop of the rejection of bill by the presidency and the implications for the next year elections, Wale Adeoye, executive director, JODER, Tunde Aremu, right activist and communication expert, Suraj Olanrewaju, executive director,  HEDA, Kola Ologbodiyan, Publicity Secretary of the Opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Coalition of United Political Party (CUPP), Senator Sam Anyanwu  and Senator David Mark, immediate past Senate President, called on President Muhammadu to have a rethink on the rejection of the bill if he is committed to a transparent electoral process in 2019 elections. Aremu said: “The prospect of a free and fair election is now under threat by the impasse between the presidency and the National Assembly on the amendment to the electoral bill. The need to act responsibly on this matter rests with both the executive and the legislative arms of government. Unfortunately most commentators on the matter have been more political and spoken more from both sides of their mouths. “It appears the observations of the presidency on errors in the bill appear plausible, and also, it is strange that it took the length of time it took for the observations to be made and the bill returned to the national assembly. It is equally shocking that the National Assembly leadership and bureaucracy could be sloppy over such a sensitive matter that could also determine the health of the nation. “Both the presidency and the National Assembly have not acted on the matter in the most dignifying and respectable manner in their handling of the amendment of the electoral bill. They have fallen short of the expectation of the citizens who elected them into office. It is one of the many instances where both the presidency and the national assembly have betrayed the trust invested in them by the electorate. They have not acted with expected sense of responsibility.” On what to be done, Aremu said it is unfortunately that Nigerians are at the mercy of both the presidency and NASS on the issue, saying “The onus however is on NASS to do what is needful in this instance. If this requires the members to shorten their break and reconvene, it will not be too much of a sacrifice for the nation.” He added, “They should also be conscious that their continued staying on break at a time the nation needs them to take urgent action would be a great show of contempt for the citizens who elected them as their representatives, majority of whom cannot afford the luxury of a day break in a calendar year.” Ologbodiyan, speaking for his party, PDP, called on the National Assembly to override the President veto of the electoral Act, adding that “it is now manifestly clear to Nigerians that all the reasons adduced by President Buhari for withholding his assent in the past were lame excuses. “The clerical and drafting arguments put forward by President Buhari could not in any way outweigh the importance of amendments meant to engender free, fair, credible and transparent elections in 2019.” The party therefore charged the National Assembly to stand with Nigerians in the overall quest for credible elections by immediately overriding President Buhari on the Bill. Also reacting, the Coalition of United Political Party (CUPP) viewed the rejection of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill by President Buhari led APC government as a clear indication that the President and the ruling party want to destroy the chances of credible, free and fair election in Nigeria simply because  they  are afraid of losing the 2019 general election. CUPP, in a statement by its spokesman and the National Chairman, Action Peoples Party, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, said, “Nigerians will recall that we had raised alarm following credible information that the President was under immense pressure from leaders of the APC not to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. Buhari and APC are scared of the compulsory use of card readers for accreditation and transmission of election results which the new electoral law provides for. We are sad to report that the President has succumbed to the pressure and has agreed with the leadership of his Party that the amendment would not be signed.” While former governor of Kano State and a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Rabiu Kwankwaso said that he would make his position known on the Bill when National Assembly resumes plenary this month, former President of the Senate, David Mark appealed to President Buhari to have a rethink and sign the electoral act. Senator Sam Anyanwu pointed out that because of the fear of free, fair and credible election, the Electoral Act will elicit, was the reason why President Buhari refused to assent the Bill. Insisting that the rejection of the Bill is the problem facing the country at the moment, Sen. Anyanwu said that he does not believe that APC government is ready to conduct elections, pointing out that the electoral act will remove all impediments to free, fair and credible elections. “I don’t think this administration is ready to conduct elections. In the Electoral Act we removed those things the Presidency does not want, what we passed was what they wanted, so, why are they afraid of signing it? They are afraid because they know that once the Electoral Act is signed, there will be free and fair elections. Because the card reader is going to work. Of course, those who perpetuate electoral fraud will be sentenced to prison, that is why they don’t want to sign it. “If you want free and fair elections in Nigeria and if you think you are popular why would you not   sign the electoral act? “The implication is that from the way he’s going, there might be a political quagmire that will cause some problems in this country. Everybody is calling on Mr. President to go ahead…. there is no error in the document. He should give us reason, cogent reason why he’s not signing it. “This is their own document, we didn’t add, we didn’t subtract. This is what they wanted. This is what they wanted to cause confusion and division in the Senate. After given you what you want only for you to refuse assent, so, what is the problem?” The lawmaker, however, didn’t disclose if the Senate would look into the amendment when they resume. But Adeoye countered the lawmakers and PDP over the withdrawal of assent by the president, saying “We had the 2015 election with amended sections of the 2010 electoral act. Whether President Buhari signs the bill or not should not be enough reason to affect the credibility or fairness of the election. The President has raised objections to certain aspects of the bill which is within his legitimate obligation. They should not expect the President to sign every bill without careful and surgical review. “The point of disagreement was the order of election. The National Assembly has reversed that aspect. But there are other sections regarding the card reader. To me these areas of disagreement are not fundamental. If the President does not sign the bill, the National Assembly can take the necessary steps as indicated in the constitution. The disagreement over the electoral act is a storm in tea cup.” To Olanrewaju, he said, “If it is about drafting, I think it is still in order for the President, because the President can’t author it or can’t amend it and sign it, he will have to refer the proposed amendment or correction in the bill back to the National Assembly, and they are supposed to understand the issues that are connected to such situation.” On what to be done, he added, “It is an unfortunate situation; it is a sad reality that we have found ourselves. With the declaration of Senate President for the presidency, it already portends even a worse relationship between the executive and the president.  So what you have now will be two presidential candidates, two opposing parties leading two different arms of government. It is not going to work in the interest of the polity, it is not going to promote our democracy and it is not going to improve good governance.” Already, the rejection of the Bill by the President, has, however, generated controversy and confusion across the country with stakeholders calling on the President to have a rethink about the Bill. While some concerned Nigerians expressed disappointment, others were of the opinion that President Buhari should be given the benefit of the doubt and be allowed to do what seems best for the country. Those kicking against the non-assent by the President, were of the opinion that selfish interest on the side of the presidency overshadowed and beclouded the President’s  action. This school of thought pointed out that the President’s action boiled down to 2019 general elections, insisting that the fear of losing the coming election may have informed his decision, because, according to this group, the passage of the Bill would have checkmate rigging and manipulation of the 2019 elections and other subsequent ones. This excuse and explanation didn’t, however, go down well with some stakeholders, politicians and lawmakers, who noted that when the Bill was earlier submitted to the President, some areas he complained of where expunged from the Bill before it was resubmitted. For example, the reordering of elections or the sequence of elections the President complained of were removed by the National Assembly before the Bill was sent back to the President for assent. Even at that, the President refused to sign the Bill, making some political analysts to believe that there is more to this withholding of assent than what the presidency is trying to sell to the public. The implication of this non assent, according to some political watchers is that the nation will go back to the 2010 electoral Act, which provides for manual registration, voting  transmission of results, which most times give a wider room for rigging and manipulation of elections. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 