Benin – Captain Hosa Well Okunbo, Chairman of GreenHouse Farm Limited has assured that food security for all Nigerians can be attained within the shortest possible time if it is pursued with all seriousness it deserved He also stressed the need for the country to adopt new technologies that would enhance food production, obtain better quality products, self-sufficiency and access to international markets with better prices. Captain Okunbo stated this in Benin City, during the first Harvest of the multi billion naira Well Hosa Green House Farms located in Benin City. He noted that the farm plans to scale its scalable and modular production model in other states of the federation with the aim of satisfying both domestic and export demands of horticultural products and increase non-oil export in the international market. According to him, “Wells Hosa GreenHouse Farms is poised to change the narrative of agriculture in Nigeria while immensely diversifying our economy. “During our conception stages we identified challenges in the agro-food Sector to include poor transportation of the goods from the Northern to the Southern part of the country as well as loss of produce due to ineffective packaging and storage facilities. “Today, Wells Hosa GreenHouse Farms is abundantly equipped to handle the demands of moving products from Edo State to the rest of the country. “We are significantly proud of feat and the key opportunities it present to us”. He further said the farm is poised to revolutionise the tomato industry in Nigeria and impact on the entire agricultural sector of this country. He disclosed that today, Nigeria ranked the 14th largest producer of tomatoes on world, 2nd in Africa after Egypt and account for 65 percent of tomatoes produced in West Africa. While disclosing that the nation produces 1.8m metric tonnes of tomatoes annually, he lamented that nearly 0.7m metric tonnes of this quantity was lost after harvest. The Chair of Wells Hosa GreenHouse Farms, said Nigeria imports $360m annually of tomatoes. “This first Wells Hosa GreenHouse project is not even scratching the surface; we still have a lot of work to do around the country to ensure self-sufficiency and impost substitution while generating our own Dollar inflows through export”. The Executive Director/CEO, Nigerian Export Promotion Council, Olusegun Awolowo, in his remark said the establishment of Wells Hosa GreenHouse Farms is timely, especially as the body is doing a lot to promote export. Awolowo who said the council has developed 22 priority products of which 80 per cent are agricultural products, added that “it is remarkable that a time like this, two persons have significantly shown interest. Alhaji Aliko Dangote and now Capt. Hosa Okunbo” On his part, the Minister of state, Agriculture, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, commended the initiator of Wells Hosa GreenHouse Farms, noting that the presidency has endorsed this initiative. He said before the present administration of President Muhammadu Bihari came in, Agriculture was seen as government programme, but added that which what is happening today, Nigerians are realising the importance of agricultural not only as an investment, but as a business. Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State in his address said he joined the Federal Government to endorse the Wells Hosa GreenHouse Farms projects which is in line with the state government mandate of creating job for the the teaming youths. Gov. Obaseki who was represented by his Deputy, Mr. Philip Shaibu, noted that when his government promised to create 200,000 jobs, it did not mean just government jobs alone but making g use of private initiatives like the one being witness today. Highlights of the launch were the display of fresh tomatoes from the Wells Hosa GreenHouse Farms. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 