A frontline senatorial aspirant for Lagos East, Bayo Osinowo, is leaving no stone unturned in his bid to secure the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the October 2, 2018 direct primary. It was massive display of solidarity, and show of love as thousands of APC party faithful across Lagos East Senatorial District came out in their respective local governments to attend the  inaugural simultaneous meeting of ‘Team Pepper.’ The inauguration organised Bayo Osinowo Campaign Organization held at the same time in all the local governments, making up the senatorial districts. His Campaign Organisation better known as ‘Team Pepper,’ is fast consolidating on the senatorial aspiration of Osinowo with a district-wide visits and important meetings to ensure that he wins the prime Lagos East Senatorial District ticket. The meetings which held across the sixteen local governments, making up the district, were well-attended by party adherents, and provided a veritable platform for marketing the ideals of Osinowo to every member of the party. Addressing a mammoth crowd of party supporters in Ibeju-Lekki Local Government, the LG coordinator, Dele Ajayi, informed party members that Osinowo is the “genuine formula to attract accelerated development to the district,” adding that “there is a need to raise the bar from the ongoing cosmetic approach to an all-inclusive model.” “In the past seven and a half years, we have witnessed a representation below par in the district, it is more worrisome to seeing the  cosmetic touch in the  delivering of governance, this has bottlenecked  development in the district. “However, if we are concerned about the development of our district, there is a need for us to stand with a performer, stabilizer and a unifier, and these ideals can  be found in the candidacy of Hon. Bayo Osinowo. “I urge you all to begin door to door campaign for him, as scores of party members witnessed here today is a testimony that the  primary is done and dusted,” Ajayi said. Likewise, in the Epe axis of the district, it was a carnival galore across the three local councils making up the area, as party members were treated to different kind of music and political conversations. Speaking to scores of party adherents in the Epe  Local Government, the coordinator, Bola Daudu described Hon. Bayo Osinowo as a complete party man, who understands the plight of every party man. The Director General of the campaign organisation, Primate Charles Olugbesi, said the meetings were convened to further woo party members ahead of the primary. He described the the direct primary option adopted by the party as the be,st, adding that it has has widen the scope of participation of party members, unlike previous arrangement (indirect primary) where the choice of electing candidates were determined by a few. “Every political period comes with a new approach, in the past years, political parties are structured to elect their various candidates through delegate system, but as change is constant, we are now  witnessing a new approach. “Hence, we must work in conformity with the new strategy to woo party members, so that an  all-embracing victory will be achieved,” the DG said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 