Prof. Tor Iorapuu is a governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue state. In this interview with Tor Vande-Acka, he speaks on some of the factors responsible for the under development of the state and how he intends to turn around the fortunes of the state. Excerpts: You just picked your nomination and expression of interest form. What do you have to offer the people of Benue? Benue state was created in 1976 and some of us know the history that gave birth to that creation. Then I was just getting into form two and it was painful to lose our friends from Plateau state, who had to go back to Plateau and start school there. You can imagine the disconnect, starting life as children then something like that happens. The idea (of state creation) was to instrumentalise development to ensure rapid change growth both in human, social, material growth and between that period Aper Aku (first civilian  governor of the state) in 1993, I discovered he did so much; no governor has beaten his record so far, military or civilian in four years. Look back (at what he did), BCC 9Benue Cement Company), Ikyogen cattle ranch, Benue breweries, Lobi bank, Otukpo burnt bricks, Benro packaging, Agro millers and even in the area of sports. And in the entire nation, if Benue was not coming second, it was coming third after Lagos or Benin. That is the social capital that was coming in apart from employment, apart from improved social life and improved security. And he did something fundamental, he had a vision, he recognized that to fight poverty, to fight insecurity, we needed to have economic power and with economic power, you now had political power. That is why with the establishment of BCC, Taraku mills, money was coming into Benue state and nobody knew whether government house existed. During weekends people were heading to Otukpo, Gboko and their various Local Government Areas (LGAs) because life was fun. But, in addition to that, look at the quality of education. He opened up primary health care across the state, schools, even day schools, so you could go and come back home. I mean he initiated the story of having a university today. The question you ask is in four years all of these happened, what went wrong and remember when Aper Aku was governor, Benue didn’t have more than three professors and yet look at the passion, look at the conviction, look at the drive, the energy, but did you know what he also did? He made sure his commissioners were young people, young graduates who had the energy, the drive and who were eager to institutionalize change to become drivers of change; Mvendaga Jibo, Vincent Uji (both commissioners under Aper Aku) and they were working, while he was supervising. That’s the job he was doing and getting things happening for us. Am not sure some of you are aware that Aku started the process of Korea to start the assemblage of Daewoo motors here in Benue. So already as far back as 1983, this man had made sure that 40 years ahead, the nation wasn’t poor; the children of this state had somewhere to go. He was planning for the younger generation but the youth of this generation are planning for themselves. If you want to grow riches in one year, you grow rice; if it’s for ten years, you grow trees but if you want to grow riches you can pass to another generation, you grow young people. There is nothing you do now that is excited for you as much as your children go to school, they are sure of a job and all of that. So, what is the motivation? The motivation is that Benue state is not where it is supposed to be, it has no business to be poor. We have no business with poverty. The intellectual and human capacity in Benue is so huge and it’s being wasted so if you ask me very candidly, I’ll tell you that if you are educated and have gone to school and understand where Benue came from and where it is today, and stagnated and you call yourself a proud Benue son or daughter, you should hide yourself in shame; for me I can’t stand it, that is why I am taking the risk. I’m taking the risk ‘cause I can’t just stand it. I don’t have the resources others have but I have one thing other people don’t have and that is the drive, the passion and the energy. So, am taking the risk because somebody has to take the risk, even the scripture is clear about taking risks. And it’s when people take the risk, then God answers them. I recognise what is happening, I recognise the happenings in the state about political herders; we thought we had Fulani herders, but now we have political herders who are moving into political parties and also occupying. You say people are occupying your state but you are now going to occupy a political party and chase people out and it’s not an issue to you, the only one that is an issue is the other one, it’s another level of injustice, you caused this injustice before and you are doing it again. When people who suffer injustice cry, even God hears. That’s why when I picked my phone and somebody asked me a question, what do you have to say now that you have picked this form. I said this form represents good news to the poor, it also represents a message; the release of people who are in captivity in Benue is on the way. And it is an opportunity to also ensure that people who are politically blind are liberated. For me, that nomination form simply means Benue will rise again. How do you intend to liberate the Benue people? For me I’ll tell you the truth, it’s up to Benue people to choose whether they want to remain in political captivity or they want to liberate themselves. It’s not me that will liberate them. When I was going round talking; do you know what I told them? I have come to make them angrier, I have come to cause your frustration and if you are pained by the message I’m giving you, do something about it, don’t wait for me. They have their PVCs (Permanent Voters’ Cards). I can’t vote for myself and win elections. What I did was to provoke them and further deepen their pain and if they were really frustrated, they should wake up. From your analysis, it’s like the present administration has not done much? You don’t have to speak to anybody about what the present administration has done; if it is there people will see it. The other day we saw an organised documentary on television because people have spoken, because Oshiomhole spoke and it was hurriedly organised, but in a situation where you are working….for instance I have never seen any advert about Nasarawa state, but we pass there, we see it. And if I also become the governor, what I am very certain I’ll not do, even though my background is also media I’ll not advertise myself; let people speak about it and if you work people see. Ortom came to office in 2015, yes, before he came there were issues of Fulani herdsmen attacks and all that, the intensity of the attacks was this year (2018), January, so what happened in 2015; what happened in 2016 and 2017? So, we shouldn’t look for excuses. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 