Kemi Adeosun, former Minister of Finance, recently threw in the towel following allegation that she had been working with forged National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Exemption Certificate. Her resignation followed a lot of pressure mounted on her and the Federal Government over her issue by Nigerians, especially the media and civil society. Already, President Muhammadu Buhari’s has accepted her resignation. In her resignation letter she told President Buhari that she was shocked by the outcome of the investigation conducted by the government over the authenticity of the NYSC certificate, noting that she had earlier tendered the exemption certificate as Commissioner for Finance in Ogun State. She said not until the scandal broke out that she knew the certificate was not genuine. On accepting her resignation, Buhari also named Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, then Minister of State Budget and National Planning, as Adeosun’s successor. Adeosun’s letter read in part: “Let me commence by thanking you profusely for the honour and privilege of serving under your inspirational leadership. “It has been a truly rewarding experience to learn from you and to observe at close quarters your integrity and sense of duty. “I have, today, become privy to the findings of the investigation into the allegation made in an online medium that the Certificate of Exemption from National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) that I had presented was not genuine. “This has come as a shock to me and I believe that in line with this administration’s focus on integrity, I must do the honourable thing and resign. “Your Excellency, kindly permit me to outline some of the background to this matter. I was born and raised in the United Kingdom, indeed my parental family home remains in London. My visits to Nigeria up until the age of thirty-four (34) were holidays, with visas obtained in my UK passport. “I obtained my first Nigerian passport at the age of thirty-four (34) and when I relocated there was debate as to whether NYSC Law applied to me.  Upon enquiry as to my status relating to NYSC, I was informed that due to my residency history and having exceeded the age of thirty (30), I was exempted from the requirement to serve. Until recent events, that remained my understanding. “On the basis of that advice and with the guidance and assistance of those, I thought were trusted associates, NYSC were approached for documentary proof of status. I then received the certificate in question. Having never worked in NYSC, visited the premises, been privy to nor familiar with their operations, I had no reason to suspect that the certificate was anything but genuine. “Indeed, I presented that certificate at the 2011 Ogun State House of Assembly and in 2015 for Directorate of State Services (DSS) Clearance as well as to the National Assembly for screening. Be that as it may, as someone totally committed to a culture of probity and accountability I have decided to resign with effect from Friday, 14th September, 2018.” Adeosun also thanked Buhari for his patience in finding the truth in the matter. She stated: “Your Excellency, let me conclude by commending your patience and support, during the long search for the truth in this matter. “I thank you again for giving me the honour of serving under your leadership, it is a rare privilege, which I do not take for granted.” Having resigned her appointment, a cross section of the populace wonder if Adeosun should be prosecuted, since the offence she committed is criminal in nature. Adeosun Should Be Prosecuted – FRESH Party Boss Barrister Adeniyi Ladega, the Lagos State chairman of Fresh Democratic Party of Nigeria (FRESH), stated: “The APC government has told us that their major mantra was anti-corruption. They said that they had come to fight corruption. The law is not interested on how you have presented it. You have presented a certificate. It does not matter how it was presented. “The certificate was done in 2009. The party had not won election in 2009 and so it was not like she needed it to become a commissioner. That certificate was done for her in 2009 when she was a private person, without any intention of becoming a commissioner. “Once you have done something wrong you must face the consequences of your action. She should be prosecuted. She presented the certificate, so she should face the music. People that said that she should have gone to serve are not guided properly. “It was a case of deception. She deceived.  If we are serious about reducing the level of corruption, which I don’t think that we are even ready to do. We cannot reduce corruption if staff of government is not well paid. The private employees are not well paid. They will find ways to make up for the shortfalls. “Mrs Adeosun should be prosecuted. They do the same thing to the other side. So, they should just extend that to their own people because they say charity begins at home.” ‘Adeosun’s Prosecution Will Serve As A Deterrent To Others’ Chief Nnamere Vitus Uruji, is the chairman of New Generation Party (NGP), Oguta LGA, Imo State. According to him, “The former minister should be prosecuted without further delay to serve as a deterrent to others. Her plea that she never knew that her NYSC discharge certificate was forged cannot be an excuse. “If somebody buys a stolen item and is arrested by the police for the items that he bought, will he turn around and plead that the police should let him go scot free because he never knew that the items he bought were stolen by the person who sold it to him? “The law enforcement agencies should also go further to ascertain the actual source of the certificate to know those who issued it to the former finance minister and equally bring them to book. “To me, Adeosun cannot sincerely claim ignorance of the forged certificate, but only wants to be smart. She should face the music, else the war against corruption by President Buhari will suffer another setback.” Let’s Allow Sleeping Dog Lie – NUP Chieftain Mrs. Nneamaka Victoria Obodiukwu, Woman Leader, National Unity Party (NUP), Obowo LGA, Imo State, stated: “As the saying goes, he who goes to equity must go with clean hands. I challenge those who are calling for her crucifixion to swear that they have not soiled their hands one way or the other in their various places of work. When a woman was caught committing an adultery and was brought before Christ for punishment, what did Christ tell those that brought her to him? Christ said: ‘If anyone of you here is without sin, let him be the first to cast the first stone.’ Did any of them do this? “Adeosun is a woman of conscience and has resigned from office. Her resignation consequent upon the discovery that she had a forged certificate is an indication that she is a woman of conscience. So, let us allow the sleeping dog lie. She should be allowed to go and sin no more. Adeosun Should Be Prosecuted – IT Expert Chigozie Umeh, is a Minna-based Information Technology (IT) expert. She said: “From past experience and what Nigeria has become these days I don’t think it is a question of whether or not Adeosun should be prosecuted despite her resignation or not, but about national re-orientation and learning to be sincere with ourselves in whatever we do as a people, including our governments. “It is wrong for some Federal Government’s agents to insinuate that Nigerians hate the President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. No! But, it is just that the administration is shrouded in some administrative misplacements or what many will refer to as maladministration or policy summersault. This has made the government stagnated. “Criticisms are meant to spur someone to improve on what she or he is doing. Such critics should not be branded as ‘enemies’ to the Buhari government. There are some basic questions I would like to ask. I believe many other Nigerians are as good as I am in trying to get some clarifications on the subject matter. “These include: Whose interest was the former Minister of Finance representing in this President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) government? Was she engaged based on merit or to serve some individual interests? Was she good in her job, or, was she engaged for the purpose of probably filling some quota, state or group? “At what point was it discovered that she never participated in the mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)? Was she really exempted due to age or because she was not in the country? “Where and through whom did she get the fake NYSC exemption certificate so that someone should be held responsible for the embarrassments to her person and Nigerians in general? Whether we like it or not, foreigners make fun of us whenever news of such big scandals break as if some people take pride in rubbishing others. “Above all, why was the Senate Committee on Finance that screened her not able to detect the flaws if it was one of the criteria she must meet before her appointment/engagement as minister? Or, is it that they were aware, but decided to hide it until they finish extracting all that they needed from her wealth of experience before they decided to throw her out? “Or, is it another political gimmicks deployed by this government to divert the attention of Nigerians who are very observant of what they are doing? As expert in IT, I have always wondered why governments generate scenes while at the same time raise alarm about who did what, or who is responsible for what, from the two ends of our mouths? “I personally support that Adeosun should be prosecuted. But, as per Nigerian factor which has eaten deep into our fabrics, I am sure that the Federal Government will fight dirty to bury the matter to cover up some messy deals her probe could throw up. “This ‘Adeosun-gate’ as many Nigerians have coined, is another hoax, a well thought out plan by the Buhari government to cover up some shady deals. That is why when opposition voices demand her prosecution, the Federal Government does not say anything as if nothing happened. “The woman at the centre of the whole thing hurriedly left the country and before you know it, she will be engaged by any of the world finance or monetary bodies.  You will get to hear the truth about what really happened very much later, maybe not in the lifetime of this administration.” Adeosun’s Case Exposed Blunders Of Buhari Administration – Labour Activist Comrade Augustine Isimebor Asimaoh, a Benin-based trade unionist, said: “She should be investigated and if it is established that she actually obtained her NYSC exemption certificate fraudulently, she should be prosecuted because she has committed an offence by evading the all-important national service. “In fact, she should not only to be prosecuted, she should be made to refund all the salaries and allowances she has received since returning to the country. She is not eligible to receive salary from a country she refused to serve. By forging the NYSC exemption certificate, she has committed a criminal offence and the law should take its course. “Adeosun’s case is one of the cases this administration has made blunders by not responding to it immediately the allegation was made. She was allowed to remain in the office for many months after the allegation. She was allowed to be drawing salaries and other benefits accruing to that office for more than three months after the whistle was blown on her. This is corruption on the part of the government that claimed to be an anti-corruption crusader and should be treated as such by Nigerians.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 