Yenagoa – Gboribiogha Jonah, the Bayelsa State deputy governor, has said the state government has not received its share of the N1.6billion approved by the Federal Government for flood victims in 16 states that were devastated by the 2012 flood disaster. Jonah, who stated this when a team of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) led by Umar Mohammed, paid him a courtesy visit at Government House, Yenagoa, on Wednesday, asked the Federal Government to pay the money. He said the N1.6billion was approved during one of the National Economic Council meetings in Abuja after the 2012 flood incident, and expressed dismay that the federal flood fund had not been paid to benefiting states by the Federal Government six years after it was approved. Jonah said that if Bayelsa had accessed the fund, it would have assisted the state government in putting some measures in place to mitigate the effects of the perennial flood. The deputy governor also advocated the need to decentralize flood intervention efforts to the local government headquarters. He called for the construction of structures to accommodate persons displaced by flood rather than building official quarters in an emergency situation, stressing that this was one of the recommendations of the state government’s committee on flood management. Jonah, who bemoaned the hardship caused victims by the 2012 flood catastrophe, recalled the collaborative efforts of the state government, NEMA and military agencies, and expressed the hope that the predicted 2018 flood would not be as ravaging as that of the 2012 flood. He called on the NEMA to come up with a report that reflects the situation, particularly about the twin problems of flooding and erosion that had been impacting the state over the years. In his remarks, Umar Muhammed said they were in Bayelsa to assess the level of preparedness of the state government for the impending flood. He also said that they planned to take a tour of Bayelsa with the assistance of the officials of the State Emergency Management Agency to assess flood-prone areas. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 