Owerri – An Imo State High Court sitting in Owerri on Tuesday and presided over by Justice Benjamin Iheaka has declared the impeachment of the Imo State Deputy Governor, Eze Madumere, invalid, null, void and of no legal effect. Following the ruling, the court premises, which had been tension-soaked with mixed expectations, was thrown into a jubilant mode, as a sense of great relief and triumph gripped the deputy governor’s supporters many of whom had thronged the court. Delivering the ruling that lasted three hours, the trial judge flayed Justice Paschal Nnadi, the state Chief Judge, as well as Militus Nlemadim, the state Attorney General, for not adhering to the provisions of section 188 (5) of the 1999 constitution, as amended, in the process that ultimately saw Madumere’s impeachment on July 31. The court noted with concern that the Chief Judge constituted the seven-man panel that investigated the allegations of gross misconduct against Madumere, saying Nnadi’s action violated the seven-day lifeline as provided by the constitution. Iheaka regretted that while the resolution by the state legislature to commence impeachment process on Madumere was reached on July 11, Justice Nnadi constituted the panel nine days later, which was on July 20. He stated that constituting the seven-man panel nine days after the resolution was made was, on that score, not admissible in law. The court, therefore, restrained Acho Ihim, Speaker of the state House of Assembly, and the state House of Assembly itself, the 9th and 10th defendants in the suit, from carrying out any further impeachment proceeding on Madumere until the determination of the substantive suit. It also urged the Imo State government to immediately reinstate Madumere as deputy governor. Reacting to the court verdict, Ken Njemanze (SAN), counsel to Madumere, thanked the trial judge for what he described as a sound ruling. He said the judgment would serve as deterrent to politicians in the country who take delight in illegalities. Also reacting, Professor Francis Dike (SAN), a former Imo State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, commended the ruling, saying the trial judge was courageous and independent. “The court judgment showcases the independence of the judiciary. I congratulate the young judge for being bold. The judgment has also shown that the whole saga surrounding the deputy governor’s impeachment almost perverted the course of justice,” Prof. Dike enthused. “The people, who accused the deputy governor became ‘judges’ themselves. The present administration in Imo State should now sit and follow things the right way. “The House of Assembly has bitten the dust. Recall earlier about a month ago that I did say their victory may become pyrrhic and turn into ashes melting in their mouths.” He added, “The shame is theirs now as their wings are clipped. They can’t fly with impunity.” In his reaction, Madumere, who had earlier stated that he’d handed the matter over to God, said he has been vindicated. “The judgment is to the greater glory of God,” he said. It would be recalled that Madumere was impeached in August following an indictment by the seven-man panel set up by Justice Nnadi. He, however, challenged the report of the panel at the Imo State High Court, urging it to nullify his impeachment. The government says it will appeal judgment. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 