Makurdi – Samuel Ortom, the Benue State governor, has expressed shock over the recall of the N14.9 billion Paris Club refund to the state by the Federal Government. Benue is among five states whose funds were recalled by the Federal Government on Monday. The government did not give reasons for withdrawing the funds. Tahav Agerzua, Special Adviser, Media and ICT, to the governor, however, said the development had revealed to the Benue people and civil servants in the state who their real enemy was. Daily Independent sources, in one of the banks in Makurdi, said the Federal Government “may have force debited the state account.” He added that, under normal circumstances, money paid into any account could not be withdrawn without the permission of the owner of the account. Governor Ortom, in a statement earlier issued by Terver Akase, his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), appealed to the people of the state to remain calm. He urged the people of the state to “remain calm, following the decision of the Federal Government to withdraw the final tranche of Paris Club refund sent to the state.” While expressing shock at the decision of the Federal Government to withdraw the funds, the governor expressed the hope that the decision would be reversed in the interest of workers and retirees of the state. Following the governor’s directive to the state Ministry of Finance on Monday to commence immediate payment of salaries, pensions and gratuities, payment would have commenced on Tuesday but for the recall. Akase stated: “We hope this latest move is not part of the ongoing witch-hunt of the state. Benue people have already suffered enough impunity and attacks. “We also hope that the withdrawal order was made in error, because the said funds are not grants from the Federal Government. “This was a refund of funds the Federal Government had been owing Benue over the years; so, they shouldn’t make it look as though they had given the state a loan or a grant.” News of the recall of the funds demoralised workers in the state and set tongues wagging. The issue was the talk of the state on Tuesday as workers and retirees were expectant that salaries would be paid before the end of the week. In his reaction, Tahav Agerzua, Special Adviser, Media and ICT to Ortom, argued that the money was not a gift but a refund and the government ought not to have recalled the funds. He observed: “It’s not a donation, it’s not a gift, it’s money that’s due to the state. So, you say you pay, then you cancel it as if you gave me a gift. I find it strange. “But with the case of Benue State, it’s the continuation of a trajectory of intimidation, victimisation, and political desperation, taken a bit too far. But this will also fail, like several other attempts. “Before the money came in, there were threats that states owing salaries would not be paid, but behind the scene, they gave it to Osun State. This is unfortunate; the money in question is not a gift. “This is another form of impunity, another form of intemperance; you cannot tolerate political opponents. But in a democracy you can’t have it all. “And I believe the people of Benue State will see, in this move, part of a series of moves by a group of people to continue to subjugate our people, that we have financial challenges; these are man-made. “People have been expecting the money would be able to settle a few months’ salaries. Now, they know who their enemy is more than any other person with this move alone. I know it will fail, but it has deepened the animosity of the people against their oppressors. “They know who their oppressors are and its getting clearer by the day who the enemies of the people of Benue State are. “It’s part of a series of actions to harass Ortom because he left the APC (All Progressives Congress) for the PDP (Peoples Democratic Party). “So, I call on the people to vote out the APC in 2019. This is a party we have kept saying they cannot protect the people of Benue State, so its part in a series of plans to subjugate the people of Benue State, and it’s an opportunity for us to vote them out in the next election. “Just as their desperation seems to have failed in Osun State, it will fail in Benue State as well.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 