Dreams don’t work unless you do. Wole Ojo’s dreams to be an actor has certainly seen him put in the work, even as a child. Judging by his presence on the movie scene today, his efforts have paid off. His film appearances, while select, leave quite the impression and this marks him in many minds as an exemplary actor. Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade was able to catch the amiable actor for a few minutes, and in a chat, he revealed details on Wole Ojo as the actor, the individual, and the patriotic Nigerian. For children born in the 80s, societal and parental expectations tended more towards the serious disciplines considered professional courses. How did your parents react when they discovered you wanted to be an actor? I’d like to correct the impression that one field is more serious than another field. In fact, at the risk of sounding awkward, the acting field can be seen as even more serious, but a lot of people take it for granted. As an actor, in order for you to portray different kinds of roles, you have to immerse yourself, and that is serious. When you need to play the role of a doctor, you need to do your research, among other things. This is unlike other professions that people think are more serious. I was lucky to have parents who supported me. I remember that asides acting, while growing up I also wanted to be a lawyer, but acting has always been my first love. While I had interest in both, because I started practicing early, one interest grew faster than the other. When my parents saw that it was what I really wanted to do, they supported me. What was your first experience like? Like most artistes, my first experience was pretty basic. I think it was in church; I was really young, so I can’t remember the details. It was fun though. But my first professional experience was at the age of nine, we were paid for it and I signed a contract. I worked with old hands, people who were quite disciplined at NTA. I grew up working with the likes of Sodiq Daba, Charles Novia, who was at the time a writer and producer. That experience was quite elaborate especially for a child in a huge studio like NTA that had all the cameras and lights. It gave me a very good foundation. It was a bit terrifying but it was solid. Did that experience influence your decision to study Creative Arts? It was the first choice for me. I remember it took me quite a while to get into university because after my secondary school, I studied at St. Gregory’s College. I remember failing my O’levels, and then I sat for GCE, which I passed. But my father being a disciplinarian had this funny idea of a student going through Diploma. It was pretty old school. You just had to wait for JAMB like every other person. So that made it a while before I gained admission. I think I wrote three or four JAMB examinations. The plan was to do Creative Arts as a first degree, then Masters in Filmmaking, and then return to school to do Law in my 50s. Based on your plans, would you say you are still on track? I am. However, not as fast as I thought it would happen. Asides being an actor or a lawyer, what other career options would you have considered? The military was also an option because my dad was a police officer, but I did not want to be in the police force. I admired the force though. What has the life of an actor taught you? I am very expressive person contrary to popular belief. I am one of those that can wear my emotions on my sleeves, I am pretty straight forward, and I am like an open book. You won’t find a lot of ill-mannered beings or controversy around my brand, which is deliberate. Of course, being in the public face adds some labels to you, but I try as much as I can to stay true to myself because I believe in originality and sanity of the mind. That is what being alive generally has taught me, not necessarily because I am an actor. Some people have described you as proud, are you really proud? Oh, I get that a lot. The thing is that everyone is proud; we all have a certain level of pride. Once people don’t know you, they formulate an opinion about you. I won’t walk into a place and simply be familiar with everyone there. Yes, I am a public face, so the best I can do is smile or wave at people. In addition, we are in Nigeria; there are things we face that a lot of people do not understand. Let me paint a scenario: a couple of times, people have approached me earlier in my career and said: “I know you somewhere.” I unknowingly replied, “Probably TV, I am an actor.” The next reply was “What are you feeling like, because you are an actor?” With that experience on a couple of occasions, what I do is that when people meet me and say they know me, I just smile and say “probably.” Except they acknowledge that it is from TV, I won’t give that information. Sometimes, people even take offence with that when the conversation continues and they realise I am an actor, they say, “Why didn’t you just say so?” Sometimes you walk into a place warm, smiling and cheerful, and people take offence that you are behaving that way because you are a celebrity. So when people just sit back and judge actors that they are proud, you don’t know what that person has experienced. People can be funny, and you can never satisfy them. What most public faces do is that they decide what angle they present. Some of my colleagues choose to keep a straight face, while others decide to smile. It doesn’t mean these people are not nice people. When you walk up to talk to them, you would be surprised at the smile and warm response you would get from most celebrities. So for me, I won’t walk into a place and be unnecessarily nice. But if you walk up to me and want something, I’ll definitely oblige. I am allowed to be me. When you mind your business, people form an opinion about you. Can you share one of your most memorable experiences with a fan? I was driving out of Circle Mall once, and a guy honks at me and I stop to wave. He had this expression that appeared angry, so I rolled down my glass, and he said “You! My wife has a crush on you!” He was actually joking, and his wife was beside him in the car, laughing, shouting and waving. I was equally laughing, and I said, “Sir, it’s not me, it’s my twin brother.” We all laughed it off and I moved on. I felt it was cool for the guy to pull that kind of joke. Not everyone can do something like that. Like many celebrities, you have a lot of female admirers, how do you stave them off or handle them? The beautiful thing about African women, especially Nigerian women, is that they are very proud, so it helps. We love them that way. They come up to you to say hello and in most cases, that’s it. Once in a while you get those who want to overstep, but you learn to draw the line. It’s not always so difficult because really, we have a lot of upright Nigerian women. If you had the opportunity to meet your younger self, what advice would you pass on? First, I would slap him, then scream in his ears that whatever he has to do, he should stop being too detailed and take a step. That’s the problem I had. I would spend so much time planning instead of making a move. I do not like to fail, so I think that I ‘overplan’. I would tell my younger self to not be afraid to fail and just move. If you were the President of Nigeria, what would you change? I would ensure a law is passed that for anyone in a public office, high or low, none of your wards are allowed to school outside the country, and whatever state you are serving is where they must school. The truth is that politicians loot for personal pleasure and goals. Their loot is channelled towards raising their wards. So when you pass such a bill into law and the governor of a state knows that his children will school in that state, they will put everything in order. They would take care of the needs of the state when they know that their children could become victims. Given the opportunity, which moviemakers would you like to work with? First on the list would be James Cameron. In my final year project in school, he was one of my case studies. Second is Steven Spielberg. The third was one of my first teachers when it comes to acting, Will Smith. As a child, I watched him a lot. In Nigeria, it would have been TK, but I’ve had the opportunity to work with him. But now I’ll narrow it down to Genevieve Nnaji. She embodies how I would like to operate. You don’t see her coming, she just drops it. You would not catch Genevieve announcing that she is doing a project or making a lot of noise. You think she’s just having a good time, and all of a sudden, she is launching something. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 