Dr Emeka Charles Kalu, former governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA, is now the Director General, Atikulated Agenda 2019, a mainstream organisation canvassing for the Presidency of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on why the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders should back his principal to get the party’s ticket, among other crucial issues. Excerpt: You once contested election as Abia State governor under the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Why are you not contesting again? Well, Abia State is in good hands. Dr Okezie Ipkazu is a man that God anointed to make Abia a great state. If the governor has not shown that he is capable, trust me, I will be on the ballot. Abians should be grateful to God for giving them someone like Okezie Ikpeazu. I have gone round the state. I will authoritatively tell you that he is a God-sent. Why do you say so, sir? Look at the infrastructural development. Look at the roads; look the youths. This is the only governor who has taking Abia youths abroad to go and perfect on their areas of specialty. Why did your allegiance shift from APGA at a time the party is waxing stronger in the South East? Firstly, I must tell you that I am a core Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) man and my boss is also in PDP. I have to follow him to the party. Aside that, the PDP has core values that are attractive to anyone who has the interest of the whole nation at heart. For instance, PDP is a wholly nationalist party which aims and values target overall improvement of the people of Nigeria. It is not sectional. PDP is all-embracing, and is the party that ran the most dynamic democracy in black Africa for 16 years. There is no way any party can beat that. Would you give a shot at the governorship again in future or consider another electoral position? When that time comes, then, we will see how it goes. For now, I am occupied with making sure that my boss gets nomination of our great party, hence the entire nation knows that Atiku Abubakar is the messiah that has been sent by God to fix our great nation. He is the only man that understands that restructuring is paramount to make Nigeria to work again, the one that knows that youth needs a gainful employment , the one that knows that the common Nigerian needs not just to survive, but to excel, the one that knows that creating jobs is imperative to drive down impunity and crime. What gave rise to your formation of the Atikulated Agenda 2019 and what informed your passion for the Atiku Presidency? Atikulated Agenda 2019 is a divine name that was planted by God as a political Pressure Movement to foster change in Nigeria come 2019. This is because our country has become filled up with impunity, tyranny and all sorts of the undesirables. What we have today is a military styled government. That is why we are throwing our support for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. He is a detrabalised  Nigerian, the one that can unite the state of Nigeria, the one that will make Nigeria work again, the one that will rebrand our image overseas. Many had been commenting on the recent public weeping by Atiku. People see it as one of those public shows by politicians just to whip up sentiments in their favour. What is your view on this? See, I must tell you this now. Atiku is a good man, and he does not do shows. If you truly know him well, he is not like other people that always come to the level of the masses only electioneering period. Atiku cried because he was shocked that the support groups would purchase his Nomination and Expression of Interest forms. It is nothing, but tears of joy that he is loved so much. Let us give him credit. Some of these wolf politicians even arrange such things. You never see any sign of humility in them. Rather, you will know that all they do is just presence to gain cheap popularity of the masses that they are down to earth. Nigerian politicians should emulate Atiku for being truly concerned about our future. President Donald Trump was recently quoted as describing President Muhammadu Buhari as a ‘lifeless’ President. What is your take on this? Well, let us just say that President Donald Trump is a fine man and a great leader. He is a reasonable man and he calls a spade a spade. He is not a President that will sit down and watch the citizens being killed in cold blood by groups known as herdsmen, or whatever they are known to be. Neither is he a President that calls his youths lazy. Trump is a man I cherish so much and will continue to respect him. How would you assess the three years of the President Buhari administration and to what extent would you say has he delivered on his campaign promises? Did you say, last three years of this administration? I will tell you that it has been a big wasteful three years. There is nothing to show. Things have gone on top of the roof. inflation on all items, corruption in all sectors of the government, impunity is the order of the day. Our freedom of speech has been violated. I cannot see anything to justify this administration. All capital projects are politicised when it should be what is expected from the government. Security is now on Negative Zero. No jobs for new graduates. Rather, crime rate has increased astronomically. It is only in Nigeria that you will see some driving vehicles with security in front and back. What do you call that? I travel all over the world, I have not seen anything like that.  All promises given to Nigerians in the name of campaign, none have been redeemed; no single one at all. The entire Nigeria has seen and has been affected by the bad government of Baba Buhari. We need to turn things around with someone that has experience, a person that can make our great country work again. That is why we at Atikulated Agenda 2019 movement are supporting Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, given his antecedents and his successes as a private entrepreneur. At least, he is a man of his words. Look at his achievements as Vice President. A cross section of the public has been pointing as former President Olusegun Obasanjo as Atiku Abubakar’s major obstacle on his way to Aso Rock. What efforts are being made by your principal to resolve the issues between him and his former boss? As far as I am concerned, Atiku does not have any problem with Obasanjo. All these you hear in the media are all rumours and if any one feels that he has problems with Atiku, the person needs to go and settle with their God because Atiku is a peaceful man. And as far as I have known him, he is a peace maker, and a great builder and that is why I call him ‘Mr. Fix It’. What gives you the confidence that Atiku will bag the PDP presidential ticket considering his very formidable opponents at the primary? Atiku is the only one that has the capacity to send Baba Buhari back to Daura. He has the experience. And also he is widely accepted by Nigerians. He is the one that God gave the wisdom to restructure Nigeria. Don’t forget about the recent IPOB demonstrations. Nigeria needs restructuring and Atiku is the one that has it as his number one agenda. PDP must know that if they get it wrong this time, then we shall become opposition party for another four years. The time is now. I am not saying the other candidates are not good. But, we have to look beyond being good, and go for the best that fits the order of the day. You know how this government functions. They will approach you with a dossier and make you act like a wimp, not remembering that power is transient. Look at the former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio. Do you really think he went to APC because he loves them? Hell no. It is just a government of tyranny. Many others went to APC for one problem or the other. Yet, they say they fight corruption. If we need a new government that is free of all these nonsense, let us embrace Atiku. If not, mark today’s date, we shall remain as opposition party. Back to Abia State, how do you see Gov Okezie Ikpeazu administration so far and his second term agenda? Gov Okezie Ikpeazu is great guy. God actually gave him to Ndi Abia. At first, I wanted to fight with him. But, I found out, with all the things that I complained about, he goes there and addresses all of them. In fact, he redirected our dear state 360 degrees, which brought about all these latest developments in Abia, trained more artisans, provided avenues for business direct investment, increased the state GDP, built more roads, went into Aba, and started to bring Aba to what Aba was back in the 70s, as written by Tell Magazine that published that Aba was a business hub for African sub-Sahara back in 70s. Today, I can tell you that Made-in-Aba shoes are now sold in United States, London and China respectively. These were made possible by our great Governor Okazie Ikpeazu. So, I don’t even understand why all these other folks are coming to run for Abia State governorship knowing full well that there is no vacancy in Abia State Government House, Umuahia. The man has to finish the good job he started. I will personally throw my weight behind him come 2019. I am asking Ndi Abia not to yield to the APC propaganda. Let them embrace continuity so that Okezie will finish the good job he is doing. What direction do  you think South East should go in the 2019 elections considering that APGA is very popular in the region while PDP and APC are the two major national parties in the country? South East should support a working Nigeria, what do I mean? A working Nigeria will be headed by a detrabalised Nigerian, who has the knowledge and wisdom to restructure Nigeria, to create jobs to rebrand our image abroad and make the country work again, everyone in the South East knows full well that Nigerians have suffered in the last three years and I will tell you that we need to go the other direction. We are tired of emphatic lies and we want a New Nigeria. Even my old grandmother in the village knows that things are bad. My little kids know that Nigeria is not safe for them. We need to make a change to rebuild our country by bringing a great man like Atiku Abubakar under PDP who has the experience on how the get the country working again. After that, he will bring in a youth to take over after him. That is why we need him. That is why the entire nation is for him. As Nigerians prepare for another major elections, what are your advice to them? I am advising Nigerians to all come out in mass to vote and make a difference in their lives, by bringing in a man that cares for the ordinary Nigerian. Also, I have to advise all Nigerians to vote and defend their votes. We are in an IT world now. Everyone has a camera phone. Always take photos of things happening around your voting centre, as you know that together we shall build a New Nigeria and all Nigerians will enjoy and be part of the government and enjoy the dividends of democracy, as democracy is said to be the government of the people for the people. Let us all come together as one to elect a man that will bring us into a New Nigeria, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Wazirin Adamawa. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 