Yenagoa – Attahiru Bafarawa, one of the presidential aspirants under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) vowed on Friday that he would not dump the party whether or not he picked the party’s presidential ticket for the 2019 general elections. He made the vow when he visited former President Goodluck Jonathan in Yenagoa to solicit his advice, support and blessing. Bafarawa, a former Governor of Sokoto State, while at the ex-President’s guest house in Kpansia area of the Bayelsa State capital, boasted that the PDP would wrest power from President Muhammadu Buhari in the forthcoming presidential election. Describing himself as a selfless democrat, Bafarawa said he was not a desperate politician and did not believe in do-or-die politics, but views politics as a game, stressing that nothing would make defect to another political party if he did not emerge the PDP presidential candidate at the primaries. Bafarawa said, “I am here (in Bayelsa) because former President Goodluck Jonathan is a democrat of Africa, not only in Nigeria. I believe that anybody who is aspiring for anything in the political arena in this country must come and seek his advice, his support and his blessing. “That is why I am here. He is a democrat, he knows what it takes to run the government of this country. He is a peaceful and godly man, so there is no way we can run away from coming to seek his blessing. “I am a democrat. I see politics as a game. Just like Jonathan, he has not been defeated but because he needs peace of the country he accepted a defeat to allow peace to reign. So, I did not join politics for the sake of personal interest, so that if I lose I will leave the party. “I have been in politics for the past 40 years and I have been in high positions, so I am not here to make money but I think I am a democrat to serve the people. So, I will remain in PDP because PDP is not a limited liability company like the All Progressives Congress. “Our common objective is to get President Muhammadu Buhari out of power. Therefore, any serious political party in this country is determined to see that in 2019; Buhari has left office so that we will move our country forward.” Also speaking, Jonathan said Bafarawa came to brief him about his political interest and political developments going on. The former President described Bafarawa as an experienced politician, saying that since he joined the PDP in 2014, the former Sokoto governor had been consistent. On number of presidential aspirants in the party, Jonathan said the development was a healthy one, insisting that the more people that are interested, the better for the party. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 