Dangote Cement Plc, Ibese plant in Ogun State has awarded scholarships to no fewer than 115 indigent pupils and students from host communities in various secondary and higher institutions across the country, in continuation of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) service and human capital empowerment. The beneficiaries drawn from the 15 host communities are to enjoy N25m scholarship, after various cheques were presented to them at the plant premises recently. Mr. Armando Martinez, Plant Director of the Ibese Cement Plant, while addressing the beneficiaries, said the gesture was part of efforts to contribute to the educational development of the state and enhance the manpower of the people from the host communities. He explained that the company in addition to the CSR services had taken measures to strengthen the sustainability of the various projects provided for the people in appreciation of maintaining peace and tranquility in the communities, which had made the cement plant operate smoothly over the years. Martinez assured that the company would continue to appreciate the people from the host communities because they were part and critical aspect of its business. “We cherish education and one of the ways through which we can impact our society is to give unfettered access to education which is why we are giving them scholarship. “This is an opportunity that every beneficiary should make use of. We have decided to award scholarships to a total of 115 students from 15 host communities. They include 100 tertiary institution students and 15 secondary school pupils,” he said. In his remark, Olu of Imasayi, Oba Gbadebo Oni, the traditional ruler from Yewa-land, the host communities’ axis of the state, expressed appreciation at the gesture of Dangote Cement to award scholarship to the people of the communities on annual basis. Besides, the monarch observed that the numbers of beneficiaries are increasing yearly, which bear testimony to the fact that the management of the Dangote Cement was a listening. “This scholarship cuts across the whole country this is a one of its kind in humanitarian works. Dangote is putting programmes and projects on the ground for the young ones to tap into,” Oba Oni stated. He also recalled that the management of Dangote Cement in Ibese had been giving some of their sons and daughters technical trainings at its Dangote Academy at Obajana, in Kogi state for technical and creative knowledge. Also speaking, Oba Kayode Kushoro, Olu Aga of Aga Orile, said his community was proud of Dangote Cement’s exploits and its willingness to give back to the communities and invest in the people. One of the recipients, Aminat Akinsanya, a post-graduate student of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta said the Dangote Cement, Ibese’s gesture would forever be appreciated by all of them that are benefitting from the award. She said the scholarship award would lessen the financial burden on them and their parents and would help them pay greater attention to their studies. “We promise to make the company proud. We will be consistent in our studies. Most of us have been struggling to make ends meet. This gesture will help and allow us to concentrate more on our studies”, Akinsanya stated. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 