Lagos – The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), says it is prepared to investigate and prosecute oil companies who breach the country’s local content law. Besides, the agency has forged stronger collaboration with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), for quick investigation of serious infractions by oil and gas companies in the country. Engr. Simbi Wabote, the Executive Secretary, NCDMB, who led the management, spoke during a courtesy visit to Mr. Ibrahim Mustafa Magu, the Acting Chairman of the EFCC, at the Commission’s new head office building in Abuja, yesterday. He said his agency plans to refer serious fraudulent discoveries from the audit to the EFCC for further action. He said: “The board will like to initiate the development of a Memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the two agencies to enable quick deployment once the services of the Commission are required. “We regularly receive alerts via the whistleblowing portal on our website. We do our bit to investigate such alerts and believe some of the major findings may be candidates for referral to EFCC.” He  noted that the EFCC is “one of the key agencies driving one of the core programs of His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari”, adding that the Commission “ has succeeded in building a reputation for itself locally and internationally as a fearless fighter in the war against corruption”.  Thus, his Board is fully aligned with Mr. President’s fight against corruption, which is why the Board attends to requests for information or clarifications about contract and oil and gas transactions under EFCC investigation expeditiously. He added that his agency has put in place an anti-corruption and transparency monitoring unit, headed by a senior member of the management team, to promote anti-corruption and ethical behavior and to investigate any internal infractions. Magu expressed delight at the visit and commended Wabote for the bold move to enlist the support of EFCC. He urged stakeholders in Nigeria to join the fight and to preach against corruption in their spheres of influence. He promised that his commission is ready and willing to support the NCDMB to recover any money due it as an agency of the federal government. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 