Tony Ezimakor, Samuel Ogidan and Gbenga Faturoti Abuja / Osogbo – Less than 48 hours to Osun State governorship supplementary election, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday revealed that Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) shortchanged it with 4,387 votes. The party also demanded the immediate resignation of the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, following his controlling role in the alleged fraudulent manipulations that characterised the September 22, 2018 Osun election. Addressing newsmen at a press conference, the National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, called for the resignation of Mrs. Amina Zakari, the INEC Director of Operations, who is also in charge of Information Communication Technology (ICT) department, where election results were allegedly altered to favour the All Progressives Congress (APC). “With INEC’s fraudulent conduct in the Osun governorship election, and approval that a concluded election be declared inconclusive, the PDP and indeed all well-meaning Nigerians no longer have confidence in Prof. Yakubu. “It is completely inexcusable that Prof. Yakubu presides over an atrocious and compromised electoral umpire that manipulates electoral processes, doctors figures, allocates fictitious votes and subverts the will of the people in an election. “The PDP has additional documentary evidence of how this compromised INEC, through its Operations and ICT Department, doctored results from polling centres, directly shortchanged the PDP with no fewer than 4,387 votes by slashing votes cast for the PDP at the polling centres while allocating fictitious figures to the APC. “The PDP has facts on how INEC slashed over 1000 votes freely cast by the people for our candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke, in Ayedaade Local Government Area, just to reduce our votes from our legitimate 10,836 votes cast at the polling centres to 9,836 votes so as to give APC the lead with a 1000 vote margin in the local government area. “Also, the PDP has evidence of how INEC, while collating results, directly allocated over 1,367 fictitious votes to the APC in Olorunda Local Government Area, to fraudulently shore up the APC votes to duplicitous 16,254 votes. This is in addition to evidence of how INEC awarded over 2,000 fictitious votes in favour of the APC in Osogbo to push APC’s vote to 23,379 against the actual 21,479 votes scored by the defeated party. “Such writing of results by INEC in collusion with the APC occurred in many other areas leading to INEC’s ill-fated directives to its junior officials, including the one apprehended in Ayedaade, to destroy results already displayed at polling and collation centres. “It was after INEC and the APC realised that despite their manipulation of figures, our candidate still scored the highest number of votes, making him the clear winner of the election, that they decided to fraudulently apply unconstitutional grounds to declare the election inconclusive.” The party pointed out that facts available to it, show that INEC robbed “our party of over 4,387 votes. Our actual winning margin stands at 4,740 votes against the 353 votes declared by INEC.” The party stressed that it is resolute in the decision to seek legal redress and take its mandate freely given to its candidate by the people of Osun State, adding that it has also discovered schemes perfected by INEC to rig its planned supplementary election in favour of the APC. “The PDP is already aware that INEC has increased the original number of voters in the affected polling centres by over 850 so as to expand its latitude to manipulate results with uncollected Permanent Voter Card (PVCs), a development, which further shows INEC’s determination to rig the election for APC. “The PDP holds that the shenanigan that has characterised the Osun governorship election is a testing measure by the APC in collusion with INEC to rig the 2019 general elections, particularly the presidential election, which they plan to plunge into similar controversy immediately it becomes obvious that APC is losing. “Our fear is that such will push our nation into an irretrievable state of anarchy and spell doom to our democracy. “While Prof. Mahmood Yakubu can no longer be trusted to conduct the 2019 general elections, it is public knowledge that Mrs. Amina Zakari, the INEC Director in charge of Operations and ICT is a direct blood relation of Mr. President and as such, we believe that she cannot be an impartial arbiter in an election involving her uncle,” it said. The PDP, therefore, calls on all patriotic Nigerians to join in the demand for the resignation of Prof. Yakubu and Mrs. Zakari so as to avert this dangerous path, where INEC is leading the nation. Fielding questions from newsmen at the press conference, the National Legal Adviser, Emmanuel Enoidem explained that the party is filing a court case today (Wednesday) on the INEC declaration that Osun election is inconclusive. He explained that it is the party that will go to court, while its candidate will participate in the supplementary election. “We are filing a court case tomorrow, the party is going to court, but our candidate will participate in the election,” he said. Ologbondiyan on his part, said that the party has told INEC to publish the number of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) collected, adding that the party leadership is discussing with Iyiola Omisore and other notable party leaders in regard to the Osun election. Similarly, the South West leadership of PDP also echoed Ologbondiyan’s submission. The South West zonal secretary of the party, Reverend Bunmi Jenyo, at a press conference Monday night held at the country home of Senator Ademola Adeleke in Ede, said the alleged discrepancies was brought forth to correct the anomalies. “INEC recorded 14, 499 for the PDP instead of 14, 599, just as the total votes of the PDP was reduced by 1,000 in Ayedaade Local Government Area.” Rev. Jenyo, who explained that the discovery of all these is thorough investigation, affirmed that the PDP was shortchanged by INEC through the summation of votes in Olorunda and Osogbo local government councils by allotting more votes to the APC than what the party garnered during the poll. APC Cautions Secondus, PDP Chairman Meanwhile, the APC has lambasted Prince Uche Secondus, National Chairman of the PDP, over what it said is an uncouth “political language and conduct” unbecoming of person of his station. The PDP national chairman had following the declaration of the Osun governorship election inconclusive by INEC, on Sunday, accused the election umpire of taking instruction from APC. The ruling party in its reaction on Tuesday said the baseless allegation by the PDP chairman smirks of irresponsibility, and advised the PDP national chairman to temper his political language and conduct. In a statement by Yekini Nabena, APC National Publicity Secretary, the party said the word of caution has become necessary as the 2019 general election draws near. He said that accusing APC of conniving with INEC in the Osun governorship inconclusive poll, without proof, “was taking mudslinging too far”, and vowed to pay the PDP leader in his own coin, if the situation persists. The statement reads, “The chairman of a political party is expected to exhibit the highest sense of patriotism, decency and decorum in public conduct and discourse. Regrettably, the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has not lived up to these basic expectations. “Weeks ago, the PDP National Chairman took the internal matters of the country’s politics to the international scene by writing letters to various international organisations. Again, soon after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the Osun State governorship election inconclusive, Prince Secondus without basis accused the electoral body of conspiring with the All Progressives Congress (APC) to declare the election inconclusive.” “The APC would as a rule ignore irresponsible and baseless utterances and actions as exhibited by the PDP National Chairman, but as we prepare for the forthcoming 2019 general elections, it is necessary we give a word of caution on expected behaviour required of all political sides. Prince Secondus is respectfully advised to temper his political language and conduct. “His unfounded allegation on the inconclusive Osun State governorship election is not expected from such highly-placed party official. Accusing the APC of conspiring with INEC, without proof, is taking mudslinging too far.” Nabena also accused the PDP of buying up and cloning PVCs in the run to Thursday’s governorship re-run in Osun State, and called on both INEC and security agencies to investigate field reports he claimed has indicted agents of the PDP.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 