Dr. Clarkson Aribogha, Ijaw opinion leader, human rights activist and lawyer, in this interview with JOHN AMUDO, condemned the invasion of Chief Edwin Clark’s house in Abuja by overzealous policemen, tenure elongation and other issues. Excerpts: What do you have to say about the invasion of Chief Clark’s house in Abuja by some overzealous politicians? In every event,  there must be confusion, so, the Policemen  involved have been dismissed by the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris. What Chief Clark is saying is that the police authority should get to the root of the matter to know the motive behind it because the police did not come by themselves; at least some persons mandated them. Knowing the tap root cause of the incident, will be better for Nigerians, not Chief Clark alone; because a repetition or similar event can occur in the future. If we know the brain behind it, then the federal government or law enforcement agencies can nip such action in the bud in the nearest future. To me, what Chief Clark is saying is okay because the matter cannot be swept under the carpet, getting to the root of the matter, is for the benefit of all Nigerians. Do you see the invasion as an illegal or legal act? Simply put, the invasion is illegal; there are no two ways about it. If the invaders had discovered anything implicating, nobody will raise an eye brow, but since they did not find anything implicating, it is an illegal act. However, the invaders tendering a search warrant is the normal thing. People, not only chief Clark wants that illegal act of trampling on the constitutional right of the septuagenarian probed. All well-meaning Nigerians are anxious to know the rationale behind the crude invasion. The truth of the matter is that Chief Clark has the right to demand for compensation, but he will not do that because not only is he an elderly man, but not poor, or a beggar because God Almighty has been faithful to him. I am happy you are a lawyer. President Muhammadu Buhari told Nigerians recently that national interest supersedes the rule of law. Is that correct by you? There are circumstances to prove that. For example, the rule of law is a universal language. Any law that is introduced stands as a basis. Apart from the military, no matter what you want to do, you must apply the principle of the rule of law. That system also affects the separation of power being an organ of government, because anything they do, the rule of law is applicable to it, so, also the fundamental human right. So when you cover those areas it encompasses the human interest. I tell you that the rule of law is like a modern language and anything you are doing, you must pick from the philosophy to safeguard the law. For example, separation of powers is part of the rule of law and without the rule of law, everybody will be doing what he or she likes. In every general rule, there are exceptions, so, if President Buhari says national interest supersedes the rule of law that is his own interpretation and belief. But there are circumstances which must be adhered to because it will be illegal if one tries enforce it. For example, if there is war in the country, the rule of law must be put aside but not without the consent and approval of the National Assembly. Thereafter, it will be endorsed by the president because it has to undergo the procedure. The National interest, when it comes to that level, is not an exception. Again, if you are investigating someone whose account is overloaded with huge sum of money, you cannot seize the person’s money without knowing the source the person got the money from. You cannot in the name of national interest seize that money, but if there is a general law that says every Nigerian or person should not have in one’s possession, an amount stated by the law, then that law must apply to everybody. But if there is no law like that, there should be no oppression carried out against that wealthy man or woman. Majority of wealthy Nigerians got their money illegally because we don’t know the source of their wealth. For example, ownership of private jets has increased in the country and nobody can ask them where they got the money from because there is no law on ground to checkmate them. Recently, President Donald Trump described President Buhari as a lifeless person. What is your reaction to that statement? Well what do you want me to say? That is president Trump’s personal view or opinion. I am not in his mind to interpret that statement, but judging from national morality it is a bit bad because I begin to wonder if Trump is a medical Doctor. If he is not, where then, did he get the analysis that President Buhari is a lifeless fellow? However, it is possible he has direct interpretation to that statement, but normally, it is condemnable making that statement against a fellow president. I know you are a political analyst. The much awaited primaries are here; do you support direct or indirect voting at the exercise? Firstly, from my own observation and little experience, even in our local parlance, people adopt indirect primaries during the election to prevent crisis and other things after the election. Crisis can occur when conducted directly because you know the people voting against you as they line up behind the candidate, and, the defeated aspirant who has been with the people who voted against him will not forgive them. The aftermath reaction of the event could be secret or overt. That is the dangers of conducting an open or direct primary election. Otherwise, it is tactical, and best economically, for transparency, and to curb out bribery. But, for security reasons, there should be proper monitoring because the candidate you voted against could be planning against you without your knowledge. However, the system can be adopted for now, especially as the country is going through economic and financial crisis. Some persons are suggesting a term of six years, which one is your take? Yes, I have always been talking in favour of six years tenure, but for economic reasons. Second tenure is always dangerous and some politicians who do not forgive use the second tenure to fight the opponent. The first tenure in office is to please the people but in second tenure, the politician believes that his time has come, as such, he has to make money; so, second tenure is not good enough for our democratic system because it is dangerous. If it is a single term of six years it will be okay because as the man win election and enters the office he has to play his card very well and please the people because whatever that remains in the kitty is your own. Infact, let’s try the one tenure of six years because second tenure is not good for our democratic system. Between the presidential and parliamentary systems of government, which one do you support? The Presidential system of government is better and conducive for our people; infact we have passed that stage and, there is no need going back to that old system of government. To me presidential system is better because everybody have a sense of belonging. President Buhari is yet to implement the report of the 2014 confab, what is your reaction? Buhari is presently at the helm of affairs of this country, but if the National Assembly and the legislative side understand themselves and work together, then things will be okay. Besides, if majority of Nigerians tells Mr. President this is what we want, he will key into their demand I tell you, there will be mutual love between Mr. President and Nigerians; then everything will be going on smoothly. So, it is my advice that Mr. President should listen to the demand of the public and implement it. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 