Yenagoa – Former Vice President, Namadi Sambo has asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to get it right in the conduct of elections, saying Nigeria cannot afford to continue to flounder in its electoral processes. He said it was even more crucial for the INEC to improve on its operations in conducting the forthcoming 2019 general elections. Sambo tasked the commission in credible polls during a condolence visit to Governor Seriake Dickson at his Toru-Orua country home in Sagbama Local Government Area of Bayelsa State over the death of his mother, Mrs. Goldcoast Dickson, on Sunday. Senator David Mark, a former Senate President and a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), also led a high-powered delegation to pay a condolence visit to Governor Dickson at the weekend. The former number two citizen, who was recently appointed as an Ambassador by Afrexim Bank and the African Union, for an intra African trade fair in Cairo, insisted that the electoral umpire had a responsibility to ensure the conduct of free, fair and credible elections next year. He also said that he had no regrets serving the country as its Vice President under the erstwhile administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan. “I have no regrets serving Nigeria. There is no cause for any regrets. I thank the Almighty Allah that he gave me that opportunity to serve our country. “Also, we are seeing what is happening and we are expecting that INEC will do the right and that there will be a free and fair election come 2019,” Sambo said. He commended Governor Dickson for the execution of several big-ticket projects in Bayelsa, especially, the Bayelsa International Cargo Airport, saying that the governor had a reputation in the North as a great unifier engrossed in sustained efforts to build bridges across the country. In his remarks, Governor Dickson thanked the former Vice President and the former Senate President for the visit and restated the decision of his family to establish a cancer awareness centre in honour of the memory of his late mother through the Henry Seriake Dickson Foundation. He commended both leaders for their loyalty and commitment to national stability while in office in support of the Jonathan administration. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 