Lagos – Gbenga Ashafa, the lawmaker representing Lagos East Senatorial District at the National Assembly, on Monday, obtained the Senate expression of interest and nomination forms for the APC primaries scheduled to hold on September 26, 2016. Ashafa was accompanied to the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja by party leaders from Lagos East, teeming supporters, family friends and well wishers who were keen on witnessing the anticipated moment. He also used the occasion to pay a courtesy call on the National Legal Adviser of the party, Honourable Babatunde Ogala, whom he described as a very devoted and industrious legal practitioner and party stalwart. Ashafa who currently serves as the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Land Transport expressed gratitude to everyone for their massive show of support and steadfastness over the years. He said he is returning to the senate for a third time to deploy his experience as a ranking senator for the benefit of his people. He reaffirmed his belief in the power of the people as expressed through the ballot and urged them to maintain the same passion with which they voted him into office in 2015. In his words, “I would like to urge you all to be responsive to this great power that you hold – the power of choice. To be able to choose is a power so great that the consequences of its use, or misuse, are always life-changing and defining. Year after year, since 2011, I have kept faith with you as your senator in the 7th and 8th sessions of the National Assembly”. “Through your contributions at our various townhall meetings and constituency outreaches, you have also kept faith by showing support and offering constructive criticisms which have helped to make me a better lawmaker and also make Lagos East a shining example of what it means to have a responsive senator.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 