Lagos – A Lagos Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, on Friday ordered that Kayode Odukoya, Managing Director, First Nation Airways,  must face trial for alleged N1.7billion theft charges proffered against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Kayode Odukoya alongside First Nation Airways and Bellview Airlines on a four- count charge bordering on forgery, use of false document, perjury and stealing. The EFCC alleged that Odukoya committed the offences of forgery, use of false document and perjury on March 21, 2013. According to the EFCC, the defendant forged the Memorandum of Loss of Lagos State Certificate of Occupancy registered as No. 33 at page 33 volume 1011 at the Lagos State Land Registry, Alausa, Lagos, in order that the document be acted upon as genuine. The forged document was in respect of a property located at No. 29, Oduduwa St., Ikeja GRA, Lagos. During proceedings on Friday, the presiding judge, Justice Mojisola Dada while dismissing a preliminary objection dated April 30 filed by Odukoya’s defence team seeking to quash the charges fixed Nov. 7, 8 and 9 for Odukoya’s trial. According to the judge; “The totality of the preliminary objection fails  because the proper parties are before the court and the application is a time wasting device. The prosecuting Counsel, Mrs. Zainab Ettu, informed the court that nine prosecuting witnesses are to testify against the airline boss. “We will be asking the court for trial dates,” Ettu said. Justice Dada fixed November 7, 8 and 9 for Odukoya’s trial. Odukoya’s defence counsel, Mr Olawale Akoni (SAN) had on June 29, via a preliminary objection, prayed for an order of the court striking out the charge. The application supported by an 11-paragraph affidavit had sought an Order quashing or striking out the charges filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) dated December 11, 2017, for want of jurisdiction. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 