LAGOS – In this month of September, The Elevation Church (TEC) commenced running the 7th edition of its relationship series – Mr & Mrs BetterHalf this September. This year’s edition themed ‘You & Me Incorporated’, is packed full with interesting and inspiring programmes for every adult, including the widowed, separated, divorced, and single parents. The series, which kicked off on Saturday September 1, with the church’s first ever service dedicated to singles, was led by the Lead Pastor, Godman Akinlabi with an inaugural message titled, ‘Single and Valuable’. The relationship teachings will run concurrently at all three expressions of TEC, which include, The Elevation Church Island, Resurrection Drive, beside KFA Event Centre Lekki; The Elevation Church Mainland, 1A Ikorodu Road, Maryland Bus stop (behind Mobil Petrol station); and The Lifepoint Church, 3 Remi Olowude Way, Lekki 2nd roundabout, Oniru, Lagos. According to the Lead Pastor, Godman Akinlabi, “It is a series designed to strengthen existing marriages and relationships that will lead to marriage, with wisdom from God’s Word. The Elevation church is committed to building families, restoring hopes and helping singles choose right. We believe that in fixing most of our social problems as a nation, we need to start promoting the right values from the smallest unit, which is the family.” The event will kick start with the annual singles event tagged ‘The Hangout’, at both the mainland and island centres today, Saturday September 15 at 10am and 12noon respectively. The Hangout is a vibrant, fun and enlightening conference that invites discussions about the Godly principles on sexuality, relationships and marriages in modern day. It features speakers like Godman and Bola Akinlabi, Ezekiel Atang, Praise Fowowe, Joy Isa and Yemi Popoola. It will also feature live music by BJ Sax and Tim Godfrey. It is open to singles of all ages and stations. With the understanding that life sometimes deals people unexpected blows, TEC has also organised an event for the widowed, separated or single parents called ‘Metamorphosis’. Which would take place on Friday, September 21 at 6:30pm at the Island Centre, packaged as a non-judgmental support programme for all who come. Among other activities, to address the skyrocketing number of divorces in the society today, that stem from unorthodox doctrines and distractions, the month of September wil also feature events for couples ranging from a 2-day, residential ‘Couples Retreat’, to a seminar on sex in marriage called ‘Turn Up the Heat’. Sex therapist, Mrs Priscillia Benjamin and relationship expert, Pastor Ezekiel Atang will be in attendance at the seminar, which held at the island and mainland Elevation church on Friday 14th and will hold on Sunday 16th of September by 7pm prompt. The activities of the month will be crowned by a ‘Vow Renewal’ service for married couples on Sunday, September 30, and is to be anchored by award winning artiste, Timi Dakolo. Mr & Mrs BetterHalf reinforces the need for unity and understanding in marriages. It also dwells on the divine purpose and power of marriage while instructing and inspiring singles on identifying the right mate and preparing for successful marriages. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 