Osogbo – The stage is now set for Saturday’s much anticipated governorship election in Osun state where  Governor Rauf Adesoji Aregbesola’s successor will be determined by the indigenes of the state widely regardesd as the “state of the living spring”. Although some analysts may have predicted a tough contest in Saturday’s governorship election , others have argued that  Aregbesola’s performance in the last eight years especially in the area of insfratructuural developments, must have made victory a fait accompli for the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Gboyega Isiaka Oyetola. While it is public knowledge that the primary that led to Oyetola’s emergence was stormy and ruffled some feathers, the skirmishes that arose as a result of the outcome of the exercise appear to have been contained owing to the quick intervention of party leaders and the maturity displayed by his co-contestants. Some members of the APC who contested the primary with the former Chief of Staff to Governor Aregbesola, but lost, who also nursed a feeling of discontent have since allowed the sleeping dog to lie. They have also resolved to close ranks for the party’s ultimate victory on Saturday. Oyetola who strongly believes in the saying that “a tree does not make a forest”, has since reached out to many of them and has also succeeded in winning them back to the fold. However, observers said that those who have refused to accept the olive branch being presented to them are in the minority and may not have the capacity to muster enough votes that can stop Oyetola. An analyst, who expressed the optimism, said that no matter how tough the contest may seem, the APC candidate would emerge winner. “That he won the primary against some formidable forces that include Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Launched Yusuf; former Secretary to Osun State Government., Moshood Adeoti and over 20 others that contested for the APC ticket with him, speaks volume of his ability,” the analyst, who craved anonymity has said. For eight years, Oyetola worked with the out-going governor as Chief of Staff. He was part and parcel of the government in Osun until his voluntary resignation recently to enable him pursue his ambition. An observer, who followed Oyetola’s exemplary service to the people of his state, said: “He acquitted himself so perfectly well with governance and its intricacies that he was practically into everything in the government, especially during Aregbesola’s second term in office.” On his chances in the Saturday election, an aide of Governor Aregbesola said: “We don’t really need to lose sleep over the election concerning Oyetola’s victory on Saturday. It is a fait accompli. It is a payback time. The good people of Osun State would use the election as a parting gift to His Excellency, Rauf Aregbesola. One good turn deserves another. If you look at the work the outgoing administration has done in the state, particularly in the areas of education, infrastructure, social re-engineering of the state, you would appreciate the commitment to governance. We anchor our campaign on continuity. The Oyetola administration will continue with the strides the Aregbesola government has made. You know in Nigeria, the brand of politics people play is a bad one.People appropriate government and personalise it rather than making it a continuum which it is actually what it is; that is why we see abandoned projects in many states because a new administration that does not understand the meaning of development would just come on board and begin to jettison progressive foundation instead of building on it. They would start another foundation which they would not be able to complete. We do not want such a thing in the state of Osun. Oyetola will build on the successes Aregbesola has made, and that is continuity, no dislocation. This is the message we have continued to drive into the consciousness of our people. I am glad they have really understood that message perfectly. So, Saturday is just going to be a formality; an endorsement by the good people of Osun.” Oyetola said he looked forward to a good contest between him and his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) challenger, Senator Ademola Adeleke. He predicted victory for himself, saying: “I see victory around the corner.  We have demonstrated to the people that PDP is not a choice. Our stewardship is evidential. Our commitment to the welfare of the people is unquestionable. Our developmental strides are unparalleled in the history of the State Of Osun.” The APC candidate noted the worry over vote buying, saying that he will not encourage it in Osun State. He said if a candidate is popular, his programmes will attract votes that will take him to power. “If the people believe in you, they will vote for you. I think that is what should be encouraged. This was why I even preferred the direct primary adopted by my party, the APC, to elect its governorship candidate. I am not for vote-buying. It is not ideal and I will never participate in it because I don’t believe in it,” he stressed.. Oyetola called for a free and fair election. He listed the conditions that will guarantee a credible poll. His words: “First of all, we must have adequate security. When people know that they are provided with adequate security, they won’t allow miscreants to hijack the process. So, voters should be allowed to exercise their civic responsibility, freely without any intimidation or harassment. “Even, the presence of security operatives around will guarantee safety; and would encourage a lot of people to come out to vote. Once we are able to curb violence, people will naturally and voluntarily come out to vote.  So, there won’t be a question of vote-buying.” On his programmes for youths, Oyetola said: “This is a big challenge, not only in our state. I want to say that what we are experiencing in the Northeast and other parts of the nation is as a result of youth unemployment. One of the many ways of standing up to this is to encourage our youths to go into farming, with the government providing some incentives. We have some farm centers and we will ensure they have adequate amenities to encourage the youths to want to be engaged in farming. We will make amenities available in both the urban and rural areas. “Through this, we can create many jobs, direct and indirect. The cottage industries will be allowed to spring up to create job opportunities for the youth.  From farming alone, we will ensure associated activities and create a value chain system that will further empower the people.  Also, we will encourage technical and vocational education to make our youth acquire skills. Some of these youths don’t have skills.” “ To make them employable we will encourage vocational education. The skills they would acquire will make them self-dependent. If they have skills they will be able to create jobs and even employ one or two hands. We know that small and medium enterprises drive the economy very fast. We will look in this direction with utmost seriousness to support our youths to be economically viable. When we talk of carpentry, bricklaying and so on we don’t need to go to neighbouring countries like Benin Republic and Togo to source technicians and artisans for many constructions going on here. We have done well in the area of conventional education but I will look into technical and vocational education to ensure skill acquisition”. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 