LAGOS – Everyone loves an island. While some see them as beautiful aberrations of nature that are worth collecting like gemstones, others see them as an escape, a place to conquer, live and explore. But in Lagos, the ‘Island’ is all these things and even more. But Lagos, in its entirety, is not just an island; the Island is merely a part of it. But with the latest trend where every major event, whether governmental or privately organised, is hosted on the Island, it is beginning to seem that the Island is the whole of Lagos. In the last year, more than 90 percent of events including concerts, festivals and award ceremonies have been hosted on the Island. Some of them include, Pepsi Rhythm Unplugged Concert and Wizkid: The Concert; Davido’s 30 Billion Concert, MBGN @30, AMVCA, The Oxymoron of Kenny Blaq, AY Live, AFRIMA, Experience. All of these events have one thing in common, they share an Island venue. Even the Lagos Trade Fair which has a dedicated complex on the mainland also now holds on the Island. Olamide Live in Concert was perhaps the one exception to the rule as his last event took place at Teslim Balogun Stadium. The three previous editions of the concert though had taken place at the Eko convention Centre, Eko Hotels & Suites. Lagos is a premier metropolitan city in Nigeria, due to the water bodies surrounding it, has been divided into two parts; the Mainland and the Island. The Island consists of major places like Lekki, Victoria Island (V/I) and Ikoyi, while the Mainland consists of many other local governments, including Ikeja, the capital of the state. When Lagos became the true centre of excellence, the Mainland, particularly places like Ikeja and environs, which was the capital of Lagos, was the hub. It was the place where the elite of society gathered to have fun. Many businesses were located in this district, and fun activities abounded. The Island was a far underdeveloped and unpopular location. People who had properties on the Island sold them at giveaway prices because they thought nothing good could become of it. Lagos Mainland was the place to be for any major event. Venues like Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way; Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere; National Theatre, Iganmu; LTV 8, Ikeja; LSDPC, Ogba; Murhi House, Omole; Planet One, Maryland; were the choice venues. Any major entertainment event in Lagos had to happen on Lagos Mainland because that was where life was happening. Lagos Island was just too far to go for fun. How wrong they were. A few years ago, at a stage play that held at a minuscule venue in Maryland, one of the organisers, a member of the Lagos Theatre Festival crew was heard commenting that they do not like organising shows on the Mainland because people just wouldn’t show as compared to the Island. At the time, this didn’t hold too much water as that was just one person’s opinion, but the reality began to dawn when all major events that mattered began to hold on the Island. Most people did not realise it, but the shift in consciousness from Lagos Mainland to the Island began subtly but steadily. Today, any major event that is to be recognised can only boast of an Island venue. But before anyone castigates event organisers and promoters for favouring Island venues, Saturday INDEPENDENT took a deeper look at why Lagos Island was the more preferred location for events. Speaking with Ayo Jaiyesimi, CEO, Thespian Family Theatre, who holds theatre shows at both Island and Mainland venues like Terra Kulture, Muson Centre, and National Theatre, she shared her view on the issue. “The truth is that when most people on the Mainland want to go see a show, they prefer to travel all the way the Island to come and watch whatever is available. However, I know that there have been quite a number of organisations that have done shows on the Mainland. “I think that gradually, over the years, a number of event organisers have chosen choice areas on the Island to have their locations, and I believe that has more to do with infrastructure. The only place some organisers might look at on the Mainland is the National Theatre, but many times it is not considered. That might not be because it is on the Mainland though; it could just be because the government owns it. I also think that people on the Island tend to be more appreciative of the arts and some shows. Most of the things that you hear that fly on the Mainland are ‘foody’ things. Those seem to be the things that sell easier on the Mainland. “For those on the Mainland, the Island is more favourable for an outing. That feeling of going out is not there when you stay around your home, but when you are commuting from a different place, there is more appeal. “Possibly too, it is because the Island is a bit more central, especially for people coming from Surulere, Yaba, Ikoyi, Lekki, in terms of the Island’s positioning.” Judging by Jaiyesimi’s view, one may need to consider the things that are available on the Island that have made it more appealing. In some parts of Lagos Island, centralised power generation makes the electricity situation a coveted quality. Asides this, there are many luxury locations, seeing as it was structured to have a feel of residing in a European country. We may also need to consider the fact that unlike many parts of the Mainland where gated communities and public spaces are shut down at certain prescribed times of the night, people who are on the Island or visit the Island for one event or the other, enjoy ease of access without fear of harassment. Nightlife on the Island equally never ends and shows can stretch into the wee hours of the morning. Femi Akintunde, a staff of a new generation bank located in Lekki Phase 1 explained, “I am not saying that there is no life on the Mainland, it is just that if I decide that tonight I don’t want to go home, and I have a bit of money to spend, my colleagues and I can simply buy a table at one show or the other and enjoy ourselves till dawn especially if it’s a Friday night. Can I do that on the Mainland? The best we would get is a hangout at a bar or a club. There are no quality shows to attend on the Mainland. Besides, on the Island, I am not afraid that they would lock the gate of one estate and I would be stranded simply because I decided to hang out later than usual. You cannot stay out too late on the Mainland, one ‘olode’ or night watchman would refuse to open the gate for you. I work on the Island and stay on the Island, and I enjoy my life without trouble.” Akintunde’s analysis is not too far from OAP Gbemi Olatere Olagbegi’s social media outburst during the peak of the rains last year. The OAP was quoted saying, “You can make fun of Island people all you want. Lol. Develop your beloved Mainland too. There are three 24 hour pharmacies/supermarkets in (Lekki) Phase 1 alone. Most people live here for convenience. Your inferiority complex is showing.” While she came under a lot of fire for the comment at the time, the reality is that her comment possibly mirrored the thoughts of many event organisers as they now favour the island. Femi Lawson, CEO Skyview Communications and a tourism expert says, “Obviously, if you look at what is happening, it’s looking like most of the younger generation are on the Island, and it looks as if everything is happening around them. It is the unseen picture or invisible picture, that Mainland is becoming more like home. When I say home, it means the place you grew up, and the Island is where things are happening. Event promoters and organisers also believe that on the Island, people would pay the bill or rate you set. If you do a show on the Island and you say N10,000, you have more people buying it than on the Mainland. The Island is more like the commercial part of Lagos where the upwardly mobile people are. So I think that those are some of the issues that are affecting that.” Many have also shared that security on the Island is more assured than on the Mainland. In response to that, Lawson opined, “Security is also part of it. There is nowhere on the Mainland that you want to do an event that you wont have ‘area boys’ coming to hang around. It is not easy for ‘area boys’ to hang around Eko Hotel, so you are sure of parking your car, walking into the hotel, later walking out and entering your car. But if you plan a show on the Mainland, no matter how exclusive, even in GRA, before you return to the street for your car, you already see them hanging everywhere.” He further shared that the Island is a more friendly location. “They don’t tow vehicles on the Island the way they do on the Mainland. It is more like officials respect people more on the Island than on the Mainland. On the Mainland, no one cares about you if you park where you are not supposed to park. I went for an event in GRA earlier this year, and LASTMA officials removed the number plates of everyone that parked outside the venue on the street. That would hardly ever happen on the Island. “More so, properties on the Island that you use for events mostly have good parking space. Parking is a problem on the Mainland. Name the hotel, apart from Excellence Hotel, Ogba that can boast of a car park that will park 100 cars. Even Excellence Hotel cannot park 100 cars. You will still have people parking on the street, and when you do that, it is either ‘area boys’ come to remove your mirror or LASTMA comes to remove you number plate, and you have to pay. You cannot also talk about traffic because the traffic is even worse, but people still cope. “Another thing to consider are the facilities themselves. You have more and bigger venues. The venues on the Mainland are more party appropriate; classical events, things like birthdays and weddings. They are not suited for commercial events. All the commercial events however happen on the Island, like comedy shows, concerts, things that involve money. The kinds of halls that are on the Mainland are basically for parties. Would you come and do ‘Night of a thousand laughs’ in Balmoral at Oregun? The facility is not designed for that kind of show. They are two different markets, and the Island is more expensive than the Mainland, so people prefer it because you make more money on the Island than on the Mainland.” Also commenting on the fact that many event organisers like the prestige that comes with having an Island event, Lawson said, “An event on the Island gives it some kind of feel. People believe that is where the big boys are, the guys that have money. If you say you are doing an event on the Island, people want to come, not because they want to come and do anything at the event, but because it is on the Island. It is not the same set of people that would come to a Mainland event that would come to Island event. Everyone likes to associate with the bigger brand and the Island is for the upwardly mobile people. “The irony is that Mainland people work more on the Island. I am a typical example. If you invite me to an event on the Island, I prefer to go on the Island than on the Mainland.” To buttress this, Saturday INDEPENDENT reached out to Sola Dada, a stakeholder in the music and entertainment industry. He said “It is simple really; it is the availability of more venues. In Nigeria, most venues are not purposely built for large events like concerts and awards. Even for the Eko Hotels of this world, the hall is not big enough for awards or concerts because of rigging of lights and other equipment. Investors need to put money in event building. For instance, investors in South Africa build domes. So when you have such a dome with a capacity of 150,000, things would work. On the Mainland, there is no venue that can take 6000 to 10,000 capacity. That is one of the major reasons why events moved to the Island.” When Saturday INDEPENDENT pointed out that the Main Bowl of the National Theatre was a large venue on the Mainland that could fit into such needs, Dada stated that, “When you talk about a place like the Main Bowl of the National Theatre, you must ask yourself about the last time an event was held there. Maybe 20 years ago. You must also remember that it is not private sector driven, it is a government owned venue. They can’t run it, and that was why the Lagos State government asked that they be given the monument, and they would handle and take care of it. “Logistics is another thing. When you have an event, you need accommodation as well; I am talking from the production perspective. You have the crew and guests and you need a single place that can hold everyone, not that you put some people in one hotel that is far away from your event venue. In a venue like Eko Hotel, you can be assured of 200 to 300 rooms that would accommodate your crew and guests. On the Mainland, you don’t have that capacity, or your event centre is one kilometre away from your accommodation. Moving guests from one place to the other is a logistic nightmare.” Many of the issues raised all point to the fact that indeed, the Island fever has indeed gripped many Lagosians and event organisers, and for many reasons. First is the issue of security. At the end of the day, every man, both rich and poor, their goals are simple: safety and security. Asides the fact that Lagos Island is a more elite part of Lagos, it is marginally more secure. In some suburban parts of Lagos Mainland, there are claims by residents that the impact of police is unfelt or absolutely non-existent. This is unlike most parts of the Lagos Island where both private and public security is available 24 hours of every day. On another note, a more vain reason surfaced on deeper evaluation. Many events have been moved to the Island for reasons of prestige and status quo. Having an event on the Island gives it a stamp of honour. It is not enough to simply host a great event, holding it in an Island venue is a mark of excellence whether such venue is no better that a riverside shanty or a beach resort. Finally, another major reason Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered was because the movers and shakers of most industries in Nigeria, who reside in Lagos, have taken up residence on the Island. Unlike before when everyone lived everywhere, now the real celebrities, socialites, captains of industries and entertainers, all maintain Island residences. And seeing as many of these events are planned for the upwardly mobile, the elite and wealthy, the best way to reach them is to do events in their backyards, places that they are familiar with, already visit and would readily come to. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 