Lagos – As the Federal Government’s train stops at Iwo in Osun State to add the artisans and small scale entrepreneurs to the list of beneficiaries of Trader Moni, Toyin Adeniji, an Executive Director at the Bank of Industry (BoI), has said that the programme would unlock the economic potential of the informal sector in the country. She said this during the launch of the scheme in Osun State on Tuesday. The collateral-free loan that was launched by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, is part of the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP) of the Federal Government is in collaboration with the Bank of Industry, provides N10,000 to every beneficiary and it is targeted at petty traders and artisans. According to Osinbajo, it is a policy that supports businesses, particularly small, medium-sized businesses and micro businesses. He noted that the loan was a progressive one which would not only help traders to expand their businesses but also change their levels by making their lives prosperous. ‘We recognise the hard work of traders who wake up every day and toil, in the markets, in their trades with a dream to become financially independent and secure a future for themselves and their children. ‘We will give them more as they begin to repay the N10,000. If they repay the N10,000, they will be given N15,000. And if that is repaid, they would be given N20,000. Then it goes up to N50,000 and N100,000. Beneficiaries of TraderMoni have six months to repay the loan with flexible options of N85 daily or N430 weekly’, the vice president said. At the launch, one of the excited the beneficiaries, a meat seller, who identified himself as Ayanwunmi in Odo-Ori, said he would use the money to expand his business and promised to repay the loan in order to qualify for a higher sum. He particularly commended the Federal Government for remembering the youth and hoped for the continuity of the scheme. ‘This programme will go a long way in empowering businesses and changing the lives of Nigerians especially the youth’, the meat seller said. Also, Adepoju Gbemisola, a food seller in Iwo, could not contain her excitement as she received the credit alert of TraderMoni on her mobile device. She said she would use the money judiciously and repay the loan as advised. She thanked and prayed for President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. ‘All their efforts in helping us won’t be in vain. Our prayer is that this government will continue. I thank the government for giving us this loan. They will continue to progress’, she prayed. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 