Alhaji Yusuf Suleiman is a prince of Sokoto Caliphate and former Minister for Transport and later Youths and Sports under ex- President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration. In this interview with HABEEB HAZEEZ, the former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain who recently joined the All Progressive Congress (APC), spoke on the leadership style of Senator Aliyu Wamakko and his willingness to work for the party’s success in 2019. You recent registered as an APC member in the state. What informed your decision? My joining APC was borne out of many reasons. First, our party leader in the state, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, said during the party’s mega rally that all politics is local. If will play active role in the political system within my locality, then I have to identify and work with the people that I believe are working for good governance in the state. APC under Senator Wamakko’s leadership has shown considerable determination to help in the development of this state. I have offered myself many times because I also believe I have a lot to offer. I am one of the few that have benefited so much from this state and country. Every time I wake up, I always think of what I can to give back to my immediate community, my state and the country. I have what it takes to help in promoting the party within the state and to work with its stakeholders to ensure that APC remains united and the party of choice among the electorates ahead the forthcoming general elections. Speculation was rife that your decision was based on the incumbent governor’s move to PDP which prompted your quick exit from the party. Was that true? You will never stop people from political calculations and permutations. People are entitled to say many things when it comes to politicking. Now, Governor Tambuwal has moved to PDP and it coincided with the time I moved out of the party. Many people asked why I left PDP when the governor just announced his arrival into the party.  To me, we have reached a point that any political party you want to identify with, you need to come out and do so now. To set the record straight, since the last PDP governorship primaries, I have been a partial member of PDP in the state. I have not attended any function organised by the party because, I never recognised the leadership of the party in Sokoto State. Since 2014, I stepped aside. Now that we are approaching 2019, it is time for me to make a political decision. If I really want to continue playing politics in this country, I know that I cannot stay idle. It is either I go back and work with those people or dump them and move on. Then, I looked around. I am very comfortable with the APC leadership in the state. I have always accepted Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko as a political leader that I can work with. I had always been part of his political family. I have the highest respect for him. I know him to be a man of integrity. I joined APC because, I know what the party can do in this state. Recently, Senator Wamakko, said Sokoto State belongs to APC and President Buhari. Do you agree with his assertion, when one considers the political influence of the incumbent governor, now with PDP? I think what distinguished Senator Wamakko said is an expression of the collective will of the people of Sokoto State. If you are in Sokoto on the day he (Wamakko) arrived from Abuja, because, I was with him in his car. I saw the outpour of emotion from the crowd. People came out to say this is what we want, this is where we are. I can tell you without any fear of contradiction that day ended all political permutation. That day was when Sokoto people indicated where and whom they will support. Senator Wamakko’s statement was an announcement of where Sokoto people really belong. Sokoto is an APC state and we are going to return President Buhari and elect all APC candidates come 2019. There is no doubt about this. Some say President Buhari’s popularity in 2015 has waned, which may affect his chances in 2019? When you talk about popularity, I think it is God’s gift to President Buhari. Nigeria for so long has not had a leader that the people trust like Buhari. It is a matter of trust. When the people trust you, they are ready to put their hopes in you. To the average Nigerian, President Buhari represents their hope. Since he became President, we have not heard that he did this or that in a wrong matter, except the side talks where people try to blame some of his officials. Whatever lapses you might have noticed of his appointees cannot be near what was recorded in the previous administration. So, the trust that exists between President Buhari and Nigerians will continue as long as he continues to exhibit that integrity, which is his trademark. President Buhari is like a movement because people believe in him. It’s about trust. If you believe in someone then you put all your trust in him. Nigerians embraced President Buhari because they trust him. You were one of the leading governorship aspirants on the platform of PDP in 2014.  Now that you are in APC, what is your aspiration in 2019? I came into APC to help and develop the party. I wouldn’t be a party to anything that will scatter its unity. I am enjoying the relative peace, unity and friendship I found within the party. I acknowledge the warm welcome accorded me and I have been embraced by all the stakeholders. My goal is to work for the party’s success in the coming general elections. I will try my possible best to ensure that the party is more formidable and successful. My aspirations in the past years were because of the belief that I have a lot to offer. Even now, I still believe I have a lot to offer to ensure the development of Sokoto State.  But, I only rely on whatever responsibility that my party assigns me. Besides, I belong to a political family and we are talking. But, all we want now is to make APC a success. In some states under the control of APC, outcome of congresses and mode of primary elections have been causing disunity among members. The stakes no doubt is high in Sokoto. Do you foresee a smooth process in APC, especially for its governorship ticket? Yes. I can guarantee you for that. The primaries will not in any way disrupt our unity. The good thing about APC in Sokoto is that we have a good leadership and everybody has submitted to that leadership in the person of Senator Aliyu Wamakko. He is going to be just to all. There is no member of APC that will not abide by the leader decision for one, I will always abide by his decision as a leader and I believe every serious and genuine members of the party will do same. How would you rate Governor Tambuwal’s administration? I think the time to talk about his performance is not now. I wouldn’t like to start assessing his performance at this period because it will be unfair now that I left the party he just defected to. But, in due course, I will assess him with all sense of responsibility and fairness. As a former PDP chieftain, couldou give an insight on real reasons why the party lost in 2015 general elections? Fundamentally, two major reasons made PDP to lose the 2015 general elections. First, President Buhari’s political movement swept across the country like a hurricane, PDP could not withstand the movement and they were dislodged. Secondly, PDP weakened itself with lots of infractions. Impunity was at its peak and everybody abrogating laws to himself. The party’s leadership did not respect guidelines and rules. It was like when you know or have a friend that is a party official, there is no need to campaign or contest in primaries because you will be handed the party’s ticket. People are just going to Abuja to secure  ticket for any elective position. There was such injustice even to people like me who had served as member of the Federal Executive Council (FEC). Nobody was talking or try to salvage the situation. So, it was in this process Buhari’s movement came like a tsunami and swept away PDP from power. Ever since, PDP has failed to recover. I don’t see it recovering from the 2015 defeat. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 