Lagos – It is that time of the year again that political lobbying, permutations and arithmetic calculations – plots and intrigues begin over who takes the mantle of leadership at the Nigeria most prized sports office – the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). The date for the NFF elective Congress was earlier fixed for September 29, but was reversed to September 22, 2018; the decision was part of the resolution taken by the Congress during its Extraordinary General Assembly in Benin City, Edo state in August. However, the office tagged the “Glass House”, has the incumbent, Amaju Pinnick, joined by two old-timers in the Nigeria football ‘industrial’ politics, so to speak – Alhaji Aminu Maigari and Taiwo Ogunjobi. The fourth person is an unknown personality, Mr. Chinedu Okoye, proprietor of amateur league club, Bimo FC. As is always the case ahead of elections in every clime, the gladiators are facing different challenges; two candidates – Pinnick and Maigari were said to be facing disqualification for unknown reasons before the Electoral Committee headed by Sani Kautu.  But, the Katu’s Committee has refuted the allegation. According to a source who preferred anonymity on the allegation, had told NAN that plans had been concluded to disqualify former NFF President, Aminu Maigari and the embattled current NFF boss Amaju Pinnick. The grand design, seen as “malicious coup” was alleged geared toward ensuring the ascendance of a preferred Northern choice, though maybe a credible choice – it was to disqualify both contestants during the screening exercise and leave only one candidate in the person of Ogunjobi believing that he might not have the support of the congress for the NFF top job. Thus, “After the screening and disqualification of candidates, the electoral committee will open the nomination form for five days to pave way for more people to pick form including Shehu Dikko, Chairman of the League Management Company (LMC). “Ogunjobi and Dikko may be the only ones in the final race and in the end, the LMC boss will emerge “Other popular candidates from the zones may be disqualified also before the final contest,” the source said. But Katu in his quick defence has told NAN that the committee had no plan to disqualify any candidate that met the requirement set in the electoral guideline even as some school of thought said that it was to douse tension. “There is no plan to disqualify anybody that is qualified. We have election guideline that guides us. We asked contestants that want to occupy positions to come and obtain form and fill it according to the guidelines. “Once we are satisfied with the requirements, I don’t see any reason one should be disqualified; we intend to screen and find out whether the contestants are qualified and once they are qualified, they are qualified. “There is no way we can disqualify somebody that is qualified. We are an independent body and we are not going to do anything that is contrary to the guidelines; it’s very clear,” Katu said. However, these are some of the scheming that makes elections very interesting and putting the contestants and stakeholders on their toes – it brings out too, the best out of the exercise for credibility purpose and the gladiators have responded accordingly hence the four names. Interestingly, the players are not new in the political terrain of Nigerian football politics; they have all had it rough and tough and still counting, particularly with the incumbent – Pinnick. Pinnick, invariably for the first time without sentiment is the first Nigerian apex football boss to have commanded so much positive influence, taking Nigerian football beyond the regional and continental level. A graduate of Political Science from the University of Benin, Benin City; have no doubt mastered the game of politics in his endearvours; he rose through the rank to become the Football Association chairman of Delta State and the Sports Commission Chairman – changing the face of sports in the state. Presently the Vice President at Confederation of African Football (CAF) and holds a juice position at FIFA; the Itsekiri man is axiomatically a role model and master of the game in sports politics, if all the troubles he has gone through from his assumption of office since 2014 till date and still in firm command is anything to go by. To put records straight, this writer is not a close associate of Pinnick from his days in Delta State sports affairs till date; but the truth be said, Pinnick has overwhelmed Nigerians with his little but tangible records in the Nigerian football history. Today, the FIFA President, Giani Infantino, for the first time in the Nigeria football history visited the country more than once, a development that speaks volume for Nigerian football going forward. On the low side however, Nigerian national teams – the Super Eagles; Flying Eagles; the Golden Eaglets; Super Falcons; the Falconets among others have had mixed fortunes recently. The Super Eagles in two consecutive editions of the Africa Cup of Nations have not been able to qualify 2015 and 2017. Nigeria last won the tournament in 2013 and failed to qualify and defend it in 2015. Nigeria were in the 2018 World Cup, but put up an underwhelming performance even as first African country to qualify for the soccer fiesta, they failed to impress against all odds with only one victory over Iceland and two defeats to Croatia and Argentina. All these happened under Pinnick’s lordship; but technocrats have always said it is a work in progress which a second term may consolidate as the positives overshadow the downsides. Aminu Maigari on his part is a Nigerian football administrator who served as the 38th President of the Nigeria Football Federation from 2010–2014; he was impeached on the grounds of “financial misappropriation, misapplication and maladministration. Nigeria last won the AFCON in 2013 under the reign of Maigari in 2013; and the 2014 World Cup in Brazil in his last term was a fair one for Nigeria, but was marred with scandals and just then his woes started counting until the last minutes – his exit from office. Since then he went into oblivion and just resurfaced into the fray for the Glass House race again. Taiwo Ogunjobi, was former Secretary General of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF); he has been living all his life as a footballer and administrator and still counting. He was a player and administrator with Shooting Stars Sports Club (3SC) of Ibadan even as IICC then. Ogunjobi, has in his own right as a football administrator faced hells of problems on corruption and maladministration as well culminating to his ban and unban; but if being an ex-players is a yardstick for the road to the Glass House, Ogunjobi will not need election – he is a football personified an astute administrator. While the return to the Glass House by Ogunjobi who also contested in the last election and Maigari maybe baffling watchers from the sideline, the question is if there was anything they forgot to take away. In all of these, however, stakeholders are saying that the democratic process should be allowed to take its course where votes will have to count for the best candidate among the contestants. Christian Chukwukwu (MON), a former Super Eagles coach opined that the three contestants have the pedigree to move Nigeria football forward, but lamented that the election was only limited to the state FAs. “I have known all the contestants to a point that I can accept them as having what it takes to move Nigerian football forward. “They don’t need much story to tell Nigerian football followers about what they can do. Thank God, this is a democratic era, which means it is the votes that will count and the best candidate should be elected. “It is only unfortunate that the election is limited to only the State FAs; the players and coaches association are not involved. These are the class of the football family actually feel the pains; where it pinches,” Chukwu said. Godwin Izilein, former Super Falcons boss is of the view that the election would provide another opportunity for the Federation to put its acts together – rewriting all the wrongs by whoever wins. Izilein as Chukwu, although refused to reveal his preferred candidate maintaining, “All the candidates are qualified and they know the task ahead of Nigerian football,” but was quick to say, “Nigerian football however needs an intelligent and smart administrator. “We are looking at somebody who has the clout, finesse and charisma; somebody who can make Nigerian football a brand before the international community as we had it before those foreigners were rushing into our league; that is the choice man,” Izilein concluded intelligently. Pinnick, and Magari are seeking for a second term to consolidate; while Ogunjobi has been having it at the lower level. From their past and present of these gladiators as presented above even without their manifestoes, who deserve to wear the crown? September 22 will tell. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 