The Nigerian start-up ecosystem has seen tremendous growth with the emergence of business incubators and technology hubs. Technically-grounded entrepreneurs are transforming lives. Whether in the fields of e-commerce, virtual reality, or fintech, tech-entrepreneurs have disrupted the way Nigerians communicate, make purchases, order food and commute. Most of these changes are for the better. When award-winning social entrepreneurs, Seun Onigbinde and Joseph Agunbiade, birthed BudgIT, a civic organisation in 2011, they disrupted the way Nigerians communicated with the nation’s budget. As tech entrepreneurs they knew how to harness technology to solve societal problems. BudgIT employed a wide range of technology-based tools to simplify the budget and public expenditure for citizens, consequently raising standards of transparency and accountability in government. Nigerians were enlightened on their rights to access and understand public budgets and demand that budgets be efficiently implemented for the good of the people. To support this, they developed Tracka, a project-tracking tool that allows citizens monitor developmental projects in their communities. Since BudgIT online platform came into existence, the change has been for the better. But the exciting journey started in Yaba, Lagos State, at Co-creation Hub (CcHUB) Nigeria’s first Tech-In Governance competition, when an open call was made for Nigerians to submit creative ideas that had potential to transform citizen participation in governance. At the time, co-founder of BudgIT, Onigbinde, worked as a strategy analyst at First Bank Nigeria. He made a last minute decision to enter the competition with an idea to transform public sector data, especially the budget, to a more engaging format. BudgIT joined CcHUB’s pre-incubation programme and officially launched in September 2011, with a press launch set up for them by CcHUB. BudgIT’s growth skyrocketed during the Occupy Nigeria movement in January 2012. It was a time that saw Nigerians interested in government spending. It was a key opportunity that BudgIT seized by creating the “Budget cut” application. According to Onigbinde, the CcHUB community played a big role in the app’s creation. “We leveraged the CcHub community because we did not have a tech team to build the app,” said Onigbinde. The application attracted 4,000 users in 60hours and BudgIT’s followership grew in large numbers within a short time. They became the fact checker of Nigeria’s budget on social media and the success of the app remains one of BudgIT’s key achievements. In the course of its three years of operation, the BudgIT website recorded one million hits with over 250,000 unique visitors in 2014. More than 4,000 data requests from online visitors were processed in 2014.  BudgIT has gone on to raise over $500,000 from various foundations/organisations such as Indigo Trust, OSIWA, MacArthur Foundation, United States Department, amongst others. It recently received a $400,000 investment from Omidyar Network. From mobile applications to e-commerce platforms, tech entrepreneurs are looking to digitise traditional business operations. These success stories were not possible without two important skill sets – entrepreneurial business acumen and technical expertise. These are what business incubators provide incubates. There, they are connected with business people, where they are guided in the stages of starting a real business, as opposed to learning about it from a textbook. In the course, incubates identify problems and explore solutions in relation to business. Most of the incubators provide acceleration, incubation, mentoring, meet up, entrepreneur cafés, pitch contests and demo day. Niger State Industrial Parks Development Agency Director-General, Dr. Abdulmalik Ndagi, whose agency is solely responsible for the development of industrial park and industrial clusters in the state, said clustering entrepreneurs within an incubator creates an entrepreneurial ecosystem of networks and ready pool of technically-grounded talents. An expert on business incubation, Ndagi, said full-service incubators provide their clients flexible space and affordable rents, shared business services, business development training and coaching, financial assistance, and the opportunity to network with peers. According to him, incubators are responsible for providing support across a startup’s life cycle, while accelerators are focused more on growth and acceleration of the startup. Particularly, for those entrepreneurs staying within government technology incubators, Ndagi said incubates benefit from governmental support for innovation. According to Ndagi, the value of local entrepreneurs and young start-ups is also well-recognised by enterprises. That is why a lot of big corporates are setting up funds to nurture entrepreneurs. West African startup specialist, Rich Tanksley, said business incubation centres are having impact on the digital innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystem in Nigeria. He said: “They are helping to build an ecosystem and enabling environment, but it’s up to the individual entrepreneurs still to grow their businesses.” Most business incubators face a number of challenges. Although tasked with developing small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), business incubators often lack the necessary skills to contribute fully to the development of SMEs. Given that most of the management staff in business incubators may not come from an entrepreneurial background, they seldom possess the ability to meet the skills requirement of their clients. According to Ndagi, an international certified trainer in business incubation, there was need for specialised incubator management training to expose new entrants to best practices in incubation management. According to him, the training will enhance managers’ understanding of business incubator models, how to finance an incubator, monitoring and evaluation of startups, mentoring programmes and more. According to Salihu, Nigeria is a good example of a dynamic economic ecosystem, which presently needs to organise and interconnect all innovation stakeholders. This is to enable them to more proficiently face all the challenges and opportunities that may arise in the future. Without doubt, he said, human resources represent an essential component of an innovation ecosystem and a clear driving factor for entrepreneurship and economic growth. According to him, Nigeria enjoys a majority of young, dynamic potential entrepreneurs with no fear of falling and, on the contrary, ready and prepared to stand up again. Salihu said the growth of business incubators is going to enhance the potential of the innovation ecosystem with stimulating ideas and a strong innovative mindset. According to him, the government, as well as private sector needs to support local entrepreneurs to play an essential role in this evolution to make Nigeria ready for future economic challenges. There are 27 Federal Government-owned incubation centres in the country. At the government’s technology incubation centres, new businesses are given free accommodation for three years. During this period, the businesses are exempted from taxation. At the centre, equipped with fabrication and testing facilities, young tech entrepreneurs can be mentored. For instance, at the Lagos centre in Agege, many young Nigerians have benefited from the centre, graduating in beads production, anti-bacterial hand wash, starch, multipurpose liquid soap, leather shoes, air fresheners, herbal bathing soap and body cream making, among others. They are also ex-participants, who are involved in the production of unripe plantain flour, bean flour, soya flour, spices, packaged pure honey and fruit juice production. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 