Lagos – Restructuring, a major issue that will dominate the 2019 presidential election on Tuesday pitched two political heavyweights against each other as Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo responded to comments credited to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar regarding his argument on restructuring which is said to be ambiguous, unclear and mixed up with good governance and diversification of the economy. Osinbajo who took on his predecessor  in a letter he personally authored and sent to Premium Times, noted that Atiku was leveraging on the spur of the moment to score cheap political points by introducing the concept of restructuring even though he is not fully conversant with the subject matter. Picking holes on Atiku’s position,  Osinbajo insisted he does not believe that geographical restructuring was an answer to Nigeria’s socio economic circumstances. That would only result in greater administrative costs. Osinbajo had at a town hall meeting in Minnesota, the United States of America, said that the problem of Nigeria was not geographical restructuring but prudent management of national resources and providing for the people properly. He also said prudent management of the nation’s resources and the provision of essential needs of the people were better ways of addressing Nigeria’s development challenges. “Problem with our country is not a matter of restructuring…and we must not allow ourselves to be drawn into the argument that our problems stem from some geographical restructuring,” he had said. He maintained that Nigeria needs good governance, honest management of public resources, deeper fiscal Federalism, a clear vision for development and not geographical restructuring as postulated by Atiku. According to him “Kindly permit me a response to a piece in your publication, titled “Osinbajo got it wrong on Restructuring,” written, we are told, by my illustrious predecessor in office, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. “First, let me say that I really would have expected Alhaji Abubakar to at least get the full text of my comments before his public refutal of my views. But I understand; we are in that season where everything is seen as fair game! “He quoted me as saying that “the problem with our country is not a matter of restructuring… and we must not allow ourselves to be drawn into the argument that our problems stem from some geographic re-structuring”. “Yes, I said so. As the quote shows, I rejected the notion that geographical restructuring was a solution to our national problems. Geographical restructuring is either taking us back to regional governments or increasing the number of States that make up the Nigerian federation. “As we all may recall, the 2014 National Conference actually recommended the creation of 18 more States. And I argued that, with several States struggling or unable to pay salaries, any further tinkering with our geographical structure would not benefit us. We should rather ask ourselves why the States are underperforming, revenue and development wise. “I gave the example of the Western Region (comprising even more than what is now known as the South West Zone), where, without oil money, and using capitation tax and revenues from agriculture and mining, the government funded free education for over 800,000 pupils in 1955, built several roads, farm settlements, industrial estates, the first TV station in Africa, and the tallest building in Nigeria, while still giving up fifty percent of its earnings from mining and minerals for allocation to the Federal Government and other regions. “I then argued that what we required now was not geographical restructuring but good governance, honest management of public resources, deeper fiscal Federalism, and a clear vision for development. “On the issue of deeper fiscal Federalism or restructuring, I explained how the then Lagos State Government, led by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, decided to fight for greater autonomy of States. As Attorney-General at the time, it was my duty and privilege to lead the legal team against the then Federal government, in our arguments at the Supreme Court. Osinbajo in his response also disagreed with President Muhammadu Buhari on  the creation of state police. While the president had rejected it saying creation of state police will inflict more financial burdens on the states who are still struggling to pay workers salaries, the Vice- President argued in favour of it. He said “I have argued in favour of State Police, for the simple reason that policing is a local function. You simply cannot effectively police Nigeria from Abuja”. “Only recently, in my speech at the Anniversary of the Lagos State House of Assembly, I made the point that stronger, more autonomous States would more efficiently eradicate poverty. So I do not believe that geographical restructuring is an answer to Nigeria’s socio economic circumstances. That would only result in greater administrative costs. “But there can be no doubt that we need deeper fiscal Federalism and good governance. Alhaji Atiku’s concept of restructuring is understandably vague, because he seeks to cover every aspect of human existence in that definition. He says it means a “cultural revolution”. Of course, he does not bother to unravel this concept. He says we need a structure that gives everyone an opportunity to work, a private sector driven economy. Yes, I agree. These are critical pillars of our Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), including our Ease of Doing Business Programme. “If, however, this is what he describes as restructuring, then it is clear that he has mixed up all the issues of good governance and diversification of the economy with the argument on restructuring. Good governance involves, inter alia, transparency and prudence in public finance. It involves social justice, investing in the poor, and jobs for young people; which explains our School Feeding Programme, providing a meal a day to over 9 million public school children in 25 States as of today. Few hours after Osinbajo’s response, Atiku fired back describing as unfortunate, Osinbajo’s claim that his position on restructuring was vague “because he seeks to cover every aspect of human existence in that definition.” In a statement titled ‘Restructuring Is a Necessity, Not an Option’ Atiku said he had been at the forefront of the discourse on restructuring Nigeria since the 1995 Abacha Constitutional Conference, noting that to the best of his knowledge, there has not been any term like ‘geographic restructuring.’ Countering  Osinbajo’s claim, Atiku said he was yet to see “how these clear and specific ideas can be described as ‘vague’. “One would have thought that if anything is vague, it would be the idea of ‘geographic restructuring’ whose meaning is hanging in the air,” he added. Atiku noted that Osinbajo in his letter, jumped from the topic restructuring to dovetail into the area of the economy, but stated the vice president failed to explain certain facts “such as the fact that the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics reported in December 2017 that Nigeria lost 7.9 million jobs in the 21 month period under review.” He added that if the vice president could not see that losing 7.9 million jobs in 21 months while creating 500,000 jobs is a deficit, “then I do not know what to say to the honourable professor.” He noted that Osinbajo harped on the administration’s prudence in public finance, but he failed to show the wisdom in sharing $322 million of Abacha funds to the poor only to take a loan of $328 million from the Chinese the very next month. “Many Nigerians, myself included, see this as imprudence,” Atiku said. He also disagreed with Osinbajo that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government, in four years (between 2010 and 2014) earned $381. 9 billion, the highest oil revenues in Nigeria’s history, to $121 billion by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari from May 2015 to June 2018. He also advised Osinbajo to choose whether he is for restructuring or against it and not stand in the middle on the issue. “My response to Vice President Osinbajo is that while I was Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2006, Nigeria’s Economic Management Team, of which I was a prominent member, paid off Nigeria’s entire foreign debt of $30 billion, at a time when we were earning one third of what the Buhari administration is currently earning from oil. So such arguments are puerile at best. “My advice to the Vice President is that he should choose whether he is for restructuring or whether he is against it and stick to his choice. “This continuous prevarication, this approbation and reprobation, helps no one, least of all true progressives who know that Nigeria needs to be restructured and restructured soon,” Atiku concluded. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 