Abuja – Quiet crisis is currently brewing in the presidency following the arrest of Sani Baba-Inna, aide-de-camp to wife of the President, Aisha Buhari. Mrs. Buhari had ordered his arrest following accusations that the ADC kept for his personal use huge sums of money that accrued to the office of the wife of the president for her pet project. As at the time of filing in this report, Baba-Inna, a chief superintendent of police, was cooling his heels at a detention facility of the Department of State Services (DSS). Sources in the presidency said the ADC received huge donations from politicians and business associates on behalf of Aisha Buhari but failed to remit the cash to her office. The source said Mrs. Buhari perfected her plans even before she travelled to New York to attend the UN General Assembly with her husband. She was said to have requested the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, to arrest and compel Baba-Inna to refund the money, although the actual amount was not disclosed. The source equally revealed that Baba-Inna was accused of the fraud by some close relatives of the president’s wife. Baba-Inna was also said to have been having a running battle with some of his superiors some of whom were aides working in the presidency. They were said to be against the ADC occupying such position. It is unclear if those close to Mrs. Buhari raised the allegations against the ADC. An associate of the embattled police officer said Baba-Inna strongly denied the allegations, saying he received no donations from anyone on behalf of his boss. Although Mrs. Buhari travelled to the U.S. on Sunday, the police was said to have swung into action immediately they received the petition from Mrs. Buhari. “The IGP said the matter must be investigated immediately and the house of the ADC was raided,” one of our sources said. “Shockingly, investigators only found N1, 200 cash in the house. His bank account was also investigated and had only a balance of N30, 000 while the transaction records showed that most credits to the account were his salaries and allowances.” The police, it was gathered, concluded that Mrs. Buhari must have been wrongly informed as there was nothing to show or prove that such huge sum of money was in the custody of Baba-Inna. An associate of Baba-Inna said the police contacted those named as donors of the controversial funds but that they all denied making the donations attributed to them. “For instance, one of those named was the IG of Police himself,” the source said. “But the IGP said he has never passed any money through Baba-Inna.” When Mrs. Buhari was informed of the outcome of police investigation, the source said the first lady flared up and accused the police of colluding “to protect one of their own”. “She then reportedly asked the Department of State Service (SSS) to take over the case and get her money back,” the source said. The police, on Tuesday, invited the whistle-blower who alleged that Baba-Inna siphoned about N2.5 billion. The invitation by the police authorities followed investigations into the account details of the ADC. It was discovered that after due investigation, the account of the ADC was found to have fallen short of the amount he was alleged to have siphoned. However, in what might be regarded as a U-turn, the presidency later distanced Aisha Buhari from the arrest and detention of Baban-Inna. Director of Information, Office of the Wife of the President, Suleiman Haruna, who refuted the claim on Tuesday, confirmed that Baban-Inna was merely facing investigations by the security operatives for his involvement in financial misdemeanours levelled against him. The first lady said she had never sent any of her staff to collect any favours on her behalf or on behalf of her children and would never do so. She, however, directed anyone that might have been defrauded by Baban-Inna to get across to him to retrieve whatever he took from them. “The attention of wife of the President, Dr. Mrs. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, has been drawn to some media publications and releases purporting illegal detention of her Aide De Camp (ADC) over allegations of fraud. “The story, as it pertains to her ADC, Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Sani Baban-Inna, has it that he has been detained on the orders of Her Excellency for dropping her name and defrauding unsuspecting officials and associates. She wishes to use this opportunity to refute such allegation and to state that she has no hand in his arrest and detention. “CSP Sani Baban-Inna has been her ADC since 2016 and has been associated with her ever since. To the utter dismay of Her Excellency, he has used the opportunity to defraud unsuspecting associates and officials as initial investigations have shown. “The Nigeria Police Force, his employers, arrested him to investigate the allegations levelled against him, this being within their jurisdiction. “She, therefore, wishes to use this opportunity to inform the general public that she has never sent any of her staff to collect any favours on her behalf or on behalf of her children, and will never do so. “She is, therefore, imploring anyone that had been defrauded by Mr. Baban-Inna to get across to him to retrieve whatever he took from them. Mrs. Buhari wishes to reiterate that she will not condone fraudulent behaviour by any of her staff. “She uses this opportunity to call on all those in positions of authority to rise above intimidation by their aides and deal with such attitudes as extortion by name-dropping, especially within the presidency. “As she always emphasizes, this government was voted into office based on the trust and confidence of the people,” Haruna said on behalf of his principal. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 