WARRI  – The Uvwie Community in Delta State has petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari over what they described as Nigerian Army’s refusal to obey Presidential order to return their ancestral land it has illegally acquired. Addressing a press briefing recently in Warri, Chief V. E. Otomiewo, the lead counsel to the Uvwie Community, expressed disgust that the army authorities refused to return the occupied land despite the directives of  the court, Mr. President and the House of Representatives Committee on Public Petitions to them to do so. Otomiewo warned that the relative peace enjoyed in the Warri axis of the Niger Delta had been threatened as the Uvwie people have exhausted their patience for the authorities of the Nigerian Army to obey the National Assembly order of March 29, 2018 and the Presidential order of June 25, 2018. Otomiewo said the people were ready to resist what he described as the continued illegal acquisition and occupation of Uvwie land by the Army authorities under the control of Lt. General Tukur Buratai, Chief of Army Staff, whom they alleged have refused to obey the National Assembly and Presidential orders. Chief Otomiewo asserted that since Nigerian Army authorities have refused to vacate the land, the Uvwie people were left with no option than to resort to square up with the Army. Chief Otomiewo recalled that sometime in December 2017 and January 2018, the Uvwie people took their agitations for the release of their land by the Army authorities to the House of Representatives Committee on Public Petitions, and they were able to make a case to the committee for the release of their land, as the Army high command was unable to produce a single document to establish the Army’s continued hold on the land of the Uvwie people under the guise of a supposed acquisition. Otomiewo contended that the House of Representatives Committee on Public Petitions by its letter of January 31, 2018 signed by the Committee Chairman, Hon. Uzoma Nkem Abonta, and addressed to the Inspector General of Police, a copy of which was made available to the Press, the House of Representatives directed the Inspector General of Police to detail men of the Nigeria Police to Uvwie Local Government Area to protect the people from further harassment and molestation by the Nigerian Army. He added that the House of Representatives Committee on Public Petitions, also by its letter of March 29, 2018 addressed to the Chief of Army Staff and the Commanding Officer, 3rd Battalion, Nigerian Army, Effurun Barracks, and signed by the Chairman of the Committee on Public Petitions, directed the Chief of Army Staff to stop any kind of work on the land pending the resolution of the House on the petition of the Uvwie people. Otomiewo said, “In June 2018, President Muhammadu Buhari directed the Army High Command to stop the selling of the land of the Uvwie people to private developers. But instead of adhering to the President’s order, the Army High command had been persistent in their activities for selfish reason.” He disclosed that recently, the Army invaded Ohorhe Town, an Uvwie Community sharing boundary with the land supposedly acquired by the Army and planted several sign posts with the inscription,” ARMY LAND, KEEP OFF.” He alleged that the military authorities have concluded plans to invade the town and pull down every structure with a view to plot out the lands for sale to private developers through the instrumentality of the Nigerian Army Properties Limited, a company incorporated by the Army authorities with Gen. Buratai, the Chief of Army Staff, as one of its directors. Otomiewo while describing the situation the Uvwie people found themselves as unbearable said, “As the lead counsel to the Uvwie people, I can attest to it that the Army has not been able to produce cast iron alibi, evidence or documents besides the unconvincing 1974 Gazette to legitimatise the acquisition notice, the boundaries of which they have far gone beyond.” He added, “What we are facing today in Uvwie Kingdom is worse than what Namibia, Mozambique and Soweto passed through when they had similar experience.” Meanwhile, placard carrying protesting women who were highly agitated spoke against the Army’s occupation of Uvwie land. Mrs. Nightingale Chunu, Mrs. Victoria Ifife, Mrs. Sarah Agoda and Mrs. Magaret Egbenive who spoke on behalf of the protesting women maintained that there would be no peace until the Army vacates their land. They chanted war songs and calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to come to their aid. However, all efforts to speak with the Army Public Relations office were not successful as repeated calls on their cell phone got no response. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 