Lagos  – Ibrahim Idris, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), on Wednesday dispatched a high-powered delegation, led by a Deputy Inspector General of Police (IGP) and other senior police officers to apologise to Chief Edwin Clark, whose Asokoro, Abuja home was invaded by some police officers on Tuesday. This disclosure was made on Wednesday in a statement signed by Jimoh Moshood, police spokesperson, force headquarters, and made available to Daily Independent. He added that the delegation was received by Chief Clark and the apology was equally accepted by him. Moshood explained that the action of the four police officers involved in the raid was not authorised, as the police boss “is not aware and did not order the raid.” The police disclosed the names of the four police officers as ASP David Dominic; Inspector Godwin Musa; Inspector Sada Abubakar; Inspector Yabo Paul; and Ismail Yakubu, the informant. Consequently, the Inspector General ordered their detention and investigation, directing that the outcome of the preliminary investigation be made public. Already the officer that led the team has been queried and the three inspectors are currently undergoing orderly trial for the appropriate punishment, Moshood disclosed. The police regretted that the search of Chief Clark’s home by the police personnel was illegal and unprofessional, because it was based on false information to mislead the police. It also didn’t follow due process. It stated, therefore, that “the force will not condone misconducts by any of its personnel that can run contrary to the rule of law. “The police have the statutory rights to execute a duly obtained search warrant in any premises where it has actionable intelligence or information that incriminating items or exhibits used to commit crime or about to be used for criminality with the aims of recovering them to prevent the commission of such crime or to detect the crime that have been committed.” The police stressed that any officer who is to carry out the execution of search warrant must follow the laid down procedures within the law. It added, “Where such is not followed, such an officer must be made to face the consequences of violating the rule of law.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 