As the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) gets ready for the September 22, 2018 Osun governorship election, one emerging trend that is of concerns is the incidence of vote buying. This has become very worrisome following what happened during the July 14, 2018 Ekiti governorship election. Many observers, during the Ekiti election, revealed that the two major political parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) engaged in vote buying. It was also stated that both parties spent huge sums of money to settle the voters, who reportedly collected between N4,000 and N10,000 for casting their votes, which in normal circumstances, is their civic responsibility. The two major parties in the election, APC and PDP, were said to be culpable in vote buying with videos showing how some money were shared among people during the election. With the Ogun governorship election by the corner, it is therefore necessary to warn INEC on this emerging and disturbing trend. Thus the question in the lips of several Nigerians is: What will INEC do to prevent incidence of vote buying and other electoral malpractices in the forthcoming governorship election in the state? Observers Seek Prosecution of Offenders Disturbed by the incidence of vote buying, some domestic election observer groups, who took part in the Ekiti election have called for the prosecution and punishment of anyone caught for vote buying in future elections in the country. They urged the National Assembly to review the Electoral Act and enact laws that impose strict punishment on the offenders to serve as a deterrent to others. The observer groups comprised of New Initiative For Social Development, International Federation of Women Lawyers, and Centre for Social Justice, Good Health and Community Development, stated this in their report on the July 14 governorship election in Ekiti State. The coalition told Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC National Chairman, to set a machinery in motion to ensure that such review was carried out before the 2019 general elections. Days after the Ekiti election, the groups addressed a joing press conference in Ado Ekiti. During the occasion, the NISD Executive Director, Abiodun Oyeleye and FIDA Programme Officer, Blessing Ajileye, commended INEC for bringing innovations that improved the quality of the conduct of the election. According to them, the five security men deployed per polling unit prevented incidents of ballot snatching that had marred elections in the past. Oyeleye exonerated the police of complicity in the vote buying syndrome, saying chasing the perpetrators around the polling units could have distracted them from their fundamental role of protecting the election materials, electorate and INEC staff during the election. A civic group, SERAP, also asked INEC to work with other relevant agencies to ensure that those involved in the vote buying are identified and prosecuted. INEC Expresses Concerns The INEC, the nation’s electoral umpire, on its own has expressed concerns over the rampant buying of votes during elections as witnessed in the recently concluded Ekiti governorship election. INEC expressed its worries through a statement issued by Mohammed Haruna, its spokesperson. INEC in the statement, “noted with deep concern, the rising phenomenon of vote buying during elections and restated its commitment and determination to continue to work with all stakeholders, especially the security agencies, to stem the ugly trend.” The statement read in part:  “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) today held its regular meeting with Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC) from all the states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “The Commission reviewed the conduct of the July 14 Governorship Election in Ekiti State and preparations for the September 22, 2018 Osun governorship election. “It noted the satisfactory conduct of the Ekiti Governorship election as attested to by both domestic and international Observers, the Media and other Stakeholders. “The meeting also noted with deep concern, the rising phenomenon of vote buying during elections and restated its commitment and determination to continue to work with all stakeholders, especially the security agencies, to stem the ugly trend. On the upcoming Osun Governorship Election, the meeting unanimously agreed to further improve on the successes recorded in the Ekiti Governorship Election.” The, however, commission assured Nigerians of its commitment to ensuring free, fair and credible elections in 2019. Vote Buying As Bad As Rigging – UK Envoy Paul Arkwright, the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, has condemned vote-buying, which he said was rampant in the recent Ekiti State governorship election. He described vote-buying as a form of electoral misconduct like rigging and ballot stuffing. The envoy spoke after a meeting with Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, the boss in Abuja. He said: “I was there in Ekiti to monitor elections and I heard a lot of reports of alleged vote buying and we are convinced that some vote buying went on. I condemn it. Vote buying is illegal. It is against the law. It is just as vote rigging, it is just as bad as ballot stuffing. Arkwright stated: “We cannot make a distinction when all these activities are illegal so I condemn that. What are we going to do about it? Well we just had a meeting with the chairman of INEC, we have been talking about public awareness and how the political parties themselves can take responsibility for condemning this action and not continuing it. “We do hope that 2019 will be free, fair, credible and of course, peaceful elections.” Arkwright, however, commended INEC for the conduct of elections in recent times, saying the UK government had faith in INEC and its leadership. Arkwright also said the UK and United States governments had pledged $60m (N21.6bn) to voter education in Nigeria for the next six years. He added: “I think the election process itself went well, the materials were there, the security forces kept their distance and did manage to keep a peaceful election and we are seeing progress in how INEC is carrying out each election. So, we have confidence in INEC and the chairman. “The UK has been a very strong supporter of INEC and together with the USAID, we are spending about $60m over a six-year period in support of deepening democracy in Nigeria.” Penny Maudaunt, the Department for International Development Secretary of State, who also spoke, advised security agencies to be neutral in conduct even as the 2019 general elections approach. Maudaunt said: “Though the elections were largely peaceful and results widely endorsed by stakeholders, vote buying by both the main political parties was widely criticised. “There is time to tackle some of the challenges noted before next year’s elections. But, INEC will not be able to solve all electoral problems on its own. Everyone in society has a role to play and a contribution to make. “Political parties must respect a code of conduct adhering to the highest standards. We encourage security agencies to remain visibly neutral and ensure a safe and secure environment for the electorate.” It’s A New Phase Of Electoral Malpractice – Lawyer Isaac Ebudin Imadegbogie, a Benin-based legal practitioner, said: “lNEC should work with the security agents to check this new method of electoral marketing on election day. There has always been what we used to know as inducement of voters to mobilise electorate or seek their support but not this kind of open buying and selling at the polling stations. This is a new phase of electoral malpractice in Nigeria and I don’t know how the country will go about it to overcome menace. “But, all I know is that now that the issue is disturbing the mind of some enlightened Nigerians, solution will one day be found but it might delay because of the level of poverty in the country. The most worrisome aspect of it is that not only the politicians and the voters are involved but the security agents who takes their own so as to look the other side while the buying and selling are going on. “Well, it’s unfortunate, and as I said earlier, it is a new phase of electoral malpractice in the nation’s democratic evolution and we will also overcome it one day but not immediately because right now 80% of the Nigeria population are hungry.” Electronic Voting Will Stop Vote Buying – Jonah Comrade Kindness Jonah, Convener, Voice from the East (VEAST), believes that vote buying and other electronic malpractices could be addressed through electronic voting. According to Jonah, Osun State is another test case because vote buying is in vogue. He said: “You can stop it by direct voting that is electronically monitored, such that immediately the voter cast his vote and it is seen, as soon as the last voter votes, it is opened and everybody sees results electronically. It can be stopped by electronic voting.” Checking Vote Buying Is A Matter Of Conjecture – GDPN chief Chief Oweni Zebulun Amanna, former council chairman and now chieftain of the Grand Democratic Party of Nigeria (GDPN), said: “I wish INEC and the people of Osun State the best. But, if you are talking of ways to check vote buying and other malpractices in the on-coming election in that state, then it is a matter of conjecture. “Can INEC provide the necessary adequate manpower to man all the booths? Can it place security men on red alert in all the voting centres? Can the electoral body strictly ban movement of vehicles and subject all vehicles on the road in that state including those belonging to the law enforcement agencies to a thorough search? “Can it ensure that nobody goes closer to any voter when he or she is casting his or her vote to know who has been voted for? If INEC can do this, then it would have succeeded to check the point you have raised.” A Law Is Needed To Check Vote Buying – Politician Abdulaziz Sule, a grassroots politician, said, “The INEC should sit down and think of how to check incidences of vote buying and other electoral malpractices in the forthcoming governorship election in Osun State and ahead of the 2019 general elections for Nigerians to respect the commission and its chairman, Professor Mahmud. “What is happening Nigeria’s today politics are evidence that Nigerian politicians are desperate to cling to power, while those who are already there also display same desperation just to be in power. But, the generality of Nigerians who are at the receiving end suffer without anybody really being held accountable. “The essence of democracy which is, government of the people for the people and by the people, has been defeated. Many of them in elective positions only get there because they have money to command the needed push, while in essence they lack knowledge of what Nigerians need and the way and manner to deliver dividends of democracy. “To end vote buying, INEC needs more sensitisation, enlightenment and again, design polling units in a way that will not allow voters to go in with their phones to avoid communicating with anybody or snapping the ballot papers after voting, as evidence of voting for a particular candidate. “INEC should tell Nigerians that they are worth more than the N5, 000 or N4, 000 politicians pay them in order to get their votes. What should be important is to vote for a candidate that will not divide Nigeria along tribal, religious, regional or political line as we have today or to vote for Senators or House of Representatives Members that can defend them and also speak their minds at the National Assembly, vote for a governor that will not share salt or distribute cubes of Magi to them as reward for getting their votes and will forget about them for the duration of his tenure. “Above all, there is the need for a legislation that will reduce to the barest minimal money politics and as well make politics unattractive so that only people who have something to offer Nigerians can vie for any elective positions and not people who only go there to improve on their pockets and that of their friends and family members.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 