Temidayo Akinsuyi and Gbenga Faturoti Osogbo – As Nigerians await the outcome of  Saturday’s Osun State governorship election, reports from the field showed that three of the candidates are in early lead, with each winning their senatorial districts. They are Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Iyiola Omisore of the Social Democratic (SDP). While Oyetola is leading in Osun Central, Omisore and Adeleke are in comfortable lead in Osun East and Osun West districts respectively. The election, which witnessed massive turn-out of voters, was however, marred with allegations of vote buying leveled against the leading political parties. Two people, suspected to be PDP agents, were arrested in Iwo with huge cash found on them to lure voters, while another two suspects were arrested in Osogbo for same offence. The culprits said they were given the cash by their ward chairman to give to their supporters. Most stakeholders, especially party candidates, commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security operatives for adequate preparations, peaceful, free and fair conduct of election in the state. Senator Adeleke, Oyetola, Omisore, Alhaji Moshood Olalekan Adeoti of Action Democratic Party (ADP) and Alhaji Fatai Akinbade of African Democratic Congress (ADC) commended the peaceful conduct of election. Also commending INEC were the Lagos State Commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Tajudeen Balogun; former Minister of State for Police Jelili Adesiyan; former Minister for Youth Development, Senator Olasunkanmi Akinlabi; Osun State Commissioner for  Finance, Bola Oyebamiji and his counterpart in Commerce, Industries and Cooperatives, Adekunle Jayeoba Alagbada and Hon. Ayo Omidiran. Balogun, Lagos NSCDC boss, who said he was drafted to Osun to monitor the election, said he was impressed by the conduct of INEC, voters and security agencies. Both Adeleke and Senator Omisore expressed confidence that they would win the poll, while APC candidate who spoke to journalists after casting his vote, said he was in the contest to win. Omisore, SDP governorship candidate, however, alleged that there were insufficient electoral materials in some polling centres in Osogbo and malfunctioning of card readers in some voting centres in Ile Ife. While speaking with Sunday INDEPENDENT, Adeleke of PDP said he was reaping the good works which his late elder brother, Senator Isiaka Adeleke, has done for the people, saying his late brother’s performance was the magic behind his political fortunes. Adeleke, who spoke after casting his vote at Sagba Abounde ward 2, unit 9 in Ede north local government of Osun, said his late brother had seriously worked, the results of which he was benefiting now. He said: “My brother has assisted lots of people through his programme and this singular policy is giving me an edge in my political career at present.” Adeleke, who insisted that he was winning the election in a free and fair exercise, said he was loyal to his late brother and leant a lot from him. He commended the arrangements by INEC and the security personnel, even as he called on his lovers and supporters to remain calm and law abiding. 3 Arrested Over Alleged Vote Buying The Nigeria Police have said that three suspects were arrested for vote buying during the Osun governorship election. The suspects were: Muriat Olalekan, 61, Hamzat Muniru,65 and Adeagbo Wasiu. Force spokesman, Jimoh Moshood (Acting DCP), in a statement on Saturday in Abuja, said the suspects were allegedly arrested in the act of vote buying. Moshood said the arrest followed the deployment of operatives of IGP Monitoring Unit and the Intelligence Response Team of the Force. The spokesman said the sum of N720, 000 was recovered from the suspects, adding that investigations into the cases were ongoing, while the suspects would be arraigned on completion of investigation. Observer Group, Lawmaker, Commend INEC, Security Operatives The Women Arise for Change Initiative, an election monitoring group, has commended the large turnout of voters for the Osun governorship election on Saturday. Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, president of the group, who gave the commendation while speaking with newsmen in Ile-Ife, described the voter turnout as impressive. Okei-Odumakin lauded the readiness of the electorate to cast their votes, adding that the group deployed more than 100 observers for the election. The rights activist commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the timely arrival of voting materials across the polling units. Okei-Odumakin also commended security agents for displaying high sense of professionalism in discharging their duties. “Unlike what we experienced during the Ekiti governorship election, security agencies were very civil and polite in the discharge of their duties here in Osun and we want that to continue,” Okei-Odumakin said. She also commended politicians for displaying high sense of good conduct so far in the election. “So far, so good. The election is going on smoothly without any report of ballot snatching or thuggery,”  Okei-Odumakin said. Also, Babatunde Olatunji, a member of the Osun House of Assembly, commended INEC for the timely arrival of ad hoc staff and voting materials at the polling units. Olatunji (APC-Ife North) said: “Aside that the voter turnout was impressive, the process has been peaceful and electorates are excited to exercise their rights. The election materials arrived on time. “I am optimistic that the election will be free, fair and devoid of any form of violence.’’ Aregbesola, Omisore Disagree On Conduct Of Exercise Governor Rauf Aregbesola of Osun State has commended the large turnout of voters for Saturday’s governorship election in the state. Aregbesola, who spoke after casting his vote at 11.50 am at his  Ifofin Ward 8, Unit 1 Polling Unit in Ilesa, also commended the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) for the smooth conduct of the exercise. Aregbesola arrived at the polling unit with his wife, Sherifat,  at 11.38 am. He said the large turnout of voters and their peaceful conduct were signal to the desire to elect a leader of their choice. “I must commend the voters for conducting themselves in a peaceful manner and for coming out in their large numbers.This is the beauty of democracy,” he said. The governor also used the opportunity to dismiss the speculation that the payment of workers’ full salary before the election was for political reasons. But, Sen. Iyiola Omisore, the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), lamented what he called irregularities in the conduct of the exercise. Omisore, who spoke shortly after voting at his Moore Ward 1, 003 Polling Unit at 11.25 am,  alleged that there were insufficient electoral materials in some polling units in Osogbo. He also claimed that the card readers were malfunctioning in some polling units in Ile-Ife. Omisore, however, urged the voters to exercise their civic responsibility by trooping out to vote. He also urged the electorate to refrain from vote selling, saying that by doing so, the people would be mortgaging their future. There are 3,010 polling units and 755 polling points spread across the three senatorial districts and 30 local government areas of the state. Although there are a total of 1,682,495 registered voters, over 400,000 Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) remained uncollected as at Friday. Also, while 48 parties are participating in the election,  Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Omisore of the SDP were the frontline candidates. INEC’s Secret Balloting Curbed Open Vote Buying – CSOs Two Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) monitoring the Osun State governorship election on Saturday said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC’s) secret balloting made it impossible for people to openly buy and sell votes. Samson Itodo, Executive Director of YIAGA Africa said the group monitored the election in 250 polling units. Itodo said it was obvious that INEC took deliberate steps to ensure that the secrecy of balloting was not compromised. “There were two things INEC assured the stakeholders of, first was the reconsideration of the polling units, the ballot box and the cubicle would be placed closer to each other. “The polling officials were carrying out voter education in the morning, especially on how to roll their ballot papers according to the election guidelines provided by INEC guidelines. So, INEC kept to its promise of secret balloting. “However, there were still some instances where voters intentionally exposed their ballot. In fact, one actually happened before me.” Itodo encouraged voters to stop doing that as it would undermine the integrity of the entire electoral process. PDP Floors APC In Akande’s Polling Unit The All Progressives Congress (APC) lost the election in the polling unit of its former Interim National Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande. Akande had voted at his Polling Unit 12, Ward 4, Ita Aewogbade, Ila Local Government Area. At the end of counting, PDP won the unit with 78 votes against APC’s 49. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 