They were voluntary, being products of collective agreements with no law backing them. Section 1 of Pension Reform Act 2004, the forerunner of the current Pension Reform Act 2014 as well as section 3 of the 2014 Act, established the Contributive Pension Scheme and made it to apply to employees of both the public and private sectors. Herein, lies the beginning of the pension industry. The next question therefore is that, are there stakeholders in the pension industry, and if the answer is in the affirmative, who are they? The answer to this question is found in the Pension Reform Act 2014. The Act has laid down stakeholders in the pension industry and went ahead to set out the roles they are expected to play for the sustenance and development of the industry. The Act didn’t stop at laying down roles for stakeholders. It went further, to stipulate sanctions for non-compliance. The stakeholders in the pension industry are the regulator, employers, employees and the operators (Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs and PFCs). Section 17 of the Pension Reform Act 2014, which henceforth will be referred to as the Act, established the National Pension Commission (PenCom), while section 18 states the objectives of PenCom to be, to enforce and administer the provisions of the Act; co-ordinate and enforce all other laws on pension and retirement benefits; and regulate, supervise and ensure the effective administration of pension matters and retirement benefits in Nigeria. Since the establishment of PenCom, the commission has strived to achieve the objectives of the Act, effectively performed the functions given it in section 23 and judiciously utilised the powers bestowed upon her in section 24. There is no other way to justify the establishment of the commission and adequately highlighting the role she has played in the establishment and development of the pension industry than to point to a non-existing industry in 2004, with a public sector pension deficit of N2trn in 2004 to a pension industry with a pension assets of N18.14trn as at July 2018. The commission has succeeded in building and maintaining a culture of healthy compliance in the industry: This has not only helped the industry to stay out of trouble, but has built a reputation for the industry as being trustworthy, which has led to the continuous development of the industry. Being a friendly regulator, PenCom exposes draft guidelines to operators for inputs before finalizing them. There is a monthly consultative fora with licensed operators and holds regular consultations with the operators “union” the Pension Operators Association (PenOp). The next sets of stakeholders in the industry are the employers. This is the group that provides the greatest challenge to the industry. Principal among the challenges being that of non-compliance with the provisions of sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Act, which deals with paying the contributions of the employer; deductions and timely remittances of both the pension contributions of the employer and employees’ pension deductions, as well as maintaining Group Life Insurance policy in favour of employees as provided for in section 4(5) of the Act. The governments, federal and states are the biggest employers of labour and also happen to be the greatest culprits in this regard. This would continue to be the greatest challenge the industry will be facing. The reason, being that owners of businesses in the private sector will continue to be greedy in their desire to maximise profit,  while governments will continue to avoid the responsibility of adequately addressing the welfare of workers. The regulator and employees must do everything within their powers to get employers to comply with the provisions of the Act. The primary stakeholders in the pension industry are employees. Section 1 paragraph ( c ) states one of the objectives of the Act to be “ensure that every person who worked in either the Public Service of the Federation, Federal Capital Territory, States and Local Governments or the Private Sector receives his retirement benefits as and when due. Barr. Ivor Takor, a legal practitioner and Executive Director, Centre for Pension Right Advocacy called on the labour movement to champion the cause of pension for workers in the country, adding that they should be able to engage the pension regulator where necessary. “The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), the Trade Union Congress (TUC) and industrial unions, whose responsibilities are to champion the cause of improvement of the welfare of workers and pensioners, must be at the forefront of efforts to grow the industry. They can achieve this by adopting both collaborative and preventive approaches. The labour movement should ensure that employees open Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs) and understand salient sections of the Act that need their attention; they should put pension issues as principal items for discussion/negotiations, in every meeting and negotiation with employers especially governments; they should engage PenCom through interactive sessions and training of union leaders including having pension desks in union offices for better interface; ensure periodic issuance of Retirement Savings Accounts statements by Pension Fund Administrators to account holders; have Annual National Pension Conferences, where workers views are articulated and expressed and act as whistleblowers on pension matters. Barr Takor who was a member of the Pension Reform Committee that drafted the Pension Reform Act 2004 maintained that “in an attempt aimed at insulating pension fund from fraud and forgeries, it is imbedded in the Act, a lot of compliance obligations for the operators, which the Act also empowers PenCom to enforce and apply sanctions for noncompliance. Operators will help in the continuous development of the industry if they comply with the provisions of the Act and all regulations and guidelines issued by PenCom; render good customers services and additional services.” He pointed out that the pension industry today remains the most rapidly growing industry in the country and will remain so for a long time, adding that this position will be strengthened when the micro pension targeted at getting the self-employed in the informal sector to key into the Contributory Pension Scheme commences. Issues militating and may continue to militate against the growth of the industry are: absence of reliable data on employers in the private sector; weak economy; dearth of investment outlets; lack of confidence in government promoted schemes. While the following are some issues that must be addressed by stakeholders for the continuous growth of the pension industry. Commencement of the micro pension for the large informal sector; tackling of the resistance/unwillingness to remit pension contributions by employers; adequate coverage of the scheme, especially keying in by State governments and improved customer service delivery by PFAs. The current Net Assets Value of Pension Assets under the Contributory Pension Scheme has been put at N8.14trn. This is happening against a background of Federal government budgetary pension deficit estimated at N2trn as at June 2004, when the Contributory Pension Scheme took off and a non-existing industry before the Contributory Pension Scheme took off is a huge achievement. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 