ASABA – The governorship primary of Delta State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) may not hold today due to the crisis in the party. Last week a faction of the party led by Prophet Jones Erue expelled Chief Cyril Ogodo, another factional leader and six others for alleged anti-party activities and impersonation of party officers. Ogodo was a factional chairman of the party until the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party led by its National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole recognised the Erue-led state executive committee as authentic leadership of the party in the state. Other members expelled by Erue-led committee, according to the state secretary, Chidi Okonji, are Terry Otunya, Henry Onianwa, Ebiakpo Ezebri, Edewor Akpedafe, Christian Onodjacha and Oviri Emmanuel Orakata. The party accused them of issuing unauthorised press releases and creating a factionalised/parallel executive committee of the party, thereby bringing the party to public ridicule and disrepute. It also accused Oviri Emmanuel Orakata of dragging the party to court. But Olorogun O’tega Emerhor Emerhor, leader of the party in the state, has described expulsion of the six members as pretentious, mischievous, disappointing and provocative. Emerhor in a statement signed by his media aide, Aghogho Orotomah, noted, “No peace currently exist in Delta State APC other than the peace of a graveyard.” He said: “There exist two party executives in Delta State, one by law, the other by the recognition of the National Chairman. There are subsisting court cases that seek to overcome existing illegalities. These court cases will not and cannot be withdrawn unless genuine peace is negotiated.” He Described the earlier meetings by Erue and his executive as a “jamboree of visitations” saying, “a jamboree of visitations cannot cure the existing chasm but only genuine actions can, the mainstream of the party is ready for peace but peace at a fair cost to all.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 