Lagos – Last Friday’s takeover of Skye Bank by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which also renamed it Polaris Bank, has continued to generate reactions among Nigerians who described the fall of the bank as a disaster that was waiting to happen. They stressed that the CBN was only postponing the day it would wield the big stick on the bank since its intervention in 2016. The apex bank said it took the decision following the inability of the owners of the bank to shore up the capital of the distressed bank which had earlier received a N350 billion intervention in July 2016. Reacting to the taking over of the bank, John Chukwu, MD, Cowry Asset Management Company, said the CBN’s revocation of Skye Bank’s licence seemed to be an inevitable route to resolving the bank’s solvency problem. “It is obvious that no investor would want to buy a bank that has negative net asset value of close to N1 trillion for whatever value and capitalise it only to use the proceeds of the capitalisation to write-off the negative net-worth. “Given that the capital requirement for a national bank is only N25 billion, it would make sense for such investors to seek a fresh banking licence instead of investing such amount to acquire a bank with challenged brand equity. “The option left for CBN aside from revoking the licence and transferring the assets and liabilities to AMCON through NDIC was to liquidate the bank but this would have led to huge losses by depositors of Skye Bank. “I believe that this route adopted by CBN will make it possible for the successor bank, Polaris Bank Limited, to be sold to investors in due course. However, it is almost certain that the public treasury (Nigerian people) will absorb some losses as it will be impossible to get an investor that will acquire the new bank for the value of N786 billion which AMCON is injecting into the bank to stabilise it,” he said. Speaking on the claim in certain quarters that Skye Bank’s acquisition of Mainstreet Bank was responsible for its predicament, Anor Anyanwu, former Executive Director of Mainstreet Bank, said the predicament that led to the taking over was not as a result of the acquisition of Mainstreet Bank but by Skye Bank’s internal problems. “I do not think that the acquisition of Mainstreet Bank was responsible for the predicament because by the time we sold Mainstreet Bank to Skye Bank, Mainstreet Bank was a very good franchise. The four years we spent at Mainstreet Bank on behalf of AMCON was profitable and we had cleaned up the bank. “The bank was operating okay, no bad loans and the technology was good. Skye Bank bought a very good bank. In my own opinion, the bank’s predicament was an internal problem that later got escalated when they bought a bigger bank,” Anyanwu added. Tope Fasua, the founder and CEO of Global Analytics Consulting, said his only concern was that there seemed to be no repercussions for those who run banks down by stealing depositors’ funds. “I’m also worried about just how easy it is to throw money away in Nigeria.  Almost every bank has hundreds of billions in bad loans hanging in AMCON; loans given to customers many of who still claim to be whiz kids despite being bailed out with taxpayers’ money. I’m yet to see a salutary departure from this lax attitude by banks.” Also reacting, Adeleke Adetunji, shareholder activist and former Secretary General of the Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ISAN), said decisions like this have never been good for the shareholders because there is an aspect that regulators are always overlooking. “Nobody is saying they cannot take decisions but before you take a decision you should look at far-reaching consequences of certain actions. Most of the time, the CBN will say they are only mindful of depositors’ funds. That is what the law empowers them to do. “But we also have another regulator in SEC which the law also empowered to defend the interest of shareholders. SEC has consistently failed. The board is preserved, the management is preserved and the depositors’ money is intact but all appear to be intact except the fact that the shareholders fund is gone. “The only group of people who are blocked out are the shareholders. The shareholders’ fund of Skye Bank which is N10.69 billion has suddenly disappeared. If you think beyond this, it will continue to send signals to foreign investors as to the safety of capital in the Nigerian capital market.” Skye Bank started business as Prudent Merchant Bank Ltd in 1990. By 2000, it changed to Prudent Bank Ltd and became a commercial bank following approval by regulatory authorities. However, in 2006, during the Soludo-era banking consolidation, Skye Bank emerged following a merger between Prudent Bank, Eko International Bank, Co-operative Bank, Reliance Bank, and Bond Bank. During the 2014 review year, Skye Bank continued its in-organic route to expansion through the acquisition of Mainstreet Bank, one of the bridge banks within the portfolio of Asset Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON). Mainstreet Bank, the bridge bank that took over Afribank under AMCON, was sold to Skye Bank in 2014. And in 2016, just two years after acquiring Mainstreet Bank, Skye Bank started failing to meet its minimum thresholds in liquidity. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 