ABUJA – The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) yesterday took a swipe at those criticising President Muhammadu Buhari for accepting the N45million expression of interest and nomination forms purchased for him, saying the President violated no law in accepting the offer. Presidential aspirants of the All Progressives Congress (APC) under the aegis of Coalition of 2019 APC Aspirants had on Tuesday asked Buhari to reject the nomination forms purchased for him by the Nigeria Consolidation Ambassador Network (NCAN) at the cost of N45 million on the ground that it fundamentally contravened Section 91(9) of the Electoral Act. But in a statement issued by its Director of Communications and Strategy, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, BCO said it was appalled by the statement issued on behalf of APC presidential aspirants on Wednesday by Dr SKC Ogbonnia, Chief Charles Udeogaranya and Alhaji Mumakai Unagha criticising the President for accepting the forms bought for him. The organisation urged Nigerians to ignore the outburst by the APC aspirants, describing it as the ranting of anti-democratic elements. Ibrahim stated: “The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) wishes to ask Nigerians and indeed, the teeming supporters of President Buhari not to be distracted by the purported group of the APC presidential aspirants. “The President Buhari we know and who Nigerians know further and better is highly law-abiding and always wishes to act according to the provisions of the extant laws of the country. He is not known to be going zigzag or undercutting corners in any matter. Rather, he is highly straightforward and upright in his private or official conduct.” “Section 91 (9) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) states that ‘an individual or other entity shall not donate more than N1million to any candidate’, whereas, President Buhari is yet a candidate but an aspirant. He was, however, offered presidential nomination form and not any cash worth over N1 million.” The organisation also criticised advocates of restructuring, urging Nigerians not to listen politicians who had the opportunity to improve the fortunes of the country but squandered it instead. “The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) has noted equally the much touted “restructuring mantra” by those that had all the opportunities to put the country in good economic, socio-political pedestal but were rather concerned with what to amass for themselves and what their 5th generation (yet unborn) would not be able to consume. “President Buhari is already restructuring by halting unnecessary stealing of the nation’s patrimony, preparing to re-issue oil blocks to indigent and capable developers, especially to people from the region suffering from environmental degradation. The President is irked by the wide gap between the rich and the poor and he is determined to narrow that gap at all cost”, Ibrahim argued. It also took a swipe at the opposition PDP, saying that where the major opposition party failed, President Buhari has been tested and trusted in the last three years “as demonstrated by the wide acceptance Nigeria enjoys in the international communities, which can be seen by the recent visit of two world leader, Prime Ministers Theresa May of Britain and Angela Merkel of Germany”. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 