YOLA – Things are no longer at ease with Adamawa State Governor, Mohammed  Jibrilla as stakeholders of the ruling party in the state, All Progressives Congress (APC) including commissioners have abandoned him in support and preference for the candidature of the Aisha Buhari, the first lady’s brother, Dr. Mahmood Halilu Ahmed and Mallam Nuhu Ribadu. The move against Bindow started soon after the state wing of the party was suspended and given warning not to go close to any APC office during and after the conduct of the party primaries. Eminent stakeholders behind moves by president Muhammadu Buhari’s in-law, Dr. Ahmed also known as Modi to supplant Governor Bindow, have also shifted attention to Mallam Nuhu Ribadu who is been sponsored by Admiral Murtala Nyako, since the suspension of the APC exco. According to sources, the stakeholders are bent in ensuring the abandoned governor is roundly defeated come September 29, 2018, at the party primaries. Sources added that the stakeholders have been busy working round the clock to come up with winning strategies part of which is to influence delegates from their respective local governments to vote their preferred aspirant, Modi, on Saturday. The stakeholders who formed the steering committee of Modi’s campaign organization include; the immediate former Secretary to the government of the federation, Eng B D Lawal, Alhaji Sadiq Mohammed (Walin Ganye), Senator Abubakar Girei, Eng Markus Gundiri, Sen Bello Tukur and Prince Medan Fwa. Others are Hon. Titi Malik, Ahmed Isa Waziri, Alh Abdullahi Abubakar, Hon. Jerry Kumdisi, Hon. Usman Ibrahim among others. The stakeholders were drawn from the 21 Local Government Areas of the state as a way of ensuring that each local government is adequately represented just as they are also mandated to influence delegates to vote for Modi on Saturday. The APC ticket is keenly contested by the incumbent governor Bindow, Buhari’s in-law, Modi and former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mallam Nuhu Ribadu. The build-up to the party primaries has been marked by intense internal political bickering between contending interests on which mode of the primary best represents the larger interest of the party with Bindow’s camp rooting for indirect primaries while Modi and Ribadu’s camps settled for the direct primaries. The contentious issue was resolved by the NWC of the party Tuesday in favour of governor Bindow although it balanced the act by barring 17 exco of the party who endorsed Bindow during his declaration from participating in the process for their open bias against opponents of the governor. Speaking on the development, Barr Jerry Kumdisi said with the turn of events, Modi might win the APC primaries by defeating Governor Mohammed Jibrilla because the biased APC exco that adopted him have been suspended. He said that there is an agreement between Nuhu Ribadu camp and Modi to chase out Governor Bindow who they alleged has failed to develop Adamawa State. Kumdisi revealed that if Dr. Mahmood Halilu Ahmed becomes the Governor Adamawa State will witness an unprecedented development in the areas of human and capital development. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 