Calabar – The appeal by the Cross River State Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, asking the general public to be patient over the sudden emergence of potholes on some roads in and around Calabar metropolis has been rejected by the opposition All Progressive Congress (APC) in the state. Reacting to an earlier statement from the governor signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Christian Ita, the state publicity secretary of the APC, Bassey Ita, said the appeal was misplaced, unfounded and unacceptable. Ayade’s statement read thus: “The Cross River State Government wishes to appeal to the general public to be patient over the sudden emergence of potholes on some roads in and around Calabar metropolis. “The government is not unmindful of the inconveniences this is causing motorists, and as such has consequently mobilized resources both human and material in readiness to commence urgent rehabilitation and patching of every single pothole in the city before Christmas in line with his Excellency, Senator Professor Ben Ayade’s zero tolerance for potholes. “Accordingly, government is by this notice, already taking inventory of existing potholes, just as it enjoins members of the public to bring to its attention where similar potholes may be found.” In a swift reaction, the opposition APC in the state said, “The appeal was misplaced, unfounded and unacceptable.” According to the APC, “Rather than make such injurious appeal, the government should take the blame for the several casualties recorded so far on the state roads as a result of poor governance”. The state publicity secretary of the APC in his statement maintained that “Senator Ben Ayade ought to be apologetic and lamenting the several deaths and other forms of casualties his poor governance of the state has caused road users by virtue of the poor condition of roads in the state”. The APC also faulted the government’s statement, which claimed that “potholes suddenly emerged” in parts of the state. His words: “The government’s claim that potholes suddenly emerged on our roads is the height of provocation and insult on the sensibilities of Cross Riverians, who have a vivid account of the deplorable condition of roads in the state and when there emerged”. According to the APC spokesman,”Ayade should apologize to our people and lament the losses not only of property but also of lives otherwise, his appeal remains unfounded and, therefore, unacceptable to the mass of Cross River people”. The statement also advised Cross Riverians to “be wary of this government of empty promises and queried why the appeal was necessary if the government was living up to its media hype of the ‘Ayade is working’ fame”. The APC statement also wondered “why an unfriendly Ayade government will be making such a purported friendly appeal to the masses if it is not to curry their support and vote for the 2019 elections”. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 