The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has announced the commencement of the Micro Pension Scheme in the country by November 2018. Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, Acting Director-General, PenCom said this during her keynote address at the just concluded National Conference on Insurance and Pension organised by the National Association of Insurance & Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO) in Lagos. According to her; a draft guideline and framework on the plan have been released to the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and input received and incorporated into the final copy of the document. Speaking to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, Dahir-Umar said: “It is pertinent to inform you that the Commission has released the draft Guidelines and framework on the Micro Pension Plan to the Licensed Pension Operators and the various stakeholders. Feedback from the stakeholders and operators have been received, considered and incorporated. The final guidelines for the Micro Pension Plan (MPP) will be released as soon as they are approved.” She said the Commission was developing the required ICT infrastructure to drive the process and this is critical to the success of implementing the Micro Pension Plan. It is envisaged that before the year ends, the plan will commence. In her reaction, Mrs Ronke Adedeji, Chairperson, Association of Pension Funds Operators of Nigeria (PenOp) recommended flexibility of contribution amounts, access to contributions/savings, incentives for participants, financial/pension education, as key public attraction to the scheme. She added coverage of a high proportion of the population, and availability of infrastructure that is supportive of mass registration including flexibility in collection of contribution, and database management, easy and straightforward access to benefits among others as major ingredient of the new policy. Adedeji described micro pension scheme as an imperative with urgency, according to her, by its nature, it is a scheme with increasing longevity which potential patronisers are mainly large and relatively young population with enough potential to reduce poverty and raise standard of living, a scheme with changing culture/diminishing family support, as well as a scheme, which potential customers are characterized by growing size and mainly from informal sector market with high potential to transform the economy. According to her, micro pension was an arrangement for the provision of pension and retirement benefits to the low income, self-employed and persons operating in the informal sector, adding that it protects the low income members of the society against the vagaries of old-age poverty. “The formulation of such schemes requires a delicate balance between economic viability, generation of adequate returns and customized features for the participants,” she stated. According to her, for the scheme to succeed, there was need to properly address administrative, design and efficiency issues. On strategies to encourage engagement in micro-pension plans, Adedeji, said there was need for awareness creation, need for provision of incentives to participants as well as need to encourage contribution of small frequent amounts. She also suggested that contribution rates should be flexible with convenient door to door collection of contributions encouraged as well as insulation of the participants against volatility in investment growth. She further said operators of the scheme should leverage on technology to facilitate easy contribution/payments. Section 2(3) of the Pension Reform Act 2014, paved the way for micro pension scheme, stipulating that employees of organisations’ with less than three employees as well as self-employed are entitled to participate under the scheme in accordance with guidelines issued by PenCom. This group, she said, covers the informal sector, which plays an indispensable role in Nigeria and world economies. Micro Pension Plan – Design Considerations Adedeji did not stop at that as she pondered that to encourage contributions to the Micro Pension Plan by the target audience the Flexibility of contribution amounts, Access to contributions/savings, Incentives for participants, Financial/Pension education, Coverage of a high proportion of the population should be encouraged, while availability of infrastructure that is supportive of mass registration, contribution collection and database management flexibility, easy and straightforward access to benefits should be well structured. Chronicling what may appear to be major impediments in the implementation of the micro pension; Mrs Ronke Adedeji, Chairperson, Association of Pension Funds Administrators (PenOp) noted that Culture, Lack of Knowledge or Education (Financial), Inexperience with formal financial institutions; low incomes may hamper the smooth execution of the initiative. Other challenges, according to her, could include mobilisation of savings and granting of loans/liquidity, matching sporadic deposits with flexible withdrawals in addition to the investment, inflation and longevity risks to be mitigated. She added that collection of contributions and payment of benefits, communication with clients, complexity of administration, Premature withdrawals, risk of low benefit payout, high transaction costs associated with frequent/small inflows and outflows, voluntary scheme means low priority and absence of saving culture would work against the smooth running of the scheme. To address the challenges, she outlined key strategies to encourage engagement in micro-pension plans to include creation of awareness, provision of incentives to participants, encouraging the contribution of small frequent amounts, flexible contribution rates, convenient door-to-door collection of contributions, insulation of the participants against volatility in investment growth, leveraging technology to facilitate easy contribution/payments Allowing opt outs during periods when participants are not able to contribute, ensure inexpensive portability, financial education, compulsory participation, centralised administration to lower administrative costs, professional management of funds seamlessly and straightforward access to benefits. “Permit me to state that there was no pension industry prior to the 2004 pension reform in Nigeria. Pension schemes operated in both the public and private sector before the 2004 reforms, were burdened with a lot of problems. Principal among them was that the schemes were unregulated,” she said. Others were that they suffered from poor administrative structures; the public sector scheme was unfunded, causing it to become unsustainable, with an estimated N2trn deficit. In the private sector, with the exception of the National Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) the schemes were as many as there were companies. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 