Tony Ezimakor, Innocent Oweh Abuja – Nigeria Consolidation Ambassadors Network (NCAN) marched to the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Wednesday where they purchased the nomination and expression of interest forms for President Muhammadu Buhari at the cost of N45 million to aid his re-election bid. With the purchase of the forms coming barely 24 hours after the APC made public the timetable for the primaries and cost of nomination forms, President Muhammadu Buhari is, thus, the first presidential aspirant in the party to obtain the forms. Presenting a cheque for the sum to APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the National Coordinator of the group, Sunusi Musa, said the group came together to raise the sum through their “meagre resources”, noting that Buhari was not a multi-millionaire but had millions of supporters nationwide. “Mr. Chairman, it is my singular honour and rare privilege to present to you a cheque of N45, 000,000 as payment for the expression of interest and nomination forms for President Muhammadu Buhari.” Musa said the group had, in the last one year, been in the forefront of the agitation for Buhari to seek re-election to consolidate on the firm foundation he was laying for a better Nigeria, pointing out that Nigeria was now an investors’ destination of choice courtesy of the economic policy of the APC government. “We have no doubt that Mr. President has both in action and word been working to lay a foundation for greater and prosperous nation that our generation and future generation will be proud of. “Under his administration, Nigeria has become a country sought after for investments in the world; Nigeria has assumed its leadership role in not just Africa but the world. “Today, Mr. Chairman, Nigeria‘s moribund infrastructure is being revived. There is no state in Nigeria that does not have several Federal Government infrastructural projects either completed or being executed, under President Buhari. “We have a stable and steadily growing economy that is departing from oil dependence: agriculture is now an attractive venture as farmers are becoming multi-millionaires. Nigeria is now an exporter of agricultural products as opposed to what it was three years ago. “Mr. Chairman, for the first time since the return of democracy, Nigerians have a president who can beat his chest and state that he has never stolen from the purse of government. “We have a president who is not having meetings at night to strike shady personal deals but rather is ensuring that every agreement entered into by Nigeria is in the interest of the country and for its generations unborn. This has, indeed, boosted the confidence of investors, hence the increase in the flow of direct foreign investment into the country. “Looted funds are being recovered and ploughed back to developing our country’s deficit infrastructure. “Mr. Chairman, almost a million farmers under the Anchor Borrowers Programme are benefiting from low interest loans that they accessed without ‘chua chua’. “500 000 previously unemployed graduates now employed under the N-Power scheme; 400,000 extremely poor families are receiving N5,000 monthly and that is changing their lives. Over 8 million children are being fed daily in our public schools across the country. “Today, and for the first time in our history, we have a government that is honest and sincere in investing in the poor, the masses and the underprivileged.” Musa insisted that not supporting the re-election bid of Buhari would be akin to destroying the future of unborn Nigerians. “We cannot afford to destroy the future of our children. The foundation laid by President Muhammadu Buhari must be reinforced. “It is for this reason, Mr. Chairman, we have decided to “pull our meagre resources together and purchase the expression of interest and nomination forms for President Buhari as he presents himself to our party members to be chosen as its candidate for the 2019 general election. “Our members from the various villages, local government areas and states have contributed to making this happen.” In his response, Comrade Oshiomhole said the party gave a concession to the group owing to the importance of the aspirant, adding that no such ceremony would be entertained henceforth. Meanwhile, Igbo businessman, Ben Mudibe, donated N5 million towards the purchase of the expression of interest form for President Buhari. Mudibe, who was at the APC secretariat on a separate mission, said he was making the commitment because of the achievement of the Buhari administration. Buhari Not Hungry For Power Like Atiku
– Presidency Meanwhile, the verbal confrontation between the presidency and Atiku Abubakar, former vice president, continued on Wednesday. Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari, launched another counter-attack against Atiku when he described him as hungry for power. He was reacting to Atiku’s reported claim that Buhari may not leave power without a fight even if voted out of office. According to Adesina, being a committed democrat, Buhari would gladly leave the stage. On Atiku’s views that Buhari was uncompromising in his fight against corruption, Adesina said President Buhari would stop at nothing to fight corruption and looting of the nation’s resources. He said: “Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar was quoted by a foreign news medium as accusing President Muhammadu Buhari of being ‘very uncompromising, also power drunk; (and) who will not be ready to leave power without a fight’. “Rather than use the name of President Buhari to buoy his bid to get the presidential ticket of a party, whose flag has been flying at half-mast since it got roundly trounced at the polls in 2015, the former vice president needs be told that the president is truly uncompromising, but only when it comes to looting the common patrimony of Nigerians, and squandering their riches. “President Buhari is uncompromising in the quest to restore probity and accountability to public office. “He is uncompromising in cleaning the rot Nigeria was consigned into pre-2015, thus the war against corruption is being fought without fear or favour. “The president is equally resolute in the determination to ensure that Nigeria is no longer a mono-economy, depending only on oil. “Yes, President Buhari is single-minded in effecting change in every area of Nigerian life. So, Alhaji Abubakar is right, if that was what he meant by the president being ‘uncompromising’.” Reacting to Atiku’s claim that Buhari was power drunk, he said: “No! And being a man ‘who will not be ready to leave power without a fight?’ Never! Not President Buhari, who has demonstrated in many ways that he is a committed democrat, though also a retired military general. He has no apologies about that. “Through a sterling military career, he served Nigeria with his heart and might before venturing into partisan politics. “In many ways, President Buhari has wielded power with decency, and as a means of serving the people, rather than for personal ends. “If there’s one person not intoxicated by power, it is President Buhari, and scores of millions of Nigerians know this. “That is why they will invest him with power again next year, knowing that he won’t misuse or misapply what has been entrusted to him. “Former VP Abubakar may want to borrow a leaf from the decorous language employed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in answering his recent press statement on the restructuring debate. “That is the hallmark of statesmen, and not crying wolf where none exists, which is what the allegation of being uncompromising and power drunk truly is. “The President is actuated by service to country, and nothing else. So, there couldn’t be anything like ‘not ready to leave power without a fight’. “Indeed, the insinuation of a fight is the mindset of a man who is either undemocratic or has seen defeat staring him, and his party, in the face. “Let the former Vice President rest assured that there will be no ‘fight’ over power in Nigeria. Not under President Buhari’s watch. “The people don’t want a fight. It is some political leaders we must beseech to eschew pugnacity, and mind their language.” Only recently Vice President Yemi Osinbajo took on the former vice president over the issue of restructuring. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 