Like one million miles as if we will not get to the focal point of the history of Nigeria Football Federation, NFF, election, at last the recent election in Katsina has proven to be one of the best ever conducted in recent times, with all the candidates beaten hands down by the incumbent, President Amaju Pinnick, to return as the NFF president for the second consecutive time in a row for another four year tenure. This is the first time an incumbent President of the NFF would be re-elected in a row since 1945 when the football federation was established. The truth is that President Amaju Pinnick has created a niche for himself after bringing in his business acumen to bear in discharging his functions in running Nigeria’s football. This is very evident in the sponsorship drive and marketing strategy for the Nigerian professional football league (NPFL) ,which had almost made the football federation a self-reliant parastatal without depending much on the federal government for funding. Pinnick’s influence in the politics of international football since assumption of office is somewhat to be admired, having become the Vice President of Confederation of African Football and so many other influential designations. This was a strong indication that, against all odds, he was going to be winning the election in Katsina with a landslide victory that left his opponents in that category in astonishment. The election was, indeed, held under a peaceful, free and fair atmosphere which eventually produced a credible candidate who would run the affairs of Nigerian football for the next four years.  The fact that Pinnick won the NFF  election in the northern part of Nigeria is also a testimony that the results of the election were not manipulated in any circumstance, given the ovation that greeted the victory of the former Delta State Football Association Chairman. In these coming years of Pinnick, Nigerians hope to see more revolutionary trend in the administration of the NFF with this resounding victory for him and his board members. This is also thanking the delegates who were in Katsina to vote right, so that Nigeria will continue to enjoy peace and tranquility in the country’s football. Same thing goes to the organisers of the election for conducting a credible election that was embraced by all and sundry. After the memorable victory in Katsina, incumbent president, Pinnick made a remarkable speech when he said, “No victor, no vanquish”, embracing every candidate who took part in that election; also promised to work with them in this dispensation to make Nigerian football the pride of every Nigerian. In this regard it is my wish that every one of them should close ranks with the NFF president to achieve the desired result for the country. It is in the public domain that next month, Nigerian football teams will be highly engaged in competitions around Africa nay the world both in the CAF and FIFA tournaments respectively. The internal football league is another source of worry and concern, especially in areas of bad officiating, stadium security, bribery and corruption of officials over home teams, hence, it has become dominant that 98% of home matches never favour visiting teams. Even though it’s evident that the visiting teams have better edge to winning such matches, the officiating have always marred the victory of such visiting teams. Until such a time where visiting teams will have equal opportunities to winning matches, Nigeria has not arrived at the peak of world league best standards. Having said this, I want to congratulate the Itsekiri born NFF President, Amaju Melvin Pinnick, for this triumphant return to govern Nigerian football from the Abuja Glass house once again! Good morning. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 