Osogbo – Three suspected chieftains of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have been arrested by men of Osun State Police Command for allegedly engaging in buying permanent voters’ card from their owners for the rerun governorship election scheduled for Thursday, September 27, 2018. Fimihan Adeoye, Osun State Commissioner of Police, confirmed the arrest of the politicians in a statement made available to newsmen in Osogbo. The suspects are Alhaji Fatai Diekola ‘m’ aged 60 years, Sikiru Lawal ‘m’ aged 54 years and Adekilekun Segun ‘m’ aged 54years. The statement said that consequent upon the deployment of Police operatives from the Intelligence unit of Force Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (FCIID), the IGP Monitoring Unit as well as the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Force and Osun Police Command to gather intelligence, arrest and prosecute any person involve in electoral offences and other crime that is contrary to the electoral act 2011 as amended, Police Operatives on 24th September, 2018, arrested three (3) suspects for buying permanent voter’s card (PVC) and causing disturbance of public peace at Adewale Street, Alekuwodo area, Osogbo. The three suspects were arrested at Adewale Street, Alekuwodo area, Osogbo at one of the polling units where a re-run election is scheduled to take place on Thursday 27th September, 2018. The statement said the suspects were soliciting to buy additional PVCs from one Olawale Kazeem of No. 4B, Adewale Street, Alekuwodo area, Osogbo and Azeez Sulaiman of No. 3A, Akinlade Street, Alekuwodo. It was gathered that when the duo declined to sell their PVCs, they were allegedly attacked by the supporters of the suspects. However, timely intervention of the police operatives led to the arrest of the three suspects after they were attacked and wounded by the mob. However,the wounded were taken to the Police Hospital for medical treatment and currently assisting the Police in investigation into the crime and the recovery of the PVCs alleged to have been bought from other people in Osun State. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 