Former US Secretary of State John Kerry has described his complex relationship with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during his tenure under president Barack Obama, in his upcoming memoir “Every Day Is Extra.” In excerpts of the book obtained by Jewish Insider, Kerry says it was Netanyahu’s stated “willingness to make tough compromises” to make peace with Palestinians — even risking his own coalition — that helped him persuade a “skeptical” President Obama that it was worth resuming the peace process. “I met with Bibi at the King David Hotel,” Kerry said, using Netanyahu’s nickname. “He looked me dead in the eye and said, ‘John, I’m willing to give this effort a try, but there are two things you should know: first, everyone in this region lies all the time and you Americans have a hard time understanding that; second, the most I can do may be less than the least Abbas could ever accept.’” “Bibi’s attitude was ‘I’m open to solving this problem if I can have all my needs met.’ That included his political needs with his coalition… Bibi was fond of saying, ‘Take all my excuses away.’” Kerry also recalls conversations with then-opposition leader Tzipi Livni, who stressed it was “imperative for Israel to reach long lasting peace” with the Palestinians. Kerry said Netanyahu, at the last minute, rejected a regional security plan drafted by US Gen. John Allen that would have required a gradual withdrawal of Israeli troops from the West Bank. The plan called for US troops to guard the border of a future Palestinian state, with Israeli troops ready to resume security control of the West Bank “in full force within hours.” But on the morning of the meeting between Kerry, Allen and the Israeli leader, Netanyahu rejected the plan, insisting that Israel needed to maintain a long-term military presence in the West Bank. “It was now clear to all of us that Bibi was not interested in actually addressing the security questions in a way that could allow for the eventual withdrawal of the IDF,” Kerry recalled. “I concluded that this wasn’t about security.” The former top diplomat also said the Obama administration considered releasing Jonathan Pollard in a bid to salvage the peace process. He said Obama didn’t believe Netanyahu would ever allow the creation of a Palestinian state, but was willing to consider making the gesture towards Israel. Kerry said that it was ultimately Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s decision to join several international organizations in violation of the agreement that torpedoed the US peace efforts, giving Netanyahu “ammunition” to blame the Palestinians for the failed process. Kerry also referred to the Obama administration’s decision in 2016 not to veto a UN Security Council resolution that stated that Israel’s settlement activity was in violation of international law. “We all understood the political firestorm we would face if we didn’t veto the resolution… There were some who argued for sucking it up because it wasn’t worth the political price,” Kerry writes. “President Obama wasn’t willing to make a decision that he thought was counter to US interests simply because of the politics.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 