Lagos – Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos on Wednesday expressed his readiness to participate in Saturday’s primary election where members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) across the state are expected to choose the party’s governorship flagbearer through direct primaries. In a statement issued by Kehinde Bamigbetan, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, the governor said he is restating his readiness in line with the choice of the party in Lagos State and the validation given to the direct primaries preference by the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC). “As our great party approaches Saturday, September 29th, 2018, earmarked for the direct primary election to choose the candidate to fly our party’s gubernatorial flag at the next general election, I am happy to restate my commitment to participate in that process having procured and submitted my nomination form and having formally declared my intention to seek a second term to continue on the path of unprecedented growth and development that our state has witnessed since 2015”. The governor expressed profound gratitude to the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; party elders and executives; GAC members; all APC members and every Lagosian “whose support, understanding and prayers have assisted me in no small measure in being used as an instrument through which our state has redefined the concept of greatness”. The statement added that the governor in seeking re-election is approaching the founding fathers and teeming members of the party with a “grateful heart, open arms and a pledge to open and deeper attention to the concerns of this one, big family”. It added that a return of the party’s ticket to Governor Ambode will guarantee the stability of the state’s growing economy; ensure the continuation of the growth and development it has witnessed over time and ensure that the opposition does not take root in the state. The statement congratulates the governor’s co-contestants for the courage and commitment to the party and urges party faithful to come out en masse and vote peacefully in all the 20 local government areas and 245 wards where the election will take place. Ambode will be slugging it out with two other contestants, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Managing Director, Lagos State Development and Property Corporation (LSDPC), and Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, a former Commissioner for Works, now aide to Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Power, Works and Housing. The governor, it would be recalled is having a running battle with leaders in the Mandate Movement, the most influential political group in the state. Leaders in the group as well as the 57 council chairmen in the state have thrown their weight behind Sanwo-Olu’s candidature. Speaking with Daily Independent on Wednesday, chairman of APC in the state, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, said the governor is welcomed with open hands to participate in the primaries. “You are just giving me the news now. I have not confirmed that. Of course, he is welcome if he wants to participate. Three people are contesting the governorship primaries and I don’t think we should make any issue out of that”, he said. Also speaking, Chief Olisa Agbakoba, a former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), said the governor is entitled to participate because direct primary election ensures a level playing field without influence from political godfathers. “There is no reason why he should not participate as direct primaries should now form the basis of elections to create level playing field and do away with godfather politics”. On his part, Yinka Odumakin, National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, said Governor Ambode deserves commendation for his courage in participating in the primaries despite the fact that the odds are against him. “It is his right to participate. I have read the guidelines for the election, there is nothing in the guidelines that disqualified him from contesting. I salute his courage. The odds are against him but he should try his luck”, Odumakin said. However, speaking with our correspondent, an associate of the governor said his decision to participate in the primaries may have been informed by the statement credited to Asiwaju Tinubu who has said he is not supporting any candidate but will ensure a level playing field for the three governorship aspirants. “It is an erroneous impression that all the leaders in the Mandate Movement and the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) are against the governor. He also has his own people who are happy with his achievements and are silently mobilizing for him ahead of Saturday’s primaries. I don’t think he will lose as being speculated. “I don’t think the governor will participate in the primaries if Asiwaju Tinubu, his political benefactor, had come out to say, I am not backing you, I am for another aspirant. The Ambode I know will never want any direct confrontation with his political benefactor but since Asiwaju Tinubu said he is not backing anyone, I think that gave him the confidence to throw his hat in the ring for the primaries. “I think his confidence lies in the fact that it is the party members who will decide who becomes the governor and not some selected few. He knows he has touched the lives of Lagosians especially party members through his people-oriented projects especially in the areas of improved security, healthcare delivery, effective transportation system, infrastructural developments and other areas”. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 