Senator Gbenga Ashafa represents Lagos East Senatorial District in the National Assembly on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) where he is currently the Chairman, Senate Committee on Land Transport. He spoke with select journalists on his aspiration to return to the Senate for a third term, achievements and political developments in Lagos APC. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: Why are you interested in seeking another term in the Senate? I made a commitment to my constituents then and indeed in 2015 when on the strength of their votes, I returned to the National Assembly to continue the assignment. My commitment to the good people of Lagos East senatorial district has remained that I would continue to provide qualitative representation to every single constituent of our district. This entails that I ensure that everything that accrues to our senatorial district and indeed our state from the centre is attracted and delivered to our people. This also entails that I carry myself in a way and manner befitting of the legacy of brilliance, good character, good conscience and personal leadership that have become characteristic of the Senators from our district since the inception of the 4th republic in 1999. You would agree with me that our district currently stands tall on the legislative precedents that have been laid down by the succession of Senators that have represented us since 1999. My distinguished predecessors, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, my immediate past predecessor and brother whom I fondly refer to as my teacher, the most Distinguished Senator Olorunimbe Mamora and my humble self. It is a legacy of excellence which the Eastern District of Lagos has worked hard to maintain and improve upon. Nothing short of excellence is expected and nothing short of excellence is deserved by the resilient, industrious and hardworking people of Lagos East. It is a privilege to stand on this legacy. Can you briefly list some of your achievements in the Senate for the people of Lagos East? In the past 7 years, through their support, I have been able to deliver 96 verifiable and functional projects, 26 Bills, and 12 Motions of local and National importance. Together,  we have been able to deliver poverty alleviation programmes that have benefitted over 50, 000 of our constituents directly and through them even more. Together,  we have constructed and rehabilitated schools across our Senatorial District, we have provided ambulances for some hospitals and embarked on various free healthcare initiatives for our people. Together, we have instituted a back to school programmes that annually benefits our children in public schools across all the Local Government Areas and Local Council Development Areas of the greater Lagos East. Together, we have made haste calmly to deliver potable water projects as well as rural electrification projects to improve the living conditions of our people in the township and suburbs as well. Our dear state has never missed an opportunity for international funding and support because, together with my colleagues, we have ensured that the Lagos State Government secures the approval of the Nigerian Senate for every such intervention. The Lagos State Development Policy Operation from the World Bank in the sum of 200 Million Dollars is an example. In my capacity as the chairman of the Senate Committee on Land Transport, I have solidly stood in support of the rail revitalisation work of this administration ably led by President Muhamadu Buhari GCFR. We have ensured that funding for all the critical rail projects are appropriated and oversighted as at when due. We have ensured that the benefits of these projects accrue to Lagosians as well in the area of job creation and infrastructure development that are associated with the ongoing Lagos to Kano Standard Gauge Rail Modernisation Project as well as the upcoming Calabar to Lagos Coastal Rail Project which would be of direct impact on Lagos East Senatorial District. How are you preparing for the senatorial primaries in Lagos East Senatorial District? Our campaign is on top gear and my constituents have showered me with love and support. I am quite glad that my leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has created a level playing field for everyone within the party by adopting the direct primaries method. As such I have been engaging with my constituents and running a campaign that is largely hinged on my achievements over the years. There is no doubt that the people would elect me for another term. There are reports lately that claimed that your re-election ambition is experiencing some hitches. How true is that? That is not true and it is another clandestine tactics from the camp of one of the contestants who is known to us. It is a signal of their fear and their unfortunate attempt to avoid free and fair contest at the primaries as prescribed by the APC. At this juncture, it is crystal clear that our opponent is jittery and intimidated by my popularity and has resorted to the dissemination of propaganda, fake news and the unwarranted use of force. We wish to reassure our teeming supporters and party faithful that I am in a very good spirit and positive of victory at the upcoming polls. I urge my supporters to remain resolute and confident while going about their activities peacefully and within the bounds of the law. No amount of fake news and propaganda can stop this movement. We are in this to win. We are in this for the people of Lagos East, we are in this together. What are the contentious issues that resulted in the challenges you seem to be experiencing at the moment? As I said, there are no challenges except the rigours of running an effective campaign. Otherwise, I’m in high spirit. As a ranking senator, one would have expected that the representation you have offered so far would have foreclosed the current intrigues over your ambition? With what I have seen reaching out to my constituents across the five major Local Government Area ,LGAs, I am confident that they will be putting me forward to represent them. No one wants to change a winning team. I have been loyal to the party, delivered 96 projects to my constituents, pushed 26 bills and led 12 motions. I am a reliable hand in the Senate, highly dependable and firm believer in the agenda of the APC. It was even alleged that your appearance at the declaration of Governor Ambode was one of the issues that some APC chieftains hold against you. How true is that? Let me assure everyone that such allegation to the effect that there are issues between any party chieftain and I over my appearance at the governor’s declaration is baseless and false. We have to remember that I am the Senator representing the Senatorial District where Ambode hails from. Hence, when the sitting governor extended an invitation to me to attend his declaration, I believe that protocol and courtesy demanded that I attend such an occasion. In actual fact, the larger picture is that as a Senator in Lagos State, it would not be out of place to attend the declaration of any member of my party. The upcoming primaries is a family affair and in line with the direction of our party and our National leader, all aspirants are going to face the polls and would only be elected based on a popular appeal to the members of the party across the state. There is no big deal about my presence at Governor Ambode’s declaration. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 