Faced with the reality of the increasing number of ‘heavyweight’ presidential aspirants of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), outgoing Ekiti state governor, Ayodele Fayose, the first to have indicated interest for the office, has dropped his ambition. Fayose had declared interest in the number one position in the country, vowing to defeat President Muhammadu Buhari in a free and fair election early in the year, in spite of warnings that the party zoned the position to the North. According to the governor then, “I am inviting you today, distinguished leaders of our party, to inform you formally that I will be seeking the ticket of our great party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to contest the 2019 presidential election,” he had said on September 28, 2017. “My party leaders, standing before you is Peter (The Rock) Ayodele Fayose, the man already destined by God to take Nigeria out of the present political and economic stagnation.” But speaking with TheCable, Fayose said he has decided to put his ambition aside and face the petition filed by Kolapo Olusola, his deputy and gubernatorial candidate of the PDP, in the last governorship election. Fayose said on Saturday that he was discontinuing his 2019 presidential ambition because the All Progressives Congress (APC) rigged the last governorship election in the state. He dropped the hint when he received the duo of former governor Rabiu Kwankwaso and former minister, Kabir Turaki Taminu, (both presidential aspirants) who came to lobby him and delegates in the state PDP. He said he had to drop the ambition as mark of sympathy and concern for his deputy, Prof. Kolapo Olusola-Eleka who lost in the last gubernatorial election in the state. ” I dropped the presidential ambition because of the stolen mandate freely given to my deputy. ” As a good leader, I cannot abandon my loyal deputy whose mandate was stolen by the APC and be pursuing another ambition “My posters are there in a room. I am committed to the recovery of the mandate for now more than anything else”, he said. It would be recalled that before now, Fayose had not only opened campaign offices but also came out with retinue of branded vehicles with which to campaign for the presidential slot. The two visiting presidential aspirants boasted that PDP would regain power in 2019, and urged the Ekiti delegates to consider their candidature so as to make the dream become a reality. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 