Hon. Victor David Enweruzo, former Lagos House of Assembly candidate, is the Coordinator, Lagos Atikulated Agenda 2019, a mainstream organisation canvassing for the presidency of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. Dr. Enweruzo spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the organisation’s vision and why Nigerians should give Atiku the chance to rule. Excerpt: We understand that you contested an electoral position in 200i in Lagos. Could you tell us about it? In 2007, I contested for the Ojo Constituency 1 seat of the Lagos State House of Assembly under the Fresh Democratic Party of Rev. Chris Okotie. Leaders are born not made. I believe that one may make an impact where he is born or resides. Having seen how things were then, I had to vie for the seat. The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) gave me support. However, I lost. But, I was happy. Election is not a do-or-die. I was happy for the massive support I got from indigenes and non-indigenes. In 2015, I wanted to make a return. But, I was engaged outside the country. Would you explain the vision of the Atikulated Agenda 2019 of which you are the Lagos Coordinator? First, the country is in a mess. It has gone 30 years backwards. Having travelled far and wide, I am concerned that Nigeria, which is so blessed, is poor, especially in the north. You see poverty written on the face of the people of this country. We thought that the current administration would have delivered us. But, Nigerians are disappointed the way Nigeria gas gone backwards. I told President Muhammadu Buhari when we met that he should not work with sycophants. I believed that as an ex-military Head of State, he would have known the right people to work with. But, we have never seen what we now see in the country today. We have never had it so bad as a nation. Thus, people of like-minds like Chief Dr. Emeka Kalu, took the bull by the horn to convince ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who worked with former President Olusegun Obasanjo, to come and rescue the nation. Atiku has lucrative businesses and could pretend that nothing bothered him. But, he thought over it and agreed. This gave birth to the Atikulated Agenda. This is Chief Emeka Kalu’s vision. But, people of like-minds bought into it to get fellow Nigerians into it. There is a lot of poverty, sicknesses, death on daily basis. That is why we decided that Atiku should be given a chance by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders to do what he promised Nigerians, which is restructuring. Anyone who will restructure this country will get Nigerians’ votes. The other day, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, former governor of Abia State, was talking of Igbo Presidency. Without restructuring, anyone who takes up the leadership of this country will mess up. We need restructuring, which Atiku has promised Nigerians. That is why we support Atiku. He has defined his vision and purpose. I hold him by his words. He will rule for one term and kick start the restructuring of the federation within the first six months of his administration. What former President Goodluck Jonathan started, Atiku will finish. We need to go back to regions. That is the only way forward. What is the relationship of your organsation with the Atiku Campaign Organisation? People have not been hearing about the Atikulated Agenda 2019. Since the organisation started, we have been putting our house in order. The Atikulated Agenda is in association with other bodies that think seriously about Nigeria, any other body, including Atiku Campaign headed by Otunba Gbenga Daniel. We are working together. Atiku will be in Lagos on September 3. He will be in Ogun on September 4. We and the Atiku Campaign Organisation are working together. By the grace of God, we will win. How realistic and viable is the Atiku Abubakar Presidency, as the PDP has several aspirants? Atiku Presidency is viable. Everything has time and purpose. He has the political will, strength and what it will takes to challenge the APC and Buhari and win. The only way to defeat APC and Buhari is for the PDP to be wise to give Atiku its ticket. Nigerians need Atiku to change the change. PDP lost in 2015 and conceded defeat because ex-President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan said he did not want the blood of any Nigerian to flow because of his election. So, before the result was announced, he called Buhari and congratulated him. That you lost does not mean that you will not return and put things in order. PDP has learnt its lesson. As the Lagos State Coordinator of Atikulated Agenda, we are making sure that Atiku will win. We know the road will be tough. We are urging people to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). I am sure we will smile. Do you think Atiku Abubakar will be an acceptable flag bearer of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) which PDP is a member? Those other parties are small fishes. In the fish world, big fishes swallow small ones. But, in this case, the big and small fishes will come together to rescue Nigeria. They will come together to look for a man that will restore Nigeria. That man is Atiku. Would you say the PDP as it is today can defeat APC if President Muhammadu Buhari flies the ruling party’s flag in 2019? Whether it is His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, or any other person, Nigerians are disappointed with the APC administration. What we are seeing is not what we expected. Nigerians have been impoverished so much and are tired. They are yearning for Atiku to come and rescue them. Nigerians do not want APC Presidency any longer. We are disappointed. Many Nigerians do not seem to like the idea of clerics being in politics. How do you feel being in politics as a cleric and Bishop of Abundance Pentecostal Mission? People make mistake about politics. Everybody is a politician. From your home, you are already in politics. People want the pastors to man the pulpit. The church is part of society. We buy in the same market. We are all citizens. It is important that Pastors, Imams, Alfas to get into politics. If the righteous is in power, people will smile. We need people with the fear of God to rule the nation. The people we have in power soiled their hands. They perform all kinds of sacrifice. Everything is not just prayer. We need to come together to rescue the nation. People are suffering. People that go to church and mosques find it difficult to eat. We are encouraging everyone to get their PVCs and be eligible to contest all positions. That is why it is now necessary for preachers in churches and mosques to exhort Nigerians to get their PVCs. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 