LAGOS – Akintunde Oyebode, the Executive Secretary of Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), on Tuesday, said that no fewer than 15,000 jobs have been created by the Fund in the last two years. Oyebode, who spoke to the media and some Masters research students in his office, said at least 8,000 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and businesses have also accessed approximately N6 billion since inception of the ETF. The ETF is an initiative of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode administration through which N25 billion was earmarked to be disbursed over a period of four years to provide entrepreneurs, artisans, traders and others with capital to boost their businesses thereby reducing unemployment and increasing wealth among the people. According to Oyebode, since its commencement in 2016, the ETF had continued to grow the economy and create jobs through provision of credit facilities with minimal interest. He said the Fund was targeted towards creating 300,000 direct and 600,000 indirect jobs within three years, by supporting at least 100,000 MSMEs, while it also sought to add over 200,000 new tax payers to the Lagos State’s tax net by 2019. “The ETF is primarily targeted at MSMEs and I can tell you that in the last two years, we have been able to fund about 8,000 businesses with over N6billion. Our target is to ensure that we increase that number to at least 15,000 before the end of the year,” he said. Oyebode said the impact of the fund was already been felt as it had gone a long way to create at least 15,000 direct jobs for skilled persons and thousands of other indirect jobs for unskilled persons, saying that the target to create 300,000 direct and 600,000 indirect jobs was well on course. “The underlining factor is that people with genuine businesses are keying into the fund. We believe that when we empower one business owner with fund, he or she would require more hands and that translates to one or two persons off the labour market. “At the end of the day, as their businesses are growing and expanding, the economy of the State is also recording appreciable growth,” he said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 