Start-ups play critical roles in the development of economies by creating jobs and wealth. They also provide young people with the opportunity to showcase their ingenuity and creativity. However, the harsh economic situation has hampered the ability of start-ups to perform optimally in the country with many of them folding up before they fulfill their potential. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, IKECHI NZEAKO and ANDREW UTULU take a look at the contributions of start-ups to the Nigerian economy, especially in the area of job creation and the challenges that they face. Excerpts: The Nigerian business environment is littered with start-ups that are struggling to survive the harsh economic situation in the country. Most of them are owned by young people who thought that failing to secure a job means they could start up a company, be self-employed and even provide employment for others. However, the dreams of many of them have been shattered because of the harsh and difficult economic situation and because of the many policy summersaults and uncertainty in the land. These entities are young and new and are just beginning to develop and are usually small and initially financed and operated by a handful of founders or one individual. In 2015, a magazine estimated that nine out of ten startups will fail and in 2016; a newspaper said it was 95 per cent. Though there is paucity of data on the failure rate among African startups, the one available estimate given by Stanbic IBTC claimed that over 80 per cent of Nigerian startups fail within their first five years. Given startups have a greater chance of failing than succeeding. Most founders of failed startups in more advanced economies tend to share their experience so other would-be entrepreneurs can learn from their mistakes. This is not the case in Nigeria where many of them are silent the failures. According to Tunde Abayomi, a Lagos-based start-up owner, start-ups play critical and important roles in any economy, especially in a developing economy like Nigeria. He said by establishing the business entity, entrepreneurs invest their own resources and attract capital (in the form of debt, equity.) from investors, lenders and the public, adding that this mobilises public wealth and allows people to benefit from the success of entrepreneurs and growing businesses. The capital that results in wealth creation and distribution is one of the basic imperatives and goals of economic development. He added that entrepreneurs are by nature and definition job creators, as opposed to job seekers, saying that the simple translation is that when you become an entrepreneur, there is one less job seeker in the economy, and then you provide employment for multiple other job seekers. This kind of job creation by new and existing businesses is again one of the basic goals of economic development. This is why government has launched initiatives to promote and support new start-ups. He asserted that activities of start-up attract foreign companies to invest in Nigeria and also increase foreign direct investment into the economy. All this, he argued, in turn creates a lot of job opportunities, and increases living standards. For Adetayo Ojo, entrepreneurs who set up new businesses help with regional development by locating in less developed and backward areas, adding that the growth of industries and business in these areas leads to infrastructure improvements like better roads and rail links, airports, better electricity supply and water supply, schools, hospitals, shopping malls and other public and private services that would not otherwise be available. Creators of jobs He posited that every new business that locates in a less developed area would create both direct and indirect jobs, helping lift regional economies in many different ways. According to him, the combined spending by all the new employees of the new businesses and the supporting jobs in other businesses adds to the local and regional economic output. Both federal and state governments promote this kind of regional development by providing registered MSME businesses various benefits and concessions. According to the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the country has over 37 million micro, small and medium enterprises, adding that they make resources like land, labour and capital to develop products and services available to the national income, national product and per capita income of the country. Increase in the standard of living of people in a community is yet another key goal of economic development. Entrepreneurs again play a key role in increasing the standard of living in a community. They do this not just by creating jobs, but also by developing and adopting innovations that lead to improvements in the quality of life of their employees, customers, and other stakeholders in the community. For example, automation that reduces production costs and enables faster production will make a business unit more productive, while also providing its customers with the same goods at lower prices. Any growing business will eventually want to get started with exports to expand their business to foreign markets. This is an important ingredient of economic development since it provides access to bigger markets, and leads to currency inflows and access to the latest cutting-edge technologies and processes being used in more developed foreign markets. Another key benefit is that this expansion that leads to more stable business revenue during economic downturns in the local economy. So, there is a very important role for entrepreneurs to spark economic development by starting new businesses, creating jobs, and contributing to improvement in various key goals such as GDP, exports, standard of living, skills development and community development. Unlike in the advanced Western countries where angel investors and venture capitalists provide funding for start-ups, startups in Nigeria tend to fail before they make it to their seed funding stage because of funding challenges, most have to get by self-funding, or bootstrapping as it’s called. And even when the investors in Africa are willing, their terms or conditions can be onerous for a young company trying to find its feet, say entrepreneurs. For some Nigerian founders coming to terms with the fact their startup has failed is heart wrenching, and this is made worse by the unwritten silent exit rule. One reason is to avoid being the subject of industry gossip. The irony is that by refusing to tell their failure stories themselves, information seekers would have no choice than to listen to those fabricating stories about the failed startup and its founder. There may be a perfectly understandable reason for the closure but this would have no meaning if the person with the truth refuses to talk publicly. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 