Lagos – MTN Nigeria, one of the nation’s telecommunication firms, on Monday asked a   Lagos Federal High Court to restrain the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) from taking further action on the $10.1 billion financial infractions against the company. The apex bank had alleged improper dividend repatriations by MTN Nigeria and requested that $8.1 billion be returned to CBN, while the AGF alleged unpaid taxes on foreign payments and imports and that approximately $2.0 billion in relation to these taxes be paid to the Federal Government of Nigeria. MTN Nigeria has denied these allegations and claims. MTN continues to categorically and unequivocally deny all charges related to the CBN and AGF investigations into the company’s certificates of capital importation (CCIs) and unpaid taxes, respectively. Besides, four commercial banks were fined in respect of the administration of the CCI and irregular dividend repatriation and requested to return, in aggregate, the same $8.1 billion. The CBN had imposed heavy sanctions totalling N5.87 billion on four banks under its regulatory purview and ordered MTN and its lenders to return $8.134 billion it alleged MTN sent abroad in breach of foreign exchange regulations. The four banks that were wielded the big sticks by the apex bank for the violation are Standard Chartered Bank, Stanbic-IBTC, Citibank, and Diamond Bank. Figures obtained from the CBN indicated that the highest fine of N2,470,604,767.13 was slammed on Standard Chartered Bank, while Stanbic IBTC Nigeria was fined the sum of N1,885,852,847.45. For its punishment, Citibank Nigeria was penalised in the sum of N1,265,541,562.31, just as Diamond Bank was directed to pay the sum of N250 million. The CBN last week took a stern step by deducting the sum of N5.87 billion fines from the four banks that allegedly aided and abetted MTN Nigeria in the remittance of foreign exchange with irregular certificates of capital importation (CCIs). But, in a statement by the company on Monday, MTN said it took the judiciary option in order to protect MTN Nigeria’s assets and shareholder rights within the confines of the law. Commenting on the developments, MTN Nigeria Corporate Relations Executive, Tobe Okigbo, said, “We have applied today (Monday) in the Federal High Court of Nigeria for injunctive relief restraining the CBN and the AGF from taking further action in respect of their orders, while we continue to engage with the relevant authorities on these matters. “The allegations being made involve issues that appear to be complex and so are easily misunderstood and misinterpreted. They are made even more confusing when the relevant authorities send conflicting messages and instructions and act in a way that appears un-coordinated and at cross purposes. “The simple reality is that MTN Nigeria has never repatriated dividends on the CCIs referenced by the CBN and that MTN is fully compliant with Nigerian tax law. “With situations like this, it is vital for both the government, regulators and the company to have absolute clarity on the nature of both the allegations being made and the processes that are being followed. In the absence of this clarity, our only option is to seek judicial intervention and to ask the courts to act as adjudicator. This has been done today.” The company added that it remains fully committed to Nigeria and remains resolute that the company has not committed any offences and will continue to defend its position vigorously. “The company will continue engaging with the relevant authorities, and further information will be provided as and when available”, the statement added. Analysts, who spoke to Daily Independent, said though the government should not condone the company’s serial infractions, flayed the timing and level of penalty, which they said would be disruptive to the company’s operations, the telecoms industry, markets and the economy in general. Bismarck Rewane, Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives Company (FDC), in a presentation at the September Lagos Business School (LBS) Breakfast session, said the $8.1 billion the CBN is asking the company to refund amounts to approximately 80 percent of the total market capitalisation of MTN Group, the parent company of MTN Nigeria. He said the level of the penalty and timing could disrupt the company, industry, economy and the markets, noting that portfolio investors are particularly jittery since the imposition of the penalty and have started dumping stocks. “The penalty almost killed the MTN Ghana IPO; only 35 percent successful,” he said, pointing out that the actions of both agents of government could amount to cannibalisation of an industry dominant player. Rewane added that MTN is the only company in Nigeria that can and will invest upwards of $1.5 billion on telco capex annually in the next five years. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 