Agege Community comprising of Agege Local Government and Orile Agege Local Council Development Area on Friday endorsed the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa; and his colleague in the House representing Agege Constituency 2, Oluyinka Ogundimu for another term in office. To back up their endorsement, the community also purchased the nomination forms for state Assembly election for the two lawmakers who are members of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The move was spearheaded by the Chairman of Agege Local Government, Alhaji Ganiyu Kola Egunjobi. Ogundimu had gone to the APC secretariat at Acme Road to collect nomination forms for the speaker and himself only to be informed that the forms had been collected on their behalf by the community. An APC chieftain in Agege, Chief Safari Adaranijo stated that the community decided to collect the forms for the lawmakers in appreciation of their immense contributions to the development of Agege. “The development is unprecedented in the history of the community. Roads, bridges, employment for youths and empowerment programmes for women. They have performed well. So we are doing this not only to show appreciation but also to give them the chance to serve us more and bring more development,” Chief Adaranijo said. His views were corroborated by the Alaige of Orile Agege, His Royal Majesty Ambaliu Agbedeyi who stated that the two lawmakers are worthy ambassadors of Agege community. “We are happy with their performance and we will support them for another term. We are sending them back to bring more development and growth to Agege community. They are worthy ambassadors,” he said. The member representing Agege Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Taofeek Abiodun Adaranijo also poured encomiums on both the speaker and Ogundimu. “The two of them have represented the community well. We can only show appreciation by endorsing them for another term. We have shown our intention by purchasing their nomination forms and I know they will not rest on their oars,” the Rep member said. Accepting the forms on behalf of the Speaker and himself, Ogundimu expressed appreciation to the community for the honour. “This is a great honour, the first in the history of this community and I am assuring you on behalf of Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, that this is a call for more service. We will not relent and we will not rest on our oars. We remain committed to the development and growth of Agege community,” Hon Ogundimu, who is the Chairman of the House Committee on Finance, said. The forms were presented to Hon Ogundimu by stakeholders in the community led by Chief Safari Adaranijo. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 