Now, the crisis rocking the Nigeria Football Federation has been laid to rest and the incumbent president of the Abuja Glasshouse has gone back to his position with his board members; therefore, it is expected that all hands must be on deck to move Nigeria’s football forward as expected. The remaining period of Amaju Pinnick as the helmsman of the football federation is so short that some sparkles during this period could endear him to the minds of his critics, who have said he is always a lone ranger and too proud to be approached when he is taking decisions or formulating policies. It is no longer news that Coach Salisu Yusuf of the Super Eagles has been caught in the web of bribery to feature a player of choice in a match for commercial projection by a Ghanaian undercover journalist, Anas Ayeneyaw Anas, who made a public show of Coach Salisu’s transactions and admittance of collecting the sum of $750 dollars to effect the said deal, which indeed was successful. Since the exposé, the Nigerian coach has been away in a London hospital for medication. It is true that Coach Salisu owned up collecting the said sum, but argued that the money he collected was a graft! Although, while the bribery scandal raged across the world via the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC Africa Service) the crisis between Pinnick and Chris Giwa was at its peak; hence, little or no attention was directed to the subject and having learnt too that the affected coach was outside Nigeria for medication. Two things are very obvious here; the NFF crisis and the execution of Female Football Tournament by the Falconets in France. The FIFA event and the Glasshouse leadership tussle gave the Coach Salisu show of shame a temporary shield. Now that the FIFA Women World Cup is over and the crisis settled as dictated by FIFA, I just think Pinnick and sports minister, Solomon Dalung will do the needful to bringing Coach Salisu to justice. If this bribery scandal is again swept under the carpet like the case of the ineligible player fielded in Algeria in the last qualifying match for the Super Eagles en route Russia 2018, then, there’s more to it exceeding corruption in the NFF and the sports ministry where Dalung holds sway. In these two instances, the ineligible player in Algiers and the Coach involved in the $750 dollars graft are all from one ethnic link of the country; which means if the perpetrators of the former have not been brought to book, perhaps due to the players lineage in spite of all the vows made by the NFF to get to the root cause after setting up a four-man investigating committee on the matter, yet nothing has pragmatically come out as a report of their investigation, then, it is obvious that corruption, religious bigotry, tribalism and nepotism thrives in the Glasshouse and the ministry of sports. The issue of Coach Salisu bribery taking is an obvious act of corruption and nepotism, which is not good for the progress and development of the game. The question of bribe taking anywhere in public or private institutions is against the ethics of moral conduct. Government of nations frowns against it and come to think of FIFA, who governs the game of football worldwide, does not harbour such culprits if caught, investigated and found guilty. The very much reason the Ghanaian CAF vice president was recently suspended and even from being the Chairman of the GFA by the Ghanaian President for corruption as revealed in an expose by the same controversial journalist, Anas Ayeneyaw Anas! So if this NFF and the sports ministry can condone the case of Algiers and that of Morocco as it effect both Salisu and Abdulahi respectively, then it means corruption stinks, tribalism reigns, nepotism thrives in Nigeria’s football. But if the authorities concerned in this regard are able to live up to the expectation of the game’s standards given these issues by doing justice to all areas where corruption breeds, then, we can as well chant “Uhuru” if President Amaju Pinnick is re-elected! Good morning! Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 