Owerri / Abakaliki – Over 1000 members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) moved round the Imo State metropolis, Owerri, on Wednesday, to inform people that the Friday, September 14 sit-at-home order it had declared in the South-East would still be observed despite threats by security agencies. The group advised residents to respect the strike directive for their own safety, noting that any shop seen open on the day would be attacked and destroyed. The members, who showed off their Biafra flags, walked on foot along Tetlow Road, Mbaise Road, Wethedral Road and Douglas Road, among other major roads in the metropolis. This was against the resolution on Monday by state Commissioner of Police, Dasuki Galadanchi, in conjunction with heads of other security agencies, civil society groups, managers of financial institutions, and other stakeholders in which he explained that there would be no sit-at-home action in the state. Speaking on behalf of IPOB, its Spokesman who gave his name as Levi Mbata, stated that the 2018 strike would be more strictly adhered to than those observed in previous years. “There won’t be movement of vehicles, no shop or office would be opened, and no market will operate in Owerri till it is 4p.m on that day,” Mbata said. He also stated that the day was set aside for the strike for reflection by the Igbo people in agitation for the Republic of Biafra. But the police, alongside other agencies, had resolved that the citizens carry on with their usual businesses on that day, adding that they had the capacity to protect them. Andrew Enwerem, Police Public Relations Officer, had advised members of the public to go about their lawful businesses and to not fall prey to the propaganda and directives of individuals or group of persons whose activities remained largely proscribed. Police, Army, Navy, Civil Defence In Show Of Force Over IPOB A combined detachment of the police, army, navy and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps on Wednesday drove round the major streets of Umuahia in a show-of-force, ahead of the September 14 sit-at-home order issued by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). The long motorcade which took off from Umuahia Central Police Station (CPS), drove through Garki to Ossah Road-Michael Okpara Square to Abia Tower (Expressway) and back to CPS through Bank Road-Afara-Umuahia (Nnamdi Kanu’s village) and Aba Road. Addressing journalists at the end of the exercise, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Anthony Ogbizi, said that the security agencies would invoke the Anti-terrorism Law to deal with any attempt by IPOB to cause a breach of public peace in the state before, during and after September 14. Ogbizi said that the show-of-force was to demonstrate the collective resolve by the different security agencies to contain any attempt by the group to put the anti-terrorism law to test. “Our coming together is a signal of our resolve to confront any event that may rear its ugly head before, during and after September 14. “IPOB has been proscribed by the Federal Government and there are many laws in place. The group should not dare the law because we shall apply the rule of engagement in dealing with it,” he said. Similarly, the Police Command in Enugu State has urged residents of the state to disregard the sit-at-home threat by IPOB and other trouble-makers. The state’s Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Danmallam, made the call on Wednesday in Enugu during a meeting with members of the Enugu State Traditional Rulers’ Council led by Igwe Lawrence Agubuzu. Danmallam disclosed that the command was already working in partnership with sister security agencies and other relevant stakeholders to ensure that the existing peace and security was not compromised. “Members of the public are advised to disregard such threat or order issued by faceless individuals. “There is no need for members of the public to entertain fear as the security operatives are readily on ground and at alert. “This is with a view to fishing out those that will engage themselves in the unlawful act of disrupting the peace and security in the state.” In their reactions, some of the traditional rulers that spoke promised that they would continue to partner with the command toward ensuring that peace and security were sustained in the state. Again, Maj.-Gen. Emmanuel Kabuk, the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Enugu, has warned trouble makers to steer clear of the entire South-East. Kabuk gave the warning on Wednesday in Enugu while addressing a joint security team patrol within Enugu township and environs. The joint security team comprises personnel of the Nigerian Army; Nigerian Air Force; Nigeria Police; Department of State Services (DSS) and Police Mobile Squadron 3. Others are: Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC); Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC); Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS); Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and the Anti-Cultism Unit of the Police Command in Enugu State. The GOC noted that the security agencies were uniting their strength together to secure and defend law abiding citizens from misguided individuals and groups in the society. “We are observing this training together to further improve our efficiency and proficiency in the internal security duties as well as understand each other better in the line of duty. “With this exercise, we are clearly sounding a note of warning for trouble-makers to steer clear of the entire South-East and other places of 82 Division areas of responsibility.” The joint security patrol came against the backdrop of the September 14 sit-at-home order in the South-East by IPOB. Ebonyi CP Warns IPOB Musa Kimo, the Ebonyi State Commissioner of Police, has warned members of IPOB against using the sit-at-home it ordered to harass and intimidate law-abiding citizens of the state. Kimo, who made this known to journalists on Wednesday during a briefing in Abakaliki, said responsible law-abiding citizens should go about their lawful businesses, assuring them of their security. The police commissioner, who assumed office a couple of days ago, debunked insinuations making the round that he was working for any political party, adding that he was apolitical. “Officers that will work with me have been directed to ensure that they operate in line with international best practices. By this, we are going to be responsible, responsive, reliable and one that you can always trust. “We will always work with your cooperation and with you the good people of the salt state, Ebonyi State. We intend to achieve that feat by reducing crime and criminality to its barest minimum. “Strategies we are going to employ include community policing, inter-agency co-operation, that is, synergy with other security services, visibility policing, massive deployment, intelligence gathering, stop and search and raid on identified criminal hideout. “Let me cease this opportunity to warn unscrupulous elements, hoodlums and people who do not choose to be law-abiding, people that have penchant for inflicting excruciating pains on law-abiding citizens to have rethink because the police in conjunction with other security agencies will not fold their arms. “Information is reaching us that the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) have concluded plans to harass, intimidate and molest law-abiding citizens. “I want to assure all responsible and law-abiding citizens and other people who are here to do their legitimate businesses, that they have nothing to fear as measures are in place to guarantee everybody’s safety. I also want to appeal to you parents and guardians to warn your wards to desist.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 