Abuja – Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar on Friday wept over the sorry state of the nation, saying quality leadership has eluded the country for too long. Atiku, who spoke when his supporters presented him the presidential expression of interest and nomination forms, charged his supporters to bring Abuja to a standstill, overwhelm the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) national secretariat so that the party would have no alternative than to give him the ticket. He said: “It is almost three decades of my political career this year. But today has also turned out to be one of the most emotional days in those three decades of my political career. “I have tried to present myself as a candidate for the office of the President in a number of elections. The only time I succeeded of being on the ballot was in 2007. “In 2007, I was on the ballot not because I believe I was going to win but because I wanted to prove a constitutional issue so that all Nigerians can avail themselves with the constitutional protection and I succeeded at the Supreme Court. And that is why today no Nigerian can be stopped from contesting an election unless he has been convicted by a court of law. “The event today is significant, is historic because this is the only time in my political career that young men and women in this country have come together without my knowledge or even consent contribute their own hard earned money to buy me a nomination form and expression of interest form. “You could have seen one of the people who spoke, the lady who spoke, virtually succeeded in getting me to weep. This is because she aptly described the challenges every Nigerian is facing in this country today and she believed honestly and sincerely from the bottom of her heart that I could be an instrument of addressing those challenges. “And believe me, addressing those challenges are possible because we have brought young men and women Nigerians, who have got the talents, who have got the education, who have got the experience, who have got all what it takes to honestly turn this country around.” Lamenting the negative impact inconsistency in leadership had in this country, Atiku said, “putting together such talented young Nigerians requires leadership and it is that leadership we have not been fortunate enough to have on a consistent basis so that this country can take its rightful position in Africa and indeed the world.” Appreciating his supporters for presenting him the presidential forms, Atiku prayed that their endeavour will yield good result that will translate into success in 2019. He said: “Let me once again extend to you my greatest appreciation for this gesture you have done to me and I believe as you purchased the form so you will also run round to make sure that I am duly nominated from different areas of this country so that when I go to submit the forms I will again enjoy your company and support. “And on that day let us overwhelm the PDP secretariat, let us bring Abuja to a standstill, I bet you by the time we overwhelm the secretariat and bring Abuja to a standstill, the PDP will have no alternative than to give us the ticket.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 