Hon. Madina Sanusi, a former bank executive, is an aspirant for Mushin Federal Constituency 1 in Lagos under the Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU and OYENIRAN APATA, on her ambition and other crucial issues in the polity. Excerpt: What influenced your decision to enter into partisan politics? I have watched other politicians and the way they do things. Although I appreciate what a lot of them are doing, I still feel that there is something missing, which we are not getting in politics. Politics is about service. We should be able to account for what we do. Politics should be about accountability. I believe that anybody holding an elective or executive position should be able to come back and tell his or her people what they are doing. Such people should be monitored to know if they are doing what they should be doing. I don’t believe in making a lot of promises. For instance, I know a lot of things happening in my constituency. I am a fighter. I have the zeal. Why did you choose ANRP of all the political parties? I looked at ANRP’s ideology. I looked at what it stands for. ANRP’s thinking and mine correlate. We have lot things in abundance. Just few people are enjoying them, The resources are not being shared. What people need are just basic things of life. You do not have to build mansions for them. But, we need to give people housing, education, shelter and other amenities. I have searched my environment, even my constituency, children are neglected. I have not seen a place dedicated for children’s entertainment. Where they exist, it is only for the elite, which is not supposed to be so. Human beings are created equal. You said your party’s ideology and manifesto are in line with your ideas. What are those things in ANRP’s manifesto that make you to embrace the party? ANRP does not condone corruption. We don’t believe in godfathers. So, there is none. I have been invited to other political parties that want to sponsor me. But, I want to be accountable. If tomorrow I am voted into office, if I have somebody somewhere who sponsored me, I will not serve my people well as I must be answerable to that person. I want to be able to give account of my actions and be held responsible for it. The party believes in the ability of the youths to lead. As a young woman, I want to sell myself to the people. If they believe in me, as a woman who has been doing things in my little way, they will vote for me. That is one of the things about my party. It believes in youths. It believes that youths should participate in politics as the future of this country is in the hands of youths. It is not that there are not corrupt youths. But, it is the foundation that the elders laid that made some youths to believe that everything is about money and bribery. What is your agenda for the people of your constituency? I will lay emphasis in youth and children development. I want to ensure that children are well taken care of. I will ensure that there are quality health facilities, education, good environment. I have gone to other places. In abroad you don’t know the difference between the rich and the poor when it comes to schooling. But, here, you see classrooms that have no doors. My dream is schools that are fine schools, well barricaded and with nice play grounds. If I have my way, I want to create an environment that will be conducive for children, even in their schools environment. Children should have places to play and interact with each other. Among the less privileged, a lot of people have talents. Such talents are just waiting to be tapped. If we don’t tap them, the wrong people will tap them. The drug addicts and armed robbers will tap them. Children are wonderful. It is what we give to them that they will produce. Children look up to us and we have to be good examples. Focusing more on children is my priority. In terms of infrastructure, what would you do in your constituency if you are elected? If I am elected, since children are my priority, I will help to provide infrastructure for the children. As a kiddies event planner, most times we want to do programes for children, we don’t have anything on ground in the environment. Sometimes we have to beg or pay for school comp.ounds. We have to pay for even the so-called parks. We have to rent things for the children to play with. If elected, I want to help establish parks, create environment that are conducive to children where they can come during the weekends. During holidays, it is not everybody that can travel abroad. One can enjoy so many things within one’s community. Children, during the summer holidays and after lessons, can have a place to play, to interact and do a lot of things. Those are some of the things I plan to do. We must give everybody a sense of belonging. What of the area of social infrastructure, including security and roads network, among others? All these will get my attention. So many roads are bad in my constituency. It is only inside places like Ilupeju that we have some roads that are okay. When you go to Onipan, Fadeyi, Olateju, Mushin, honestly the roads are eyesore. Good roads are not supposed to be campaign issue. We ought to have good roads to enable people move about. In Ilupeju, we have several things in place. People can come into Illupeju to access our facilities. We can build more parks. Already, we have parks which they not using. I have discussed with the stakeholders to give us these parks. Let us do something to improve on what exist now. What have you already done in your constituency that people will look at and vote for you? So far, we have been organising events for children. We charge very low price to encourage people. For now, we have constant supply of electrify. I am one of those who ensured that. I access the PHCN officials if we have anything wrong with our transformer. We even have a whatsapp group for it. If there is anything wrong with our light any here, within two hours, people will inform us. Indians are many in my area. So, when anything goes wrong, they always want to know what is happening and they ask questions, which I respond to answer them, as a leader. In terms of power supply, I am very much on ground for the service of the people. Don’t feel intimidated by other people aspirants in your constituency who are in other parties? No way! We are all there to showcase ourselves. It is a game of chance. It is not a do-or-die battle. I am in politics to serve, not because I want power. Do you think that Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is doing well? Averagely, he is doing well. As I always tell people, in as much that I am in ANRP, politics is not just about party. It is about individuals. If you feel the governor of Lagos State is doing well, then vote for him. If you feel your House of Representatives member is not doing well, you vote him out. In terms of social amenities, although I am not benefitting directly, I think he is trying. But, from what I see him doing in terms of housing, the structures are for the elite, and not for the poor. He seems to be elitist, neglecting the poor. Nigerians masses do not need much, but what will make them happy. Within our environment we have not enjoyed much in terms of government infrastructure. I have not seen anything that has changed. The street roads have not changed, but I can see what he is doing in the highways. Hon. Madina Sanusi, a former bank executive, is an aspirant for Mushin Federal Constituency 1 in Lagos under the Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU and OYENIRAN APATA, on her ambition and other crucial issues in the polity. Excerpt: Sanusi Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 