Are you into golf and are looking to hone your skills? You might soon be able to do that as the Ikoyi Club 1938 is planning to launch a golf academy of its own soon. The aim, for the Nigerian Cup organizers, is to promote young talent to take up the sport. It’s going to be a great news for many sports betting fans, who look forward to Betway sports betting to try out new games to play and bet on. All That You Need to Know About the Golf Academy The Nigeria Cup will be held at the Ikoyi Club 1938. The week-long competition will begin on September 22.  The theme for this year has been dubbed “Who Fits the Cap”. The Chairman of the organizing committee Johnson Babatunde announced that this year’s event will host over 500 golfers from different golf clubs. This will be the 21st edition of the Nigeria cup. The golfers will be showcasing their golfing prowess as they try and win different titles.   It will start off with kid golfers. The caddies and the ladies will have their day on September 22 and 23rd respectively. Veterans, sponsors and pros will contest for the winning prize which is N2 million on September 26. A special independent kitty will be held on this day. On September 29, Amateur players will be on the course. This will be the highlight of the whole event. The winner of the Nigeria cup will get walk away with N5 million. This money will be offered to anyone who plays a hole in one. The prize money will be in courtesy of Plascon who is one of the sponsors. The closing event will take place at Mason centre in Lagos the following day. They chose this venue because of its historical significance to the area. According to Babatunde, the theme of this year’s Nigeria Cup is set in accordance with the culture of the local. It will be celebrating Nigeria’s national heritage. How is it Going to Help Set up the Golf Academy? Moreover, the proceeds from the event will be used to set up a golf academy. The golf academy will be used to nurture young talent in the game. There are a lot of young talented people who need the proper guidance to perfect their skills. This move of creating a golf academy will be a great one as it will enable it to be placed on the map of sports. However, golfers need a lot of support from the Federal government, the state and local government. The gold academy is aiming to tap to the grassroots. The young people are the future of the game. If there is no academy then it means there is no future golf. It will only be for retired people and young caddies. Some of the sponsors of the Nigeria Cup will be MD Western, Upton and NDPR. Babatunde is appealing for more sponsors who can help reach this goal. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 