The National Pension Commission (PenCom) recently announced November 2018 for the commencement of the implementation of the long-awaited Micro Pension Scheme. In this report OYENIRAN APATA, CHRIS EBONG and OLUSEGUN KOIKI examine the benefits of the new scheme and its challenges. November 2018 will mark another phase of pension reform in Nigeria as the National Pension Commission (PenCom) prepares grounds for the implementation of the Micro Pension Scheme which will enable the informal sector operators participate in the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). The scheme is targeted at the informal sector operators who constitutes over 50 million working adults and un-pensionable Nigerian population who by virtue of their professions, trades and endeavours do neither belong to the current CPS arrangement provided by the Pension Reform Act 2014 as amended nor have a veritable platform to save for their retirement. Nigeria has an adult population of 96.4 million (50.8% Male and 49.2% Female) with 63.9% residing in the rural areas. 56.2million adults (58.3% of the adult population) are under 35years while 21.8million adults (22.6% of the adult population) have no formal education. 18.4million adults (19.1% of the total adult population) have farming as their main source of income, 18.9million adults (19.6% of the total adult population get their income from own business (non-farming), largely informal sector, according to Efina 2016 survey. Unlike the current practice where only those in paid employments in both public and private sectors are eligible to subscribe, Micro Pension Scheme (MPS) initiative seeks to incorporate this segment of the economy, which includes independently working professionals, tradesmen, celebrities, businessmen and women as well as traders into the new pension administration. There is a provision for private organisations with less than three employees based on guidelines issued by the National Pension Commission (PenCom). Under the Act, both employer and employee are required to make a minimum of 10 per cent and 8 per cent respectively of the employees’ monthly emoluments. The definition of ‘monthly emoluments’ means the total emolument defined in the employees’ contract of employment provided it is not less than the total of the employee’s basic salary, housing and transport allowances. Under Micro Pension, the informal sector plays significance role as it generates jobs, amplifies entrepreneurial undertaking, reduces unemployment and underemployment, alleviates poverty and promotes economic growth. Informal sector is the major driver of Micro Pensions. Attributes of Informal Sector Workers Experts outline that some of the attributes of the informal workers that isolate them from formal pension arrangements and thereby creating a need for separate well-thought out design are: Continuous job changes; Likely opts for self-employment; Non-inclusion on Payrolls in most cases; Temporary nature of employment contracts; May be illiterate or semi-illiterate and unfamiliar with the workings of pensions; Limited experience in dealing with formal financial institutions. Section 2(3) of the Pension Reform Act, 2014 (PRA2014) provides that “employees of organisations with less than three employees as well as the self-employed persons shall be entitled to participate in the Contributory Pension Scheme in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Commission.” PenCom’s Micro Pension Draft Guidelines The highlights of the Micro-Pension guideline include the following:  Eligibility to participate under the Micro Pension Plan is conferred on Persons 18 years and above with legitimate source of income that are: Self-employed, including those that belong to a Trade, Profession or Business Association, Employees operating in the informal sector who work with or without a formal written employment contract., Small business owners (including partnerships). A prospective Micro Pension Contributor will be required to open a Retirement Savings Account by completing a registration form with his/her PFA of choice. Micro Pension contributors can make contributions daily, weekly, monthly or as may be convenient to them while contributions under the Micro Pension Fund shall be split into two as follows: 25 per cent for Contingent Withdrawal and 75 per cent for retirement benefits. Emphasis Is On retirement The forms of withdrawal: Contingent Withdrawal and Retirement Benefit Withdrawal, Access to retirement benefits on attainment of age 50 years or on health grounds, retirement benefits will be withdrawn by way of programmed withdrawal or annuity. The Micro Pension contributor can withdraw the total balance of the contingent portion of his/her RSA including all accrued investment income one month after first contribution and thereafter anytime. The timeframe for processing and payment of contingent withdrawals shall not exceed two working days and payment shall only be made to the Micro Pension contributor’s designated bank account. The Micro Pension Active fund will have a unique fund under the Multi Fund Structure. Micro Pension Contributors will be entitled to Guaranteed Minimum Pension on the provisions of Section 84(1) of the PRA 2014 and guideline on Minimum Pension Guarantee. Conversion – An RSA holder who quits or is released from formal employment and has not started drawing pension can participate in the Micro Pension Plan and continue with his/her contributions subject to the Commission’s approval likewise a Micro Pension Contributor who gains formal employment. Investment – The Funds shall be invested in line with the Regulation on Investment of Pension Fund Assets. Over 90 per cent of the population in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia are not covered by any pension arrangement (Keizi, 2006, 2007) due to general unemployment, low incomes, poor saving culture and above all pension arrangements that only favour workers in the formal sector The World Bank estimates that the size of the informal labour market to be 4-6 per cent in the high-income countries and over 50 per cent in the low-income countries. Experts further note that a unique regulatory framework to govern micro-pension arrangements which shall address; registration, investment of funds, risk management, membership, withdrawal of benefits and taxation incentives. While the planning and execution of micro-pensions is a missing link in increasing pension coverage in Nigeria, the coming full implementation will be a major economic booster and will reduce the level of poverty associated with informal sector and old age. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 