LAGOS – The Centre for Anti- Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has welcomed the decision of Kemi Adeosun, the Minister of Finance, to resign from office over lingering allegations that she possesses a forged NYSC discharge certificate. Mr. Ikenna Aghagbobi, CACOL’s Media and Publications Officer, in a statement made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT, quoted Mr. Debo Adeniran, the group’s Executive Chairman, as saying that the action, though belated, was the outcome of a massive pressure mounted on the Federal Government by the media and the civil society. Adeniran recalled that Adeosun’s NYSC discharge certificate forgery saga gained a lot of public attention from July 10th when it was first published by an online newspaper. He stressed: “So far, a lot of petitions, press releases and statements have been issued to address the factors surrounding her NYSC certificate scandal and how it negates all that President Buhari administration stands for. “We also recall writing a petition to the President asking her to resign her position or respond to the allegations leveled against her. “While we welcome her decision to quit office, we are not satisfied as her resignation is a confirmation that she indeed forged the NYSC discharge certificate and tendered it as authentic to enable her occupy various public offices since she returned to the country. This, we view as a criminal act which must attract punishment.” He stressed that another high ranking public official whose case needed to be tackled without further delay was that ofChief Okoi Obono-Obla, President Buhari’s Special Assistant on Prosecutions. Adeniran stated: “Obono-Obla has been indicted by a House of Representatives panel over forgery of the West African School Certificate (WASC). “Officials of West African Examination Council’s (WAEC) who appeared on the floor of the House of Representatives to testify in his case revealed that Obla’s certificate  was a product of fraud. “It is therefore pertinent to state that the allegations levelled against Obono-Obla should be treated with dispatch and resolved on the side of truth and supremacy of the law.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 