Lagos – Ibrahim Magu, acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has stated that politicians defecting from one political party to another would not be shielded from prosecution by the anti-graft agency. “The fact that a politician jumps from one party to another will not stop EFCC investigation; we don’t stop investigation until it is concluded,” he said. Magu made this declaration during a parley with editors in Lagos on Wednesday. He added, “It is only the courts that have the powers to decide on whether to exonerate or convict any indicted politician.” There have been allegations that some politicians had defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to escape being prosecuted by the commission. He also noted that as the electioneering period approaches, some politicians will start reading political motives to the work being done by the commission. He explained, however, that “The EFCC is apolitical and will not knock on your door if you have not violated the law.” He, therefore, called on the media to deny those politicians their platform to shed “crocodile tears.” Speaking on assets recovery, Magu said the EFCC had recovered a total of N106.5 billion, $1.63 million, 629,000 British Pounds and 25,575 Euros this year. “Remarkable as this feat is, we are not resting on our oars. We believe there is still a lot to be done, which is the reason we are actively seeking the support of all stakeholders, including the media,” he added. He also enthused that under his watch, the EFCC was able to secure the conviction of two former governors, each of which bagged a jail term of 14 years. “It has never happened before,” he said. He expressed hope that EFCC in 2018 would surpass the record of 189 convictions achieved in 2017, since already over 158 convictions were secured between January and August this year. The EFCC chairman advised banks to strengthen their internal control and urged the central bank as well to re-appraise regulatory and ethical conduct of banks in order to win the fight against corruption. Magu, therefore, called on the media for support, describing them as “critical stakeholder” in the anti-corruption campaign. “The times we are in call for vigilance, especially by the media as the watchdog of society,” he said. “The media should not lend their platforms to helping the cause of the corrupt that are shedding crocodile tears.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 