MTN’s overriding mission is to be a catalyst for Nigeria’s economic growth and development, helping to unleash Nigeria’s strong developmental potential not only through the provision of world class communications but also through innovative and sustainable Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. But the Africa’s biggest telecoms company has in the past few years faced a number of challenges related to the regulatory framework in Nigeria. In this report, MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR write on the lingering developments confronting the company. MTN Nigeria which is part of the MTN Group, on May 16, 2001, became the first GSM network to make a call following the globally lauded Nigerian GSM auction conducted by the Nigerian Communications Commission earlier in the year. Thereafter the company launched full commercial operations beginning with Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt. The telecoms service provider paid $285 million for one of four GSM licenses in Nigeria in January 2001. To date, a lot has been invested building mobile telecommunications infrastructure in Nigeria. Since it established a base in Nigeria, there have been series of allegations about its mode of operation in the telecoms market. At inception, MTN and Econet stated that Per Second Billing (PSB) was not possible until after several years. The coming of Globacom to the market with per second billing service made Nigerians feel shortchanged and ripped of their hard earned money. The most unbearable aspect of the company’s style of operation is allegations of huge sums of money repatriated to South Africa, its headquarters. In 2016, Nigeria’s upper house of parliament agreed to investigate whether the company unlawfully repatriated $13.92 billion between 2006 and 2016. The accusations of illegal money transfers were denied by MTN Nigeria Chief Executive Ferdi Moolman, who appeared at the hearing. According to Moolman, “MTN categorically denies all suggestions that its bankers in strict violation of the FEMM Act (Foreign Exchange (Monitoring and Miscellaneous Act) and Foreign Exchange Manual, repatriated $13.92 billion illegally out of Nigeria,” said Moolman. The allegation became a setback for Africa’s biggest telecoms firm in its most lucrative but increasingly most problematic market, shortly after it agreed to pay a greatly reduced fine of N330 billion from N1.04 trillion to end a long running dispute over unregistered SIM cards. MTN officials, Nigeria’s trade minister and four lenders were due to appear at the parliamentary hearing. Senate leader Bukola Saraki, through senator, Olusola Adeyeye, said the allegation would not be ignored. “It is not what we can sweep under the carpet. We intend to get to the bottom of the fact, all of the fact, nothing but the fact,” a statement from the Senate President read. Senator Dino Melaye first made the allegations in a motion passed by lawmakers, saying that he raised the issue “as a patriotic Nigerian, a whistleblower and an anti-corruption crusader”, adding that he stood by the allegations. Rafiu Ibrahim, chairman of the Senate investigative panel on alleged illegal repatriation of funds, stated that a team of international and local accountancy experts and lawyers had been assembled to look into the matter. “Investors are nervous with what’s happening with Nigeria purely because the past history has shown us that typically the government tends to move the goal posts,” Independent Securities trader Ryan Woods said. Perhaps to ensure that the allegation was not swept under the carpet, after several months, the issue became more pronounced with more allegations of financial exploitation on the Federal Government of Nigeria. In August 2018, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) imposed heavy sanctions totaling N5.87 billion on four banks under its regulatory purview and asked same to refund the sum of $8,134,312,397.63 for what it described as ‘flagrant violation of extant laws and regulations of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, including the Foreign Exchange (Monitoring and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1995 of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Foreign Exchange Manual, 2006’. The four banks that have come under the sledge hammer of the CBN for the violations are Standard Chartered Bank, StanbicIBTC, Citibank, and Diamond Bank. CBN figures on the transactions indicate that the highest fine of N2,470,604,767.13 was slammed on Standard Chartered Bank, while Stanbic IBTC Nigeria was fined the sum of N1,885,852,847.45. For its punishment, Citibank Nigeria was penalised in the sum of N1,265,541,562.31, just as Diamond Bank was directed to pay the sum of N250 million for violating extant rules. Speaking on the development, CBN’s Director, Corporate Communications, Isaac Okorafor, said that the actions of the Bank became necessary following allegations of remittance of foreign exchange with irregular Certificates of Capital Importation (CCIs) issued on behalf of some offshore investors of MTN Nigeria Communications Limited and subsequent investigations carried out by the apex bank in March 2018. “The CBN has therefore asked the Managements of the banks and MTN Nigeria Communications Limited to immediately refund the sum of $8,134,312,397.63, illegally repatriated by the company to the coffers of the Central Bank of Nigeria,” he said. The CBN Spokesman further disclosed that the decision of the Bank followed thorough investigations by it into the allegations of remittances by the four banks of forex with irregular certificates of Capital Importation (CCIs) issued on behalf of some offshore investors of MTN Nigeria Communications Limited. He said the investigations revealed that the sum of $3,448,119,321.72 was repatriated by Standard Chartered Bank on the basis of the illegally issued CCIs. Similarly, he said the sums of $2,632,005,623.78, $1,766,263,212.75 and $348,914,501.30 were repatriated by Stanbic IBTC Nigeria, Citibank Nigeria and Diamond Bank Plc, respectively during the period 2007 and 2015. Accordingly, he said the CBN had directed the affected banks to immediately refund the respective sums to the CBN. The CBN investigation further revealed that on account of illegal conversion of MTN shareholders’ loan to preference shares (interest free loan) of $399,594,146.00, the sum of $8,134,312,397.63 was illegally repatriated by the company. While MTN was still struggling to deny the allegations, the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) Abubakar Malami, alleged unpaid taxes on foreign payments and imports and that approximately $2.0 billion in relation to these taxes be paid to the Federal Government of Nigeria. In reaction to the allegations, MTN Nigeria in a statement made available to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, denied that it committed any financial infractions. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 