Vice President Yemi Osinbajo recently disagreed with former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, a frontline presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the major opposition party. Osinbajo is of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the ruling party. Since he started consulting PDP stakeholders and in major fora, Atiku has been spreading the gospel of restructuring, an issue which has been on front burner in public discourse in recent time. Major stakeholders and ethnic nationalities have continued to insist on restructuring as a panacea to the myriads of problems facing the country. While political leaders from South East, South West, South South and Middle Belt agree that the Nigerian federation need to be restructured along the line of True Federalism, their counterparts from the core North do not seem to agree. In responding to some of the arguments being presented by Atiku on restructuring, which has become a major 2019 electioneering issue, Osinbajo stated that the former vice president’s comments were ambiguous, unclear and mixed up with good governance and diversification of the economy. Osinbajo, who took on Atiku in a letter he personally authored and sent to Premium Times, said that Atiku was leveraging on the spur of the moment to score cheap political points by introducing the concept of restructuring, stating that he (Atiku) was not fully conversant with the subject matter. Picking holes on Atiku’s position,  Osinbajo insisted he did not believe that geographical restructuring was an answer to Nigeria’s socio economic circumstances, adding that it would only result in greater administrative costs. Osinbajo had at a town hall meeting in Minnesota, the United States of America, said that the problem of Nigeria was not geographical restructuring, but prudent management of national resources and providing for the people properly. He maintained that Nigeria needs good governance, honest management of public resources, deeper Fiscal Federalism, a clear vision for development and not geographical restructuring as postulated by Atiku. Few hours after Osinbajo’s comment, Atiku fired back, describing as unfortunate, the vice president’s claim that his (Atiku’s) position on restructuring was vague, “because he seeks to cover every aspect of human existence in that definition.” Atiku, who spoke through a statement titled ‘Restructuring Is a Necessity, Not an Option’, said he had been at the forefront of the discourse on restructuring Nigeria since the 1995 Abacha Constitutional Conference, stressing that to the best of his knowledge, there has not been any term like ‘geographic restructuring.’ Countering  Osinbajo’s claim, Atiku said he was yet to see “how these clear and specific ideas can be described as ‘vague’. One would have thought that if anything is vague, it would be the idea of ‘geographic restructuring’ whose meaning is hanging in the air.” Atiku noted that Osinbajo, in his letter, jumped from the topic of restructuring to dovetail into the area of the economy. He stated the vice president failed to explain certain facts “such as the fact that the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics reported in December 2017 that Nigeria lost 7.9 million jobs in the 21 month period under review.” He added that if the vice president could not see that losing 7.9 million jobs in 21 months while creating 500,000 jobs is a deficit, “then, I do not know what to say to the honourable professor.” He said that Osinbajo harped on the administration’s prudence in public finance, but failed to show the wisdom in sharing $322 million of Abacha funds to the poor only to take a loan of $328 million from the Chinese the very next month. “Many Nigerians, myself included, see this as imprudence,” Atiku stressed. He also disagreed with Osinbajo that the PDP government, in four years (between 2010 and 2014) earned $381. 9 billion, the highest oil revenues in Nigeria’s history, compared to $121 billion by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari from May 2015 to June 2018. He advised Osinbajo to choose whether he is for restructuring or against it and not stand in the middle on the issue. Atiku concluded: “My response to Vice President Osinbajo is that while I was Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2006, Nigeria’s Economic Management Team, of which I was a prominent member, paid off Nigeria’s entire foreign debt of $30 billion, at a time when we were earning one third of what the Buhari administration is currently earning from oil. So such arguments are puerile at best. “My advice to the Vice President is that he should choose whether he is for restructuring or whether he is against it and stick to his choice. “This continuous prevarication, this approbation and reprobation, helps no one, least of all true progressives who know that Nigeria needs to be restructured and restructured soon.” Restructuring, Antidote To Nigeria’s Numerous Problems – Don Dr. Roland Ehimen Osarogie, a university lecturer, said: “What I discovered from the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s argument on restructuring is that he is doing his master’s bidding by being economical with the truth about restructuring of the country. If not, why should he say anything against restructuring after seeing all the indices that the only solution to the present drift of the country is restructuring? “As a man from the South West of the country, I am waiting to hear what he will tell his Yoruba brothers and sisters about restructuring during the campaign. Atiku Abubakar is so vociferous about restructuring of the country because it is the only antidote to the present numerous problems facing the national, be it political, economy, religion, ethnicity, security, name it. Without restructuring the country, which must be done as quickly as possible, the country may be heading for destruction. “Prof. Oshinbajo may be pretending as if he does not know that the only thing that is keeping the country together now is the hope that the country will soon be restructured as being propagated by Atiku Abubakar. This is what now being referred to as Atiku Abubakar’s theories. If we still believe in One Nigeria, anything short of Atiku Abubakar’s theories will lead to disintegration of the country. Osinbajo is a Professor of Law who witnessed or read how the country was restructured from three regional governments to four regions, to 12 states, to 19 states, to 21 states and now 36 states. “The restructuring Nigerians are clamouring for now is not necessarily creation of more states, but re-identifying Nigeria as a nation with a people who believed in themselves to work together to develop the country for the benefit of the present generation and generation yet unborn without discrimination. The present administration, without doubt, compounded the situation by playing up ethnicity and bad economy policies, which led to the present insecurity in the country. If it is allowed to go beyond May 29, 2019, I am afraid where the country will be thereafter.” Nigerians Should Decide On Restructuring – NCP Chief Chief Declan Ohazurukwe Iwenna, Chairman, National Conscience Party (NCP), Ebimere Ward in Oru West Council Area of Imo State. According to him, Osinbajo and Atiku are great politicians with tremendous political clout in the nation. He said: “They have their different individual political ideologies. What is being referred to as war of words between them is mere expression of their opinions and should be taken as such. “While one is in favour of restructuring, the other is saying the opposite. But, it is the responsibility of the majority of Nigerians to either settle for restructuring or not.” Restructuring Is A Major Campaign Issue – SDP Stalwart Nzeh Ijewure Samson Iheakolam, Social Democratic Party (SDP) chieftain and Second Republic legislator, added: “The war of words between the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar on restructuring is just part of the build-up campaign for 2019. Southeast is asking for restructuring and I can tell you anybody who supporting it will have their votes.  On the other hand, any politician eyeing the Presidency and who is against restructuring will secure the goodwill of the north.” Osinbajo, Atiku Should Watch Their Utterances – Worker Matilda Aina, Minna-based clerical officer, stated, “I would have concluded that the war of words between Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo and Atiku Abubakar on restructuring should be regarded as more of personal and has nothing to with the generality of Nigerians. But, considering the position of the two political gladiators, I decided to have a second thought on what implications of waving the possible consequences of the feud aside. “I read a report where the former Vice President, Atiku, said he decided not to get Lagos State to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) because former Governor Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, was his friend and so, on personal friendship considerations, decided to look the other way. Today, he is gunning for the Presidency of this country in 2019 and now challenging Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on issues that concern every Nigerian. It makes a lot of sense how politicians can make lifetime sacrifices just to keep friendship among themselves or to secure the political space just for themselves alone. Maybe both Osinbajo and Atiku, who are elderly people in Nigeria today, are not aware that they are talking to the conscience of the generality of Nigerians, their children, other relatives inclusive and of course, the electorates who would be filing out to vote next year in particular, hence the need to watch their mouths and utterances. “I see myself as belonging to both the, ‘Not too Young’ and the ‘Not too Old’ to govern this country. But, that does not make me competent to hold any elective position because leadership goes beyond mere wish to occupy Nigeria’s number seat, Senator, Governor and/or other seats, as the case maybe. It is important that both old and new work together for a better Nigeria tomorrow. Both Atiku and Osibanjo are still very strong physically and spiritually to withstand the rigours of Presidency. So, they should stop washing their dirty linens in the open. “However, if you are too old to govern, encourage the young ones to take over while you play advisory roles. If you are young, do not delve into politics if you have nothing to offer because Nigeria is not a guinea pig for experiments.” Nigerians Should Study Both Opinions And Choose – Lecturer Dr. Adejare Durotoye, lecturer, Faculty of Administration, Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Osun State, in his view, said: “It is normal in a political setting that two people cannot hold same opinion because of individual differences. The exchange of words is the political position of the two leaders. “Some argue that restructuring is overdue in the country and it must be done now. Others hold the belief that Nigeria’s problem is not about restructuring, but a weak institution and bad system. Such people believe that once we have strong and distinctive institution that is not corrupt and alive to its responsibilities, Nigeria will not find herself in such mess we are presently into. “But, if you restructure and you still have bad people operating in such public institution and system, we are going nowhere. “For instance, he said, when a corrupt judge is punished, will he or she allow any corrupt public officer to scot free in his or her court? Actually, no! I think it is weak and bad system that the Vice President is talking about and speaking in that direction. “But, Atiku Abubakar is talking of restructuring to score political point and seek attention of Nigerians to his side and for his ambition, because, if you restructure the country without strong institution and make the system work perfectly, things will go bad again and even worse than being envisaging. “So, the exchange of words between the two leaders is necessary and for the interest of the country, because, Nigerians would hold opinion and scrutinise it and know which one is better.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 