Lagos – The Federal Government has further shed light on why it suspended the controversial national carrier, Nigeria Air, at its last Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting on Wednesday. Also, the government said it deserved commendation not vilification from the public on its conduct of Saturday’s gubernatorial election in Osun State. Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information and Culture, told journalists at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, on Wednesday, during the official opening of the multi-million dollar state-of-the-art building of LSG Sky, in partnership with Things Remembered, that lack of interested investors led to the suspension of the national carrier project. Mohammed explained that some of the investors the government had expected to partner with on the project were no longer forthcoming, adding that the government never wanted to be the sole sponsor of the project. He explained that the suspension of the project was in the nation’s interest, and stressed that the government would not venture into any business that would fail in the long run. He, however, said the project was not terminated, and assured that the government would return to it in the future. He said: “If the understanding of government at the beginning was that the project might be self-financing or the project would be financed by investors, and you think that such a project can no longer be sponsored by investors, either because they are not forthcoming or such launching can no longer be viable, the government is at the discretion to take decision. “The position of government in business is to provide the enabling environment, and it is not to become the sole source of finance or funding and, in addition, there is much more than funding in trying to get our national carrier. So, the Federal Government thinks this thing should be stepped down now until we get a better funding structure.” Mohammed also emphasised that Senator Hadi Sirika, the Minister of State for Aviation, carried along the government on the entire project, but insisted that the assurances did not materialise. Besides, he explained that the suspension of the national carrier project would not lead to the suspension of other projects like maintenance repair and overhaul (MRO) facilities, leasing company and airport concession in the sector. “I don’t think the government should be condemned or criticised if it decides to step down a particular project. I think it is in the interest of the country that we can’t embark on a project which had not been well thought out. Four years is a short time for some things; it doesn’t mean that we have abandoned it,” he said. Speaking on the Osun governorship election, Mohammed said the election was not a vote of no confidence on the All Progressives Congress (APC) government as being insinuated, but that politics had its local peculiarities. He said: “You see, people have very short memory. I must tell you they exhibit a lot of ignorance. How many people remember today that in 2015, the governorship election in Kogi was suspended even when the APC was leading with 90,000 votes? “And there were reruns ordered in about 90 polling units or so. So what happened in Osun has nothing to do with whether APC was winning or not winning, or it is in government. It is the prerogative of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to decide whether an election is concluded or not. “If this had happened four years ago, they would have declared victory for the PDP but you can see that this is a government that believes in rule of law and fair play, and that is why we submitted to the decisions of INEC, not that we didn’t have things to contest. We have a lot of things to contest also but we submitted to the decision of INEC because we believe in rule of law.” On whether the election was a vote of no confidence on the APC government, he said: “At times we are a bit shallow in our assessment. If there is an election and APC has just a margin of 353 votes and you said APC had lost heavily, you should learn to look at the context. Two, this is an election that was very peaceful, highly competed for. Even though the APC had control of all the state institutions, we refused to abuse them. “I think you should, on the contrary, congratulate and commend the Federal Government for being very impartial in the conduct of an election. And for those who are saying, ‘this is probably a sign that PDP would win’, every election is a local matter. “The factors that would come to play in any election are local and peculiar to that particular state. It would not be fair and accurate or intelligent to generalize and say, ‘because it happened here, that’s what will happen’. What about Ekiti where we were not even in government at the state level and yet we won?” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 