Tomorrow, Monday is October 1. It is Nigeria’s 58th Independent anniversary. Already, in line with tradition, the Federal Government has declared tomorrow a public holiday to commemorate the event. The Federal Government made the declaration on Thursday through a statement issued by Lt.-Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazau (rtd), the Minister of Interior. Through the statement, signed by Dr Mohammed Umar, Permanent Secretary, the ministry’s Parmanent Secretary, Dambazau, who congratulated Nigerians on the anniversary, urged them to sustain President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s efforts at maintaining and strengthening the unity and peace of the country. He emphasised government’s commitment to promoting national unity, economic growth, social and political development based on democratic principles. The minister added that in the past 58 years, Nigeria had made a lot of progress and positive impact, not only on the lives of its citizens, but also on infrastructure development as well as international relations. However, going by what the Federal Government, said, do Nigerians feel that Nigeria as 58 id worth celebrating? Greedy Leaders Destroyed God’s Plans For Nigeria – MBTC Boss Chief Ode Ochi Emanuel, Chairman, Middle Belt Traditional Council (MBTC), said: “Nigeria has performed well in the last 58 years, except that the nation’s wealth has been taken by the greedy people assigned to keep watch over us. The dividends of our natural resources are not being felt because of the actions of the greedy people. “Nigeria is blessed with human and material resources. But, due to the activities of corrupt leaders, we are far from where we should have been. Nigeria is second to none in terms of natural resource deposits. God has great plans for Nigeria. But, our leaders have missed the purpose of God. “So, at 58, Nigerians are sober, thinking of the way out of this avoidable go-slow in development. “It was not like this from the beginning after independence. But, when the element of greed entered into the psyche of some of our leaders, it became pronounced. That has taken us to where we are now. It is very sad. “The solution is for Nigerians to rise up and say ‘Enough is enough’ in one spirit to overcome the current stagnancy. This should be in terms of leadership and the followership. The two can never be separated. The followers have been so docile. You cannot have a leader different from the followers. “So, the determining factor should be: Who are our leaders and the followers? Are they both committed genuinely to the growth of the country? Nigerians should rise up and become more interested in the leadership of the country. That is the only way there will be development.” We Have Reasons To Celebrate – Activist Comrade George Amen Agberele, Benin-based activist and member of Civil Society Organisations, said: “For the country to have remained united for 58 years in spite of all the turbulent period it went through, is worth celebrating. Nigeria as a nation has witnessed so many political crisis. Yet, it remained one indivisible nation. For example, the civil war that lasted 30 months, not many countries would go through such crisis and remained one nation. “There are so many other reasons why we should celebrate at 58. The truth is that nobody believed that with the multi-ethnic groups brought together as one country by the colonial masters, they will be able to stay together and resolve their differences each time there they had one. Many people thought that the June 12, 1993 crisis was would lead to the disintegration of the country, but with God on our side, we were able to survive it. This is one of the reasons why many people are now calling for the restructuring of the country. As the population increases, the views of the people will continue to be divergence. “Now, things are not going well, especially in the area of security as some ethnic groups believe or see themselves as being war against other ethnic groups. We need to look at the issues they are raising passionately and find a suitable solution to them. “I think we have every reason to celebrate, if nothing else, but to have still stayed together as one nation despite the bad leaders we have had.”  There Is Nothing To Celebrate – KOWA Party Chief Justus Amaegbu Ugwulo is the chairman, KOWA Party in Owerri West Council Area of Imo State. According to him, “At 58, we have nothing to celebrate at all. To me, I will  suggest that we should go to Britain and ask them to return and continue to rule us from where they stopped on October 1, 1960. “What do we have to celebrate since 1960 till date? Is it the senseless bloody three-year civil war that consumed millions of lives, political skirmishes, militarily intervention in our body politics? “Is it the decayed and dilapidated infrastructure, hunger, growing illiteracy, destitution, unemployment, violence, armed robbery, kidnapping, abductions and general sense of hopelessness? “Recently, we have had to contend with embarrassing, unprecedented insurgency, Boko Haram palaver, ethnic and religious cleavages, discriminationa and segregation among the various geo-ethnic groups. “Let me tell you. Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, the Great Zik of African, Obafemi Awolowo, Tony Enahoro, Ahmadu Bello, the Sarduana of Sokoto, Tafewa Balewa, and others, who fought for our independence will be weeping and shaking in their graves in utter disbelief of what is now happening in the country that they fought and died for. “It is equally painful for one to recall with nostalgia that before independence, one from the South East  or South West could go to any part of the North and pick up a job. Likewise a Northerner can come to the East or West and become a mayjor. “But can this happen now? Remember that a one-time Mayor in Enugu was a northerner, while somebody from Imo was the Mayor of Port Harcourt. All is now history and you are talking of celebrating at 58.” We Have Course To Celebrate – Female Politician Eunice Nnadi Okafor, Women Leader, Democratic Alternatives, Amaugwu Ward, Owerri North LGA, Imo State, stated: “Between 1960 and now, we have made a lot of progress. So, we have course to celebrate. “Today, how many higher institutions, colleges, expressways, flyovers and international airports do we have in this country? Before, did we have the type of means of communications we have today? “Our people have imbibed and assimilated western education and we have been transformed. We now have many states, unlike in the past when we had just four regions. New cities, such as Abuja, and towns have come up and we do not live in darkness anymore. “In as much, as we have been having some challenges, just like other developing nations, it is not right to say that at 58, we should not celebrate our independence which we won 58 years ago.” ‘Nigeria Is A Failute At 58’ Nigerians are unanimous in pronouncing the country a failure and the 58 Independence not worth celebrating. They believe that the country has failed in all ramifications, especially in security. So, they feel that there is nothing to celebrate. ‘Nigeria In A Retrogressive Journey – Nwobu-Alor Hon. Sylvester Nwobu-Alor, Second Republic legislator. He said: “I would like to quarrel with the word ‘celebrate’. You don’t celebrate failure. The various governments that we got since independence failed us. “What we should be doing is finding and fashioning out why we are retrogressing and not progressing, instead of wasting our time celebrating. “I will like to use the word ‘investigate’. Why don’t we find time to investigate why we are failing? Why are we not progressing? As a matter of fact, we are retrogressing. There is no doubt about it. So, I don’t think celebration is worth it.” Nwobu-Alor recounted how, as legislators, lawmakers of his days were eager to improve the lots of their constituents and “bring about professionally in our various communities. We were not thinking about sharing money and the condition improved. As I talk to you, the condition has retrogressed to a fearful level.” He recalled the condition of infrastructure of those days: Well paved roads, narrow, but improved with time, steady electricity, food in abundance and good medicare,  not gigantic hospitals. Nwobu-Alor lamented: “We are only going about borrowing money to finance luxury, consumption and not production. In those days we had so many things that made us happy.  So, our worry now should not be about celebration, but to find how we can succeed.” Nigeria @ 58 Does Not Worth Celebrating – PDP Chief Chief Ndubisi Nwobu, Caretaker Committee Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Imo State. He said he did not think the 58th Independence Day is worth celebrating with what had happened in the past three years. He lamented that the economy has collapsed,  there is mass poverty and worst of it all, there is pervasive insecurity in the country. He concluded :”There is nothing to celebrate .Whatwe have in Nigeria today is peace of the graveyard “. For the state chairman of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC)  comrade Jerry Nnubia the 58 independence should be a mere ceremony. He said: “We are not happy the way things are going. You can see the level of inflationary trend in the country, the high cost of goods and services hitting the roof. “The condition of Nigerian worker is very deplorable. Marking of independence is mere ceremony. From my background as a labour leader, Nigeria is very backward. Someone at 58 is no longer a child. “Compare our country to others like Ghana. You can see we have not made progress. Nigeria ordinarily is supposed to surpass them. So, Nigeria is not where it is supposed to be in terms of development. The cause is bad governance and corruption.” It Is A Mixed Grill – Politician Comrade Nicholas Ugwu, a politician, said: “My answer will be in two-fold. We have both good and bad to have gotten to where we are today as a country, with the numerous challenges we are grappling with. Nigeria at 58 is worth celebrating, if for nothing for the fact that we are still holding on as a people, diverse as we are with numerous tribes, speaking different languages, holding individualistic political opinions and professing different religion. That brings me to one of the stanzas in our old National Anthem, ‘Nigeria we hail thee;                                                    Our own dear native land; Though tribes and tongues may differ; In brotherhood we stand; Nigerian’s all are proud to serve, Our sovereign mother land’. “This particular verse, ‘Though Tribes and Tongues May Differ, in Brotherhood We Stand’, is the spirit that God used to keep us as one today and I am happy and grateful to God for that. “But, I have to stress that the current government, through some policies, has caused more division among us, more than uniting us as a people united by God under one destiny. But, against the odds, the worst has not happened to us as a country. “Some of us still see a good Hausa man, a Yoruba man, a Jukun man or Ibibio or whatever tribe or part of the country a Nigerian comes from, as someone we can confide and not necessarily a fellow Igbo man. As a typical Igbo man, I have a broad mind for every Nigerian, not minding wherever he or she comes from. I want other Nigerians who are short of this virtue to learn from me, because, this what is very much lacking in our Nigeria of today. That incidentally was the spirit and qualities our founding fathers, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Alhaji Abubarkar Tafawa Balewa, which made them succeed in getting our independence from the British colonial masters. This is the good side and why we should celebrate at 58. “On the contrary, a man or woman of 58 years is old enough to be a grandfather or grandmother. But, the situation I find Nigeria today clearly shows that we are doing little to work on ourselves as one family. An Igbo man still sees himself as the livewire of Nigeria’s economy and without him, nothing can move as far as Nigeria’s economy is concerned. A Yoruba man sees himself as the power behind the success of any government and without them, nothing can move in government. A Hausa man sees the leadership of this country as their personal rights and without them this can’t be possible. “We must co-exist. United we stand, divided we fall. Any leader that does not want to run a government of national unity, with religious, tribal and regional bias, it is bound to fail. That is basically what the President Muhammadu Buhari government is suffering from at the moment. I also expect states where there are more than one or two tribes prominently spread, should as well replicate such ‘state unity’ to carry everyone along. Every Nigerian should not be underrated wherever they find themselves in this country as long as they live and do their businesses there and pay taxes. “We are all equal humans before God. So, why should we be degrading ourselves as if some Nigerians are more important than others? “Let us celebrate our doggedness to remain one as a people against the odds, not that we have achieved so much or that we have arrived as a people or government in the past 58 years.” ‘Govt Has Failed To Meet Fundamental Objectives’ Comrade Joseph Amaoru,  a member of Guild of Public Affairs Analysts of Nigeria (GPAAN), has said there is no basis for the celebration of Nigerian independence,  because the basic fundamentals, as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution, has not been met by successive governments. Amaoru said that Nigerians were only existing, what was remaining to happen was a disintegration, adding that the government of the day had not uphold the sanctity of life. “Nigerians die daily in the country and the government has failed to protect them. They do not even know where help would come from. The government has failed in the fundamental objectives. It is very well stated in chapter 4 of the constitution. The education of Nigerians should be free from primary to tertiary institutions but the government has not been able to achieve that. “Government should provide national integration but I must tell that we have not been so divided as a nation. The government is expected to provide for the prosperity of its citizens, harness our resources, use it for us but we get impoverished the more by the day. “The comrade said that Nigerians were surposed to participate in the development of Nigeria, noting that unfortunately Nigerians were not even aware of what happened in government, they were barred from involving in their responsibility as citizens of the country.” He said that the only thing that had happened was that Nigerians were still together even when some people were wondering if there was any basis for the continued unity as a nation, when actually some of them were far removed from the operations of the system. He wondered why anyone would want to celebrate except that the country had not disintegrated. He said: “We are only staying together as one Nigeria, but in the real sense, are we really one Nigeria?” Amaoru said that by the reason of the nation’s age, Nigeria should be celebrating, pointing out that the death toll all over the country, the poverty, lack of amenities, the uncertainty all over, would not encourage celebration, except Nigerians did not want to tell themselves the truth. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 