Lagos – The popular quote of the late American essayist, lecturer, philosopher and poet, who led the transcendentalist movement of the mid-19th century, Ralph Waldo Emerson, on the Law of Cause and Effect, couldn’t have had a clearer meaning in any situation than what became of the 2017/2018 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season. The Law of Cause and Effect states that for every effect there is a definite cause, likewise for every cause, there is a definite effect. It expanded by meaning that one’s thoughts, behaviors, and actions create specific effects that manifest and create his or her life in future. Now when the NPFL was ‘unnecessarily’ put on hold following the leadership crisis threatening the Nigeria Football Federation, little did we realize that the decision to suspend activities on the field would lead to the nation taking the unheralded part to ending the season with 14 rounds of matches to play. Even the decision to observe a whole one month break due to the World Cup when only Enyimba’s Ikechukwu Ezenwa from the NPFL was at the Mundial had been seen by many as a not well thought-out one. This is the second time the league will be won outside the field, the first being in 1982. However, opinions are divided on the desirability or otherwise of the LMC’s resolution after an emergency meeting of the stakeholders in Abuja on Friday. The LMC, knowing that meeting CAF’s October 15 deadline for the submission of all the Federations’ flag bearers for the CAF Club competitions was not feasible, decided to end the league on Friday, with Lobi Stars, with 43 points after 24 matches, picked to represent Nigeria in the Champions League, while the Federation Cup, which will produce the flag bearer for the second tier continental competition, will start this month and end on October 14. Meanwhile, the Federation Cup is still at the round of 64. With the decision, the league body noted that no team would be relegated and that four teams would be promoted from the Nigeria National League (NNL), thus bringing the number of teams in the 2018/2019 season to 24. The communiqué noted that the league would be divided into two groups of 12 teams each. At the end of the 2018/19 three clubs from each group totalling six will be relegated with two promoted. With this the league will revert to its 20 team’s format. A communiqué from the LMC read in parts: “Upon consideration of different options (5 possible options were presented), it was unanimously agreed by the 20 NPFL Clubs that the 2017/2018 season of the NPFL is deemed concluded and the team at the top of the standings – Lobi Stars shall be the representative in the CAF Champions League for 2019 Session starting Nov 2018 to May 2019. No team shall be relegated from the NPFL for 2018 Season. “Four Teams shall be promoted to the NPFL from the Nigeria National League (NNL) from the ongoing 2018 season to compete in the 2018/2019 NPFL season. “The 2018/2019 NPFL season will commence in November 2018 with a total of 24 participating teams, which shall be divided into two groups of 12 teams each. The 2018/2019 Season commencing November 2018 will be played on 22 Match days ending with a Play off to determine the Winner by May 2019. “Three teams from each group (a total of six) will be relegated from the NPFL after the conclusion of the 2018/2019 season, while two teams will be promoted to the NPFL from the NNL 2019 Season. This will allow the NPFL to revert to its normal structure of 20 teams as from the 2019/2020 season.” “Meanwhile, with the resolution, the AITEO Cup will start on Wednesday, September5, with the round of 64 matches to go down. The LMC noted that the league body adopted the Doctrine of Necessity, which it said became imperative in the circumstance the nation’s football found itself.” According to commentators, the decision might actually look good on paper, but most of them questioned the preparedness of the ‘champions’, Lobi Stars, to represent Nigeria better on the backdrop of not playing the required number of matches. It became a matter of concern as Lobi, just like the 19 other clubs, last played competitive league match almost three months ago. Nnamdi Okosieme writing on his facebook described the decision as “A thoroughly senseless idea.” “How do you end a league abruptly with 14 matches left for each club to play? How do you do that? Where is the justice in that? It is just plain crazy. “If they have till October before the CAF window closes, why not keep playing until close to the deadline and then possibly host a knock out tournament for the top four or six teams? “Why hand a team only two points ahead of its closest rival and ten points above the eleventh placed team, the title? It’s another word for injustice! Reacting further, Okosieme said, “There are things that just don’t make sense no matter how long you reflect on them. The decision by the League Management Company to suspend the Nigerian Premier League is one such thing. It is as harebrained as anyone can imagine. “During the World Cup in Russia, the LMC decision the league should go on break even though only one member of the Eagles squad, Ikechukwu Ezenwa, plays in the league.  So, with our league put in abeyance, LMC officials took off to Russia to savour the mundial. “Now, the World Cup is over and reality bites hard. CAF has imposed a deadline of October for national federations to send in names of its representatives for CAF competitions. “How has the LMC reacted? It has decided that the league, which is in its 24th week must end abruptly with current leaders, Lobi Stars, handed the trophy. Speaking to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, Adegboye Onigbinde, former national team coach, said that he received the LMC’s resolution with a mixed feeling, but blamed the authorities for not doing everything possible to avert the crisis. “Do we have to be making mistakes all the time? I heard about the decision but I don’t have anything to say, or will I say that I don’t know what to say about it. It is because we failed to avoid the problem in the first place, that is why we found ourselves in a situation of uncompleted league,” he said. But a club official of Akwa United, who preferred anonymity, lamented the development, even as he admitted that the Promise Keepers were ready to wrestle the top position from Lobi. “The decision is a collective one even if I will say that I never supported it. They (Lobi) were topping us with just two points and believe me, we were ready to go past them and win the league. To me, Lobi Stars are Nigerian representative but certainly not Nigerian champions,” said the official. Meanwhile, Henry Nwosu, the former defunct ACB of Lagos midfielder, took a different stance on the development, preferring rather that the league ended and not necessarily participating in the continent. He noted that repositioning the league remained a better choice than participating in the continent. “The resolution was just what was at their (LMC) disposal. They took the right decision but if you ask that I sincerely give my opinion, I will prefer that we continue and play the season out instead. Nothing says that Nigeria cannot miss the continent if that will make the league better. Observers have noted that the decision favour some clubs. Apart from Lobi Stars, who have been presumed winners, Heartland of Owerri are the biggest beneficiary. The Naze Millionares have 20 points from a whooping possible 72 in the 24 matches played before the league’s abrupt end and watchers of the NPFL are of the view that the former CAF Champions League finalists would have needed a miracle to escape the drop if the league had continued. Speaking to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, media officer of the club, Henry Echefu, said it was better the league ended the way it did instead of piling pressure on the players, deliberately dodging the question whether his side were done a huge favour. “Because of monetary involvement, it was right the league ended the way it did. It would not have been easy for clubs to go through the congested fixtures,” he said. The image maker merely corroborated a statement linked to the club’s chairman, Chibuzor Etuemena, who, on learning of the hitherto September 2 resumption of the league, was quoted as saying that the crash fixtures would not produce real champions, apart from the financial implications. “Apart from the financial constraints which the clubs will face, any crash programme now in terms of the rescheduling of outstanding matches will not produce quality champions,’’ he said Etuemena noted that the NFF crisis has adversely affected the league. “The crisis has taken its toll on every one; the clubs mostly depend on monthly subventions to prosecute their games. Now, it is practically impossible to meet the schedule of fixtures released by the LMC in financial terms,” he said. Meanwhile, other clubs in line to benefit from the league’s sudden end and LMC’s decision not to relegate any side include Yobe Stars, who are second to Heartland from the rear, with 28 points; Sunshine Stars are also on 28 points but on account of superior goals difference, they are sitting third from the rear, while FC IfeanyiUbah are 17th on the log, also with 28 points but a better goals difference than the three below them. As a matter of fact, all the teams from the 12th spot on the table are prone to relegation given their point’s differential. In the end, Junior Lokosa of Kano Pillars emerged the top scorer with 19 goals, even as a total of 423 goals were scored in the 24-week league. Thirty red cards were issued, even as players were cautioned (yellow card) a whopping 707 times. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 