According to the apex bank, loans must only be approved for new projects or expansion projects and priority shall be accorded projects with high local content, import substitution, foreign exchange earnings and potential for job creation. The loans can be received from any bank which has contributory cash reserve ratio with the CBN and banks will carry out due diligence based on normal business consideration and disburse funds in approved tranches within five working days of release by the CBN. Borrowers must utilise the funds for the purpose for which it was granted and ensure that the projects and records are available for inspection and verification. Corporate, Triple-A rated companies are also encouraged to issue long-term corporate bonds in which the CBN can invest. However, this provisions and conditionality have continued to generate feelings just as stakeholders commended the development, saying it will in no small way ensure and enhance growth in the economy. Conversely, others not too comfortable with the provisions said though good but not good enough, especially for the agricultural sector, as they noted that nine percent interest rate is still high. They said that interest rate for agriculture should be around two to three percent for Nigeria to compete favourable with other countries of the world in food production. Stakeholders, who spoke to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, acknowledged that the financial system, with banks as its major component, provide linkages for the different sectors of the economy and encourage high level of specialisation, expertise, economies of scale and a conducive environment for the implementation of various economic policies of government intended to achieve non-inflationary growth, exchange rate stability, balance of payments equilibrium and high levels of employment. Analysts at United Capital said the “DCRR facility would allow banks to access part of their CRR deposits kept with the CBN, in providing credit financing to Greenfield (new) and Brownfield (expansion) projects in the real sector (particularly Agriculture, Manufacturing and other growth & employment stimulating sectors) for a minimum of seven years at maximum interest rate of 9.0 per cent and with a two-year moratorium. “On the other hand, the CBs funding facility allows the CBN to invest, alongside the public, in CBs issued by large/triple-A rated corporates for a minimum tenor of seven-years subject to the intensified transparency requirements for Triple A-rated entities”. Anor Anyanwu, former Executive Director, Mainstreet Bank, said the move by the CBN and commercial banks in the country will return the glory of the financial sector which was the major source of long-term low interest funding in the past. His words: “I believe it is a good policy; it enables manufacturers and people to get loan at a single interest rate; it also has to reduce some liquidity because what will now happen is that instead of keeping the banks’ funds at CBN, it will just come into the system and it will be working”. He, however, advised that the programme needs serious monitoring by CBN to ensure that the banks and the borrowers are been compelled to the guidelines of the scheme. “The CBN needs to monitor the programme closely so that it will not be abused. We are in an environment where interest rate is going twenty to twenty-five per cent and then you are subsidising it for a single digit”, Anyanwu stated. Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Mr. Muda Yusuf, described the initiative a positive development, saying it would help increase the flow of credit to the private sector. “It is a very good initiative by the CBN. As service sector players, we have always canvassed for low interest rate and have always complained about high interest rate for businesses. “Each time the Monetary Policy Committee met, they kept tightening the benchmark interest rate which meant that the cost of borrowing would remain high. So, the issue of adjusted CRR is an innovative approach which would help to boost investment through low-cost funds and longer tenor funds as well. So, it is a good initiative,” he added. Managing Director, Cowry Assets Management Limited, Mr Johnson Chukwu, welcomed the initiative, saying it would help unlock the flow of credit. Commenting on the adjusted CRR initiative, he said: “In principle, it is a very creative initiative. It may not completely address the issue of the real sector, but it would help towards improving the performance of firms. “The reality is that it is hard for the real sector operators to be paying interest of between 22 to 25 per cent and remain profitable. “So, to give them loan at nine per cent is quite creative and will certainly ease their problems.” Chukwu, however, stressed the need for the monetary policy and the fiscal policy authorities to continue to work towards achieving single digit interest rate in the economy and not just for real sector operators. Sounding a note of warning, respected economist, Bismarck Rewane, said:  “If you accept that window, you are very likely to end up with a liquidity crisis if you are not careful. “On one hand, you cannot force people to lend, the only way to make people lend is to actually incentivise them and you cannot compel them.  If you are compelling people to do it, it is becomes a control and control do not work in the market.  Even though the intensions are good, it could create liquidity for the banks”. Nurudeen Tiamiyu, National Vice President of Tilapia Aquaculture Developers Association of Nigeria (TADAN) described the development as a welcome development but submitted that it could still be better. “For agriculture it is expected to be low single digit and not the high single digit because when you are talking about nine percent it is deceptive, if you want to help Nigerian farmers it should be hovering between two to three percent interest rate; for us to have a lower cost of production. “Even at nine per cent the deficit in infrastructure still makes a mess of the low rate. For farmers to really enjoy the benefit of low rate their low rate should not be more than five percent; when you look at this foreigners coming in, the funds they are bringing from their home country is not nine percent, most of them are less than five percent,” he said. Anibe Achimugu, National President, National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN), in his own view stated that anything that will make the cost of funds to be more competitive and to make people in the agribusiness do well is a welcome development. He said that it will encourage more entrepreneurs and it will encourage existing companies to be able to do more. Achimugu also noted that for agriculture, the interest rate should not be more than one or two percent. “Anything that will make cost of funds to be more competitive and to make us to do more it is welcome. For government to have come out to say that in the real sector they are considering nine percent, it will boost the economy of this country. It will encourage more entrepreneurs; it will encourage existing companies to be able to do more. “But if you are talking of agriculture, interest rate on agriculture should be about one to two percent, because at the end we are looking at been able to do more in farming, we should also think on how we will feed ourselves. Single digit interest rate is good but should still be reduced for agriculture,” he argued. Wale Oyekoya, an agribusiness strategist who added a fresh dimension to the discourse’ He opined that the fund rather than domicile with commercial banks should be given to the Bank of Agriculture. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 