Ughelli – Campaign for Good Governance (CGG), Civil Society Organisations and Ex-militants in Delta State have vowed to resist any attempts to by external forces to use force, intimidation or coercion to drive fear into the minds of the electorates in 2019. Addressing a press conference in Ughelli, the National Coordinator of CGG, Prince Obaro Unuafe described as undemocratic, statements credited to the chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole that he is going to ensure the deployment of “federal might” to unseat Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State. National coordinator and national secretary of the group, Obaro Unuafe and Azu Kawekwune respectively, appealed on the security agencies and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to show professionalism by refusing to be compromised or dragged into the murky waters of politics in the 2019 elections. Obaro said: “We stand by free and fair governorship election in 2019 and we shall resist with vehemence any attempt by external forces to use force, intimidation or coercion to drive fear into the electorate in the 2019 general election. “The statements credited to Adams Oshiomhole are undemocratic and we shall watch closely to see the devious and crude methods he would deploy in the 2019 governorship election in Delta State. “We call on all the tribes in Delta State; the Urhobos, Isokos, Ijaws, Itsekiris and the Aniomas to eschew tribalism and come out in large number to vote for the candidates of their choice without intimidation, fear or favour.” “We remain committed to the ideals of democracy, rule of law and peace and would do everything in our power to safeguard them against the backdrop of those who have a premeditated plan to scuttle peace and development in the Delta State environment.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 