EFG Hermes, the leading financial services corporation in frontier emerging markets, inaugurates its 8th annual London Conference, to bringing together investors and fund managers representing $12 trillion in aggregate assets under management in direct meetings with senior executives from leading listed companies based in Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia, the conference serves as a bridge between global capital and local opportunities. The Conference participants will meet at Arsenal’s Emirates Stadium to share insights and investment strategies and connect in search for compelling business opportunities. “EFG Hermes takes pride in its role to bridge the gap between global capital and opportunities in high-growth markets,” said EFG Hermes Holding Group CEO Karim Awad. “The conference offers a rare forum for active fund managers to gain on-the-ground insights and intelligence from C-suite executives about how increased transparency, tougher regulations and new technologies are reshaping FEM investments in 2018.” “ This year, the 8th Annual EFG Hermes London Conference will play host to 17 leading African companies representing Nigeria including Kenya, Uganda, Mauritius, Uganda and Botswana operating in key industries including financials, utilities, consumer discretionary, energy and materials. Companies from Nigeria include Dangote Cement, Fidelity Bank, Lafarge Africa, Oando, Stanbic IBTC, Zenith Bank. “Around eight thousand meetings between 327 institutional investors and global fund managers representing 177 institutions managing an aggregate AUM of $ 12 trillion, and executives from 151 listed companies in total”. The Participating companies with an aggregate market cap of $856.15 billion from 25 jurisdictions, representing 11 sectors. “Frontier emerging markets are witnessing economic modernisation and the opening-up of their markets, with major policy reforms at the forefront of their respective governments’ initiatives to transition from commodity-dependent to more diversified economies,” said Mohamed Ebeid, Co-CEO of the Investment Bank at EFG Hermes. “While FEM markets have no shortfall in challenges ahead for the future, they also present a wealth of prospects for the investment community; and the EFG Hermes London Conference is an exclusive opportunity for them to deepen their connections with and knowledge of these markets through first-hand encounters with C-suite executives representing multiple industries and sectors across FEM,” added Ebeid. This year’s conference is set to be the largest in the event’s history, with participating companies, which have grown from 130 last year, spanning the world over and covering sectors such as consumer discretionary, consumer staples, energy, financials, health care, industrials, materials, real estate and hospitality, telecommunication services and utilities. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 