Lagos / Abuja – Walid Jubrin, Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) Board of Trustees (BoT), on Monday disclosed that the board has set up a committee to liaise with all the 13 presidential aspirants to ensure the emergence of a consensus candidate. This is even as the PDP governors, under the aegis of PDP Governors’ Forum, in a communiqué after its meeting on Monday resolved to have an all-inclusive meeting with all the party’s presidential aspirants, the national chairman, two national officers of the party, and the leaders of the party in both chambers of the National Assembly in attendance. Jubrin, in a text message to our correspondent, congratulated Ekiti State governor, Ayodele Fayose for withdrawing from the presidential race, adding that the decision of BoT was taken at a meeting recently. He said, “A committee has been set to discuss with all presidential aspirants to come up with one of them as one candidate. “Consequently, the BoT has forwarded its full recommendations to the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP for consideration.” Those in the race for the presidential ticket of the PDP are former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal; Gombe State governor, Ibrahim Dankwabo; President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki; former governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido; former governor of Kaduna State, Ahmed Makarfi; and a former Special Duties Minister, Tanimu Turaki. Others are a former President of the Senate, David Mark; a former governor of Kano State, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso; a former governor of Sokoto State, Attahiru Bafarawa; a former Plateau State governor, Jonah Jang; former senator, Baba Datti Ahmed and Stanley Osifo. On insinuations of preferential treatment to old members of the party, Walid explained that the party has been warned to manage the situation of new decampees to the party and also consider the role played by old members, adding, “As provided in the party constitution, the board is empowered to regulate its proceedings and draw code of conduct for its members.” The PDP Governors’ Forum in the communiqué signed by its Chairman and Ekiti State governor, Ayodele Fayose, condemned in strong terms the politicisation of security agencies in the country by the Federal Government. The governors decried the use of security agencies to perpetrate electoral fraud as it allegedly happened in Ekiti, Osun and Rivers states. Urging the security agencies to be non-partisan in the performance of their duties in accordance with the provisions of the constitution, the governors added that “we observe that security agencies have become organs and tools of the APC-led Federal Government to harass and intimidate the opposition and dissenting voices.” The Forum condemned the flagrant violation of democratic ethos by operatives of “this government as shown recently in the infamous act by the police at the residence of elder statesman, Pa Edwin Clark, and the harassment of innocent Nigerians across the country on frivolous claims.” The Forum noted that INEC needs to reinvent itself as a truly independent umpire of the electoral process in the country, adding, “For now, we have no confidence in INEC. The commission has conducted itself as a tool of the APC-led Federal Government, especially with the roles of the Chairman, Prof. Mahmud Yakubu, and a National Commissioner, Mrs. Amina Zakari.” The Forum also condemned the alleged surreptitious, selective and suspicious payment of N16 billion purportedly from the Paris Club refund. “We are of the view that the money is to fund corrupt inducement of voters in the forthcoming governorship election in Osun State on September 22, 2018,” it said. The governors also condemned unequivocally, the refusal or failure of the president to sign into law the amended Electoral Act, saying the president and his party are afraid of electronic voting or the introduction of technology into the electoral system. The governors will also meet the presidential aspirants this night to fine tune mechanism for the primaries and assure them of level playing field. We’ve Not Zoned VP Slot To South-West— PDP Meanwhile, PDP on Monday denied reports that it has zoned its vice presidential slot to the South-West ahead of the 2019 presidential election. The leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council (OYC) worldwide had last week expressed disappointment over the alleged plot by some cabals in the PDP to zone the vice presidential slot to the South-West zone against the interest of the South-East. It said if the report in circulation turned out to be true, the group would help to bury the PDP in 2019, warning, however, that the patience of Ndigbo should not be taken for granted. However, speaking with Daily Independent, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, said the report that the party’s vice presidential slot has been zoned to the South-West is unfounded and baseless as the party’s leadership has not taken any position on that. “On zoning of the vice presidential ticket to the South-West, we have not taken any decision on that. I am not aware of that decision yet. If there is any decision on that, I believe it will be made public”, he said. Also speaking on the multiple presidential aspirants seeking to fly the party’s flag, Ologbondiyan, who described the party’s leadership meeting with the aspirants as successful, said the National Working Committee (NWC) will continue to meet with the aspirants until the day of the primaries. “The first meeting was a huge success. We will continue to meet with the presidential aspirants until the convention”, he said. Daily Independent recalled that during the inaugural meeting with the party leadership to facilitate consensus building among the aspirants, the aspirants warned state governors in the party to refrain from interfering in the primaries of the party. According to a credible source, the meeting centred on how to prune down the rising number of the presidential aspirants of the party, get their consent to accept the outcome of the primaries and join hands with the eventual winner in seeking victory for the party. The aspirants, who spoke in unison, also said no public official should interfere in the primaries while also calling for a level playing field. They also warned against inducements of any sorts and asked the party’s leadership to ensure free, fair and transparent primaries. Our source said the party leadership accepted to abide by the conditions given by the aspirants. While holding Uche Secondus, the party’s National Chairman to account on these promises, they said if these conditions are met they will accept the outcome of the primaries and work with the eventual winner. “This is their first meeting and generally, the appeal by the party was on if they can accept to cut their number and the second one was that the party promised a free, fair and credible primaries. “But the truth of the matter is that all the aspirants spoke in the same vein of not allowing the governors to interfere in the primaries and ensure a level playing ground for everybody. That one is settled. This is the summary of what happened at the meeting”, our source said. According to another source, who pleaded anonymity, the party prevailed on the presidential aspirants to eschew negative utterances capable of hurting the electoral fortune of the PDP in the 2019 elections. “By and large, we reminded them (aspirants) that whatever happens to the party, happen to all of us. We charged them to be civil in their utterances and reminded them that the world is watching how the party will come up with its presidential candidate. “Perhaps, the biggest take-away from the meeting was the agreement entered into by all the aspirants to support whoever emerges winner of the sole ticket after the primaries. They assured us that they would stay put in the party regardless of the outcome of the primary election,” he said. Lamido Won’t Contest Against Me – Atiku Abubakar Concessions would not be ruled out in the run up to the presidential primaries in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as hinted by Atiku Abubakar on Monday. Atiku gave the hint in Dutse, Jigawa State, during his ongoing national consultation with PDP leaders. The state PDP leaders received him at the party secretariat in Dutse while Sule Lamido, former governor of the state and co-contestant in the race for the PDP presidential ticket, received him in Bamaina, his home town. Speaking to the party leaders, Atiku said Lamido was his younger brother and would step down for him in the presidential race as a gesture of courtesy. He also argued that he and Lamido shared the same political ideologies. Atiku and Lamido are strong contenders for the PDP ticket that has drawn into the race about a dozen of the party’s frontline politicians. The former vice president recalled a similar concession recorded in the nation’s Third Republic that saw two brothers – Shehu Yar’Adua and Musa Yar’Adua gunning for the positions of president and Katsina State governor, respectively. Atiku said Musa, the younger Yar’Adua, had to give up his political ambition to ensure the acceptance of his elder brother by the party leaders who had insisted that they could not support two brothers for two key positions in the state. “With the intervention of elders in the state, the junior brother, Umar Musa, stepped down for another aspirant so that the politics will not be a family affair, leaving Shehu Musa to contest for president while someone from another family vied for governor,” Atiku recalled. Explaining his links with the state, he revealed that his mother was from Jigawar Sarki, a village in Dutse Local Government Area of Jigawa State. Atiku said her mother’s family later moved to Adamawa State where he was born. “Sule Lamido is my junior brother and will learn from what transpired between Shehu Musa and Umaru Musa,” Atiku told his listeners who repeatedly applauded him. Salisu Mahmuda, the state PDP chairman, advised the aspirants to be united in purpose in order for the opposition party to avoid an automatic re-election of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2019. Although Atiku said he was not in the state to campaign, yet he used the opportunity to inform the people that he was in the race for the presidency because Nigeria needed fixing after going through leadership failure under the APC. “The government inherited an economy growing at about 7% and crashed it to recession in its first year, and currently it is growing below 2%. “Most parts of this country are currently feeling excluded,” Atiku remarked. The PDP presidential primaries will come up on October 5 and 6, 2018. We’ll Rally Round Whoever Emerges – Saraki Ahead of the PDP primaries, President of the Senate and presidential aspirant, Bukola Saraki, said on Monday that all the aspirants would rally round whoever emerged as the party’s candidate. Saraki stated this when he submitted his Expression of Interest and Nomination forms at the party national secretariat, Abuja. “I believe, at the end of the day, we will have a process that whoever emerges will be supported by all of us so that there will be no need dividing ourselves,” he said. Saraki said two out of the three steps he needed to take to become the next president had been fulfilled. He said: “I am here to carry out what I call a very important step in the process of making this country great again. Today marks stage three. Stage one was when I formally declared, stage two was when I collected my forms. The next stage will take us to Aso Rock. “I believe all the aspirants will work hard and send our messages to the PDP and to the people so that they can give the ticket to the best. “Like I said, I have great respect for all others. What is important for the party is to have a credible candidate to emerge, and we’ll all work with that candidate.” On whether he would step down for a consensus candidate, Saraki said consensus was not the issue but internal democracy. “I don’t think the consensus thing is the issue before us, because we are trying to ensure that there is internal democracy in the system and very credible primaries. “What is important is that at the end of the day we have something that is rancour-free. What I can tell you is that we are working together because we are still part of one family,” he said. Speaking on what qualified him as the best person for the position, Saraki said: “I have had the opportunity of serving as governor on the executive side.” He also said he had been on the legislative side, stressing that it was important that the country had a president that could bring all parties on board. His words: “You cannot give what you don’t have. You can only give what you have. And the teeming youths are saying it is time for them to put in place someone who has the energy, youthfulness, capacity, capability, and the knowledge to drive them to the future. “It is through the odds that we secure the future. It is through that the entire continent of Africa and comity of nations that Nigeria will stand high yet again. “What is important for us is the lives of millions of Nigerians who are going through such a tough time and who now believe that it is only through the PDP that that it can happen. “We will play our own part in ensuring that we unite everybody. It has always been my antecedent to provide unity, to provide leadership in this kind of scenario.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 