Osogbo – The Osun State Police Command has disclosed that it has uncovered plot by some disgruntled politicians in the state to cause disruption of peace before, during and after the rerun governorship election in the state. It has consequently vowed to deal decisively with any trouble shooter before, during and after the poll. It would be recalled that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had fixed Thursday September 27, 2018 for the completion of ‘inconclusive’ governorship election held last Saturday. Addressing newsmen at Osun Police Command headquarters in Osogbo on Wednesday, Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of operations, Forced Headquarters, Abuja, Joshak Habila, who will be supervising the election, said from intelligence report, some people were planning to disrupt the election. “We have an intelligence report that there is a grand plan to turn the election gruesomely violent and deadly by arming thugs to unleash mayhem at polling centers. As law enforcement agencies, the Police and other security agencies would not permit the breakdown of law and order.” “Those of them preparing for ‘fire for fire’ must be ready to bear the consequences of their actions which designed to undermine this particular democratic process. It should be noted that the Nigeria Police Force will remain proactive and would not rest it oars in its task to decode the identities of those democratic enemies. “Residents are requested to be law-abiding and go about their lawful duties without fear and with the full assurance of the protection of law abiding citizens and voters who are out there to exercise their franchise. “The police and other law enforcement agencies have been deployed to maintain law and order and protect lives and property of the residents in Osun. “In the areas where re-run election is to be held, only eligible voters with their voting cards and other personnel with due accreditation would be allowed to come near the polling units. “Residents should report all suspicious activities to the Police, such as solicitation for votes, buying of Permanent Voters Cards (PVC) and any plan to rig or disrupt the election. “Troublemakers and other interlopers are warned to keep away from the polling units and indeed from any part of the state. The police and other security agencies will leave no stone unturned to protect lives and property and maintain peace.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 