Abuja – For the second time in three days, strange events like earth tremors have been recorded in some parts of Abuja causing tension and anxiety among residents of possible earthquake. The incident which occurred on Wednesday at Mpape and Maitama area of the city has led to panic in the city as residents confirmed noticing the vibration.  No adverse reports, loss of life or property have been recorded so far. Eye witness said the incident occurred at 6: 00am in Mpape. Another claim of similar occurrence was recorded in Kubwa area on Friday which sent shivers down the spine of many people. A resident of Mpape (Stella), who confirmed the development, said she heard a loud sound which shook the ground intermittently making her to come to a conclusion that it was an earthquake. Some of the residents affected said that they may relocate to safer places if this continues. Others who spoke said that they initially thought the vibration was as a result of usual quarry activity in the area. The FCT Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in a press statement signed by the Director General, Abass Idris said that the service has been inundated with distress calls from the members of the public as a result of the incidents. The statement noted that the cause of the shaking may be as a result of seismic movement within the earth which is caused by sudden break along the fault line and subsequently release energy that made ground to shake. The statement added that it may also be caused by the mining activities and blasting of rocks which put stress in the underground rock. The service appealed to the residents to stay calm and not to panic urging them not to stay under powerlines. “If you are out door find a clear spot away from the building, trees and power line. If you are in a car slow down and drive to a clear place, stay in the car until the shaking stops. “The residents are to note that there is nothing to panic as there is no likelihood of any earthquake disaster in Nigeria as we are not in earthquake zone. Therefore we are urging residents to calm down and be rest assured that that the abnormal situation will soon stop” the statement read. Mpape is a densely populated hilly suburb and located few metres from Maitama.  This is the first such occurrence to be recorded in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The incident that occurred in Kubwa has created more panic despite the statement of NEMA. Similar incident had occurred in Daura, Katsina State, home town of President Muhammadu Buhari, for hours which caused a major devastating effect in the area. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 