P/Harcourt – Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transportation, last week shocked members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), when he unfolded his preferred candidate for the 2019 governorship election in Rivers State. Amaechi’s announcement of Architect Tonye Dele Cole, the Chief Executive Officer of the Sahara Energy, as the best material in the state APC family reminded political observers of the same decision he took during the count-down to the 2015 general elections, which cost the party victory. Though Cole’s name had resonated within APC in 2014, with the pendulum swinging between Senator Magnus Abe and other aspirants, it was a general belief that Abe was most favourable to clinch the ticket giving his political sagacity and closeness to Amaechi. Many also believed that Abe’s choice as the party’s candidate for the 2015 governorship election would balance the equation of the age-long tribal imbalance in the state. Since the creation of Rivers State in 1967, Ogoni is yet to produce a governor. The highest political position from that tribe has always being the Secretary to the State Government (SSG). After Cole had fizzled out from the APC’s political calculation in the state APC, Dakuku Peterside, another trusted ally of Amaechi emerged. Dakuku was Commissioner for Works under Amaechi. His ministry was said to be the most lucrative then. APC’s woeful performance in the 2015 election was traced to the choice of candidate. The party miscalculated by to lining up a fairly little-known candidate against the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which fielded Nyesom Wike, a grassroots strategist and Minister of State for Education in the then President Goodluck Jonathan’s cabinet. It was indeed, a mismatch. The rest is history. Cole’s choice for the 2019 election has not only sparked up silent misgivings among stakeholders in the state APC, it has once again thrown up the question of what Amaechi intends to achieve by always preferring to field unpopular candidates in Rivers State, where PDP is very popular. Barrister Dumo Lulu-Briggs, for instance, defected to the APC with the hope that he would be considered for the party’s ticket. Dakuku was also believed to be preparing for another round shot against Wike should the APC reconsider him. That hope was dashed by Amechi. Abe and Dakuku are Amaechi’s die-hard loyalists. But, the big APC’s problem after the primaries would be how to handle Abe’s interests. Senator Abe appears an astute and popular politician in the Rivers State APC is capable of giving any PDP candidate a good fight. He commands a strong  support base in the state. Almost half or more of Amaechi’s former cabinet are with him at the moment. These include former Commissioners and Special Advisers. However, Abe’s problem with Amaechi came to the open when the minister said that he (Abe) would only become a governor over his dead body. Abe in return opened his campaign office, christened FREEDOM HOUSE and commissioned a new party secretariat on Aba/Port Harcourt expressway. The property is a few kilometers from where Amaechi’s APC faction has its secretariat. This development officially portrayed Rivers APC as a factional party. It would be recalled that on March 10, 2017 at The Dome, located along Peter Odili Road, Port Harcourt, Amaechi called an APC leadership meeting and reportedly said that he would destroy the party if Abe did not shelve his governorship ambition. Amaechi threatened to draft the billionaire Cole into the election if Abe refused to drop his ambition. In last weeks’ meeting in Lagos after nominating Cole before he joined President Muhammadu Buhari on a trip to China, Amaechi said, “We are aware that not all would find it easy to accept the decision. But, I am also conscious that the decision was made for the best interests of the party and the group. “We are aware that interests are divergent and numerous. And that they can only coalesce if we get someone neutral; someone who is able to get every interest to converge as one. What is critical is victory”. However, in less than 24 hours, Amaechi’s camp denied ever nominating anybody as the APC governorship candidate. “As a true and thorough democrat, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, a foundation member of the APC and a leading light of the party, recognises that the Party candidates for the 2019 general elections will be chosen/elected by party members through the prescribed democratic process in the party’s constitution, rules and regulations,” the statement said in part. It has crystal clear that the former governor has been working hard to explore the upland/riverine dichotomy template, expecting that the Ijaw in Rivers would jump at an opportunity to take a shot at the governorship. This explained the Peterside’s choice at first, and now Cole. But, over the years, Rivers politics had shifted from ethnicity to politics of unity and togetherness. Again, Rivers people do not seem to like the now preferred godson’s Amaechi, who they see as the minister’s business partner, who they accuse of  having allegedly bought some of the state’s assets, including power plants. It was alleged that funds that accrued from the sales of the Rivers Assets to Sahara Energy were diverted for the alleged sponsorship of the APC campaign It was believed that the sum of $302,960.000 was reportedly paid for the acquisition of the Omoku (150 megawatts), Trans Amadi (136 megawatts), Afam (180 megawatts) and Eleme (75 megawatts) gas turbines by NG Power HPS Limited, an affiliate of Sahara Energy Resources Limited. The Governor Wike government said the funds accrued from the sale of the assets were not remitted into the state’s coffers. This gave room for the speculation that it was diverted into sponsoring the 2015 elections for the APC. In December 2014, during the count-down to the 2015 elections, the governorship candidate of the Labor Party (LP), Tonye Princewill, accused the Amaechi government of selling the state assets to his business partner. “Money changed hands, but the accounts they entered were not necessarily Rivers State government’s officially operated accounts. Rivers people cannot be sure they got a good deal. “In one instance, approximately $400 million changed hands over an asset that could easily be worth twice that. Why the secrecy? Incidentally, the partners in the company (who were) uncomfortable with the obvious attempt to finance the politics of Amaechi hesitated to approve the transactions. “But a prompt threat from the Rivers Government made them rethink. Can anyone say they did not know what the money would be used for? Amaechi is one of the chief financiers of the APC election and a close ally of Buhari,” he said. Princewill has since joined the APC camp and supports Amaechi’s choice of Cole, a fellow Kalabari, for the Rivers governorship. He said: “We as Kalabaris will come out en-mass to support him (Cole)…Let me use this opportunity to thank our leader, the Hon Minister for giving Tonye Cole this opportunity to govern this great state”. Reacting to the Cole’s nomination by Amaechi, the spokesman of the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) and a prominent leader in Kalabari, Chief Anabs Sara-Igbe, faulted the choice on the grounds that the young man barely understands the dynamics of Rivers State politics and does not relate properly with his own people. “The Kalabaris cannot be fooled just because we are looking for a Kalabari as governor. We have supported other ethnic nationalities in both the old and new Rivers state to produce the governor of the state, including Rt Hon Rotimi Amaechi,” he said. Sara-Igbe stated on his face-book account that “the problem Tonye Cole, an architect, has is that he does not relate with his Kalabari brothers and sisters before and even now. He is seen as a complete stranger even in his Jack’s compound in Abonnema. “At least, one will expect that for somebody who is interested in running for an election of this magnitude, he ought to inform his Kalabari people, as they say charity begins at home”. The implication of the above assessment is that Amaechi’s choice lacks popularity among the Rivers Ijaw, whose ethnic ticket he is fighting so hard to fly. His support for Cole as governor could be a tactical decoy which could spell doom to that ethnic nationality in the forthcoming election as was the case in 2015. More problems should be expected when the Rivers State APC goes into its primaries in the next few weeks. The likes of Abe would crave for a direct primary, where party members would be allowed to fully participate in the choice of their candidate. But, would Amaechi accept that choice, knowing that his candidate might not weather the political storm? Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 