For some politicians angling for elective offices in the forthcoming general elections next year and those already in office either by appointments or otherwise, the fear of possible backlash from the forced exit of Kemi Adeosun, former finance minister occasioned by alleged forged document submitted for her appointment as a minister may have gripped the presidency, with the likely implications of affection governance and service delivery. Sunday INDEPENDENT investigations have shown that some politicians, staff of some ministries, agencies and departments (MDAs), Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the presidency, have begun moves to retrieve credentials that may flag off controversies on their competences and qualifications for their present positions or appointments. Already, social media activists of late have been challenging some notable political office holders and politicians to show their National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) discharged or exemption certificates. Also, most Nigerians have berated screening agencies and institutions like the Department of State Services (DSS) and Senate for shoddy job and abdicating their responsibilities. This is because, most of the appointees and elected officials were screened and certified okay by these institutions, a development that is making some Nigerians querying the intelligent gathering of the security services over the years. Already, few months after the Adeosun Saga, Adebayo Shittu, Minister of Communications, is currently enmeshed in a similar allegation. Shittu has been found to have graduated from the University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University) at the age of 25 but failed to participate in the compulsory NYSC scheme in violation of the NYSC Act, according to an online newspaper, Premium Times last week. Nigerians are eagerly waiting for President Muhammadu  Buhari’s response to the emerging scenario, threatening the credibility of his government more so as it took the government six months to gather appointees. Shittu is said to be relying on the 1979 constitution, which he claims exempted him from serving his country due to his electoral victory as a member of the Oyo State House of Assembly between 1979 and 1983. But NYSC over the weekend dismissed Shittu’s claim and defence, insisting that Serving in the National (or state) Assembly is not one of the conditions for exemption from national service. “You have read the Act and you can see the circumstances where someone is exempted, you analyse it if he (Shittu) was exempted duly or there is a reason he should have served. But the Act is very straightforward on the grounds for not coming up to serve. “If you are a graduate locally trained or foreign trained, as long as you graduate before the age of 30, you are expected to serve. Whether foreign or locally trained, the law is the same. Our youths should be rightly guided that if you were able to complete your studies and as of the date of graduation, you are under 30, you are eligible to serve,” the NYSC spokesperson said. Mrs Adeyemi insisted that the NYSC law gives no preferential treatment to Nigerians other than those exempted by Section 2 of the Act, emphasising that: “The NYSC was set up to mobilise all eligible Nigerian youths. The Act does not talk about VIPs or children of VIPs. Anyone who is a Nigerian youth, who has a first degree and under the age of 30 must serve, the issue of VIPs or their children does not apply. “However, if there is any reason why a corps member needs a concession, the corps member applies and concession is given, for example, for marital reasons and on health grounds. Everyone is treated the same and where concessions are to be given, it is treated. So, VIPs or children of VIPs do not come into the Act and we do not look at that,” she said. According to the report, Shittu, who was born in March 23, 1953, studied at the prestigious university and graduated in 1978, five years after the NYSC scheme was established by the military government of Gen. Yakubu Gowon. He proceeded to the Nigerian Law School and qualified as a lawyer in 1979, but failed to participate in the scheme as prescribed by Section 2 of the NYSC Act. Although the NYSC Act permits those that graduated after their 30th birthday, persons with national honours and individuals who serve in the military and intelligence organisations, to skip the scheme, Shittu did not qualify under any of these. Instead, the young barrister contested and was elected into the Oyo State House of Assembly in 1979. “This is another acid test for Mr. President, whose action Nigerians are beginning to question, particularly with the period of time it took him to gather these ‘eggheads’ but now to be faced with the stark reality that the screening agencies either compromised or completely abdicated their responsibilities, and in this case, may not be possible except there are pecuniary reasons or interest for such ‘negligence,” says Friday Ameh, Lagos based analyst. Also, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the weekend berated President Muhammadu Buhari Shittu’s saga. The PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said media reports that Shittu did not participate in the compulsory youth service is an indication that President Buhari’s administration is full of people with questionable character. It said contrary to the repeated efforts by the president’s handlers to present him as “Mr. Clean”, President Buhari carries “a weighty integrity burden.” “The PDP insists that President Buhari has the moral burden of explaining what gains he derives from appointing fraudulent characters into very sensitive positions, a development that questions his integrity as a leader. Ostensibly, Adeosun resigned on her own volition after it emerged that trusted associates, as she claimed, procured for her a forged National Youth Service (NYSC) exemption certificate with which she got government appointment since 2011, first into a private organisation, as Commissioner for Finance, then as a minister from which she quitted last recently. But impeccable sources in government circle tells the newspaper that the manner of her resignation coupled with events surrounding the matter may have created fresh worries for principal staffers in the presidency, public officers and politicians angling for elective offices in next year election. “Adeosun was assured by a principal presidential aide of immunity from the matter. In fact, there has been communication between the presidency and the NYSC on how one year of her service as minister or as commissioner can be converted to make up for the one year compulsory service to her father land,” explained a presidential source to the newspaper. The informant further added that the solution has precedence under former President Olusegun Obasanjo, where a serving DG with similar background like Adeosun was made to serve in office and a certificate awarded to him after a year by the NYSC. “The forgery aspect could have been taken care of by presidential pardon like it was done for Salisu Buhari, former Speaker, House of Reps, who forged virtually all his credentials with which he came into office in 1999,” further added the source. There are others who still insist that the former finance minister was sacrificed as a diversionary measure of taken attention away from the controversial sack of Matthew Sayefa, former DG, Department of State Services, DSS, and his replacement with Yusuf Magaji Bichi from Kano. Indeed, President Buhari’s critics say that the appointment of the northerner to replace Sayefa and Ahmed, a northerner also as replacement for Adeosun, further accentuate the prevailing perception of the president as sectional, provincial and insular in making critical governance/policy decisions. But for some politicians keeping a close watch on the incidents and similar cases of certificate scandals blowing across the country, it is all too clear that presidential assurances can’t even stave off embarrassment and possible sack and indictment. The confusion is further heightened by the long silence of the presidency on the matter of Okoi Obono-Obla, special assistant to the president on Prosecution and Chairman, Special Presidential Investigative Panel for the Recovery of Property who was also alleged to have committed forgery. Obla’s case appears to be worse. The barrister hit controversy after the West African Examinations Council (WAEC), as contrary to verdict on some politicians with similar cases like Senator Adeleke described as “altered and invalid” the results and certificate allegedly issued by the Chairman, Special Presidential Investigative Panel for the Recovery of Property. Testifying before the House of Representatives ad hoc Panel investigating Obono-Obla’s alleged forgery, WAEC Registrar, represented by the Deputy Registrar, Mr Femi Ola, said available evidence indicated that the results were ‘altered’ and thus ‘invalid.’ The WAEC officer said that its record showed that the genuine candidate who owned Obla’s certificate with which he entered university to study law was Ofemi Ofem, 09403/247 of Mary Knoll College, Ogoja. The exam number and number of subjects is the same, officer said. “The difference is the grade in English literature in which he claimed to have scored C6 despite being marked absent in the true, certified copy,” he added. Asked how he would qualify Obono-Obla’s results, the WAEC Registrar said it was “fake, not genuine.” Invariably, Obla never qualified to be in the university much less study Law, proceeded then to law school. The basis of appointment may then be in question. In other climes, such disclosure carries grave consequences on whatever cases in law courts that Obla has put his hand into significantly. There are some who say that the Presidency might be considering the overall impact of this disclosure on legal matters on anti-corruption, which the presidency is involved in. But moving against Obla on the forgery allegation, say some presidency sources, have other consequences. Obla, before his appointment to the presidency led a coalition of powerful lawyers from minority tribes. The group had in 2016 perfected plans to drag the Federal Government to ICC over killings in Agatu, Benue State. But the appointment of Obla took the sail out of the campaign at the time. “The presidency is not sure how these group of lawyers would take the matter if the aide is booted out,” explained an Abuja based lawyer who is currently seeking elective position ahead 2019 in one of the North Central states that has been plagued by herdsmen militia attacks. As it now appears, those in office with questions surrounding their credentials and other politicians angling for elective posts have begun what an insider calls ‘intense lobbying’ to have some of their questionable papers withdrawn. As reported last week Sunday by this newspaper, erstwhile DG of DSS, Lawal Daura, had submitted to Mr President through his chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, a comprehensive profile of all his aides and ministers highlighting possible areas of security threats. The detail of the report also indicates lapses in their credentials. But politicians are now said to be all over DSS, and presidency, hoping to amend their credentials where necessary. “Some who have questions to answer over their discharge or exemption (NYSC) certificates have been making overtures to heads of the Youth Corps seeking a solution,” explained a director of NYSC to the newspaper. According to the source, those who forgot to collect their exemption letters all these years have begun coming for them. “There are some who are serving aides to governors and ministers who are desperately seeking solutions. But of course we will help so long as it is within our reach to do so and it is not against the law,” the directors said. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 