After the brilliant way he presented his song ‘One Hit’ at the African Magic Viewers Choice Award, fans are on the edge of their seats waiting for the video of his new single, ‘Starlight. In this interview with Ifeoma Ononye, the renowned music producer, who is proof that being visually impaired cannot stop any dream, speaks about the lessons he has learned both as a producer and a musician in Nigerian music industry. He also explains what social media means to him and many areas the industry needs to be improved. Many people haven’t stopped talking about your AMVCA performance ‘One Hit’ where you practically called the ‘who is who’ in Nollywood. Was it planned? I couldn’t have done freestyle, but I wanted to do something different with the song. I didn’t want to take much of a chance, I was nervous enough flipping the song, so whatever it was had to be planned and that was it. Listening to your song ‘Starlight’ two days ago made me wonder what the inspiration behind it was. And I know you said it’s like a tribute to lovers. That’s what it is; it is a tribute to lovers. I came down for breakfast one morning and was just drawn to my piano and I started to play what would become the intro to the song. I just had to hum the melody. It’s a pretty simple song, nothing earth changing or life shattering. It was a regular normal day and the song just came to me from the heavens. So are there more of the ‘Starlight’ kind of music to expect? Certainly. I am writing a lot more and trying to put out more music. I am very excited to be doing this. I have been putting out music for people for so many years and I am glad to be putting out mine now. What do you think about the switching from being a producer to becoming a music artiste? Because sometimes, so many producers start out producing then later on we end up seeing the artiste side of them. Is it that they believe that since they put out musical hits for others they can do it for themselves? I think it comes from the fact that being an artiste has always been what you wanted to do and have been procrastinating and getting to a point where you absolutely have to do it. Recognising that you have a message to share and a voice to contribute to the world and you just do it. Switching from producing to singing your own may probably come from being comfortable enough to do it, feeling like you don’t hate your voice. For example, I always hated my voice for years and still don’t know if I can call myself a fan of my voice, but at least I am comfortable enough to use it now. Why did you hate your voice? No particular reason. Maybe it’s because I am used to it or wanted it to sound a certain way. I think it comes from knowing yourself too much and I have come to find out that a lot of musicians are not crazy about their voice. Maybe that’s a good thing but I am also happy that I can take out time and put my voice to good use. How would you describe your kind of music? I would say my sound is honest. I make music because I want to make music, because I love it. It can be reggae today, country music tomorrow. Let’s talk about the industry. So much has changed right from the days of Question Mark until now. How would you assess the growth and what areas need do you believe we still need push? I would say the music industry is growing and I can say it can potentially be Nigeria’s biggest export if we manage it properly. There are some areas we need to pay attention to in the industry.  We need to be a little more intentional in things we do. I think some things are happening just like that. I think a lot of things are talent-driven, culture-driven but they should be driven from a business and sustainability angle. We have come to a point where we are sort of taking centre stage as far as entertainment is concerned but I don’t know if we are taking time to try to understand the science of how we got here and how to sustain it just as I feel like the Caribbean have not been able to do it with reggae music (more with reggae than calypso) and with the likes of Bob Marley who literally built an industry around a genre. I feel we had the opportunity with Fela and Afro-Beat, but don’t know if we really made the most of it and I feel the opportunity is really presenting itself, which is one the key areas we can give the industry the push it needs. I feel another area is connecting the dots from a financial stand point and how are we able to connect musicians with the finances to push their projects, to build infrastructures and get the projects to reach their audience. We don’t have enough statistics to convince investors to invest in the music industry. I feel we need to build more data, I feel we need to place more value on our music. I feel we need to have more data on how many people consume our music and how potentially we can become an industry because these numbers can translate into Dollars and Cents. I feel we need to have conversations that engage the players, those who actually see the value of this music and how it can relate to Dollars and Cents and how we can build a sustainable industry. Most budding musician only care about being famous and are all about the hit songs. Do you think looking at being famous alone and not paying attention to talent will get them where they want to be? I think they really need to be as grounded as possible. Talent is great but talent is not enough, talent is only scratching the surface. Talent is what makes you live from hand to mouth while understanding the methodology of sustaining the business, which your talent presents, is what helps you build a lasting legacy. So we need to be well versed in these areas before we can manage your portfolio and business and I feel we really need to have a serious business conversations and I feel we need to be well grounded to manage a sustainable music industry. Poverty has done a lot of damage on our space and a lot of people are concerned with the basic necessities of life and it goes beyond that because people are able to build cities and businesses based on proper business principles and managing and exploiting talents. We need to understand the value of proper talent management that is why I said people from legal and HR need to get more involved in music. We need to have a holistic view of the talent industry and sort of position people so that it can become a perfectly oiled machine so it can run smoothly, musicians have their role to play in understanding the process and value of the process. When you talk about a lot of people being interested in fame because fame is what you see and fame is what you want. There is a general assumption that fame will bring you money, that can be true for some and not for all; understanding the inner workings of the industry is what pretty much helps everyone position themselves appropriately. What are some of the lessons you learnt along the way as an artiste and as a producer? I have learnt a lot of things, I have learnt that talent is not enough and that music is show business. The business is as important as the show side of things. I have learnt that you can’t build a legacy without building structure. I have learnt that I am part of a big picture and I am contributing to building this environment, this industry, this society that I am also a part of. I have learnt the importance of variety and how I fit in and I don’t necessarily have to conform because I have a space, a pace that I am setting pretty much I have learnt to defend and also defend what I believe in.  I have learnt to continue to seek for knowledge. I have learnt to do things on time because that is pretty much the best gift you can give to yourself; do things when you should because a lot of people lose opportunities when they don’t do things on time You are married just like many other musicians in the industry, and a lot of artistes don’t know where to strike a balance between married life and showbiz. You have been successful in managing both your marriage and music career, how are you able to balance it? First of all, my wife is a very private person and I respect her privacy. Secondly, it’s just common sense; it depends on what social media is to you. Social media is a tool for me to connect to people who I genuinely care about. Social media is not a place for me to go and tell people how well my life is doing or how well my family is doing.  I feel I have a real relationship on social media where I am either connecting with people on the latest thing I am working on. I don’t feel the pressure to impress or create an impression on social media that is not my focus or goal. I am a family person, a lover I have always been. My family allows me do this with ease and I don’t feel I have to necessarily share. I only share what is necessary. The goal for me is to pass across a strong message. The important thing to consider is why you do what you do; for me if the motive is love you will know how to put things forward from a place of love. Also, my wife being a private person also helps me control myself. So you don’t get to face the challenges some other artistes face with the opposite sex? I don’t really consider this because the nature of my work means I am around the same set of people for a long period of time and when I do have interaction with other people the interaction is heavily limited and watched. If I am at a show, I probably have people from my management team with me so it is very difficult to show up unannounced in my hotel room or whatever because I have my people and they are going to ask questions and it’s their responsibility to protect me, keep me grounded and they do a good job. In your career so far, you must have had a lot of career highlights, which has been the most remarkable? That is interesting. I will have to think about that because I have been asked this question a couple of times and haven’t been able to place an actual answer. Quite a number of things have happened to me. Sometimes, its meeting a certain person or people. When I met Chimamanda, I thought that was one of the major highlights of my career, I absolutely love her and have read all her works. Another highlight was meeting Wole Soyinka, it was like he came out of my dreams and into my reality. I felt the same way when I met Marcus Miller, Nathan East these are bass players. I felt the same way when I performed with Don Moen. When I met Bono, I felt the same way. It happens to me a lot when I meet people and collaborate with people. I cannot point out just one person it’s just meeting people just like Richard Branson and having conversations with them. Have there been times you wished you had your sight? Not really, lately I have realised that I have been unsightly and that is a good thing. Sight is a gift just because I don’t like to have a gift that is mine but I don’t sit down feeling sad and wishing I had my sight. That just doesn’t happen with me but I know sight is a good gift and it will be interesting feeling what sight looks like. What other music works or projects should fans be expecting? I have another song coming out in September or October. I am putting out a lot of new music. I have two more singles coming out before the end of the year and I am really excited about those and live performances. I am having a concert and it is going to be headlined by me and a major international artiste. Since December is around the corner, are we going to get a Christmas album? That is an interesting idea now that you have mentioned it but I think my friend Timmy Dakolo is going to put out a Christmas single but let’s see, I don’t really know. You have produced a lot of hit songs and albums, but do you mind telling me which was the most challenging for you? I can’t really say. I have a particular one that is most challenging. When I approach a project, I think of them individually and uniquely. I don’t lock them together even when I think of artiste album, I think of them as a collection of singles. Taking them individually is important and it works for me easier that way. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 