Lagos – Nigeria continued their historic run in the ongoing FIBA Women’s World Cup in Tenerife, Spain with a nail-biting 57-56 win against Greece and qualifies for the quarterfinals for the first time. And their price for reaching the quarters is playing two times defending champion and tournament favourite, USA today. The game will tipoff at 11.30am Nigeria time. This is the second meeting between these countries. Their first was in 2006 where USA won 79-46 in a group phase game. The odds are stacked against Nigeria. USA are ranked number one to Nigeria’s 34th. They’ve won the championship 10 times, while Nigeria are reaching their first ever quarterfinal. They won 19 consecutive World Cup games to Nigeria’s three. USA’s field goal shooting percentage is 52% to Nigeria’s 34%. While USA’s two points field goal is 56.5%, Nigeria shooting percentage is 36.4%. Behind the arc is a huge difference. USA shooting percentage is 35.6% to Nigeria’s 23.5%. They are also superior to Nigeria at the boards. Defensively, they average 34 per game, while Nigeria averages 28. Offensively they are 10 to Nigeria’s 20 per game. When one considers other fundamentals that determine the pendulum of victory, Nigeria are far behind. While USA makes 19.3 points from turnover, Nigeria is 16.3. USA’s average points from fast breaks are 13 points, while Nigeria average 8.5%. It’s points from the paint that the gap is huge. Nigeria averages 33.5 per game wile USA averages 48.7 per game. Points from the bench are also another factor. While the bench gives USA 42 points per game, Nigeria get 21.5 points per game. The defending champions won their three games in the ongoing World Cup with an average of 19.3 points. The big problem from Nigeria is match-up. They are bigger than Nigerians that will work against D’Tigress. With the return of 6-foot 9 centre Brittney Griner, who missed two games with an ankle injury, against Latvia scoring 15 points on 6-of-8 shooting with six rebounds in just 13:25 will be a big issue in D’Tigress defence. Nigeria had 13 steals against Greece, including four by Evelyn Akhator and three by Ezinne Kalu. They will need a similar defensive effort to disrupt the USA offence, which is averaging 96.3 points per game. D’Tigress defence is predicated on pressuring the opponent to prevent ball movement. They try to prevent the ball from moving from side to side. USA assistant coach,  Jen Rizzotti, said, “Their defence is predicated on pressuring you to prevent ball movement. They deny passes and pressure the ball. They don’t want the ball to go side to side. They really try to get you to keep it on one side and get a steal.” Nigeria’s electric defensive approach worked wonders against a shorter team like Greece. The game against the USA may be a different story,” wrote Ryan Gregory, in USA today. “We’re going to have to do a great job of using our size to play over them,” Rizzotti said. “We have to handle their pressure and have the patience to get the ball in the post, high-low. With a lack of size in the post, we have to make sure we do a good job of having that patience to get it in there.” “Playing USA does sound really nice,” Adaora Elonu, Nigeria captain said. “I don’t know what to expect, but we’re just going to keep pushing. We go with the same mentality. As a player, as a competitor, you have to go with the same mentality. “We’re not here, you know, just being happy to still be here. This is a new experience, but we want to put on the best show and performances that we can”. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 