Hon. Sola Fatoba, is a House of Representatives aspirant in Ado/Irepodun/Ifelodun Federal Constituency and Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State. In this interview with Seyi Taiwo-Oguntuase, he spoke on his vision and other crucial issues about the 2019 general elections. Excerpts: The All Progressives Congress (APC) has been grappling with the challenges of bad economy in the country. Don’t you think this may affect its chances in the coming elections? Let me say this, APC stands a good chance of winning all the 26 state and nine National Assembly seats in Ekiti, because we are popular among the masses. I also want to emphasise that winning elections in a sophisticated state like Ekiti, where people are highly educated and exposed will depend largely on the way we handle the primaries. What the people are craving for is free, fair and transparent primaries and nothing more. Nobody among the aspirants is asking for the heads of others over election. What we wanted as party stakeholders is a process that is not lopsided. We are not ruling out consensus. But, if that will happen, all the aspirants must agree on who to present, so that we can fight the battle together. We do not doubt that we have a formidable party but this shouldn’t get to a point whereby party men are no longer relevant in decision-making process. As progressives, we must put the people first, I mean party people, in the primaries. Though, our leaders are there to show directions, this does not mean that the inputs of the members, no matter how lowly rated are not relevant. This is my submission on this. But, APC will win elections here in Ekiti any time, even if the election is to be shifted to tomorrow, because we are on ground. What modality do you expect the party to use to pick candidates for these elections? I am comfortable with any option. I am a party man to the core. I am banking on my past records and respect to APC to win the primary and the general elections. In 2011, I won the House of Assembly primary to represent Ado Ekiti constituency II. But, the party leaders advised me to drop my ambition for a lady woman, which I did. I did not rock the boat. I even spent personal resources to help the party to win. In 2015, despite that our party stands no chance because of the popularity of PDP, I joined the Assembly race when others were afraid of losing just to ensure that our party didn’t go into extinction in Ekiti. Today, Dr Kayode Fayemi’s victory is a boost to our party’s acceptability among Ekiti people. I expect our party to honour some of us who had sacrificed for the APC in the past with tickets. I have won ticket in the past and surrender it to another person, no sacrifice could be more than this. But, if other contestants are not ready to behave like I did in the past, let there be transparent primary. I am comfortable with direct and indirect process provided it is credible and acceptable to all. I don’t doubt that our party leaders will ensure the acceptability of the process. You worked in the agricultural firm for decades. How do you intend to bring this to impact positively on the lives of the people of Ekiti? This state is predominantly agrarian and farming is the most profitable business here. But, regrettably people have abandoned the sector for Okada riding. It pained me to see graduates riding bikes for commercial purposes. Where are we heading to in this country? I was sad to hear from the leaders of Okada riders in Ekiti that over 7,000 of their members in Ekiti are graduates, this made me sad. Our government has not been making efforts to attract youths into farming. We can no longer farm with the old techniques by which we used cutlasses and hoes. We have to go in line with the new trend where commercial farming must be embraced and these youths are going to be useful in driving the dream with impetus from government and corporate bodies. Ekiti would have developed on a faster pace if government had invested in agriculture the way former Governor Fayemi did in his first term. I want to specially commend the governor elect, Dr. Fayemi for investing heavily in youth in commercial agriculture, where over 1,500 young graduates were attracted into farming. The gesture could have propelled the sector and make Ekiti attain food security status if the momentum has been sustained by Governor Ayodele Fayose’s government. My intention as a federal lawmaker is to form a synergy with Dr Fayemi to develop farming in our dear state and this I am going to do by inviting my company here to help Ekiti establish some farm settlements and processing industries that will help in transforming our economy. The Federal Government plans to extend the rail project to Ekiti.  Would you consider rail transport a priority in the state? Those of us who have had the privilege of travelling out of the country know the value of rail transportation in any economy. So, I perceive it as a priority in a predominantly agrarian society like Ekiti. I have the confidence that Buhari’s rail project will help in transforming Ekiti’s economy by way of providing effective transport system for farm products when extended to the state as contained in the Federal Government’s specification. It is going to be a good development when the rail line gets to Ekit, because our state is predominantly agrarian. We have comparative advantage in agriculture and the rail project will make us do better in this sector. I have worked in agricultural firm for decades. I know where to form a synergy with incoming governor to make Ekiti great.  Cross River State is one of the leading cocoa producer in Nigeria, due to what former Governor Donald Duke did, we can give improved seedlings to our young farmers to boost that sector. What Cross River does is to allocate the cocoa plantation to young farmers and they remit certain funds to government and that can be replicated here. Our major problem in Ekiti is how our products get spoilt due to poor transportation. But with rail line, Ekiti will be better in the movement of these produce to urban and major commercial towns. The PDP is in court contesting the Dr. Fayemi’s victory in the July 14 governorship election. Do you consider this as a threat to your party? I am not that kind of a man that panics over inanities or give in easily to flippancy. I consider the move as exercise in futility. I am not disputing the fact that the PDP and its candidate, Prof Kolapo Olusola, have the constitutional rights to seek redress in the election petition tribunal. But, I want to reiterate that Dr Fayemi won the election based on past records. During the first term of our leader, he executed a minimum of three projects in each of the 133 towns in Ekiti. In some towns, Dr Fayemi constructed roads, bridges, renovate schools, and gave N5, 000 social security stipends to 25,000 elderly people in the state. In some locality, a minimum of 200 benefited and you could imagine the impact this would have had on our local economy. Our people cannot forget the five kilometer road projects undertook by local governments. These really helped in developing rural areas. Go and check our remote towns. Nothing is happening there in the last four years. Gov. Ayodele Fayose built flyover and other few projects in Ado and Ikere Ekiti. How can governor did few projects in four years and be bragging that he performed more than Dr Fayemi, who built projects in 133 towns? You can see the folly of the PDP government. Dr Fayemi‘s victory was based on good records he had. So, PDP was only chasing shadow by going to Tribunal to challenge a God-ordained victory. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 