Lagos – Followers of Enyimba International of Aba during their all-conquering era will attest to the fact that the Peoples Elephants are not shy of responsibilities. It could be rightly said that the two-time Africa champions have developed savvy when challenges of getting out of tight situation come calling. For example, during their participation in the CAF Champions League in 2004, where they were gunning to defend the hitherto elusive trophy for Nigeria, Enyimba found themselves in a dicey situation at the semifinal level. Playing against one of the continent’s powerhouses, Esperance of Tunisia, in the first leg in Aba, the Elephants went behind early in the match, but sustained pressure led to an equalizer by Eric Facindo in the 92nd minute. Going for the second leg at the El-Menza Stadium in Tunis, it was always a herculean task upturning the score draw in Aba but Enyimba demonstrated canny character to force Esperance to another score draw, with David Tyvkase grabbing an equalizer after the host led. Enyimba won the consequent penalty shootout and moved ahead. On Sunday, the Peoples Elephants will face another dicey situation. Playing the first leg of the 2018 CAF Confederation Cup against the Rayon Sports of Rwanda in Kigali, Enyimba forced their hosts to a goalless draw. The host dominated the match in the first half and severally came close to scoring, but the second stanza provided equal chances for both sides to scrap a possible win. However, reasons could be adduced why the result from Rwanda was celebrated. It could have been a loss, proponents of this position will readily jump to defend their argument, meaning that the result could have been worse for Enyimba. But realising that not even a draw will automatically see the former Nigerian champions through to the semifinal on Sunday, it is imperative to say that just like a loss; Enyimba will not negotiate anything short of victory because a scoreless situation will mean playing the dreaded penalty, which may go either way. Rayon Sports head coach, Brazilian Roberto ‘Robertinho’ Oliveira, meanwhile, has praised his team for not conceding any goal against Enyimba in the first leg, saying that as far as he was concerned, nothing was decided yet, believing that his side could knock out Enyimba on away goal. “We will push to score goals and win the game, and we have proved we can score and win matches on foreign soil. “I have confidence in my players, and the coaching staff. We want to register further history and we will do all we can to achieve it. Thankfully we didn’t concede on Sunday, so we can knock them out if we score. “I liked the way my players controlled the game, but we must improve on getting the goals. We got a vital win away from home against Gor Mahia in the group stage, and we can go and do the same away in Nigeria and knock them (Enyimba) out,” he said. Speaking similarly, Abdul Rwatubyaye, the captain of Rayon Sports, said that they knew what to expect in Aba but that they were prepared to face the Peoples Elephants in the encounter. “We now know what to expect in Nigeria and we are determined to make history and qualify for the semi-finals. Enyimba may be a good side in their own right but we are capable of knocking them out before their own fans,” he said. Enyimba must watch it. Unlike the former African champions, Rayon Sports are a goal-scoring side in the competition. Even though Enyimba were drawn by when the 2018 CAF Confederation Cup draws were made, Rayon Sport have scored 21 goals since they played their first match in the CAF Champions League from where they dropped to the second tier Confederation Cup. This is against Enyimba’s paltry 11 goals when they started the CAF Confederation Cup. Enyimba are only one match less of the number Rayon Sports in the competition following the drawn by. So they will be hoping to peg the Elephants early in the match and possibly run away with an away goal. It will be recalled that Akwa United’s dream in the 2018 CAF Confederation Cup ended after both legs against Al Hilal ended 3-3. The Promise Keepers were eliminated through an away goals rule. They defeated the Sudanese 3-1 during the second leg in Uyo but they have earlier been beating 2-0 in Khartoum. Before Enyimba write off the threat from Rwandan Rayon Sport, they should recall that before booking their place in the group stage of this year’s Confederation Cup, they knocked out Bidvest Wits of South Africa on away goals rule. The South Africans forced Enyimba to a goalless draw at the UJ Esuene Stadium in Calabar, but the Peoples Elephants had already done the job after they were forced to a 1-1 draw by Bidvest Wits in Johannesburg in the first leg of the last preliminary round. In the same Confederation Cup this year, SuperSport of South Africa lost to Go Mahia of Kenya on away goal rule after the Pay TV club defeated the Kenyans 2-1 having earlier lost 0-1 in Nairobi. So it is instructive to say that Enyimba should avoid conceding any goal against the Rwandans, who will throw everything at them hoping to break them up in Aba. This position is held by the team’s left back, Ikouwem Udo Utin, who spoke to SUNDAY INDEPEPENDENT on what to expect on Sunday. Utin expressed joy that they were able to get the draw but admitted that the job was not over, expressing confidence that they would pull through. “It was good that we were able to get a draw in Rwanda but people will now say that we have an advantage but it is not always so because they will come down here fighting. So we are prepared for them because we are not going to underrate them,” he said. Very good as the assurance from the reliable left back is, Enyimba’s knack for wastages in front of goal must be a source of concern for Coach Usman Abdallah. Recall that in the last group match against CARA of Congo Brazzaville, Enyimba found scoring very difficult until that stoppage time goal by Wasiu Alade. That was after dominating the match. In the quarter final first leg in Kigali, the coach unleashed the best attack Enyimba could boast of with Sunday Adetunji, Ibrahim Mustapha and the skillful Joseph Osadiaye all started up front, while Alalade was also given a starting berth. Even though Rayon Sports dominated greater part of the game, Enyimba had some clear cut chances that should have been buried. For instance, in the 48th minute, Mustapha raced onto a pass from Ifeanyi Anaemena. The keeper pushed his effort onto the path of Adetunji who blazed over in a move that could have given Enyimba the lead. So on Sunday, the front-men simply cannot afford to waste chances the way they did in Rwanda. A similar failing would play into their opponent’s hands and Rayon could well capitalise on that to punish their hosts and continue their fairy tale on the continent. Mustapha acknowledged the potential of Rayon Sports and the danger of underrating them, admitting that Rayon would come with the mind of winning. “We are not going to get complacent. Already we are planning towards the match. From the way our opponents played, they are not a bad side. “They will come for a positive result to deny us the semi-final ticket but we are not going to allow them to scuttle our aspirations. “I am confident that if we do not relax, we would surely beat Rayon Sports in the return leg. However, it is not going to be an easy task,” he said. Rayon are the first Rwandan side to qualify for the quarter-finals of a CAF club competition and will make further history with a berth in the semifinal at the expense of their more illustrious and experienced opponent. Enyimba, on the other hand, will be hoping to add the CAF Cup to their trophy haul, which also has seven Nigeria Professional Football League trophies, two CAF Champions League diadems, two CAF Super Cup titles and four Federation Cup trophies, among others. They remained the only Nigerian club to have won the CAF Champions League after several attempts by so many clubs, including 3SC, Heartland and Kano Pillars, among others. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 