Lagos – D’Tigress roared back into life Sunday night securing their first World Cup win in the ongoing FIBA World Cup in Tenerife, Spain hitting Turkey 74-68. Despite the huge win, D’Tigress two-guard, Sarah Ogoke, who hit a game-high 22 points against Turkey, believes it was not over yet until they beat Argentina today. D’Tigress, who lost their openig game 68-86 to Australia on Saturday, need a win to be assured of a second round spot. A win will place Nigeria second in Group B. The team that tops the group qualifies for the quarter-final, while the second and third placed teams will be involved in playoff to reach the quarters. The teams that places last in the group are knocked out of the tournament. “It’s not over yet and we’re just getting started,” said Ogoke in an interview with FIBA.com after beating Turkey on Sunday. “I’m not satisfied at all because to me it’s a big win, but we can’t feel comfortable until we beat Argentina and move into the next round. She believes that the team has a lot of taents to take the win in the game that starts at 5:30pm. “I have been playing on the national team for a while now and felt that I had a point to prove and Nigeria also had a point to prove. We’re not your typical African basketball country. “We have a lot of talent on this team and we have a lot of experience and we finally got the chance to show it.” Meanwhile, Head Coach, Otis Hughley, who described the win as a huge one, noted that he hoped the players put their acts together against Argentina that have lost their two games. “Turkey has been through a lot to build that programme and for us to sneak a little shortcut like that. “Wow, I was praying almost on my knees as we’re so inexperienced and young,” he said. “We came through a lot of adversity and mistakes and were still able to fight off a couple of runs. We even held on with some poise when two of our main players fouled out. “I had been getting a little criticism for trying to get all the girls ready instead of focusing on the main stars, but I knew this kind of moment would come. “This is not my first, second or third movie. I have seen it all too many times before in NBA, college and the FIBA game. I was just happy that my decision paid off.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 