ABUJA – Federal Government is to train and support 1000 farmers to cultivate Biotechnology (Bt) cotton intended to resuscitate Nigeria’s ailing textile industry. It would be recalled that the first home grown genetically modified crop, Bt cotton, was released recently in the country, after the meeting of the Varietal Release Committee in Ibadan, Oyo State. Dr.Rose Gidado, Country Coordinator, Open Forum on Agricultural Development (OFAB), who stated this in a live radio programme monitored by DAILY INDEPENDENT in Abuja, said extension service agents would also be trained and deployed to educate farmers on how to ensure optimal and higher yields of bt cotton. Gidado described the incessant campaigns against the use of Genetically Modified (GM) products or food in Nigeria as being politically motivated. According to her, anti-GMO crusaders as, “enemies of progress who do not want Africa to be food secure,” adding that the safety of GM food has been politicised to create confusion in the society. She noted that genetically modified products are highly regulated in Nigeria by the National Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA), adding that biotechnology would enhance higher productivity of agricultural produce as well as move farmers from subsistence agriculture to commercial. Gidado who spoke on “The Role of Biotechnology in Achieving Food Security in Nigeria,” argued that with the increasing population in the country, that Nigeria cannot feed her citizenry with conventional agriculture. While enumerating the benefits of biotechnology, the country Coordinator OFAB Nigeria, said GM crops are drought resistant, environmentally friendly and ensures efficient fertilizer use. Therefore, she underscored the need for the domestication of the technology in Nigeria with indigenous crops, calling for adequate investment and creation of awareness of the technology to Nigerian farmers. Also speaking, Prof. Alex Akpa, Acting Director  General of  National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), said over 100 Nobel laurels across the world had come together to analyse GM food, which their conclusion showed that  it is safe for human consumption. Akpa also said that the authors of scientific learned journals across the world have not written anything negative against GM food, adding that GM food has been consumed in the United States of America for over 35 years now, without any health implication. It would be recalled that the consumption of genetically modified products has been dogged with controversies as some people believe it is not safe for consumption. Anti-GMO crusaders have been vigorously campaigning against the consumption of GM food. However, Akpa insisted that GM food is safe and nutritious. Therefore, to dispel fear and ensure that Nigerians are educated on the benefits of genetically modified products, the Acting Director General of NABDA assured that his Agency together with other critical stakeholders would step up sensitisation and aware creation across the country. As part of the strategies in creating awareness, he said, extension service agents would be trained and deployed to educate farmers on the importance of the usage of genetically modified crops, noting that already the Agency had established 31 Biotechnology Resource Centres across the country. He, however, noted that with the increasing Nigeria’s population, the deployment of modern biotechnology is the answer to food security in the country. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 