Abeokuta – Maruf Afuape, the Ogun State Commissioner for Youth and Sport has dissociate himself from attack on Governor Ibikunle Amosun of the state by his (Afuape) supporters. The supporters of the Commissioner, who is an House of Representatives Aspirant from Abeokuta South protested and booed the Governor when Afuwape’s name was not included in the consensus list of the  party. The event happened on Tuesday at the Presidential lodge, Ibara Housing Estate, Ibara Abeokuta, where the party announced the names of consensus candidates of the parry. Emerging from a meeting with the Secretary to the state government Barrister Taiwo Adeoluwa and other leaders of his constituency, Afuwape said he would have managed the situation better had it been he was at the event. He said the supporters have the right to be aggrieved but went overboard by abusing the governor adding that there’s no perfect system anywhere in the world. The Commissioner, while decrying the attitude of the supporters, said an attack on Governor Amosun is an attack on his personality, adding that he wouldn’t allow any supporter denigrate the person of the Governor. While asked on why his name was missing on the list, Afuape said it is a normal thing in politics and that his name would come with another list. He said, “I wasn’t at the event, it would have been managed better. Though we have issues but nevertheless, there is no process that doesn’t have issues, there’s no perfect system in the world. “I am the one they are representing, if I was there, it would have been better managed.  Those who were abusing the Governor are abusing me and I can never abuse the leader of the party and the Governor.” Also speaking, the SSG said contrary to the report by a section of the media, Ogun State APC and particularly Abeokuta South remains strong and indivisible entity. He said, “At times like this, it is not unusual to have tension and disagreement but we have our unique ways of resolving our differences. We have issues like every other human being and I can assure you they are being resolved. “As a family, we have a unique way of resolving issues and we are in the process of resolving the issues, we are one and we are together.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 