LAGOS – Certainly, winning two out of eight games will do very little to inspire confidence for followers of a football club or a national team. This is the fate of the Super Eagles prior to Nigeria’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Seychelles in Victoria last Saturday. Starting with when the Super Eagles defeated Poland 1-0 in Wroclaw in one of the pre World Cup tune up matches, Nigeria played seven subsequent matches with a solitary win and a draw to show for it. Consequently, confidence that Nigeria will smoothly qualify for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon was low heading into the remaining qualifiers after the Bafana Bafana defeated the Super Eagles 2-0 in Uyo in June, 2017. But on Saturday, the three-time winners of the Africa Cup of Nations rose to the occasion in Victoria, the capital of Seychelles, where they thumped the Indian Ocean country 3-0 before the half filled stadium. The win, no doubt, came at the right time and might have helped in no small way to douse and address the pessimisms of Nigerians on the abilities of the Super Eagles following successive poor outings. It will be recalled that Nigeria have failed to qualify for the last two editions of the Africa Cup of Nations. Nigeria last featured in the 2013 edition in South Africa where the late Stephen Keshi guided the mostly untested players to Nigeria’s third title. But beyond the Seychelles win lies obvious lapses still begging for attention in the team. So Nigeria might have beating Seychelles 3-0 but the Super Eagles had the chance to score far more than that number of goals. The Super Eagles dominated the match from start to finish but failed to string passes in the opponent’s vital area that could open up Seychelles defence with ease. This is sad given that the AFCON qualifying Group E leaders, Libya, walloped the same team 5-1. Goals difference may eventually decide the group and this is where Nigerians expected the Super Eagles to perform better. For example, it will be recalled that in the race to qualify for the USA ’94 World Cup, Nigeria ran neck-to-neck with Cote d’Ivoire for the sole ticket of Group A but at the end of the qualifiers, both countries ended on five points apiece but Nigeria proceeded to the United States for their maiden World Cup appearance on the strength of a superior goals difference of +5 as against Ivorien’s -1 Instances abound where teams progress at the expense of better ones due to rather insensitive considerations. For instance, Senegal failed to progress beyond the first round of the last World Cup on the strength of a poorer fair play than Japan. According to analysts, Seychelles played defensively and targeted counter attacks on Nigeria, but the game revealed a lot of shortcomings. It beats every permutation on why Coach Gernot Rohr has continued to keep faith in Odion Ighalo, the Changchun Yatai of China forward, who has shown everything but lethal in front of goals for Nigeria. After the World Cup, the former Watford of England forward came for bashing from Nigerians, who picked the player as the worst culprit in Nigeria’s failed bid at the Mundial. Ighalo squandered chances upon chances in Nigeria’s easy-to-forget World Cup, even as he missed sitters in the decisive final group game against the La Albeceleste of Argentina, where Nigeria needed a draw to progress. It will be recalled that in Nigeria’s six World Cup qualifiers, the forward enjoyed regular invitation from Coach Rohr but he ended up scoring only once, which came in the 4-0 thumping of Cameroon in Uyo. Ighalo opened the scoring in that match in the 16th minute before subsequent strikes from Captain John Mikel Obi, Victor Moses and Kelechi Iheanacho. It should be noted that Didier Drogba, former Cote d’Ivoire captain, lashed out at Ighalo’s failure at the World Cup and picked him for Nigeria’s failure against Argentina. ”Nigeria gave everything (against Argentina). But I’m disappointed because they did have the chances to score and kill the game through Ighalo, who failed to inspire any hope for them,” Drogba said. Now, the forward line in Saturday’s match was completely doused not by effective defensive formation of the Indian Ocean country, but by the Super Eagles’ uncoordinated approach. The attack failed to inspire any fear in the opponent despite the score line. Even at the domination, there was no threat from the attack even though credit must go to debutant, Samuel Kalu, of French side, Bordeaux FC, who ensured that Seychelles players were put on their toes from the wing. His crosses were always dangerous but the feeble and almost ineffective attack failed to make them count. His runs led to the spot kick which was converted by Ighalo. Suffice to say that Rohr can solve the attacking problem by building faith in some of the domestic league players. Saying that there are no quality players in the league is to emphasis the contrary. The NPFL has never lacked in quality players even though it lacks effective management. Recall that weeks after Senegal reached the quarter final of the World Cup in their maiden qualification in 2002, they sought and had friendly match with Nigeria, who paraded the home base players. Late Romanus Orjinta captained the team that also had Vincent Enyeama then of Enyimba, among others. The Super Eagles led 2-0 before the World Cup quarter finalists, with the full complement of their Korea/Japan 2002 players, rallied to level up in Dakar. El Hadji Diouf, one of the shining lights of the adventurous Teranga Lions, applauded Nigeria and confessed to the qualities in the domestic league. Now, on 19 goals from 24 matches, nothing should have stopped Rohr from considering a second invitation to Junior Lokosa of Kano Pillars, who will put every foot down to impress and make the attacking line of Nigeria lethal in Victoria. In a very difficult league like Nigeria’s, Lokosa was poised to beat Mfon Udoh’s 23-goal feat if they NPFL had ran up to week 38. Such player should not be ignored. But how can that be when Rohr had earlier written off the domestic league as not capable of producing any player of quality and repute? The authorities have failed to tell him that Enyeama was in the league when he took over from Ike Shorunmu as Nigeria’s number one. Also, Obinna Nwaneri shone in his short but eventful national team career and he started while playing for Enyimba. Recall that after Enyimab defeated ASEC Mimosas of Cote d’Ivoire 3-0 in Abidjan in 2004, the coach of the side was quoted as saying that he doubted the kind of players in the Nigeria national team that some of the players in the league were not making the Super Eagles. According to Henry Nwosu, who spoke to our correspondent on the issue, so many Nigerian coaches have never deemed it okay to look at what is within the country, recalling that some of them cut their teeth in the game while playing domestically. “I don’t understand this issue of ‘we have no quality players in the league’. Our coaches have not come down to watch matches and they believe that we have no players to replace the foreign ones. But some of us played well at the national level and we started here,” he said. The position is held by one of the players of Enyimba, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The midfielder noted that national team coaches are lazy and prefer players they watch on televisions. “They are lazy and I don’t blame them; I blame the NFF who has failed to give them mandate. If one of the players in the league had the kind of chances Ighalo had against Argentina, Nigeria would have qualified for the second round,” said the midfielder. Also, in the match against Seychelles, Super Eagles’ nonchalant in vital matches was once again brought to the fore. The players were very casual in their approach. There was regular loss of possession and passes were, in most cases, flawed. For example, defender, Brian Idowu, was not in his best, warranting some television analysts to rue the withdrawal of Ola Aina and calling for the invitation of Enyimba’s Ikouwem Udo Utin, who was praised for the club’s resilience against Djoliba of Mali in the CAF Confederation Cup. The match also showed that the Ndidi, Onazi combo in the middle will hardly work. It should be noted that the duo were in charge in Uyo when South Africa defeated Nigeria 2-0. Onazi was not his usual self in the match and Ndidi was always tackling, thereby needing a box-to-box partner, who will cover for him. Seychelles exploited the middle, especially in the dying moments of the game. Commentators are unanimous in their opinion that the Super Eagles might have played half their full strength and wondered what will become of them if they will engage the other stronger opponents in the group with the lackadaisical approach. The next game will be a home affair against the group leaders, Libya, and Nigerians expect Rohr to ring changes against the hitherto underdogs, who are now brimming with confidence after their goalless affair with South Africa in Johannesburg and their continued leading of the group after two rounds of matches. However, one glaring positive in the match, apart from the 3-0 score line, was Ahmed Musa’s sustained goal scoring feat, which has reassured Nigerians. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 