ABUJA – Federal Government said it has so far disbursed N82bn as loans to more than 350,000 farmers under the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP). The Anchor Borrowers Programme is being implemented by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which enables rice farmers to obtain loans at single digit interest rate. Senator Udoma Udo Udoma announced this yesterday in Abuja at a media briefing for the 24th Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG). Udoma said that in order to combat hunger and achieve food security in the country, 14 moribund fertiliser blending plants had been revitalised through the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (PFI), with a total capacity of 2.3million metric tonnes of NPK fertiliser. To this end, he said Nigeria’s milled rice production had increased by 60 per cent and since 2016; eight new rice mills have been brought into production. Commenting on the NESG slated for October 22—23 in Abuja, the minister said it would focus on good governance as a path to sustainable human and economic development to achieve the goals of Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). According to him, “the summit provided a forum for dialogue among top policymakers and corporate leaders. “It brings together government officials, representatives of the private sector, development partners, the civil society organisations and the academia to reflect on issues constraining our national development with the aim of building consensus so as to evolve common strategies and policy framework for addressing these issues,” he said. The theme of this year’s summit, ‘Poverty to Prosperity: Making Governance and Institutions Work,’ Udoma explained had been structured along five key thematic areas of corruption and rule of law, effective public institutions, sustainable economic opportunities, human development and participation and citizens’ rights. He expressed optimism that 2018 Summit would present a good opportunity for discussions among leaders and citizens to deepen civic engagement on how to accelerate the achievement of the governance component of ERGP. Earlier, Mr. Laoye Jaiyeola, the Chief Executive Officer of NESG, thanked the Federal Government for its consistent support in the last 24 years the summit had held. Jaiyeola said the two-day programme would contribute immensely in addressing the issues of good governance, which would in turn assist in pushing the country from poverty to the path of prosperity. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 