OSOGBO – Two dominant political parties, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have engaged themselves in a rat race over the rerun governorship election in six units of four local government councils of the state since Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the September 22nd Governorship Election held in the state inconclusive. Consequently, the rerun election will take place on Thursday September 27th 2018 in the affected areas. In the results announced by the returning officer for the election who is also the Vice Chancellor of Federal University of Technology (FUTA), Akure, Joseph Adeola Fiwape said the PDP candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke pull a total votes of 254,698 to beat the candidate of APC, Alhaji Gboyega Isiaka Oyetola to second position with 254,345 votes and former Deputy Governor of Osun State, Senator Iyiola Omisore of Social Democratic Party (SDP) polled a total votes of 120,049. The returning officer said out of 767,955 total valid votes, 47,843 votes were rejected while a total number of 3,498 votes were cancelled in six units of four local government councils of the state. According to him, 393 votes were cancelled in unit 001, another 547 votes in unit 003 and 387 votes cancelled in Orolu local government council of the state over alleged snatching of ballot boxes. “Also in unit 010 in Ife South, there was malfunctioning of card readers and in Oyere II in Ife North where voters resorted to voting without card readers which is against the new Electoral Law that emphasized its uses in any election and the election results were also cancelled. Fiwape further said that the presiding officer in unit 017, ward 5 in Osogbo absconded with votes cast leading to its cancellation of exercise in that area with total registration voters of 884. He said that because of the above facts, he could not return the candidate with the highest number of votes due to the fact that the margin between the winner and runner up is small to the number of votes cancelled and according to the Electoral Act of 2010, the differences between the leading candidate and runner up is just 353 and to that effect could not return PDP candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke winner of the governorship election. He therefore declared the election inconclusive saying INEC will fix appropriate date for the rerun of election in those areas. Since then, the two leading political parties in the race had engaged in series of meeting and dialogues with people that matters in the political space across the state on how to ensure victory at the end of the rerun governorship election in the state. The rerun election has also attracted the attention of bigwig politicians outside the state aside from various interests from within. Party leaders from both sides have placed eagle eye like or close watch in monitoring events and happenings in the affected polling units. To make the rerun election more interesting, the leadership of PDP and APC had approached the governorship candidate of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Senator Iyiola Omisore who came third in the governorship election and who they believe is very strong in Ife area, for support. Also, the Senate President, Bukola Saraki visited Omisore in Ile-Ife his country home soliciting for his support for PDP being his former political party. Saraki at a closed door meeting he had with Omisore in Ile-Ife did not hide his mission to the ancient town of Ile Ife when he told reporters that he came to solicit for Omisore’s support over the rerun adding that they agreed in principle with Omisore’s conditions to get his support for the exercise. According to him, Omisore was a major stakeholder in Osun and therefore central to peace, growth, development and good government in Osun. His words: “we had a fruitful discussion with Senator Omisore. He used to be with us. And we believe he is helping us now. I am optimistic of a good outing for PDP. “After meeting with him, I am more optimistic now that with his support, PDP will win. We are confident of a good outing. I am more confident now. Saraki however expressed optimism that the Peoples Democratic Party will win the election and Senator Ademola Adeleke declared winner of the election. But Omisore was said to have list some conditions for both APC and PDP to get his support. Omisore said he would be willing to support any political party that would implement his agenda of good governance, payment of full salaries to workers and prompt payment of pensioners allowances. Omisore said: “I have given my programmes to both APC and PDP. My programme is like this; payment of salaries and pensions. Good governance is what is important to me. “Anyone between the two that will do that will get my support. I am passionate about Osun and my interest is the welfare of the people of this state. That I have told those sent to me. At the appropriate time, we will tell you where we are going.” Omisore’s father, Oba David Omisore, is the traditional ruler of Garage Olode, a town in Ife South, where rerun election would take place. Both the APC and PDP have the chances of winning most units listed for rerun election because they have put their arsenal in motion to lure people into voting for them. It is also evidently cleared that vote buying will take the centre stage of mobilizing voters in the affected areas even as some voters were ready to make money out of it. PDP Chances In Ife North and Ife South. In Ife North and Ife South, aside from the fact that the father of Senator of Iyiola Omisore is the current traditional ruler of Garage Olode in Ife South Local Government Council, both councils is traditional political stronghold of Senator Iyiola Omisore. It would be recalled that Omisore polled over 20,000 votes in Saturday election from Ife Central and did very well in other Ife areas. Whichever political party Senator Iyiola Omisore supported is likely to have an edge in the two councils. There is no doubt the fact that APC will also make certain inroad into the area because of its performance in the areas last Saturday. In unit 001, 003 and 004 in Orolu Local Government, PDP will also have an edge because the area is known to be dominated by democrats. That is not however to say that APC will not also have some substantial votes from the area. APC Chances in Unit 017, Ward 5 Alekunwodo Osogbo. Ordinarily, Osogbo is known to be stronghold for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the party will make a headway in the area but it has to work hard because of some civil servants living in the area may serve as bottleneck to APC victory in the area. This was evident as most civil servants were said to be banters and congratulating themselves on Monday when they resumed work on the outcome of the election. It is clear that unit dominated by public servants may not give best result for the ruling party. Despite all these, the Director General of APC Campaign, Hon. Ajibola Famurewa has expressed optimistic that his political party in spite of 353 votes deficit, the party has the chance of coming out victorious at the end of the day. Famurewa who commended the people of the state for turning out well and for conducting themselves in a peaceful manner during last Saturday’s governorship election urged them to resist every provocation from the opposition who are currently exhibiting desperation. The people should not give them any room to truncate the relative peace the state is experiencing. He said the people of the state had demonstrated a high level of democratic culture in the most keenly-contested election in Nigeria. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 