ASABA – A non-governmental organization (NGO), known as “I am a Member of Government”, and 538 sacked Delta Line workers have presented N22.5 million for the gubernatorial ambition of Dr Cairo Ojougboh The presentation the money, which took place in Agbor, is to enable him purchase the party’s expression and nomination forms on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Frank Nwabuike, who spoke on behalf of the sacked Delta Line workers, said that they came together to raise funds for him, He said about 538 of them stand behind the aspirant, saying, ‘’If you multiply that number by five in each family, you have over 3,000 votes already. We are solidly behind you because we are confident that you have the interest of Deltans at heart.” Ojuigboh said the financial commitment of Deltans towards his ambition was enough evidence that Deltans are listening and are tired of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state in the last 19 years, adding, “I am happy beyond words.” He promised to change the history and development of the state when he becomes the governor, saying, “Those monies you made efforts to contribute; it is actually your widows mite, that is what you used to purchase this form”, assuring them that the effort would not be in vain. The gubernatorial aspirant said his administration would give Deltans good governance and would not embezzle public funds, “There will be money for education, infrastructure development, for health, cultural development, tourism and for all of us to be happy,’’ stated. He urged Deltans to redouble their efforts to ensure that he clinched the governorship come 2019, “I know that God will lead us there, I am really overwhelmed. I am surprised that you hear our cries, that our speeches and our efforts are heard and seen.” Ojuigboh added. Ojougboh, who disclosed that the event coincided with his 59th birthday, said as a man with conscience, “you should deemphasize your personal wealth and the wealth of your family. You should emphasize the wealth for all”. Also, Dr Ebi Waboke, who spoke on behalf of the NGO, said their membership cut across all strata of society, noting that Deltans crave for good governance in order to feel the impact of government. “The people of Delta State are in dire need of good governance,” he said. According to him, the only way to go about it was to participate in democracy and exercising their voting rights. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 