Umuahia – Governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State, Chidike Ukauwa has said that any attempt by the leadership of the party to impose any governorship candidate on members of the party during its governorship primary would lead to the party losing the state at the 2019 governorship election. Ukauwa, who stated this in a chat with members of the Correspondents’ Chapel of Nigeria Union of Journalists in Umuahia, on Friday, said what the party stakeholders should choose a credible candidate that would wrestle out power from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led administration in the state. He stated further that for a credible candidate to flag the APC ticket in 2019 general election in the state, issues concerning Charter of Equity must be discarded, saying an attempt to introduce such by the Donatus Nwankpa led-APC in the state would not only spell doom for the party but would deny it the chances of wrestling power from the PDP. Ukauwa maintained that APC has not considered zoning in their guidelines, pointing out that it was worrisome that some stakeholders, who had struggled to ensure that the party established structures in the state as according to him if the present scenario is allowed it will jettison the chances of the party to actualize its dreams of taking power in 2019. According to him the State is in dare need of visionary, focused and purposeful leadership that would turn around the state from its dark old days. Said he, “I am sick and tired of Okezie Ikpeazu-led government in Abiaand for the State to bounce back in future a serious sacrifice must be made to get the desired change. “Look at Umuahia as a State Capital, it is a mere glorified village, no infrastructure, no development, life generally has  become less attractive yet people are still aspiring to remain in power despite their abysmal performance during period under review. The APC chieftain who is also the Student National Ambassador in Nigeria further hinted that the speculation making the round concerning his withdrawal from governorship ambition in the State was laughable and not the outrageous nomination fee imposed by the APC but that his decision was informed when he learnt that Dr Uche Ogah whom he claimed has all the qualities to govern Abia State in 2019 indicated his interest to run for governorship. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 