LAGOS – In its tradition of inviting professionals that cut across diverse sectors of the economy to speak on topical issue during its Business Luncheon for its members and invited guests, the Business Club Ikeja (BCI) at its Business Luncheon for the month of August, 2018 harped on healthy lifestyles with the theme:  “Health, The Wealth To Guard”. The keynote speaker, Dr. M.B.O. Lawal, a retired head of medical services, UAC Plc, advised that there was need for workers, and business people alike to pay attention to their health on daily basis as doing this would go a long way in prolonging their lives. He advised against over-eating, adding that “It is wise to refrain from monotonous diet,” adding that people should endeavour to change their diets, by resorting to balanced diets, and constantly observer proper rest. The medical expert further advised that people should always eat right, walk and undergo regular medical checkups, asserting that 5 per cent die from natural death while the remaining 95 per cent die natural death. He added: “If you eat healthy, you remain healthy, if you eat unhealthily, you remain unhealthy.” In his speech at the event, Leke Odude, President, BCI, said the objective of hinging the luncheon on a topic that bothers on health was to continually draw the attention of members and the public to the importance of protecting their health, in spite of prevailing challenges. Against the foregoing background, he disclosed that the club was in the process of putting a garden bar in place. He noted that the relaxation facility was informed by the need to serve members who would want to always come around to relax at the garden, and in the process reduce their stress. He assured that the club would improve on the infrastructure and make it stand the test of time. He emphasised that various activities were being looked into, and lined up in the year for members and potential members alike. He said efforts in that direction was being geared to attract members “who have been lukewarm because there are no much activity on ground, and as well give active members a sense of belonging, and also attract new members to the club.” Odude promised that Business Luncheon would be organised on regular basis with well-chosen topics that would be beneficial to its members, assuring that cerebral speakers that are conversant with the chosen topic for the luncheon would always be brought to highlight the event. He assured that a past chairman of the Nigerian American Chambers and Commerce (NACC) and the Managing Director of Osun River Basin Development Authority respectively would be invited to talk on agriculture at the Luncheons that would hold before the end of the year. According to him, the emphasis of the luncheons would be on African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA). Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 