The race for the senatorial ticket of Lagos East senatorial district in Lagos State is getting tensed as party leaders, council bosses and their deputies in the district have thrown their weight behind the aspiration of Adebayo Osinowo. On Monday, chairmen of the local government areas and local council development areas in the district endorsed the candidacy of Osinowo to bag the Lagos East senatorial ticket of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The council bosses made the ratification at a parley with the aspirant, held in his Ogudu, Lagos home. The motion for the endorsement of Osinowo as the preferred candidate was moved by Mukadas Ogidan, chairman of Lekki LCDA while the chairman of Igbogbo/Baiyeku LCDA, Comrade Sesan Daini, seconded the motion on behalf of all the chairmen in the district. After the discussion between the aspirant and the council bosses, the chairmen resolved to throw their weight behind Osinowo largely because of the fact that his wealth of experience and legislative abilities are required at the National Assembly. According to those who spoke at the parley, the aspirant is the most qualified for the job at this crucial time in the history of the state. ‘We have come to the realisation that supporting. Osinowo for the position is the very best thing for the district in 2019. Thanking the council chairmen for the endorsement, Osinowo said he was encouraged by their gesture and as such he was determined to serve the people of the district at the National Assembly. Same day, Osinowo visited prominent party leaders in the district, who are also members of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) in the state. The first point of call was the home of Bushura Alebiosu, where he and his team were received by the politician, who declared his support for Osinowo. “It is true I have received an aspirant before you came. You are right that I raised his hand. But that was then. You are my son. We may disagree on some issues but I say boldly that you are a good material for the position you are seeking. I pray for you that you will win. Like those who succeeded before you, you will succeed,” he said. The aspirant went to the homes of Alhaji Seriki Bamun, Sofola and Senator Anthony Adefuye. In their separate speeches, all the prominent leaders endorsed Osinowo for the Senate ticket. Similarly, the committee of Council Vice Chairmen in the district also pronounced their support for the aspirant. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 