Organised labour in the country yesterday issued 14-day industrial action to enable the Federal Government tidy ground on the national minimum wage for workers in the country. They said at a press conference in Lagos that they have run out of patience as the government has been carrying out actions that are capable of frustrating the efforts of the Tripartite Committee which was charged with the responsibility of arriving at an acceptable new minimum wage. It would be recalled that Dr. Chris Ngige, Minister Labour and Employment, had recently said that the Committee should adjourn indefinitely to enable him to do further consultations with the government. Comrade  Ayubba Wabba , President, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama , President, Trade Union Congress (TUC) and Comrade Joe Ajaero, President, United Labour Centre (ULC),the leadership of the Organised labour , while address newsmen stated that the pronouncement by the minister is capable of rubbishing the work of the Committee as well as raising serious concerns about the readiness of the government to accede to the putting together of a new national minimum wage. They added that the Minister’s pronouncement has generated considerable tension among workers and provoked sharp reactions from the unions which justifiably argue that the government is only out to waste the time of workers and is not prepared to pay a new national minimum wage. “This press conference is made inevitable  by the latest provocative statement by the Honourable Minister of Labour, Dr Chris Ngige, who said a few days ago that the Committee should adjourn indefinitely to enable him to do further consultations with the Government. “His pronouncement came at a time the Committee was finalising its work of arriving at a definite figure for submission to Government”. They argued that it is expedient for Nigerian workers and the general public are informed on the latest development as the organised labour view the pronouncement with great concern, suspicion, and outrage, adding that the new antic certainly is not acceptable to Nigerian workers who had expected a new national minimum wage since 2016, but who out of uncommon sacrifice and patriotism hearkened to government’s appeal and the process was delayed. They said the implementation of a new national minimum wage which necessitated the inauguration of the National Minimum Wage Committee in November 2017, but commenced work in March 2018 with timelines to deliver on its mandate of arriving at a new national minimum wage in August/ September 2018 has lingered for so long. They expressed disappointment that despite the fact that the committee was about concluding it works alongside other social partners or stake holders that the minister’s comment is worrisome giving the fact that the Committee has so far received memoranda and inputs from 21 state governments, specialized Agencies of the Federal Government, the Organised Private Sector, Organised Labour and the general public. They stated that more worrisome is the fact Dr. Ngige had assured workers during the 40th anniversary celebration of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in February this year that workers should expect a new national minimum wage in September this year. “We wonder what has gone amiss between February 28 and now.  Or do we assume that the Honourable Minister is acting a script? For the sake of emphasis, the national minimum wage was not only legally due about two years ago, the increase in the pump price of petroleum products by this administration with fundamental consequential effects on the citizenry, the increase in electricity tariff, the massive devaluation of the Naira leading to a punitive exchange rate, and hyper-inflation, all of which led to a rising cost of living for workers and other Nigerians made a new national minimum wage not only necessary but urgent.” The labour leaders, however, stated that it is saddened to note that the recommendations of the Technical Committee on Minimum Wage and Palliatives chaired by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation which was mandated to fashion out mitigatory strategy, policies, and programmes to cushion the vagaries of the increase in the pump price of petroleum products have not been implemented to date. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 