Lafia / ABUJA – Gas explosion at Monaco Gas plant within the premises of Natson Filling Station on Jos Road, Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital, on Monday killed scores of persons while 37 others were injured, according to eyewitnesses. The eyewitnesses, who spoke to Daily Independent, said they saw more than 10 corpses at the scene of the incident. They said the corpses were those of passers-by whose vehicles, motorcycles, and tricycles were affected by the explosion. The eyewitnesses said over 10 vehicles, five motorcycles, and three tricycles were burnt. Deborah Dangara, Public Relations Officer of Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital, Lafia, confirmed that corpses and casualties from the explosion were brought to the hospital. She said the number of deaths could not be given until they get comprehensive report. She said staff of the hospital had suspended all other activities to attend to the gas explosion victims. Meanwhile, the Nasarawa State government has expressed shock and sadness over the incident in Lafia. The Deputy Governor, Silas Agara, said during on-the-spot assessment visit to the scene of the incident that the government would take the necessary steps to unravel the cause of the accident. Agara, accompanied by the Commissioner of Police, Yahaya Bello, and Chairman, Lafia Local Government, Aminu Muazu, described the explosion as most unfortunate. He expressed his condolences and sympathy to the victims on behalf of Gov. Umaru Al-Makur and assured the people of government’s readiness to respond to the emergency and ensure a thorough investigation of the incident. Agara applauded the security and emergency response teams for their quick intervention and advised the public to stay away from the scene to allow relevant agencies carry out their investigation into the matter. He and his entourage later visited the 37 victims with various degrees of injuries at the Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital, Lafia. On the casualty figure, Faustina Alegbe, the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Sector Commander in the state, said that two persons died while 37 people were injured. “So far, 37 people are receiving treatment in the hospital but two have been confirmed dead by the doctors. “Tomorrow, we will go back to the hospital to do an update. But I can tell you that I was in the hospital myself to do a physical count and as at now, 37 are receiving treatment with two dead,” she said. Reacting, President Muhammadu Buhari has offered his condolences to the government and people of Nasarawa State over the tragic fire incident. The president, who was briefed about the scale of destruction of lives and property expressed grave concern over the high toll in the fire incident. A statement by Garba Shehu, presidential media aide on Monday,  indicated that the president also consoled the bereaved families and appealed to the state and federal authorities and well meaning persons in the state to ensure that the best medical assistance was provided to the injured persons. “I wish that this kind of tragedy never happens to any part of the country,” said the president. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 