In the face of the telecoms giant’s quagmire, analysts, who spoke to Daily Independent, said the government should not condone the company’s serial infractions, but cautioned against actions that would be disruptive to the company’s operations, the telecoms industry, markets and the economy in general, given the timing and the level of penalty. The Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives Company (FDC), Bismarck Rewane, in a presentation at the September Lagos Business School (LBS) Breakfast session, said the $8.1 billion the CBN is asking the company to refund amounts to approximately 80 percent of the total market capitalisation of MTN Group, the parent company of MTN Nigeria. He said the level of the penalty and timing could disrupt the company, industry, economy and the markets, noting that portfolio investors are particularly jittery since the imposition of the penalty and have started dumping stocks. “The penalty almost killed the MTN Ghana IPO; only 35 percent successful,” he said, pointing out that the actions of both agents of government could amount to cannibalisation of an industry dominant player. Rewane added that MTN is the only company in Nigeria that can and will invest upwards of $1.5 billion on telco capex annually in the next five years. Some analysts have cited CBN’s decision as another manifestation of the “rising arbitrary behaviour of policy, regulatory and law enforcement authorities” contributing to the country’s failing economic health. Coming on the heels of the second quarter 2018 gross domestic product (GDP report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the report, which showed the economy declining further by -0.45 per cent points, from about 1.95 percent in the first quarter, to about 1.5 percent, identified the communications sector as the main driver of the modest growth. Telecoms sector accounted for 11 of the 11.8 per cent GDP growth in the second quarter. Industry observers say CBN’s sanctions on MTN, a leading player and major employer in the sector, will slow down investment and ultimately dissuade foreign direct investments (FDIs) to the entire economy. Others see a tinge of blackmail in the argument. True, MTN is a major player in the telecoms sector. True, it has created jobs for many Nigerians, but that should not be a license for lawlessness. Commenting on the developments, MTN Nigeria Corporate Relations Executive, Tobe Okigbo, said, “We have applied today (Monday) in the Federal High Court of Nigeria for injunctive relief restraining the CBN and the AGF from taking further action in respect of their orders, while we continue to engage with the relevant authorities on these matters. “The allegations being made involve issues that appear to be complex and so are easily misunderstood and misinterpreted. They are made even more confusing when the relevant authorities send conflicting messages and instructions and act in a way that appears un-coordinated and at cross purposes. “The simple reality is that MTN Nigeria has never repatriated dividends on the CCIs referenced by the CBN and that MTN is fully compliant with Nigerian tax law. “With situations like this, it is vital for both the government, regulators and the company to have absolute clarity on the nature of both the allegations being made and the processes that are being followed. In the absence of this clarity, our only option is to seek judicial intervention and to ask the courts to act as adjudicator.” MTN’s penchant for disobeying established rules of engagement, abuse of laid down procedures, or deliberate subversion of regulatory directives could as much be adversarial to the economy. Speaking with Sunday Independent, Mr. Deolu Ogunbanjo, President, National Association of Telecommunications Subscribers (NATCOMS) said the government needs to exercise some restraint since MTN has gone to court. He said the calls by some people to make the telecoms company to leave Nigeria will not be the solution to the issues at hand In his words: “The allegations against MTN Nigeria are serious. But since they have gone to court and claims that they did not commit any financial infraction, it is wise to allow the court to give its verdict. If it is found that they are guilty as charged, they must pay all they are owing; but if otherwise, fine. My simple advice for MTN Nigeria is that they need to quickly list their on the floor of the Nigerian Stock market. It has dragged for long. According to experts, the request by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) that the MTN Group should refund 8.1 billion dollars illegally repatriated from Nigeria will frustrate the efforts of the telecom giant toward the listing of its shares on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). They opined that it would not augur well for the country’s economy as MTN has the largest share of Nigerian telecom market with 36.39 per cent.  Airtel has 26.10 per cent as at February, Globacom (26.03 per cent) and 9mobile (11.49 per cent) Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria (PSAN) Chief Boniface Okezie advised CBN and MTN Group to resolve the issue as  he expected a resolution on the matter to avoid a systemic banking crisis, given that the repayment of 8.1 billion dollars, which is about half of MTN’s market capitalisation, could threaten its Nigerian bankers. “Talking about the CBN allegation that MTN repatriated 8.1 billion dollars out of the country. It is an issue that can be resolved by the two parties because there is no way such huge amount of money could have been transferred by the commercial banks without the knowledge and approval of CBN in the first place. “Let MTN and the affected banks engage with the relevant authorities and face CBN to vigorously defend their position on this matter,” Okezie said. Apart from the views expressed by economic experts on the issue in favour of MTN, the Senate in its plenary had absolved the telecom company of forex transfer breach, and urged CBN to sanction Stanbic IBTC Besides, the Senate in the same vein approved a report largely exonerating MTN Nigeria of foreign exchange infractions after being accused of illegally repatriating $14 billion to its parent. But the Senate report also asked Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to sanction Stanbic IBTC Bank “for improper documentations in respect of capital repatriation and loan repayments” on behalf of MTN. The upper legislative chamber had agreed in September last year to investigate if Africa’s biggest telecoms firm unlawfully repatriated $13.92 billion from Nigeria – its most lucrative market which generates a third of its revenue – between 2006 and 2016. A spokesman for MTN said, “We welcome the report. We will study it in more detail. As we’ve placed on record previously, we have always insisted that our actions have been compliant with the law in this regard.” According to the Senate, the investigation did not show any proof of collusion to contravene Nigeria’s foreign exchange laws. Most analysts spoken to on the issue were unanimous that the slam on MTN may not augur well for the telecom giant, saying that it would affect its ratings and on consequently leads to job loss. As they rightly stated, there were indication last week that Fitch is making plans to downgrade MTN’s credit ratings amidst CBN debacle. This development was said to have followed the fines placed by the CBN on the telecom giant last week.  The credit rating firm, Fitch, has revealed plans to place the company on Rating Watch Negative (RWN). MTN, which is on the ‘BB+’ Issuer Default Rating (IDR) is currently embroiled in allegations of tax violations and illegal repatriation of money from Nigeria. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 