Dr. Clarkson Aribogha, Lawyer/Human Right Activist, in this interview, spoke with JOHN AMUDO, by appealing to the Minister of Transport, Hon. Rotimi Amaechi to meet with President Muhammadu Buhari to provide funds for the dredging of the Escravos bar in Warri, insisting that the project if implemented will fetch more money to coffers of the Federal Government. Excerpt: What is the situation in Niger-Delta region is the Federal Government showing concern about the development of the area? Going by the massive wealth the region is producing for the country as a whole, one would say that the region has not been fairly treated. When you compare what we are producing, it is like giving out 99% to government while we are getting just only one percent through the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC); in fact, the region is being sub-changed in all aspect. What do you have to say about Federal Government tactical delay on the dredging of Escravos Bar to Warri? The truth is that everything is not about the Escravos Bar, Government should know that Escravos Bar is just the entering point, but Warri port is the main thing. We want the dredging from the Escravos down to Warri port so that vessels can be coming to Warri. We also want the Federal Government to know that dredging of Escravos Bar will assist in no small measure to bring in more revenue to the Government. Politically, it is Lagos port that all vessels go to for a long time now whereas there are other ports such as Calabar, Burutu, Sapele and Koko ports that are dormant. Presently, Lagos port is congested and government is complaining bitterly while other ports are not in use. If I may ask, why only Lagos port that is operating years back? Warri port was operating, but some persons favoured only Lagos port, hence the rest ports in the South-South, especially in Delta state have remained dormant. The long and short of it is that the conspirators want everybody to go to Lagos so that they can make more money at the expense of the other ports lying fallow in Delta. Infact nothing is wrong with Port-Harcourt, Warri, Burutu, Sapele and Koko ports, it is people who connived in ensuring that only the Lagos port that is functioning. My candid advice is that Government should make effort to ensure that all the ports in Niger Delta are functioning. Sir, are the multi-national oil companies responding to the needs of their host communities? Not at all, the oil companies are the worse; because they keep on marginalising the host communities. If you look at the multi-national companies they are all politicians because they have totally refused to fulfill their promises to the oil producing communities; above all both state and the Federal Government are not helping matters, they have refused to respond to the hue and cry of the oil producing communities. A lot of the areas have suffered so many damages, such as the devastation of our river by oil spill, in fact, there is conspiracy somewhere. Most unfortunate thing is that Federal Government has decided to abandon the region because they are not doing much through the NDDC. I want to use this opportunity to appeal to both the Federal Government and the oil companies to convert gas flaring to light in Odidi 1, 2 and Egwa 2 where large quantity of oil are being produced. What is your advice to the Minister of Transport, Hon. Rotimi Amaechi about both the dredging of the Escravos Bar and the dormant ports in the Niger Delta? If Hon. Amaechi fails to take action, well it is left for him but he should remember that he is from the Niger-Delta region. In fact, he should meet Mr. President to release funds for the gigantic projects. Sir how would you describe the unhealthy situation at the national assembly majority of Nigeria see that it as a threat to our nascent democracy? Well, the unhealthy situation at the National Assembly is not unusual, defection is allowed in any democratic setting. Defection In politics is not a crime, it is allowed except the motive behind it is so personal otherwise it is allowed. But majority of Nigerians see it as a threat to our nascent democracy. What is your take on this? Well the defection could affect any political party; however it happened during Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan administration although it was not pronounced like the recent one that happened at the National Assembly. But people should know that if President Muhammadu Buhari is so desperate of coming back for a second term, it is a matter of meeting with the INEC chairman to declare him as president but such action is capable of setting the nation on fire. However, aggrieved APC members, including the party chairman are saying that the defectors must be impeached because they have committed treasonable offence. What is your comment on this issue? On the other hand, the same APC members are accusing Senator Bukola Saraki  as the brain behind the defection but I have not seen any substantial evidence linking the senate president for the action, in fact there should be clear evidence before they nail or impeach Saraki and other defectors. Sir, people are still urging President Buhari not to contest because of his failing health. What is your take on this? Yes, I can say that those telling Buhari not to contest have the right to say so because they have observed that Mr. President is not too fit to come back. But nobody can force him out, unless the electorates decide to vote him out. The present government has less than a year to go. What do you think Nigerians have benefitted since Buhari came on board? The performance or achievement of the incumbent government varies. For instance, since they came on board, the government has been fighting insecurity, corruption and other worrisome issues. In fact, every political system differs, but it depends on how the government of the day is managing the crisis at hand. As an Ijaw opinion leader, can you comment on the present crisis tearing Ogulagha community apart? Well, I am from Ogulagha and also from Gbaramatu kingdom. So I can comment on the ongoing crisis. Although, I might not know the details of the crisis, but the little I can say is that the crisis boils down to greed for money because when there is crisis and the leaders cannot handle it, then they could be described as selfish and greedy leaders. What is the way out? The only way out is that people should abhor selfishness and greed; nobody should convert the money belonging to the community to his or her personal use, whether you are a leader or traditional ruler. In fact, the money coming to the community does not belong to one person; people should not be self-centered. This is the true situation in Ogulagha. Do you support the establishment of state police? Yes, state police is needed to compliment the role of the existing police force. Besides, it will act as check and balances to ensure that things are put in the right perspective. Sir, tell us why Investing in skills is vital to economic growth? As you know, the demand for job-specific skills has been growing around the world. Globally, firms say that the quality and supply of skilled labour is a major roadblock to their growth. Employers around the world are also demanding that new hires have both technical and “soft” skills. This is because Economic growth has been accompanied by a shift in the composition of GDP away from agriculture to the higher-value-added industrial and service sectors. Nigerians employed in these sectors—as machine operators, technicians, craftspeople, sales personnel, professionals, and managers—need different skills and more education and training than those in a predominantly agricultural economy. Competing in today’s global economy is complex. Countries not only need advanced technical and vocational skills, but also a flexible workforce that can adjust to rapid shifts in demand. That is why investing in skills is so vital to a country’s economic growth and competitiveness. In particular, education systems must be oriented towards producing youth who have both strong foundational skills as well as specific skills for jobs. In India, for example, the Government launched a sweeping reform targeting skills training for 400 million workers by 2022 and we expect such initiative to take place in Nigeria We expect the 36 states, including the Federal Capital Territory to initiate the building job-relevant skills which   is a pivotal step towards building a more competitive and efficient middle-income economy. Healthy economic growth and structural changes in the economy have been driving increased demand for skilled labour in Nigeria However, I quite agree that the skills gap that has emerged with the changing labour market conditions may be starting to hold back the economy. Why has skills development become important? I am of the view that the trend in today’s global economy, it is important to remember that skills, while critical, are not a panacea for all ills. While a skilled workforce is necessary for growth and for alleviating poverty, skills do not automatically lead to jobs and growth. Skills development needs to be part of a comprehensive economic development strategy, and job creation and lifelong skills development should be pursued together. First, today’s global economy requires advanced, flexible and fungible skills. Workers must be able to adjust not only to domestic shifts in demand but also to what is happening in the global economy and labor market. Second, with the right skills in the workforce, firms can be more productive and competitive; and the economy can grow faster, creating more and better jobs. For instance, employers here say that the quality and supply of skilled technicians is the third-most significant constraint on company growth, after concerns about power supply and taxes.  Effectively skilling the workforce will enhance productivity and growth in Nigeria. Third, and the other side of this coin, is that skills are essential both to reduce poverty and to improve personal well-being.  There is international evidence that cognitive, social, and technical skills affect wage premiums, earnings, and employment and occupation status. With the right skills, workers will have a better chance of being employed, or being well-equipped to set up their own business and in turn create jobs for others. Please, suggest to the Government and Nigerians the kind of skills that should be produced and how? There is urgent need for basic cognitive skills, such as literacy and numeracy, are typically acquired in primary school—and depend crucially on the quality of education. Job-specific skills are supplied by higher education institutions, non-formal training centers (for example, firm-based training), and informal training (such as apprenticeships). Soft skills may be acquired at any point, often by interactions with family members, peers, or colleagues. Skills development is a cumulative process that occurs at every stage, takes place in a variety of settings, engages a highly diverse clientele, involves multiple delivery mechanisms, and must constantly respond to changing occupational requirements. An efficient skills development system embraces the entire spectrum of education and training and provides opportunities for lifelong learning. On a serious note, while most of us would agree on the importance of having the right skills, there is often disagreement over what types of skills are right and how they should be produced. It helps to unpack the skills development process a bit. A worker’s skill set consists of cognitive, soft, and job-specific skills, which are shaped in different ways. What many do not realise is that the foundation that underpins a person’s ability to learn and acquire skills is hardwired in early childhood, and depends on good nutrition, early stimulation, and a safe environment. Attention to early childhood development can increase learning ability and raise wages in adult life. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 