Barr Chuka Ezenwune, the Chairman of House committee on Public Petition and Conflict Resolution, represents Idemili South constituency at the Anambra State House of Assembly on the platform of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). He spoke to JOY ANIGBOGU about his activities in his constituency, APGA’s position as one of the major opposition parties in the country, among other issues. Excerpts: Can you talk about the committee that you head in the house? We look at petitions from the public against any government functionaries in the State. It is part of the work of legislators not only to make laws but to oversight the activities of other arms of government. Pubic petition is a situation whereby a person writes a petition against an office holder who is seen to be abusing the office. If the petition is addressed to the speaker and laid at the table at plenary, we will look into the petition and come out with a report, the house will consider it and adopt a resolution. The defections across political parties, how has it affected your party? Politicians from other parties are defecting to APGA. We have not had any loss so far. We have gained from the defections. If you come to Anambra as of today you will think that there is no other party in existence. We hear of defections in other States but here we are gaining and receiving defectors. We have a senator elected under APGA and one other senator, Stella Oduah defected to APGA from Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). We have two senators at the national assembly. We have two elected House of Representatives members from Anambra, one from Abia and one from Taraba State. We have two House of Representatives members that defected to our party from PDP. As we speak we have six House of Representatives members at the national assembly. I will say that APGA is growing. How prepared is your party to enlarge its fortunes in the South East in particular in 2019 general elections? APGA is the party to beat in 2019. We were robbed of victory by PDP in Abia in 2015. Initially we had the majority in the Abia State house of assembly and through tribunals and courts we became minority. If you observed what happened from the tribunal to apex court, we won at the court of Appeals at a point. It was a keenly contested election. I think that capturing Abia State is still possible for APGA and with the poor performance of Rochas Okorocha in Imo State, Imo State is almost in our hands. We will get Imo State if we field the right candidate. Is your party going to field a presidential candidate in 2019 election? I am not a member of the national working committee. It is the duty of NWC to give such information. When it comes out with its guideline, we will know if there will be any presidential aspirant. Is your party a member of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP)? No we are not part of CUPP. We are standing on our own. I have not heard from our national chairman that we are going into coalition with any party. We are on our own for now and if our leaders feel we can field a presidential candidate we will do that when the time comes. Do you think that INEC will deliver on its promise to give a credible election in 2019? Considering what happened in Ekiti State I won’t say the election was rigged until the tribunal or the courts come out with their verdict. We know that during the 2015 general elections it was massively rigged in Anambra State during the national assembly election. It was when the PDP lost the presidential election that it allowed free and fair elections in the house of assembly elections and we were elected. I think that democracy is growing and people are becoming conscious of that and are ready to defend their rights because it is the right of the people. In 2019 it won’t be business as usual. It will no longer be easy for rigging to be condoled. In the last governorship election in the State, people tried so hard to protect their votes, people stayed behind for the collation in most centres. I was a party agent during the election. People followed us after the collation, copied the result sheets and followed us to the State headquarters of INEC. You can see the extent to which people can now police the results or their mandates. We got feelers that people are worried about the activities of the police in recent time, to the extent of their capability to provide security during the general elections. Do you share the same view? I don’t want to agree that the police are involved in impunity. We believe that the police will carry out the instructions. The police that you see at the booths and collation centres do not act on their own volitions, they carry out instructions given to them. If the police fail to do the right thing, the blame should go to the supervisor, if it is the State; the commissioner of police would be held responsible and should be able to explain why his men are not doing the right thing. Where the commissioner fails to give a proper explanation then the ball would fall in the court of the inspector general of police to tell why the flaws. I think that the IGP gives orders based on instructions from the power that be. During the last election, the police was allowing people from a particular party to walk into the collation centre and stopped others and I do not want to blame them because they were just carrying out instructions. Deepening our democracy means that security agencies have to be neutral. In your preparation for re-election, so far do you have any strong opposition to that aspiration? In democracy there must be challenges when there are no challenges it is not good for democracy. Even in America where we borrowed the model of our democracy, no matter how excellent your performance, you would still have opposition. Somebody must challenge you. Obama, Clinton, Ronald Regan were all challenged. It is the electorates that will assess you and see whether you have lived up to their expectation. I believe that my people will give me a pass mark. I believe that I will still have their mandate. Can we talk about some of the projects that you have been able to attract to your constituency? I will say that I have done my best. I have disturbed the governor to sight some projects in my constituency. Nokwa- Ichida road within my constituency is completed. Construction is ongoing in Oba, it is an expensive project and I told my people that it is not a project that would be completed in one year. Construction work is going on in Ojoto. One has been awarded in my home town. They are lots of other projects, we have the erosion control, and you may note that my constituency is erosion prone. We have community projects, health centres. We have constituency projects all around, in Oba, Ojoto, Nnobi, Nnokwa, Alor. I am working to sight a project each in Awka Etiti and Akwa Ukwu. You know that the fund for constituency project comes annually and people have this misconception that you will just be given the money. At the end of appropriation for the year, after the budget, you will wait for the release. Part of the fund appropriated for this year was just released this week. It is will from the fund that I will consider doing something in Awka Etiti and Akwa Ukwu, then I would have completed the other projects. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 