Senator Kabiru Marafa, a two-time Senator from Zamfara State recently  picked nomination form to contest the governorship election of the state under the All Progressives Congress (APC). In a chat with select journalists, he declared why he is eyeing Governor Abdullazeez Yari seat, among other issues. TONY EZIMAKOR brings an excerpt: Why did you pick the forms for governorship seat instead of those of the Senate? I am not anover ambitious person and I don’t talk until it is necessary. However, I understand the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, which says that every Nigerian, man or woman, has the right to vie for any elective position in Nigeria. The driving force behind my ambition now is the condition under which my people in Zamfara State live today. The issue of insecurity in Zamfara State is a matter of concern for everybody, let alone somebody like me who  Zamfara State has done a great things for, that I am representing the state now. This is my seventh year in the National Assembly. I got to the Senate in 2011. I have nursed the ambition to contest for the governorship in 2011. The attitude of the government in Zamfara State dictates that all, both sons and daughters of Zamfara, must put unite to ensure that we deal with the issue of insecurity decisively. Without fear of any contradiction, there is no government in Zamfara State. Your action is surprising as you have a governor who was elected under your party. Why this sudden change? It is a common knowledge that the governor has variously been described as absentee governor. It is a common knowledge to all of you here that when the people of Zamfara State needed the government to tackle insecurity, the governor absconded and came out publicly to say that he had resigned his position as Chief Security Officer of Zamfara State. In a civilised democracy, he was supposed to resign, or be forced to resign. I feel that is not supposed to be because when a state governor comes out to say that he has resigned his position as Chief Security Officer of state, and he is sitting tight on the seat, spending security votes, spending the money allocated to that state, I don’t know what that is supposed to be called. But, I task him to come out with explanation of what the situation like that needs to be called. I don’t envy anybody aspiring to be the governor of Zamfara State. It is a responsibility.  Like I said, part of Zamfara State, that is the zone I represent, did to me an honour that no amount of sacrifice is too much for the people of Zamfara State. In 2011, we contested against the Federal Government, the state government and the local government. We contested under the platform of the ANPP, which was not in Federal Government at that time, had no state government at that time and no local government. To anybody that is using his senses as yardsticks, I was not supposed to contest. But, I had faith in my God and my people stood solidly behind me because of the way and manner the then PDP treated me. They said go to any party that we will take you and I went to ANPP that didn’t have anything. By the special grace of God, my people brought about the government of Zamfara State at that time because they gave the winning votes. Have you justified that confidence? Has the government in Zamfara justified the confidence reposed in it by people of Zamfara? I’m sure it was not our power, it was not anything. The people believed in us and I believe the government of Zamfara State of today has failed and I think I have a duty, somebody that contributed most in the part of that government, I believe it is the time for me to pay back to my people and give what they have given to us. In an election, this is the reason for my aspiring to run for the governor of Zamfara State. God willing, at least, we will bring succour, bring peace and rest of mind to the good people of Zamfara State. I believe they have done quite a lot for the legacy party since the inception in democracy since 1999 in Zamfara State consistently vote for ANPP and later APC. The issue direct primaries or indirect primaries has become controversial among APC leaders. What are the implications of your party not using direct primaries? First, I don’t think there is any doubt. I have once said it after the conclusion of the congresses, I made a very clear call that I saw the activities of Fifth Columnists in the APC. But, I know they cannot defeat President Buhari in the 2019 election. So, the common fear is the fear of second term of President Muhammadu Buhari. If you cannot defeat him directly, how do you beat him indirectly? So, that was why the congresses were done, deliberately in such a way that they cannot withstand legal scrutiny. In more than 21 states, there were parallel congresses and like I said that time, I don’t need to be a lawyer, I don’t need to be retired judge to know that what held in most of the state was nothing but rubbish. As I said that time, it was just like somebody building an estate and putting price tags on the houses and asking the general public buying the houses to go and inspect, not your choice, but these are my account numbers. If you make your choice, go to the bank and pay into my account, bring your slip, I will give you the keys. Then, after making your payments, you come back and the owner tells you that he is sorry that there is no house for you. If this case is brought before you, what would you say? That was exactly what happened. APC said at that time that anybody that is desirous to contest any party office should go to the bank and make so so payments and produce the teller and collect form to contest. The guidelines said that the party’s constitution provides for consensus. One! But, in the absence of consensus, there should be election. In most of these states, people made payments into APC account, obtained their tellers. But, the governors felt they were demigods that must be worshipped. They felt they are the ones that can determine the attitude of every human being in Nigeria. But, we said, look, you cannot do that. There are some of us that are radically inclined. You can’t threaten us. That is exactly what happened. Now, glory be to God, under the present leadership of the APC today, they swore that these people don’t mean well for this party. So, let us insulate ourselves, our president. that is why the APC said, Presidential election is by direct primaries. This is an admission of failure of the congresses in the states. So, I am very happy that the APC has protected the President because their intentions (the Fifth Columnists), people that refused to leave, people that are friends of President in the day time and worst of President in the night, that is what they wanted to use after the primaries, that maybe after general elections, people would go and recontest, that the President was voted during the primary by illegal delegates. The chairman is a very wise person, highly experienced, and he has the leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who could see through machinations and do the right thing. The rest is for us, the states, we can sort ourselves out. We know ourselves, we know where we came from. We know that all is political. Then, coming back to your question, there are peculiarities from one state to another. In my own state, I don’t have any problem. I wrote to the party through my lawyers because I am in court. I am challenging the illegality of these congresses and I have absolute confidence in my God. I have confidence in the judicial system of Nigeria, I believe they are going to do the right thing, because it is not going to stand anywhere. Having seen that we conducted parallel congresses, I don’t recognise what they have. They don’t recognise what I have. The party here is at liberty to do what they want to do. The very NWC recognised a faction, but thank God, we have the judiciary. We are there. I believe it may take some time, but the judiciary will do the right thing. So, we opted for direct primaries and the reason is simple. We don’t want to be like them. We don’t want to be selfish. We want APC to win Zamfara. They don’t want APC to win Zamfara. They don’t want APC to win Nigeria. There are some of the technicalities on those things, but it doesn’t matter. If the APC headquarters wakes up tomorrow and say that, like I said, we have written, they have written also, they said they want indirect, we said we want direct, it is for the APC headquarters to determine what manner of primary. If APC says go for indirect, I will do my direct. With my own direct, with my own set of executive, they will do their indirect with their own set of executive. So, when the time comes for the court to rule, if they say Marafa is right, I am going home and retire. Thank God I have done business before I came to Senate. I take risk, I am a risk taker and I don’t believe in those following sheepishly and uselessly. I will never do that. I will never succumb to that kind of insult. That’s the reality of Zamfara. You are in the Senate and you are a Senator on the APC platform, the issue of removing Senate President has been in the front burner where people have met severally and it is believed that some deals on automatic tickets have been made… (Cuts in: Who said so? They met at the meeting where the issue of automatic ticket was canvassed. My question is, do you believe that the Senate President should be impeached or should resign? I think that is an internal problem. Every institution has what is called its own internal mechanisms. We are constitutional arms of government and we have our laws and ways of conducting business. So, I think we should subtract politics from that. When we get to the chamber, we know ourselves and we know what to do and I am sure the Senate President also knows what to do and know how to go about it. When we get to the bridge, we know how to cross it. The international community talked about peculiarities of Zamfara. I am asking, you, to make it open to us, do you want to tell us Senator Marafa has a peculiar security tips he wants to use to solve Zamfara problem and the governor didn’t know about. What is that peculiar thing to bring peace to Zamfara State? Honesty and sincerity of purpose.  That is what is lacking today. And the answer to this is clear. And that is why the Minister of Internal Affairs once had course to say that if you like, deploy all the military in Nigeria to Zamfara, they can achieve nothing. Because, the government on ground is not interested in anything. Like I said earlier, the governor has been variously an absentee governor. As I am talking right now, he is not in this country. Imagine, the Chief Security Officer has been absent from this country for more that nine days. In his absence men and women are crossing the river, fleeing their hometowns. When the governor came back last time, he went straight to Villa to attend National Economic Council (NEC) meeting. He was on air talking about the illegality of freezing of Benue State account. Not even his own! In a civilised society, like I said, the press are supposed to chase him out. It is criminal! When your people are being killed in thousands, see what happened in Benue. 73 people were killed and Benue dramatised it. I am not supporting what they did, but they have shown and say they are responsible to their people. In my state, they did not summon everybody that is involved! In Benue, everybody was summoned because they were serious. Before you know it, Vice President was in Benue! The President was also there and so also every well-meaning Nigerians were in Benue. In Zamfara, between 2011 and today, we have lost over 15,000 people. If you take a minimum of two wives per person, that means we have minimum of 30,000 widows. Even if you have a minimum of four children per person, yours sincerely standing here, I have nine children. So, if you take just a minimum of four, four multiply by 15, we have 60,000 orphans. Who is feeding these children? Nobody is asking, nobody is interested. There are no IDPs in Zamfara. Nobody is asking these questions. Who is taking care of these widows? I understand when the Federal Ministry of Agriculture distributed grains. Zamfara State was missing! I was emotional at the floor of the Senate to make case for Zamfara State. This is the duty we have. As Nigerians, we all have responsibilities. As journalists, you have responsibilities and you need to exercise it. You don’t need to be sentimental about issues. People talk about Taraba and Benue because largely they are Christians. What happened in Zamfara happens in some other places. We all have responsibilities and we need to do the needful. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 