Lagos – D’Tigers coach, Alex Nwora, has promised to work on the team’s mistakes as they take on Senegal today in their last group F 2019 FIBA World Cup second phase first leg qualifiers. Nigeria, who improved 7-0 after their 84-73 defeat of Cote d’ Ivoire on Friday need to win this game and are guaranteed their 2019 World Cup. Though all games matter at this stage of the qualifiers, but some games are so important that they are rated as must-watch games. And this game ranked as an unmissable matchup. Aside that it is a game between the two highest-ranked teams on the continent, some of Africa’s finest players will be on display including Gorgui Dieng  (Senegal), Ike Diogu and Al-Farouq Aminu (Nigeria). In this stage of the qualifiers, Nigeria’s toughest opposition is expected to come from Senegal, a team that has given Nigeria tough games in the last four years. Though, Senegal have lost a game in the qualifiers, Nigeria still maintain an unbeaten record. Nigeria have won their last two meetings of late. At the semifinal of the 2015 Afrobasket, Nigeria beat Senegal 88- 79 in overtime. In 2017 also at the semifinal stage, Nigeria triumphed 76-71. Who wins? Senegal have won their two games played in Lagos. They beat Rwanda 94-89 on Friday and Mali 82-71 on Saturday. Nigeria beat Cote d’ Ivoire 84-73 on Friday with their second game against Central African Republic still on as at press time. And, Al-Farouq Aminu, knows it better why a win is important. “If we lose, you won’t remember who I am. At the end of the day, you have to learn how to win games. We just are still putting the number thing on our agenda, which is winning.” Expectedly, Nigeria’s Ike Diogu, the inspirational captain will lead D’Tigers offence. He will have an uphill task in marking Senegalese Gorgu Sy Dieng who shot 28 points against Rwanda. Nigeria will have to improve on their turn overs. Conceding 21 against Cote d’ Ivoire should not be repeated against Senegal. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 