In recent time, the nation’s political class has continued to defect from one party to another. These defections, some of them stunning, involve the two large political parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Since the gale of defections, Nigerians are being inundated with reports of how top politicians, public office holders, party leaders, state governors and lawmakers jump ship. In most cases, it is either from the APC to PDP, or from PDP to APC, although there are rare cases of politicians defecting to less popular parties. Some of the stunning defections include those of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki; Senator Dino Melaye; Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State; Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, Kwara State governor, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed, among others. They left the ruling APC to the PDP, which is their former party. But, most surprising were the defections of former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio, ex-Delta State governor, Emmanuel Uduaghan, as well as the PDP Chairman in Lagos, Moshood Salvador. They defected from the PDP to the APC under circumstances that left mouth agape. As the stories of the defections come out almost on daily basis and with the 2019 general elections by the corner, the situation has become worrisome to Nigerians. Observers have been wondering if the defections, which many see as due to the politicians’ selfish interests, are of benefit to the average Nigerians. Defections Not In The Interest Of Nigerians – Architect Dr. Philip Agbonze Ederhoro, a Benin-based architect, said: “An average Nigerian has nothing to gain from the gale of defections. They are only moving from Party A to Party B and from Party B to Party A for their selfish interests. The interest of every Nigerian politician is to remain in power at all costs. Anything short of that is not of any interest to them. This is why many people describe Nigerian politicians as prostitutes who have no dignity or permanent base.” ‘Nigerians Have Nothing To Gain From Defections’ Mimi Ate, an activist, asked: “What does the average Nigerian stand to benefit from the gale of defections among political parties? Nothing really! They are all majorly from the same mould. The fraudulent 1999 Constitution empowers the macabre politics being practised in Nigeria. “The deliberate obtuseness and ignorance of Nigerians have fed it fat and now no space to squeeze out of the deliberate mess we got ourselves into. Our inherent societal norms and practices work against us. “Religious biases, self-centered and skewed ethnic inclinations, encourage a sentimental and emotional elevation of our reasoning, against the much-needed critical and constructively objective deductions on matters that defines the growth and progress rate of the people. The defections represent the unstable nature of our polity and systems where ideologies play little or no role in our everyday life. “We shall always swing to whatever feeds our momentary pleasures. So, the defections can swing at an indeterminable angle that feeds the momentary hunger of Nigerians.” Politicians Don’t Show Good Example To Future Leaders – Political Scientist Mrs. Doris Omale, a political scientist, asked: “What does the average Nigerian stand to benefit from the gale of defections among political parties? To be honest with you, I don’t see Nigeria as a country benefiting economically that much from the gale of defections, except that politicians keep themselves busy moving from one slogan to another, except that they display their penchant for inconsistency or lack of political will to weather the storm politically. “The implications of what they are doing is encouraging up-coming politicians or those we refer to as future leaders to do the same in the time to come but in the real sense of it, the gale of defections is not good for the image of the country and that of the politicians that are moving from one platform to another. I see the trend as more of inability to withstand the risk of not being in power or let me put it this way, desperation to be and remain in power. “Again, our political system has made politics very attractive, that when you are not in power, you are nobody and has no power to do anything. Nigeria today is really worst of as everybody would want to be among the winning team so that they will not suffer discriminations or neglect from the powers that be. “That is why I like the likes of the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu; the immediate former Governor of Niger State, Dr. Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu; former Peoples Democratic Party Women Leader, Mrs. Josephine Anenih, and few others. They remained resolute that it is not about moving from one platform to another, but about idea or what you believe in, and remain resolute to it, come rain, come shine. “I think it is high time we came up with stringent measures to stop this kind of defections. At least, it will bring about an end to undue political tension.” Defections Are Self-Serving – ADP Chief Nzeh Joshua Nwakauba Uloakolam, ex-Councillor and member, African Democratic Party (ADP) in Imo State, on his own, said: “The average Nigerian stands to gain absolutely nothing from the gale of defections. Politicians usually jump from one party to another when they feel that their interest is no longer being protected, or has come under threat in their original party. “Defections are self-serving and nothing more. It is rather an indication of inconsistency and lack of stability in the system. If you migrate from your party to another, do you go there to provide job for the average Nigerian or to give him money, build house for him or offer him scholarship?” ‘Politicians Feather Their Nests through Defections’ Prince Ikechukwu Johnson Amauhe, Secretary, National Unity Party (NUP), Owerri North LGA, Imo State, added: “Defection is a business of politicians and not for the ordinary Nigerian. It is a means by which politicians feather their nests and so the average Nigerian can only gain when the defection makes a positive impact on his life. Defection or no defection, the average Nigerian remains what and who he is. It Shows Self-Centredness Of Politicians – Lawyer Adebiyi Adegbenle, a human right lawyer, said gale of defection is of no benefit to Nigerians at all. He said that defection is not ideologically based, but for the self-centredness of the political class. He said many politicians move from one political party to another, just because someone close to them are doing so. So, according to him, “defection in Nigeria political circle lacks justification and ideology because most politicians move from one party to another for selfish ends and not for ideological purposes. “They defect from one camp to another when they cannot get return tickets or positions. There is no genuine ground for politicians to move from one party to another. It is not ideologically based, but for selfish reason.” He said further that defection is more prevalent among the few old parties that have tasted power, either PDP, APGA, AD or APC. There are 91 registered political parties that Nigerians should identify with, but everybody wants to change from one their parties to the party in power. No one wants to change party based on ideological.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 