Sam Ogidan Abuja – Atiku Abubakar’s supporters and thugs, believed to have come from the All Progressives Congress (APC), clashed at the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) national secretariat on Thursday. Atiku, who stormed the party’s secretariat to submit his Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms about 12noon, was accompanied by a mammoth crowd. Shortly after his entry into the premises of the secretariat, the crowd became uncontrollable, even the PDP security men and police at the party headquarters could not control the crowd. When the police were overwhelmed by the situation, they started shooting into the air to disperse the thugs and the supporters. Some of the supporters, who spoke with our correspondent, said the thugs were not part of them but came to disrupt the Atiku event. The supporters said they believed that thugs were sent to invade the event and cause crisis to put Atiku in bad light. The thugs, who almost killed one of Atiku’s supporters, where, however, chased away by the police. Another account of the incident claimed that the fight started when the thugs, who came with the All Progressives Congress (APC) flag, were asked why they were at the PDP national secretariat with the APC flag, and that during the argument, fight started. The thugs were said to have beaten an Atiku supporter to stupor, and would have killed him but for the police that started shooting into the air. The supporter, it was later learnt, was rushed to the hospital. While receiving the nomination forms bought for him last week by his supporters, Atiku had told them to overwhelm the party secretariat on the day he would return the forms. He had said: “On that day, let us overwhelm the PDP secretariat, let us bring Abuja to a standstill. I bet you, by the time we overwhelm the secretariat and bring Abuja to a standstill, the PDP will have no alternative than to give us the ticket.” Meanwhile, in a statement issued after submitting his forms, Atiku said, “This is a sombre moment for me. Today marks the beginning of my journey, our journey together, to get Nigeria working again. “I would not be seeking this nomination if our country is working. I am very sad that 11 million Nigerians have become unemployed since May 29, 2015. “And this does not include the millions more who never had a job since leaving school. I have created thousands of jobs in my private businesses and I know how to lead a government that would do the same for Nigeria. “It weighs deeply on my heart that Nigeria has become the world headquarters for extreme poverty, according to the World Economic Forum and the World Poverty Clock. “I am not happy that there are so much killings and terror across the country that the Global Terrorism Index rates Nigeria as more terrorised today than she was in 2015. “I am not happy that Nigeria is perceived to be more corrupt today than she was in 2015, having moved 12 steps backwards, from 136 in 2014 to 148 today in the Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index. “136 is bad enough; 148 is simply unacceptable and shameful, especially under a government that claims that fighting corruption is its priority. “Today marks my first step to lead the efforts to move our people from extreme poverty to prosperity, from joblessness to employment, from senseless killings and fear to security, from so much division to being united around a shared vision and values, and from global irrelevance to a shining place in the comity of nations. “I ask all PDP delegates and, indeed, all Nigerians to join me at this sombre moment to spare a thought for our country and to consider working with me to get Nigeria working again. This is a step into our future. “Let us work together to create the right conditions for investments to flow in and flourish to create jobs for our people. Let’s work together to send poverty packing. “Let us, together, reduce corruption so that our resources will be deployed to our national priorities. Let us work together to fight all types of terrorism and other crimes. Let’s work together to restructure Nigeria for better governance and to unite our peoples. Let’s get Nigeria working again.” Steer Clear Of Our Offices, PDP Warns Oshiomhole, APC Meanwhile, following the invasion of PDP secretariat by alleged APC thugs, the party leadership on Thursday warned the APC and its National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, to steer clear of the party’s offices. This is even as the party described the use of a shadowy group as a front to purchase N45 million APC presidential nomination form for President Muhammadu Buhari as a worn-out stunt, smacking of fraud and worsening the already battered image of the president. PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan cautioned Oshiomhole to rein in his party thugs, who the party said were detailed to disrupt activities at the PDP national secretariat. The party said that while it could be understood that the APC has been distraught over the renewed surge of Nigerians to the platform of “our repositioned party of choice, which signposts our inevitable victory in the 2019 election, the ruling party’s resort to banditry and violent attack on our secretariat is a handshake taken beyond the elbow and will not be tolerated. “The whole world witnessed with dismay, how APC thugs, brandishing their party’s famished brooms and charms, armed with machetes and other dangerous weapons stormed our national secretariat which has become a beehive of activities and attacked and wounded our members and supporters before they were dispelled by security operatives. “The PDP had repeatedly warned against APC’s proclivity for violence and unprovoked attacks, but we never imagined that their desperation for power will drive them to the insanity of attacking our national secretariat. “Intelligence report available to the PDP shows that the thugs were assembled and mobilised from the national secretariat of the APC. “We, therefore, charge security agencies, who also witnessed this attack, to immediately investigate this development, arrest and prosecute all individuals and officials of APC connected with the attack. “Moreover, the unleashing of thugs by the APC against our law-abiding party members and supporters, is particularly revealing of those behind some of the violent attacks on innocent Nigerians in various parts of the country.” The party also said President Buhari can no longer play the pro-poor gimmick which his followers have always presented to Nigerians, adding that the purchase of the N45 million form by the group directly violates section 91 (9) of the Electoral Act. “Already, our people are daily confronted by the flaunting of affluence and material wealth by the president and those around him, while betraying and abandoning millions of poor Nigerians who, unfortunately, put their trust in him in 2015. “Nigerians are aware that the very expensive personal effects, including posh jewelries daily paraded by his close relatives betrayed the gimmick of using an unregistered group, pieced together to execute another failed pro-poor stunt to sway Nigerians,” it said. PDP urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to note that the purchase of the N45 million form by the group directly violates section 91 (9) of the Electoral Act which provides that “no individual or other entity shall donate more than one million naira to any candidate.” “Since President Buhari has not publicly disowned the purchase of the form by the group, the PDP charges INEC to, within the next 24 hours, hold him culpable and make him to face the appropriate sanctions for the violation of electoral laws.” PDP Hallucinating On Defections – APC The APC on Thursday said PDP’s claim that six APC governors and some senators have concluded plans to join its fold is hallucination. National Publicity Secretary of the party, Yekini Nabena, stated this in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. He said that by the PDP’s claim about the APC governors and National Assembly members, “it is now clear that the party has assumed the role of comic relief ahead of the 2019 general elections. “Nigerians have rejected the PDP and all that it represents – corruption, impunity, waste and greed.” Nabena added that in the face of imminent defeat in 2019, the PDP had chosen to hide behind lies and false realities to save its face. He said that while the PDP hallucinated on APC members’ defection to its camp, the APC was consolidating to go into the 2019 general elections as a smarter, more united and stronger political fighting force. He said that while the PDP wallowed in its pains, the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration was focused on improving the lives of Nigerians, addressing infrastructure needs and revamping the economy. The spokesman said that the administration was also restoring the country’s rank in the comity of progressive nations, confronting its challenges and “generally repositioning in line with APC’s promised change agenda to Nigerians. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 