As the countdown to the September 22 Osun governorship election draws near, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, has continued to take his medical outreach round the state with over 2000 residents benefitting yesterday in Iwo. The 209 medical team of doctors, nurses, pharmacists, dentists, optalmologists, optometrics, pharmacy technicians and logistics workers treated the huge number at an open field opposite Iwo Local Government Secretariat. The project is being undertaken in partnership with the Development Support International, an organisation with rich experience in medical outreach projects. The team offered free treatment including surgeries in five broad areas. They are eye care, general outpatient, dental care, emergency medical services and health education. Through surgeries, lumps were removed in several parts of the body while cataract was removed from the eyes of many patients. Hernias were also corrected through surgeries. Commenting on the project after undergoing eye test, the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi, commended Oyetola, stressing that he brought succor to his subjects. He said many residents were suffering ill-health due to poverty but that initiatives such as free health mission has brought succour to them. The monarch explained that good efforts should be lauded irrespective of who is behind it. He told his enthusiastic subjects to ignore any attempt to demean the initiative by describing it as political. Oba Akanbi said the project brought smile to the faces of thousands of poor people who cannot afford medical care. He challenged other politicians to emulate Oyetola. To the monarch, the free health care is a heavy project that is expensive. He said only people who have means, connection and interest of the masses at heart can undertake such. Akanbi said great projects are easier said than done. “Even if they describe this as political, it is welcome here. As long as it benefits my people, we are happy to have it. Let other politicians bring good initiatives like this to Iwo. As long as it benefits my people, we will also embrace it. But it is easier said than done,” the monarch said. He also expressed gratitude to all members of the medical team for leaving their jobs in foreign countries and Lagos to offer free service to his subjects. The Project Manager, Ilerioluwa Free Health Mission, Dr Adebola Odunsi, described the peoject as  laudable. He said people should support leaders that are interested in people’s health and total well-being. Odunsi said they did population estimate and found out medical needs of residents to determine the team members and the kind of services to render. About 300 surgeries are being undertaken in all. Drugs and eye glasses were offered free to patients. Patients thronged the venue of the project till evening. They struggled to benefit from the programme in the various units as population surged  continually. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 