Samuel Ogidan and Seyi Taiwo-Oguntuase Less than five months to the 2019 general elections, the uncertainty hovering over the elections has remained. This is due to the inability of the National Assembly to pass the budget of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Though NASS committee on INEC has approved N143billion for the conduct of the elections, it still requires the approval of NASS sitting in plenary in the two chambers to give express approval for the fund. Despite assurances by INEC that the elections would not be postponed, there are anxieties from different quarters as to the fact that the commission needs money for early preparations. Already, not a few have blamed the leadership of NASS for playing politics with the issue of funding, prompting the Federal Government last week to appeal to NASS leadership to reconvene the two chambers for the urgent need to pass the budget of INEC. Reacting to claim by Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe that the presidency delayed the budget of INEC for seven months, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Legislative Matters, Senator Ita Enang, said what should be uppermost to every well-meaning Nigerian was the immediate passage of the supplementary budget to ensure that preparations for the general elections were not hindered. He called on the National Assembly to heed the demand by the executive arm to reconvene and approve the budget, with its security components According to him, “The budget for the election is the budget for INEC, the police, the National Security Adviser, the DSS, the Nigerian Immigration Service and other security agencies that have to do with the 2019 elections. So, it is election budget and it is budget for security agencies, particularly for the INEC. “So we do not want to join issues or react to what senators say, so that it will not be the kind that will infuriate them. At this time, I will want to take beating on all sides so long as it results in passing the budget. Whatever the beating the legislature gives me, I will take so long as they eventually pass the budget.” The controversy surrounding the passage of the election budget has been in the political space for a long while now, with Nigerians expressing concern over the possibility of conducting the 2019 general elections. The fears have further increased following fillers from some quarters that the National Assembly may postpone resumption to second week of October. Speaking with Sunday INDEPENDENT, a constitutional lawyer and Lead Counsel of Bethel Chamber, Barrister Ralph Agama and former governor of old Kaduna State and elder statesman, Balarabe Musa pointed out that the continued delay in the passage of the election budget would have a negative implication on the nation. They noted that the 2019 election might not be credible if the budget is not passed on time, noting that it would affect preparation for the election and by extension create room for rigging. Agama said that the implication of not passing the election budget is that the executive would not be able to appropriate for the elections, adding that “spending any money that is not properly appropriated for is contrary to our laws and financial regulations and that will spell doom.” Enumerating areas like security, sensitive materials amongst others things INEC ought to have taken care of before now in preparation for the election, the Constitutional lawyer said, “If they are not on ground, then, any kind of election conducted in such a situation cannot be said to be credible. Many people will be disfranchised because of inadequacies; this will spell a lot of dooms for 2019 elections. The executive will not want to trend on the part that will be seen to run contrary to the law.” Emphasising why the parliament should resume, Agama said, “I can say that National Assembly is representing the people of Nigeria and if it is representing the people of Nigeria, the oath of their offices is to uphold the provision of the Constitution, which is the interest of Nigeria.” The Constitutional lawyer said that in the case of emergency or urgency that needed their attention, the lawmakers would have to come back from their break and do that which is necessary for the interest of Nigeria. He said: “The law does not command the doing of impossibility. The issue of their recess is something they can call off if there is emergency. Assuming that we are in a state of war with another nation and there is need for them to appropriate for the provision of what we needed to be able to withstand the opponent, will they be doing that? Will that be for the interest of Nigeria? They are trying to truncate the democracy we are trying to practice.” On whose interest is the break and if the executive is not looking for trouble, Agama said that he does not want to believe that the executive is looking for trouble, adding that the National Assembly knows that there is a provision in their rulebook, which deals with issue like this, that they can reconvene to address some issues.  He said that that provision didn’t get there by accident, noting that those, who drafted the rules, “envisage that a situation like that may arise.” On his part, the former Kaduna State governor warned that the implication of not passing the election budget on time “is that the election will be rushed and that will be an opportunity to rig, particularly now that the government is desperate to return to power.” He noted that the opposition against President Muhammadu Buhari by former presidents and others would force Buhari to do anything that would ensure that the government returns to power in 2019, adding that that determination would have implication on the nation. Even though there is delayed in the passage of the election budget, Musa noted that the government in power would ensure that the election holds by whatever means in February, adding, “which means the election will be rigged because when it is conducted without proper arrangements, without INEC having sufficient money to conduct the election, honestly, the election will be rushed and that will be an opportunity for rigging.” He, however, said that the National Assembly should be allowed to conduct its business, adding that instead of breathing down on their neck, the government in power and stakeholders should appeal to them to hasten with their work. “As far as I am concern, the National Assembly has to be allowed to do what it ought to do properly, because, rushing things will also cause opportunity for even rigging. So, let the National Assembly do the right thing, you can appeal to them that they should hasten and make sure that it is done, but they should not be rushed, such will create opportunity for rigging.” On the delay in resumption by the lawmakers, Balarabe Musa said that they have no excuse for not returning, adding, “They should return and deal with issues, particularly now that there is pressure for time, they should return.” Recall that when President Buhari wrote to the National Assembly seeking the passage of N143 billion INEC election budget through virement, the lawmakers were already some feet away from their annual long break. The break had been interpreted by many political watchers, stakeholders and others to suit their definition. While some said that the parliament hurriedly went on break, a development that caused public agitations, others pointed out that the executive arm of government was aware of the programme calendar of the National Assembly and should had brought the election budget earlier before now, as recalling lawmakers from break is beyond the interpretation by the public. As the agitations for and against the resumption of the parliament rages across socio ethnic and political divide, the National Assembly Joint Committee on Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) eventually resumed debate on the budget. Though, some political analysts raised eyebrown on why the National Assembly failed to resume instead of the joint committee on INEC, but a critical look at the operation of the parliament revealed that there must be a report from a committee for the lawmakers to work on, hence failure to resume. This school of thought, which is conversant with the operations of the parliament pointed out that even if the National Assembly had reconvened, it would only had been for it to set up a committee, which is already in place and also doing it job. The joint committee on INEC, had, however, completed it job, adopting the request of the President of N143 billion, against the demand of INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who told the Committee to pass a total budget of N189 billion for the commission. The committee, in its final resolution after adopting the N143 billion and even reduced the INEC election budget by N200,272,500.00, insisted that against the President suggestion that the budget should be vired from the money added to the 2018 budget by the National Assembly, the money, according to the Committee, should be sourced through Service-Wide Votes under the Special Intervention Programme (Recurrent). A critical look at the suggestion by the lawmakers point to the fact the money should be pulled out from the security votes of the President. Addressing newsmen at a joint Committee meeting on the harmonisation of the INEC 2019 election budget, the Senate Committee Chairman on INEC, Sen. Suleiman Nazif had said, “the joint committee considered the request by Mr. President for the first component of the election budget of N143,512,529,455.00 to be vired under the 2018 budget due to reasons of financial constrain established in the presidential communication to the National Assembly, while the second component of N45,695,015,438.00 is expected to be funded by 2019 budget, also as requested by Mr. President. “Importantly, both the request of Mr. President and INEC submission to the committee marked the total package for the 2019 general election at N189,207,544,893.00, therefore, the committee remain available at all times to consider any further request from the presidency for the second component of the N45,695,015,438.00 for the 2019 general election. “Subsequently, after extensive deliberations the committee reviewed the INEC budget to N143,312,256,955.13; signifying a reduction of N200,272,500.00. These reductions covers item Nos 64, 74, 125 and 167 respectively. Therefore, the reviewed figures of N143,312,256,955.13, as reached is the recommendation of the joint committee that will be forwarded to both the leadership and Appropriation Committee for further legislative consideration. “In furtherance, the Committee is suggesting to the leadership of the National Assembly and the Committee on Appropriation to source the funding of this budget through virement from Other Service-Wide Votes under the Special Intervention Programme (Recurrent) to ease consideration and avoid increase in the size of the 2018 expenditure frame work.” With the first work done on the election budget, some stakeholders were expecting that now that there is a document to be looked into, the National Assembly should call off it holiday and look into the budget for early passage, but, unfortunately, it was gathered that the lawmakers including that of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are not looking towards that direction, until primaries are conducted to know their fates in the forthcoming elections. With all the excuses given by the lawmakers not to resume, some Nigerians have questioned the rationale behind the delay in resumption. Even though some of them knew that the lawmakers were on break, they argued that in the case of emergency if the parliament would not stop whatever they are doing to reconvene, adding that the election budget should be treated as national emergency. Recall that when Prof. Yakubu met with the National Assembly joint Committee on INEC to defend the election budget, he had expressed concern over the delay in the passage of the budget, pointing out the danger of not passing the election budget early enough. And barely five months to the 2019 general elections, the budget is yet to be passed for INEC to prepare for the election. Some Nigerians have, however, expressed worry on the ground that delay in the passage may affect preparation and by extension the elections. Our correspondent, who sampled opinion from some stakeholders gathered that without the passage of the election budget by the National Assembly, INEC could still source for funds from another avenue to conduct the elections and should not wholeheartedly depend on the lawmakers for the passage of budget. But others asked where would the money be sourced and were of the opinion that the lawmakers want to sabotage and frustrate the election because of the cold war between the executive and the legislature. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 