JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and COMFORT AJABOR A call has been made by stakeholders in educational sector for ICT oriented education in the country for national development. This was stressed over the weekend during a three-day International Education Books and Resources Exhibition (IEBRE) conference held in Lagos with the theme: ‘Harnessing Technology for Inclusive and Equitable Quality Education’ The conference aimed to chart a course and ensure the country harnesses technology to achieve inclusive and quality education in order to attain comprehensive and reasonable value of education in Nigeria. Speaking at the event, Professor Ismail Junaidu, Executive Secretary, Nigerian Education Research and development Council (NERDC), who was represented by Mrs. Grace Uya, emphasised on quality education, which helped to strengthen educational and community sector for sustainable development. She said: “Achieving polity education was the dream of every system. In a system where citizens are not given quality education, it is not a developed country. Technology is very important in education to enable you to compete in the global world. “The Federal Ministry of Education developed a ministerial strategic plan for social development covered from 2016-2019, with the idea to guide the heart of school children, both in the basic and secondary educational level, teachers education, capacity building, conventional development and adult literacy, which also include education data and planning, curriculum issues, ethnical vocational training and quality access in higher education, communication technology and library services.” Uya, explained that in line with the ICT issue on technology in Nigeria, the Federal Government was partnering with Sidmach, a technology firm. In his presentation, Dr. Adeoye Blessing, an associate professor Walden University USA, spoke on the theme, ‘Harnessing Technology for Inclusive and Equitable Quality Education.’ He noted that technology should be used as a major tool to boost quality education in a country like Nigeria. Also speaking, Mrs. Karen Walstra, a South African education training and development moderator, explained that technology could be used to help students learn effectively, mostly the physically-challenged ones. Karen also stated that technology helped in boosting the mind and understanding of students as it exposes them to educational activities that were not within their environment. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 