Real Estate Operators under the aegis of Africa Real Estate Society (AFRES), yesterday described as unquantifiable the contributions of Aliko Dangote, Chairman of Dangote Cement Plc in lessening the burden of unemployment rate in the country. The body said Dangote has done this through his contributions to the real estate sector of the African economy. They therefore, called on African leaders to encourage him to do more by obliging him all necessary corporations to set up more businesses in the sector. AFRES stated this, while on facility tour of the 12 million per annum metric tons Dangote Cement Ibese plant. The body expressed surprise at the share giant size of the plant and described it as massive and one of the biggest on the continent and lauded Dangote for his steady and continuous industrialisation of Africa through his cement business. Speaking after the tour, Catherine Kariuki, the President of AFRES, a Kenyan said Dangote was a pillar of industries in Africa, whose love for the development of African states has made him to spread his businesses across the continent. “Alhaji Dangote is helping to reduce poverty in Africa by establishing companies in African countries. He is a pillar in African economy and needs all the encouragement from the African leaders. “Nigeria is blessed to have a man who has a vision and has translated the vision to building industries and impacting positively on his people and environment and gradually changing the African narratives from that of doom to boom.” She said that the exploits of Alhaji Dangote in business has stood him out in Africa and commended his business acumen, which has translated to the giant cement plants across the African continent and that real estate sector operators are very appreciative of that. “Dangote is a pillar of Africa that needs to be encouraged because in terms of industries, none like him yet. He is in several African countries and having listened to the presentations on how he started and after going round to see the plants, you will see that Dangote has a vision and has been keeping to the vision through good leadership and governance. “If you want to succeed in business, you must have a vision and objective of going into the business and stay within the objectives and values. We are very impressed the plant is massive, the company takes security issue very important and I can see that a lot of the operations here is automated and yet he still employs a lot of people. “We were told of the efforts being put in the rehabilitation of the mines area from where limestone has been excavated, that is good, but I will also advise that there is a lot to learn from Kenya where Bamburi has done rehabilitation of its Bamburi site and the site has become a tourist centre in Kenya.” In his address to the Society members, Armando Martinez, Ibese Plant Director, expressed the appreciation of the management to the society members for choosing Nigeria for their conference and choosing to visit Dangote Cement as part of their programme. Martinez said the Dangote Cement was indeed excited seeing members of the society cutting across countries of the world not just Africa, adding that such composition fits into the global business strategy of the Dangote Cement. He acquainted the visitors with the operations of the Dangote Cement Ibese and how the company has been giving back to the communities as corporate organization that is socially responsible. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 