OWERRI – Annually, the people of the Eastern Nigeria particularly the women folk both home and in the Diaspora but married set aside the month of August for community development, empowerment programmes for the less-privileged and other bonding meetings. The unique meeting among the women of Igbo extraction is fondly called “August Meeting” usually tied to development-oriented projects. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Owerri at the weekend, the chairman and chief executive of Social Aid for Less Privileged and Down Trodden, Owerri, Valentina Chinwe Nwanne, called on the international community and donor agencies to buy into the “August Meeting” initiative. Nwanne stated that since after Igbo women in their thousands come home with a view to assist their communities on developmental projects and their assistance to the less privileged, her organisation has taken pains to document projects, assistance to the down trodden and the women who rendered these services to communities across the South East Nigeria. “T hough the government of Imo State has queued into the August Meeting projects with women, a lot more can be achieved and other states within the region should take advantage of the gathering of women to attract funds to most impoverished women in communities. We will soon make public documented evidence of the activities of the women across the South East during the 2018 August Meeting”, said Nwanne. Reports across the South East indicated that despite the official involvement of the wife of Imo State Governor Nneoma Nkechi Okorocha, women made progress in their respective communities for 2018 August Meeting. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Mrs Anthony Ekwo of Umuaga in Udi Local Government Area of Enugu State, confirmed that August Meeting in her area was peaceful and developmental oriented. She described the 2018 meetings in her area as avenue for community service and according to her, the women in her area are still documenting all that happened during the said meeting. “There are also opportunities after the meeting to come out with strategies to get pledges redeemed and plan for 2019 August Meeting”. “We made gifts available to the less privileged after our midweek service held at St John Anglican Church Umuaga. We raised money for the building of resident priest. The meeting was an opportunity to assist some women in business by providing money. Our indoor members who are incapacitated in their private homes or hospitals were also visited with useful items.” Also speaking, Lolo Franka Ajero of Umuoba in Uratta Owerri North Local Government Area of Imo State, said seminars were organised for windows and gift items were provided for them during the 2018 August Meeting. According to Ajero, who is also the President of Women Ministry of St Titus in Umuoba, women in her community via August Meeting built and fenced the community health centre, sunk boreholes and have been involved in several community and church projects. Nkechi Okorocha on her part built several houses and donated same to the less privileged as part of her activities during the August Meeting 2018. “I urge u to keep celebrating and promoting August Meeting because indeed it is a unique aspect of our culture and it has a way of bonding us together as women”, Okorocha’s wife stated. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 