Lagos – As members of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) meet today and tomorrow for its 263rd meeting in Abuja, stakeholders and analysts in the financial sector have called on members of the committee to look at latest developments in the economy before taking a decision. At its July 2018 meeting, the MPC maintained the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) at 14 per cent, with the asymmetric corridor at +200 and -500 basis points around the MPR; retained the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and Liquidity Ratio (LR) at 22.50% and 30% respectively. It also announced measures to provide cheaper funding for some critical sectors of the economy to boost economic activities Analysts at Cordros Capital said the meeting said slower growth seen in the second quarter of 2018, renewed inflationary worries, combined with the unrelenting capital flight, should leave the committee unease. “In our view, whilst fragile growth, depressed consumer spending, and the need to stimulate domestic investment present a substantial case for a rate cut, we think the case is negated by the rising liquidity profile, with attendant risk to FX reserve and currency stability. “On the flip side, while the renewed headline inflationary pressure combined with continued apprehension of foreign investors towards naira asset has increased the possibility of a rate hike, we believe that decision would further impede the CBN’s recent effort at directing credit to the employment elastic sectors via the Differentiated Cash Reserve Requirement (DCRR) and Corporate Bonds (CB). “Overall, amidst persistent capital flight and renewed inflationary worries, we expect the MPC to hold its policy parameters unchanged, while leveraging on the OMO channels to continue liquidity management”, analysts at Cordros Capita said. There are also strong indications that the MPC will raise its benchmark monetary policy rate (MPR) in order to ward off spill over from the turmoil in emerging markets (EMs) as well as to tame inflationary pressure. Cyril Ampka, an Abuja-based economist, said happenings outside the country will make the MPC raise rate to encourage more foreign investors into the economy. His words: “ Russia’s central bank last week raised its main interest rate for the first time in almost four years, following Turkey in taking steps to defend its currency amid emerging market turmoil. The bank raised its benchmark lending rate by 0.25 percentage points to 7.50 per cent. “The rouble, which has also been battered by worries over US sanctions and other political pressure on Russia, rallied on the announcement and traded as much as 0.8 per cent stronger at Rbs67.64.” Explaining the implications of a continued increase in the macroeconomic indicator, Uche Uwaleke a professor of finance at Nasarawa State University said that what is happening is that the base effects from previous periods are now over. “The base effect has helped the inflation trend lower for some time now, but it is clear that the reality is dawning on us. Inflation is one major reason the central bank’s monetary policy committee (MPC) has been finding it difficult to lower monetary policy rates and with these current figures, nothing is in the offing to motivate the MPC lowering rates,” Uwaleke said. Stressing the loss of a possibility of easing monetary policy rate, Uwaleke drew attention to July inflation figures at 11.14 percent, which was considered still high by the MPC, prompting three members to vote in favour of raising hikes. With August rates even higher at 11.23 percent Uwaleke is of the opinion that “More of them will take a hawkish stance and vote for rates to be hiked.” Analysts at United Capital believed that the call for a hike in rates may not be unconnected to the general feelings and new developments around the economy at a time like this. They said: “On a balance of these new developments and with priority given to the slowing economic growth, we are of the view that the MPC will maintain status quo by keeping rates unchanged. However, we expect the vote for a rate hike to increase further” However, analysts at FSDH Research believe that the most appropriate monetary policy decision under the current economic and financial market situation is to hold policy rates at the current levels but also stressed that there is possibility of a hike in rates. “Although there are some arguments to increase rates, the need to provide necessary incentives for the Nigerian economy to achieve inclusive growth negates an option of a rate increase. The CBN can continue to use the Open Market Operations (OMO) to manage liquidity in the banking industry in order to maintain price stability”, it added. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 