The Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI), yesterday stated that the last week’s withdrawal of Skye Bank’s operating license by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) would not lead to loss of work for staff of the financial institution. Comrade Oyinkan Olasanoye, President ASSBIFI, who made the declaration at a press conference organised by the Association in Lagos, also said that the birth of Polaris Bank from the ruins of Skyebank Plc, was a courageous move by the apex bank. She said: “This is a courageous move by CBN at ensuring the soundness and efficiency of our banking system numerous customers and staffers of the bank. “It is interesting to note that as at today, Polaris Bank is the cleanest in terms of balance sheet of all our banks as it carries no toxic assets in its new balance sheets. The bank is well positioned to meet its obligations to all its numerous customers.” Against the foregoing background, the association advised the numerous customers of the bank to continue to do business with it, insisting that there was no cause to panic. Olasanoye hinted that as a strategic partner in the banking sector, the association would study the purchase and assumption agreement that established Polaris Bank and engage the management of the new bank in concrete discussions aimed at ensuring the realisation of its vision, goals and objectives. The association urged its members in Polaris bank to continue working hard, and support the management in its efforts at making the bank a financial powerhouse. On insurance companies recapitalisation, the labour leader stated that the association was not against the restructuring of insurance companies, but argued that the time frame needed for compliance on the tier-based solvency capital was too short, and therefore ,called for the extension of the period of one year for implementation and for genuine consultation with appropriate stakeholders. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 