ASABA – Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, Delta State governor,  has reassured the victims of floods in the Oko communities of Oshimili South Local Government Area of Delta State, that nutritional services, medical aid and other relief materials would be provided for them to ameliorate the sufferings caused by the floods. He gave the assurance when he visited the flood ravaged communities of Oko-Odifulu, Umu-Oko, Oko-Ogbele, Oko-Anala and Oko Amakom. The governor who was ably represented by a special medical team from the Ministry of Health and the Primary Health Care Development Agency led by the Chairman, Dr. Isioma Okobah, commiserated with the victims over their property ravaged by the flood. Okobah told the communities that Governor Okowa was so passionate about their welfare, disclosing that the governor had taken pains to send the team to the communities to ascertain the level of damage done by the floods and the attendant effects. “Our Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, has sent us all the way from Asaba crossing the River Niger in a speed boat to check on you and know your challenges because he wants to ensure health and prosperity for all Deltans. “Since we can’t force you to move to IDP camps our amiable governor is assuring you people that he would provide relief materials, mattresses, food, nutritional services and medical services here,” Okobah stated. Responding on behalf of the flood victims in the Oko-Anala, the Akor of Oko Kingdom, Dr. Eze Osita, while counting their losses ranging from palace stool, houses, farms and other means of livelihood, commended the governor’s team for identifying with them in times of trials. In the same vein, His Highness Onishe Olisa, the Okakwu of Umu-Oko, while narrating their ordeal during the last flooding in 2012, said they were moved to IDP camps which led to their properties and farm produce being stolen and vandalised by hoodlums. The monarch lamented that they were sleeping on thin mattresses on the floor with little or no food, stressing that as a title holder, it was forbidden for him to live in an IDP camp. While expressing gladness that Governor Okowa had showed concern, the people also promised to vote for the governor again come 2019. “If we have food to eat and medical care, we will sleep where we find ourselves and survive,” they maintained. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 