Winners don’t wait for chances, they take them. Maristella Okpala, winner of the just concluded Miss Earth Nigeria 2018 is no chance winner. She has got the looks, the grace of a queen and the brains to lead a charge against defilers of the earth. When the Miss Earth Nigeria 2018 visited INDEPENDENT Newspapers offices, one could not help but notice a young queen unafraid of the responsibilities that come with wearing the crown. In this chat with Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade, the leggy beauty reveals her passion for the environment, how she has been breaking records even as a student and her plans for the future. How did you come into modelling and pageantry? I’m a graduate of Federal School of Dental Technology and Therapy, Enugu State. I’ve always just had the passion for pageantry, which I cannot put a ‘how’ or ‘why’ to. It was right from when I was little. My mom always complained that I wore her shoes, even though I would end up not wearing it well. Modelling and pageantry are things I just love and I cannot explain it. What was your first experience with pageants like? It was tough. That was in 2009 in my school. I was in first year at the time, so I contested for Miss Dental as they called it then. It was tough because it was my first time and I had no one to advice me or put me through, I had to just summon up courage and do it. There was also this trend that if you are in first year, you are not expected to put in for Miss Dental; it was the unspoken rule that it was for those in second or third year. I decided that I would try and I would be the exception to the rule. I believed that first years shouldn’t be left out of such activities. So I took a bold step and did it. Yes, I was nervous, but at the end of the day, everything worked out well for me. The next Miss Dental after me was also a first year student, so I broke a record. Did your parents encourage you in that line? I tell my mom everything I do. I know that my dad can be a bit conservative sometimes, but they both always support me. When I picked the Miss Earth form, I only told my mom because the last pageant I participated in, my Dad was not too excited about it. He said, “This is it, you are not doing pageants anymore. Just focus on school and career.” So when I decided to go for Miss Earth, I told my mom about it and asked her not to tell my dad. My parents always support me at the end of the day though. Why Miss Earth, why not a regular pageant where the focus is on you and not the environment? That is the most fun part. I am glad I went for Miss Earth because I got to learn a lot of things. Which is why I am going to use this platform to create awareness and launch a campaign on ‘Waste to Wealth’. Even I was not aware until I put in for this pageant. It was unlike the regular pageant where you merely do the catwalk, beauty and glamour. At Miss Earth, everyday, they bring in different environmentalists to talk to us and I learnt a lot of things, so I am just glad it was Miss Earth for me because it was really educative. You have won a pageant that focuses on the environment, earth and atmosphere. What makes you passionate about the earth, what makes the vision and mission of Miss Earth resonate with you? I just sincerely see the earth as our home. Apart from where we grew up or reside, or our parent’s houses, there would be no us without the earth, and that is the truth. The earth can survive without us, but we cannot survive without the earth because this is where we live and that is how I see things. That is why I preach that people think earth. What has a life of modeling and pageantry taught you? Confidence and always believing in yourself. How do you feel knowing that in a couple of weeks, you would be representing Nigeria in the Philippines? Mixed feelings actually. I’m both happy and nervous. I am nervous because I want to do well. I don’t believe in failure actually, so I am happy I am doing something worthy for Nigeria. But then, I’m not scared because I have the best team; I have the best National Director, so I think I am all set. So what next after Miss Earth or does it all end here? No, it doesn’t end here because it already I am an ambassador of the earth and I intend to go back to school. If I get the right sponsorship, I intend to go back to school and study Environmental Science. It’s rare to find beauty queens that are passionate about the earth while also nursing the ambition of further education. That feels like a rather big package for one queen. It’s the 21st century, what do you expect? Obviously, we are growing everyday, so it is just the mentality that we have that pulls us back. I love what I am doing, I am a woman of the earth, and I intend to continue forever. While in camp, the first time you were taken to the streets to clean and all, what was the people’s reaction to beauty queens cleaning up after them, weren’t they shocked? Yes, they were shocked. But that’s because they were not aware of it. But when people see pretty girls cleaning, it would move them to do the same and whatever the means, we are getting more people to pay attention and take care of the environment. Is there a dream that you have for later in the future that being Miss Earth Nigeria has brought about? Yes. I would like to own a recycling company. It is huge, but why not? That’s why I am happy I am on the right path with Miss Earth. I have never been this happy. What advice do you have for young people like you in Nigeria? `Many people have many dreams, but I ask that in all they do, they should take care of the environment. They should treat the earth the way they treat their homes, properties and bodies. If we can achieve this, we would have a cleaner, greener and healthier environment. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 