Hon. Ijeoma Nwajames, erstwhile Women Leader of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Lagos State, and the party’s NWC-appointed State Secretary of the chapter, is a sub-committee member of the party’s 2019 Electoral Committee in Imo State. She spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the Imo State elections, among other others: With the 2019 general elections approaching, what is the current situation in Imo State? Politics has heated up generally in every part of Imo State. But, greater attention is now being given to the APGA by Imolites and party leaders. Imo people believe that the next governor of the state will come from APGA. We do not hear much of the PDP. APC is almost dead in the state. The main issue is who APGA will present as governor. People are waiting for APGA. The people have been worrying APGA to give Imo a solid candidate who can defeat whoever Rochas Okorocha is bringing. APC is dead, but Okorocha is bent on bringing his son-in-law. The fight is therefore between APGA and Okorocha. People are disappointed with the APC. So for, several APC leaders have defected to APGA. So, the fight is between APGA and Okorocha. Don’t you see Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, who will likely be presented by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as a challenge to your party? Yes, Ihedioha may emerge as the PDP candidate. But, the issue now is Imo and not Mbaise, where he comes from. Ihedioha could be popular in his Mbaise area or his village. But, Imo people are no longer talking about Ihedioha. He is no longer a factor. People are looking towards APGA to give them someone who will defeat Okorocha. Ihedioha is not a threat to APGA. What would you say is the situation in your party in the state? We are getting ready for the primaries. People have obtained their forms and returned them. The electoral guideline is out. Our National Chairman, Ozonkpu Dr. Victor Oye, has been wise in dealing with the aspirants. He does not have any special candidate. He has been a father to all. He has told all aspirants to go into the field and canvass for supporters. He is a man of integrity and has given everybody a level playing ground. We are looking forward to peaceful primaries. With the crisis between Gov. Rochas Okorocha, his estranged deputy, Emeka Madumere and other stakeholders, would you say that APC does not have a chance in Imo State? APC is lost already in Imo. In fact, the situation of Imo people now is worse. There are no roads. It takes three hours from Owerri to Okigwe, a 45-minute movement. People are fed up with the APC government in Imo State. The bad roads have led to stagnancy in the state’s economy. Everything is grounded. Okorocha knocked down market structures from cities to villages without reconstruction. Imo people are tired and are looking for a messiah from APGA. It will be a suicide mission for Imo State if the people allow Okorocha to foist his son-in-law or any other person on them. APC has no option than losing in Imo State. The recent local government election was just a selection. There is no sign of any preparation for the coming election. May be, they feel that power is in their hands now and that they will use incumbency factor. But, the masses are ready for them. It is not time for rice and salt. People are tired of APC and will rally round APGA. How ready is the Imo State chapter of APGA to hold free and fair primaries considering the upsurge of aspirants for the various positions? Already, the National Working Committee (NWC) has brought out guidelines on how to handle the primaries, both the pre and post primaries issues that may emerge. There are rooms for people who may protest. But, all issues will be wisely handled. The aspirants are busy reaching out to the delegates and are busy doing their grassroots preparations and how the delegates will emerge for the primaries. The national leadership has assured of a level playing ground for all. The party leadership is ready to give everyone a listening ear after the primaries. Senator Ifeanyi Ararume is known to move from one party to another when he fails to get what he wants. Having obtained the APGA’s governorship nomination and expression of interest forms, don’t you see him dumping APGA if he fails the primaries? Everything that has advantage has disadvantage. I do not see Ararume as a spoiler. As a politician, he has his interests. He left PDP and APC because he felt his interests were not protected in the two parties. Now, that he is in APGA, he knows why he joined the party. But, I see his coming to APGA as an advantage. I believe that the party will protect his interest. But, I want to make something clear to Imo people. Several people think that the governorship ticket will automatically be given to Ararume because of his structure and popularity. As much as I know APGA leadership, this will not be the case. The current leadership of APGA is not moved by sight or material things. Thus, I support Ararume’s coming to APGA as an advantage and to support the paty to win because APGA is the only option inImo. APGA is ready to receive more APC members because t will be the next occupant of Douglas House, Owerri. How do you see women participation in politics in your party? We have many women in APGA. But, very few came out as aspirants. We have some vying for the House of Representatives. In Anambra State, Bianca Ojukwu has come out for Senate. In Imo Lady Dr. Victoria Ijeoma Ehieze has come out for House of Representatives to represent Okigwe South. We want to appreciate the national leadership for reducing the cost of Nomination and Declaration of Intention forms by half for women. This is encouraging. I believe that in future elections, there will be more women aspirants in APGA. However, , a lot of women are holding offices at all levels of the party. What is your advice to Nigerians generally as they get ready for the 2019 general elections? Nigerians should avoid violence. The youths should be careful not to be used and dumped again. People should go for their PVCs. Nigerians should know that the Temporary Voter Card (PVC) will not be used in this election. So they should go for their PVCs and come out to vote. People should not sell their votes. We should say no to what happened in Ekiti State where people were selling their votes openly. What advice do you have for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)? Security operatives should know that they are there for the people. They should not allow themselves to be used against the people. INEC should avoid being bought over against the wishes of the people. INEC should protect the mandate of Nigerians for a better Nigeria. We want a better Nigeria which works. I believe that after the 2019 elections there will be improvement in the situation of our country. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 