The decision of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Bankers’ Committee, an umbrella body of managing directors of commercial banks in the country, to set aside a portion of banks’ Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) to fund the agriculture and real sectors through long-term single digit interest rate loan facilities seems to have the potential to rejuvenate these sectors and create employment for Nigerians. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, ANDREW UTULU and IKEACHI NZEAKOR reports; In countries all over the world, the real sector, comprising agricultural and manufacturing sub-sectors, is seen as the engine room of economic development. It is also seen as the biggest provider of employment for the citizens of these countries. This sector, because of its importance, also enjoys tremendous privileges which included long-term loan facilities at single digit interest rate. However, the reveres is the case in Nigeria as the sector groan under an interest rate regime of between 25 and30 per cent. The nation’s apex bank, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), in an attempt to finally put an end to dilemma being faced by players in the real sector, unveiled a new set of guidelines towards accessing the Real Sector Support Facility (RSSF) through CRR and Corporate Bonds. The facility (RSSF) is divided into two. They are the Differentiated Cash Reserves Requirements (DCRR) Regime and the Corporate Bonds (CB) Funding Programme. In the RSSF, the CBN clearly pointed out that activities to be covered under the programme would be Greenfield (new) and expansion (Brownfield) projects in manufacturing, agriculture and other related sectors approved by the CBN. It, however, stated that emphasis would be placed on Greenfield projects. It prohibited operators involved in trading activities from accessing its real sector support facility and warned banks that attempt to “falsify through presentation of projects that do not meet the eligibility criteria/specified terms and conditions shall attract severe penalties”. This singular decision by the CBN has been receiving plaudits from stakeholders in the financial sector. Many see it as a game changer and a big departure from the excruciating interest rate regime of 25-30 per cent that has been blamed for stifling enterprises in the country. Under the new guidelines issued by the CBN, agricultural, manufacturing  and the sectors considered as growth and employment stimulating,  can now borrow long term as much as N10 billion at consolidated nine per cent interest rate under new guidelines. But under the new guidelines, the CBN pointed out that banks interested in providing credit financing to Greenfield (new) and Brownfield (new/expansion) projects in the real sector (agriculture and manufacturing) may request the release of funds from their CRR to finance the projects, subject to the bank providing verifiable evidence that the funds shall be directed at the projects approved by the CBN. Also, it stressed that refinancing of existing loans is prohibited for funding under the programme, saying that any attempt to falsify information would also attract severe sanctions. The CBN Director of Banking Supervision, Abdullahi Ahmad, explained at the last Bankers’ Committee meeting in Lagos that the apex bank would refund Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) to banks that fund projects in agriculture and manufacturing sectors. He said the CBN has been very supportive to banks, adding that they should lend to companies that are doing new capital expenditures and expansions to factories, using some of their Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) at nine per cent. These, he added, are not short-term loans, but long-term loans of seven years’, two years’ moratorium on principal. “It would probably be the first time in the history of this country where manufacturers would be able to take fixed interest rate loans for seven years, which means they would be able to plan. The volatility that they fear for all kinds of risks would be taken out and I think these are very laudable steps in improving and growing the economy,” Ahmad said. For him, the idea is to have job- creating activities in the economy and also to bring interest rates down. Although agric and manufacturing are the initial sectors that are being considered, later a bank can apply; if there is a job-creating sector that the bank is operating in, it may be considered. “We can refund the CRR of a bank that has engaged in lending in a new project or an existing one in the agriculture or manufacturing sector as a way of utilising the CRR. So, anytime a bank lends to manufacturing or agric at the rate the CBN has prescribed, it would have its CRR refunded up to the amount it has lend. The guidelines are coming up any moment,” he said. The CBN acting Director, Corporate Communications in a statement in said the new directive was specifically aimed to increase the flow of credit to the real sector; agriculture and manufacturing. He said that Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) would henceforth be incentivised to direct affordable, long-term bank credit to the manufacturing, agriculture, as well as other sectors considered by the Bank as employment and growth stimulating. He said also that Corporate, Triple-A rated companies would be encouraged to issue long-term Corporate Bonds (CBs). He said that a CBs Funding Programme had already been put in place to enable the CBN and the general public invests in the CBs. Furthermore, Okorafor said the Bank had put in place another programme under the Differentiated Cash Reserves Requirement (DCRR) Regime. He said under the programme, banks interested in providing Credit Financing to new and expansion projects in the real sector could request for the release of funds from their Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) to finance the projects. He added that the tenor for the Differentiated CRR would be a minimum of seven years with a two-year moratorium. For the Corporate Bonds programme, he said the tenor and the moratorium would be specified in the prospectus by the issuing corporate bonds. The central bank explained that instead of out rightly lowering interest rate, it opted for a system whereby the single-digit interest funds would be implemented to long-term credit at nine per cent and a minimum tenor of seven years with a two-year moratorium. To access the loan according to the guidelines, the company must be incorporated in Nigeria under the Companies and Allied Matters act of 1990 and the maximum amount accessible by a party is N10 billion. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 