Lagos – Nigerian players picked three awards at the final of the WAFU Zone B qualifiers for the Africa Under-17 Cup of Nations held in Niamey, Niger Republic on Saturday. The Golden Eaglets defeated Ghana’s Black Starlets 3-2 on penalties, following a 1-1 draw in regulation time of the final match. Nigeria will join Morocco, Cameroon, Uganda, Angola, and Tanzania for the final phase scheduled for Tanzania in 2019. Apart from Nigeria winning the ticket from Zone B for the tournament in Tanzania next year, the duo of Samson Tijani and Olakunle Olusegun also won awards for the team. Tijani was adjudged as the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the qualifiers while nimble-footed Olusegun emerged as the top scorer with four goals. A pulsating encounter at the Stade General Seyni Kountche saw the Starlets shoot into the lead in the 54th minute, but the Eaglets equalized minutes later when Akinkunmi Amoo finished brilliantly, sending the Nigerians in the stands into ecstasy. Both teams tried hard but failed to get the winner in the regulation time, and the game had to go into penalties. Samson Tijani, Muhammad Ibrahim and David Ishaya scored for Nigeria, and even though goal scorer Amoo missed, the Eaglets were winners as the Ghanaians fluffed a kick and Nigeria’s goalkeeper, John Amah saved another of their kicks. There was no need for the final kicks as the Golden Eaglets were by then, unassailable. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the victory was confirmation of Nigeria’s edge over Ghana in cadet football, with Nigeria posting five world titles to Ghana’s two, and was also somewhat sweet revenge for Ghana’s victory in the final of the maiden edition of the Africa U17 Cup of Nations in Mali 23 years ago. Before the final, President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Mr. Amaju Pinnick had promised the Golden Eaglets training tours of Qatar and Jordan before their participation in the Africa U17 Cup of Nations taking place in Tanzania early next year should they emerge champions and qualify. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 