The governorship ambition of Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, former Minister of Youths and Sports  in Kwara State on the platform of Peoples Democratic party (PDP) received a boost at the weekend as royal fathers and PDP leaders in Kwara South and Kwara North senatorial districts of the state adopted him as preferred candidate for the next year’s general elections in the state. In making the endorsements, they said they are impressed  with Abdullahi’s  track records, competence, and integrity among others since he joined politics in the state. The monarchs, it was gathered were satisfied with his perfect loyalty to the political leader of the state and Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki. The endorsement of Abdullahi’s governorship ambition by the monarchs of the affected senatorial districts was done during his campaign tour of the areas over the weekend. Among the towns visited include Patigi, Kaima, Songs,  Lafiaji, Baruten, all in the Kwara North senatorial district of the state where the royal fathers in the affected towns adopted Abdullahi as the preferred candidate for the Ahmadu Bello Government House, Ilorin, come 2019. The campaign trail also visited towns in Kwara South senatorial district like Isin, Erinle, Ilofa, among others where the royal fathers of the affected towns pledged their support for his candidature. The campaign trail further visited the PDP leaders in the 10 local government councils in Kwara South senatorial district where they all assured Mallam Abdullahi of support for the plum position of the state. They all affirmed that former minister remain the aspirant that can lead the state to another level of socio- economic growth after the completion of the second term of the incumbent governor of the state, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed. Responding, Abdullahi said he would work for the wellbeing of the people and promised not to disappoint them. He said, “I   have resolved to upgrade the system of education in the state in order to give the same opportunity I had to the teeming youth in the state. “The agricultural sector would also be revamped to open up markets for the farmers to sell their products at profitable prices.” He added. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 