At the centres, access to experts across all engineering and management disciplines is easy. Businesses in the incubator fall within some stages – conception, where a first-cut assessment of the strategic environment is made, to development, where feasibility and go-to-market strategies are explored and ultimately commercialised, where profitable market opportunities are exploited and the focus is on growing the venture. Nigeria has a very huge underutilised entrepreneur population, so starting up business in this part of the world according to analysts comes with very huge challenges. This is because there is no enabling environment and supporting infrastructure, said Ismail Aniemu, a maritime expert. According to him, on a very micro level, the average person that hawks sausage rolls and sachet water in traffic using their own money and bearing risk for the business are entrepreneurs. “Unfortunately, the resilience spirit of these persons is not encouraged by the government who not only did not provide micro credit to support them, but also set up task forces to clamp on them, seize their wares and jailed them in some cases.” He argued that the country had paid much lip service to supporting Small and Micro, increasing the very micro ones, saying that not much has been achieved for the economy. To Mary James, a businesswoman, starting up a business in Nigeria and many African countries comes with so much risks and impediments also. According James who deals in fabrics, shoes and various articles of trade, some of these challenges include lack of power, lack of access to credit facilities, undue interference by politicians who hijack benefits for potential start-up business, unfavorable enforcement policies, a lack of infrastructure, bad roads and low purchasing power. She called on the government at all levels to create a data base, where entrepreneurs, no matter how little their businesses are, will be on government records including farmers for easy allocation of any beneficial programme irrespective of party, religious r ethnic affiliations. “Government should improve on training and retraining for entrepreneurs and skill acquisition. The government should stop paying lip service by deliberately patronising made in Nigeria product as best exchange for citizens to follow.” Giving support to Mary’s argument of government lip service to made in Nigeria products, Niyi Adebanjo, a business man said that government itself has so much patronised foreign goods to the extent that even that want to carry out a programmed, the souvenirs and T-Shirts will be printed and imported from the foreign land. He said that it was only last year that the Nigerian Army started buying boots for their personnel from the Aba, Abia State where made in Nigeria goods are produced. He averred that other paramilitary forces are such as Nigeria Customs Service, the Nigeria Immigration Services, the Prisons, the Nigeria Civil Defence Corps among others were yet to join suit as they still import their boots. According to Adebanjo, if the military and others had started patronizing the made in Aba boot since 20 years ago, one would image the quantum of wealth and job creation that would have been achieved in the country. Lamenting further on the deceptiveness of the government and its parastatals, Adebanjo said: “When government and government parastatals wants to do any programme, they will print the materials such as T-shirts, key holders and other souvenirs abroad and bring them into the country, thus helping to kill the local industry that have the capability to handle such jobs.” Why Business Fail or Succeed There are many contributing factors to success and failure of businesses. To many, business success depends on the objective of the business. If a business is just to satisfy a personal ambition without any real need for the product or service, or if is doing what others are already doing without any real value added, then the business will struggle and eventually fail. However, if the business is based on meeting a real need in the market, filling a gap or creating a niche in the market to satisfy demand for such, then the business will have a stronger chance of survival. In both instances, there are systemic challenges that must be conquered including funding and access to foreign exchange, as most businesses in Nigeria are highly import dependent. So, the business, at whatever level, will be affected by the value of the Naira. Another key factor is quality. There are far too many quacks in Nigeria including products, services and people. Far too many people are grossly under-qualified for what they are doing and the inevitable end result is poor quality. Are you in business just for the sake of being in business or are you determined to deliver the best quality possible? High quality is synonymous to success. But you must also conquer other challenges. The problems are further complicated by a hurried focus on short term gains rather than developing a strategy for long term vision. Poor business gambit including budgeting, operational and strategic planning, marketing, leadership, management technique, training & development, working in isolation or hiring cheap incompetent staff, can make or mar your business success. Furthermore, attitude and lack of ambition is a big downer as demonstrated by some HG solar power bank distributors. Being overtly driven by a high desire for quick business gains without risks is not a sustainable business practice. Broader systemic factors affecting startup failure or survival include liberalisation of infrastructure particularly electricity generation and distribution as well as government policies on business processes. In terms of business process, the Federal Government issued a Presidential Executive Order No. 001 of 2017, signed by the then Vice President Prof Yemi Osinbajo on the Promotion of Transparency and Efficiency in the Business Environment. The policy implementation/management rests on The Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), set up in July 2016 to “remove bureaucratic constraints to doing business in Nigeria. In addition to that, make the country a progressively easier place to start and grow a business”. There are other excellent policies but they are mostly ineffectual because the operators are full of old habits that inhibit success. An example of this is the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The apex bank introduced a new policy in circular TED/FEM/FPC/GEN/01/003 dated 18 April 2017 – Foreign Exchange Payment For Small-Scale Importation – as part of its efforts to ease documentation requirements and improve access to foreign exchange by SMEs. The Executive Order was on transparency and improving the business environment in Nigeria. This implies clear service level agreements, clear evidence of performance evaluation and complaint procedure. The CBN circular lacks clarity in this regard. The government is making concerted efforts to root out corruption. But it seems certain individuals are hell bent on thwarting such efforts. It has been demonstrated that some people inside the CBN expect you to “come and see us” if you want your application to be processed swiftly otherwise it will be buried in the system. This is neither acceptable nor sustainable. Such behaviour leads to failure of businesses. Therefore, a structure must be put in place to identify and prosecute such individuals in order to preserve the integrity of the system and the government’s efforts. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 