Lagos – The Electoral Committee for the elections into the Executive Board of the Nigeria Football Federation elections may disqualify Alhaji Aminu Maigari from contesting the elections on the premise of alleged certificate forgery. As a result of the alleged scandal, Maigari, one of the four candidates cleared to contest for the president of the NFF, has had his earlier clearance reversed to “provisional clearance”. The committee’s action is premised on petitions written against the candidature of Maigari by Chuma Onye and Ahmed Shuaibu Gara Gombe. The petitions were dated September 14 and September 17 respectively. The petitioners alleged that cerficates submitted by Maigari for the purpose of the screening conducted by the Electoral Committee for candidates vying for various offices of the Nigerian Football Federation were forged. Consequently, the committee on Thursday changed the earlier clearance given Maigari to contest the election to “Provisional Clearance”. The electoral committee, however, confirmed the discrepancies in the certificates submitted by Maigari, who was the president of the NFF between 2010 and 2014, in a statement on Wednesday. It stated that before the petitions were submitted, the committee had discovered discrepancies in the documents submitted by Maigari, but failed to reach unanimous decision on whether to disqualify him or not, hence the need to resort to voting. “During the voting three out of five members of the Electoral Committee voted in favour of him (Maigari) being cleared and allowed to participate in the elections which led to the inclusion of his name in the list of the cleared candidates,” the committee noted in the statement. “Upon receiving the petitions, the committee met and resolved to forward a copy of the petition written by Chuuma Onye to Alhaji Aminu Maigari for his response vide a letter dated 14th of September, 2018 urging him to appear before the committee on or before 17th of September, 2018 for the purpose of clarification. “Alhaji Aminu Maigari received the letter and informed the committee through a phone call to the chairman of his desire to appear before the committee on the 15th of September, 2018, which he did and undertook to produce the originals of the said documents for verification/clarification on or before the 17th of September, 2018. Following the failure of Maigari to produce the said originals of his documents on 18th of September, 2018 as promised, the committee resolved, “That the documents submitted by Alhaji Aminu Maigari, i.e the two Grade Three Certificates which were attached to the petition are indeed not the same both in substance and in content with each other, infact they are contradictory. “That the said certificates are submitted to the committee in contravention of Article 5(1) (i) of the Guidelines for the Nigerian Football Federation Executive Committee Election 2018. “That the clearance earlier given to Alhaji Aminu Maigari to contest for the office of the President of the Nigerian Football Federaton is hereby substituted with Provisional Clearance.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 