UYO – In its determination to boost cultural festival and attract tourists to its communities, Mkpat Enin Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State has unveiled plans toward the celebration of a two-week cultural festival.  The 15 day cultural festival, scheduled to take place between 15 to 31 December 2018 is aimed at boosting tourism and attract tourists to explore the cultural potentials of Mkpat Enin. It is also geared towards making cultural heritage an income generating venture for the people as well as reversing prevailing cultural trafficking in the area. In a similar vein, corporate organisations, including Zenith Bank Plc, Ibom Power, Dana Air, among others have indicated interests to support and participate in the two-week cultural festival planned by the local government area. One of the plans tagged, “Special Colour of the Mkpat Enin LGA”   has already being carried out at the weekend with the theme of the festival focused on “Rediscovering our Cultural Heritage.” The event, which was carried out under the tutelage of  the Akwa Tourism Development Company Limited, was witnessed by a Nollywood Star Actor, Harry B Anyanwu and one of the front line comedians in Nigeria; Clint Da Drunk who is the star model for the cultural event. Mr. Ekanem Brown, Chairman of Mkpat Enim Local Government Area of the State, while addressing participants at the occasion,  noted that tourism has been a huge income earner for many countries across the world, hence his decision to expose the huge cultural heritage of the people to the world. “COLOURS OF MKPAT ENIN #COME2018, is a cultural carnival which seeks to bring to the fore the rich cultural heritage of our land, the land that bears the footprints of the African Elephant, it aims at uniting the sons and daughters of this great land. It is not just limited to its indigenes but invites all, from far and wide to come and be wooed by breath, scent and aroma of the rich succulent resources, it’ll take you round the waters, lands and trees of Mkpat Eni. “This marks a new beginning in the history of Mkpat Enin. We have decided to start celebrating ourselves to take Mkpat Enin into the league of cultural destinations in Africa. We will use the 15 days to take stock of our rich cultural heritage; our food, our dances, our culture, our natural resources and every unique thing we have that others do not have”. He said Members of the political class from the area; the member representing Mkpat Enin State Constituency in the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Mr Otobong Ndem and the Special Adviser to the governor on Political Matters and Water Resources, Mr Ekong Sampson applauded the initiative by the council chairman and described the move as a step in the right direction of uniting the people. Both leaders of the area used the occasion to preach peace, especially during political dispensations; cautioning that betrayal, disharmony, blackmail and insults would rather work against the efforts of the Chairman of the council to unite the people and rediscover the people’s heritage. Highpoint of the occasion was the inauguration of the planning committee of the event, with Mrs Imaabasi Brown, wife of the Executive Chairman emerging as Chairperson. In her response, the Chairperson of COME 2018, Mrs Imaabasi Brown called out to Mkpat Enin sons and daughters; both at home and abroad to identify with the occasion and contribute their ideas and resources on how best to explore and harness the peoples’ rich culture. She noted that although the event is capital intensive, corporate bodies and organizations, including Zenith Bank PLC, Ibom Power, Dana Air, etc have also indicated interests to support and be part of the event. Saturday Independent reports that Mkpat Enin LGA has an area of 322.352 square kilometres (124.461 sq mi) and is located within the industrial belt extending from Eastern Obolo, Etinan, Oruk Anam, Onna, to Ikot Abasi. The people are traditionally Ibibio speakers. The population was 178,036 based on the 2006 census. The area is rich in oil and natural gas; as oil was discovered in Ikot Akpa/Ekop as early as 1953. Forest reserves include timber and palm produce. Mkpat Enin is the host of the Akwa Ibom State University, Ikot Akpaden, it also plays host to the coconut plantation and refinery of the Akwa Ibom State government, as well as the ongoing Ekim Power Substation. The LGA has four clans and 87 villages. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 