Lagos – The police have announced the arrest of Augustus Akpan, 43, a suspected kidnapper and notorious fraudster who allegedly issued death threats on former Vice President Atiku Abubakar ahead the 2019 presidential election. Akpan, an Akwa Ibom indigene from Edemaya village, Ikot Abasi LGA, had, in a series of menacing messages, warned the former vice president to withdraw from the 2019 presidential race, otherwise he and his family members stood to suffer fatal assaults in his hands. Items recovered from the alleged notorious swindler include one Samsung (Galaxy S6 Edge +) mobile phone and the SIM card used by the suspect to send the threats to Nigeria’s former number two citizen, his wife and daughters. According to the police, the said phone and SIM card were discovered to have been items he robbed from a lady who had subsequently identified him as her assailant. The police gave this indication in a statement issued on Wednesday by its spokesperson, Force Headquarters, Jimoh Moshood, and obtained by Daily Independent. Moshood listed the series of threatening messages that Akpan sent to Atiku, who is eyeing the presidential ticket of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and some of his family members. “Turaki Atiku, we are watching you and your family; we ask you right now to withdraw from the race for presidency, we will kill, rape your wife and daughters. That your ambitious and black daughter Maryam who worked at CBN and left because we were going to mess her up. We will molest, rape, deform her and kill her. Your daughter Fatimah the former Commissioner of Health in Adamawa State, we have a lot of information about her,” the police cited as the text message sent to the former VP by Akpan. “Also pictures of her naked body, we will mess your overly prostitute wife Jennifer up. We have a lot about her. Let Buhari run against your PDP members. We know that you are bigger than all those candidates in PDP. That is why we need you to step down. We will blow your plane off from the sky and we will poison you and your family. Atiku Abubakar, take our words for granted and watch what will happen to your family before you. “You are going to see what we will do to you and your family. We know where and where your children travel to. We have watched your daughter who is a strong supporter of her father (your daughter Maryam) at number 5, Buzi Close and number 5, Lake Maracaibo Close,” according to the text messages of the suspect. To Atiku’s wife, the suspected fraudster had allegedly texted, “Jennifer. Tell your husband to step down. We will blow up his plane and kill all of you his family. We will rape you and all his daughters and also kill all of you out there. Do not underestimate us. We know your office at 13 Danube Street, Maitama. We will blow up the place and rape all your step daughters that we know you don’t like already. Tell him to step down now and forget about running for the presidency.” And to Rukaiya Atiku, the former VP’s daughter, Akpan allegedly threatened, “Tell your dad to step down. He should forget about the presidency. If he refuses, we will blow up his plane in the Gulf Stream from the sky and also rape you and kill of his daughters. No amount of police or protection will stop us. We know where all of you live in. We know number 5 Buzi Close and number 5, Lake Maracaibo Close. Try us and blood shall spread.” The police, however, noted that they immediately went on Akpan’s trail upon receiving a complaint from the PDP presidential hopeful that he and his family members were getting death threats in connection to his presidential ambition. “On receipt of complaint of threat and intimidation from the former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Akpan was trailed and eventually arrested by the IGP Intelligence Response Team,” the police said. “The suspect, Augustus Akpan, was arrested at toll-gate along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Lagos State, while on the run to escape arrest.” The police explained that their investigation revealed that far from being sponsored by any political party, Akpan, who had confessed to the crime, was merely a trickster that was only trying to use menaces to extort money from Alhaji Atiku by preying on his presidential ambition. “During interrogation, he (Akpan) confessed to the crime and admitted that he resorted to the threat and intimidation when all efforts to extort money from the former vice president were unsuccessful,” Moshood said. “The suspect, Augustus Akpan, also admitted in his confessional statement that he is a professional fraudster and not working for any political party. “That his mention that ‘Let Buhari run against your PDP members’ in his threat message to the former vice president was merely to divert attention. “The suspect, Akpan, further confessed that he had threatened, defrauded and extorted huge sums of money in naira and foreign currencies from so many prominent personalities and their family members while posing as a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) agent.” Akpan is said to be fluent in English, Ibibio, Russian and Portuguese languages. Meanwhile, the police have concluded plans to arraign the suspect in court, as investigation into his case is being wound up. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 