Olorogun Fred Majemite is a two-term former commissioner in Delta State and one of the chieftains of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He spoke with journalists recently on the wave of defections in PDP and on other issues. Temidayo Akinsuyi brings the excerpts: There are waves of defections from Delta PDP just like other states in the federation. What is the fate of PDP in Delta following these defections? As far as I am concerned, Delta PDP is still one big and strong family. We have been hearing rumours of defection before the former governor of the state left and the leadership of the party put in place some mechanism to cushion the effect if he leaves. When eventually he left, it wasn’t more of a shock to us again. Even though we wanted him, he has every right to associate with whoever he wants to associate with. Some political analysts after the defection of Senator Akpabio and that of  Uduaghan thinks the exit of these two heavyweights will affect the chances of PDP at the polls. Do you agree with this sir? No doubt nobody is useless and anybody can also be indispensable. We wanted them to stay but they have left, it is undoubtedly a minus to us but again nature abhors vacuum. It is unfortunate they have to go because these are people who started PDP and they grew with the party politically and now that we are not at the centre, we thought that with their experiences, we can come together to see how we can capture power again but they choose to opt out of the party for reasons best known to them. Few months to election and PDP is jostling to get back into power. Do you think the party as it is now has the wherewithal and what it takes to wrestle power from the ruling party? As a party that has been in government for several years but lost in 2015, we have gone back to our drawing board having realised what caused our loss. Back then impunity and imposition of candidates were the order of the day. If it were then most of the aspirants would have withdrawn from the race because they would have told them that they can’t get the party’s ticket. Now we are going to conduct a very free and clear primaries and the most popular candidate will emerge. When we conduct a free and fair primary and a candidate emerges, I am sure all the other aspirants will come together to work with the candidate. One thing is very certain and that is the fact that the government of APC is no longer popular among Nigerians. The change they promised us is not what we are getting now so we are changing the change. That is why we want to be very careful and play by our established rules because we don’t want to make mistake this time around again. Some of them that left PDP then are back in PDP. Former Governor Udughan said President Buhari’s administration has done tremendously well in the development of Niger Delta and he will want to join the government in bringing more development to the region. Do you agree with this? He is no doubt my boss having worked with him for eight years and I really don’t want to discuss this but he knows that he need not leave PDP before he contributes his quota to the development of the region. I am a PDP man to the core and I believe in PDP. Just because PDP is not at national now means we should abandon PDP.  As somebody who had thrice attempted to go the senate; twice I withdrew in deference to the party, I didn’t leave the party. Why should I leave the party now? Governor Okowa is doing well in Delta State and Deltans are proud of him. Even his predecessor, Governor Uduaghan agreed that he is a roadmaker. Some people are even asking me what I am getting from the party but I am always quick to tell them that at my level I know what I want. Probably if the government wasn’t doing well and the masses are complaining, then we may think otherwise but this government in Delta is doing fantastically well. As I speak to you now, I am happy with the party and I am happy with the giant strides of the governor. Though the defections will strengthen other parties in Delta but they can’t match PDP in Delta State. Aside supporting the reelection bid of Governor Okowa, what are your plans for 2019? I have attempted it thrice and I decided to support some party other aspirants of our PDP. I am not the type that will go for election just because I want to contest, I have what it takes to run for any political office in Delta State but I am not prepared for that now. Power comes from God and he gives to whoever he wishes. Governor Okowa is one governor that planned and worked to become a governor.. Because he had planned he already had a blueprint of what he wants to achieve as a governor. He worked for it and God blessed him with it. You can take anything from him but not politics because he grew from ground zero to become a governor. He had done well all-round because he was prepared for it. What do the recent defections portend for Nigeria’s democracy? It is because there are no clear ideologies in our political parties, if there were, there won’t be these carpet-crossing. Until we get there, we will always experience that. We are still growing and we will get there. How will you assess the anti-corruption crusade of this administration? Corruption is a cankerworm which has eaten deep into our fabrics and if possible all hands should be on deck to fight it but the mode of fighting is selective.  It is a gradual process and we can’t get it right in a day. We will continue to fight it and adopt a standard for the fight. Corruption has always been there and that doesn’t mean you should not face governance just because you are fighting corruption. They have failed Nigerians, they made so many promises which they now find it hard to fulfill. Some of us believe that those with him now should be prosecuted than those outside. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 