Lagos  – Prince Tony Momoh, a former Minister of Information, on Saturday affirmed that the 2019 presidential election will be in favour President Muhammadu Buhari, even if it is rigged. Speaking in an interview with Sunday INDEPENDENT, Momoh, who is a national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) however said President Buhari has warned that nobody should rig the election for him and that he will leave if he loses. He said compared to the fewer votes he got in 2015, President Buhari will have at least 25 percent votes in all the South East and South- South states because of the projects he has executed and the calibre of politicians in the regions who have defected to the ruling party. “We are going to have at least 25 percent votes because there is hardly any state in the South- South and South- East where Buhari will not have up to 25 percent.  That is certain. And if there is going to be any rigging, it will not work because Buhari has said nobody should rig for him”. “If there is going to be any rigging, it will be in the favour of the incumbent, so we don’t have a disadvantage. Those who were rigging before and writing up results cannot now write up results for anybody and if they do, it will be for Buhari but the President has warned that nobody should write up results for me.  If I lose, I will go’. Also speaking on the 2015 election, Momoh said while there was massive rigging in the South- South and South- East for former  President Goodluck Jonathan, all the votes scored by Buhari in the North were legitimate. Meanwhile, Daura Emirate Youth Progressive Movement (DEYPM), a Katsina State-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) said it has earmarked N 70 million to prosecute the electioneering campaign of President Muhammadu Buhari and Gov. Aminu Masari for the 2019 general elections. Alhaji Abdulkadir Lawal, the group’s zonal chairman, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Daura on Saturday. Lawal said that out of the amount, N40 million would be spent for Buhari’s presidential campaign, while N30 million would be set aside for the re-election of Gov. Masari. He said the money was sourced from contributions from individuals, groups and organisations with a view to facilitating the re-election of the two political office holders. Lawal explained that the money would be spent on hiring of vehicles, provision of logistics and other necessary campaign activities within the five local government areas in Daura Emirate. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 