Labour leaders under the aegis of the Trade Union Side of the Joint National Public Service Negotiating Council (JNPSNC) have given assurance that efforts would be intensified towards enhanced welfare package for employees in the Public Service of the Federation. Comrade Abdrafiu Alani Adeniji, the newly Chairman of the Trade Union Side of the JNPSNC, who gave the  assurance in a statement issued in Abuja, regretted that the Federal and State Governments appeared not to be giving requisite attention to matters of welfare affecting millions of workers in the Public Service of the Federation. Other officers that emerged at the September 12, 2018 election where Comrades Adeniji mounted the leadership saddle are: Comrades Alade Bashir Lawal, Secretary; Simon M. Anchavek, Vice Chairman; John Ushie, Assistant Secretary; and Y.Y Yashi, Treasurer. Reflecting on the current stalemate in respect of the on-going negotiation of a new National Minimum Wage in the country, the labour leader, stated that lack of Government commitment towards the welfare of Public Service employees was the main reason why the Government attempted to stall the negotiation which prompted the Trade Unions to issue a 14-day ultimatum on the matter. He said: “It is sad that in spite of the poverty ravaging the country due to meagre wage and consequent low purchasing powers of workers, Government is not disposed to treating the on-going negotiation of a new National Minimum Wage with the urgency it deserves. “We, therefore, use this opportunity to pledge the support of the Trade Union Side of JNPSNC to the leadership of NLC and TUC and praise them for their effort in pursuing the on-going negotiation of a new salary regime for Nigerian workers,” he stated. According to Adeniji, if the new National Minimum Wage, which must be a living wage, is approved and the Federal and 36 State Governments implement same immediately, the purchasing powers of millions of workers would be beefed up and simultaneously stimulate the economy. It would be recalled that the Unions that constitute the Trade Union Side of the JNPSNC are: Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN); Nigeria Union of Public Service Reportorial, Secretarial Data Processors and Allied Workers (NUPSRAW); Nigeria Civil Service Union (NCSU); Amalgamated Union of Public Corporations, Civil Service Technical  and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE). Others are National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives (NANNM); Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria (MHWUN); Agriculture and Allied Workers Union of Nigeria (AAWUM); and National Union of Printing, Publishing and Paper Product Workers (NUPPPPROW). The Official Side of the Council is represented by officials from the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation and those of the Establishments Offices in the 36 States of the Federation. The JNPSNC is the machinery established to handle the issue of collective bargaining in the Public Service. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 