Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) stakeholders recently ended the domestic league with only 24 rounds of matches played, in a bid to meet CAF’s October 15 deadline for submission of continental representatives. Consequently, Lobi Stars, which top the league table with 43 points at the time, were crowned ‘champions’, consequent upon which, they will be representing Nigeria in the 2019 CAF Champions League. Opinions are divided on the veracity or otherwise of that decision, with some linking it to poor management of the domestic football as a result of ownership structure of the clubs, which still resides with various state governments with little or no room to explore the business aspect of the game. In this piece, CHIBUIKE CHUKWU looks at how government’s continued ownership of clubs has impacted on the league and how the ugly trend could be curbed. In 2017, crisis rocked the leadership of the Italian Football Federation (FIGC) after the Federation failed to elect new leaders. The election into the board of the Federation was earlier marred by crisis and the attempt to conduct a fresh one ended inconclusively as the three candidates that were vying for the plum job failed to muster enough votes. After four rounds of voting amid chaotic scenes at a general meeting held in Fiumicino near Rome, none of the three candidates — the president of the Amateur League (LND) Cosimo Sibilia, the president of the third-tier Lega Pro division Gabriele Gravina and the head of the professional players’ union (AIC) Damiano Tommasi —obtained a majority. Tommasi finished bottom in the second and third rounds so could no longer win, with a fourth ballot requiring a simple majority to win. In the final round Gravina received 39.06 percent of the vote, Sibilia 1.85 percent, with 59.09 percent blank ballots. Amidst the crisis, the Serie A and all other cadres of the Italian league were never affected. Nothing was heard of the crisis due to a ownership structure of the clubs. According to an article, ‘The Relationship Between Ownership Structure And Club Performance In The English Premier League’, written on ‘Sport, Business and Management’, a sport publishing content that dwells on sport marketing, there were three major ownership structures in club football with varied returns on investment. There is the Supporters Trust Structure, which thrusts the greater share of ownership on the supporters. It cited Portsmouth as an example where 75 percent of the club’s ownership is on Pompey Supporters Trust Limited. There is the Stock Market Ownership Model where the club is traded publicly on the stock market. The whole principle behind the stock market model would allow a football club to raise capital. From a purely business perspective, the stock market model must provide a return on investment for the stakeholders of the club or it would not be considered a sound business investment. Also obtainable in the European club football is the Foreign Ownership Model, where very wealthy individual will buy a top flight football team and then pump millions into the club, the majority of which we see spent on inflated transfer fees and astronomical wage budgets. So, the measure for success with this sort of ownership structure is winning ‘on the pitch’ rather than positive financial performance. Then, there is Core Domestic Ownership Model. In this, one individual owns the club but in general is not able to bankroll a team as with more prominent foreign ownership. Bill Kenwright and Everton are a good example of this. The four ownership structures have one thing in common; they are all devoid of government participation. Recalling the crisis in the Italian Federation last year, the business nature of the league made it impossible for club football to be grounded over FA issues because of so many business interests. There are fans, for example, that had purchased match tickets for the season and they would not be shortchanged. There are monies spent on sponsorship, television rights and other value chain businesses and a possible league stoppage would have meant paying back those huge sums, which would have been difficult if not impossible. But the same cannot be said of the Nigeria Professional Football League. Apart from three clubs – FC IfeanyiUbah, Go Round and MFM FC – all the teams campaigning in the league are owned by state governments, which have turned what should have been veritable business enterprises into publicity arm of the state governments. That was the reason the stakeholders will agree to suspend the league at the least crisis. While the major leagues in the world were on break during the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia, some lesser leagues were on. In fact virtually all the leagues in Africa were operational during the World Cup, raising questions why Nigeria will ground the domestic affairs due to the World Cup. According to journalists, who spoke to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT on their capacities as league reporters, the large retinue of the NFF and LMC staff in Russia was uncalled for. “Of what purpose were LMC personnel in Russia if not to collect estacodes at the expense of the domestic league and the future of the players? Did their relocation to Russia guarantee Nigeria’s qualification to the round of 16? What impact was their stay in Russia had on the overall welfare of the Super Eagles? The questions are legion. If the NPFL clubs are run and owned on the basis of the four structures noted above and with strong intent on exploiting all avenues to make money, there was no need for the league managements to travel to Russia when domestic football league was ongoing. According to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT research, football Federations is distinct from the domestic league, even though the former has cameo supervisory role over the latter. That was the reason Serie A was not affected in 2017 when leadership issues hit the Italian Federation. Also speaking on the matter, Adegboye Onigbinde, one of the experienced managers in Nigeria, said that there was no need for the league to be grounded over NFF’s leadership issues. The former FIFA and CAF technical instructor averred that in other climes, the league would be running despite the leadership crisis at the leadership of the NFF. “There was no need for the league to be shut because people were fighting for the leadership of the NFF. This cannot happen in other leagues because the league should have been independent of the Federation. Did we take the career of the players into consideration? He asked rhetorically. The reason for the suspension is simple; state governors, who should be the heads of the clubs, have little or no interest of the teams at heart. The clubs are not their business and they do not rightly expect the game to be run beyond entertainment intent. This position was held by Dr Ifeanyi Ubah, the proprietor of FC IfeanyiUbah, in a recent interview. “Governments use the clubs for politics but we are using our own to keep our youths gainfully busy.” The businessman rued the state of domestic football under state governments. “As a state (Anambra), we do not have a stadium but I have been able to build one in two years and got certification from CAF. “Enyimba was playing in Calabar for three years; Plateau United was playing their CAF matches in Lagos. “Is it not unfortunate that as a governor, your team which is playing continental matches where youths are supposed to cheer them have to play them in faraway places? He asked. A visit to stadiums of state-owned clubs will reveal the level of politics that has been brought into club football by the state governments. For instance, at the newly refurbished Enyimba Stadium, part of the score board bears the portrait of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, even as the pitch panels also reflect both real and imagined achievements of the state government, at the expense of commercials that should have been yielding returns to the club. The same thing applies to Agege Stadium, the home ground of MFM FC. The wall of the stands housing the VIP and the press is embossed with messages of Lagos State government, with one noticeably showing the wife of the governor. Were the clubs owned by individuals, who are out to maximize profits, such items will be non-existent and where they are allowed, they will be paid for. In 2016, Arsenal was reported to have generated about £120.4million from stadium throughout the 2014/15 season match days with the earnings coming from spectators at their 61,000-seater Emirates Stadium and commercials also at the stadium. From experience, governments are not good managers of business. We must get out of the idea that football will die if government hands off funding the sport.  Football flourishes better in private hands going by experience of major football countries across the world. It’s common to hear of missing millions of dollars at the NFF and the league because government’s business is nobody’s business in this part of the world. There is no accountability of any form. If the right professionals are managing Nigerian football like a business, with all the departments – finance and accounts, administrations and marketing – functioning as they should, Nigeria football will come up tops. The solution is that the NFF should be truly independent with focus on managing the macro aspect of football in the country while the league and football clubs should be private sector-driven while government creates the enabling environment. In fact, the value chain of returning football to individuals will be huge even though it may seem difficult initially. The various administrative departments will engage workers and it will fight unemployment. On the estimate, football league is capable of providing two million jobs if the intention is to exploit the business angle of the game. This is because the owners of the clubs will engage experts and seek sponsors, who will also engage experts to make sure that their own investments are protected. It will rub off on all aspects of the economy. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 