ADO-EKITI – A former federal lawmaker and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bimbo Daramola, has promised to work closely with the Ekiti State governor-elect Dr Kayode Fayemi, restore the state’s lost values, if re-elected. He also hailed Fayemi’s latest meetings with governors, ministers and development partners, stressing that the task of rebuilding Ekiti had commenced, even before the governor-elect assumed duty. Daramola, who had indicated interest to return to the National Assembly to represent Oye\Iko!e Federal Constituency, said the state needs an experienced and loyal party man for the job. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Ado-Ekiti, Daramo!a, hinted that he parades the best credentials among other contenders, as he was reputed  for moving  over 40 motions, sponsored  nine bills and co-sponsored 12 others, including the first motion moved on the floor of the seventh National Assembly. According to him, the governor and indeed Ekiti would leverage on his robust cognate and ancillary legislative experience to make the state move to the next level. “As a federal lawmaker for four years and another four years as a chief of staff to the deputy speaker, I don’t think I need a map to navigate the National Assembly,” he stated. Daramola also dismissed insinuation of frosty relationship between him and Fayemi, describing those behind the rumour as busy bodies. He boasted that no one could stand between him and the governor-elect. The APC chieftain disclosed that he had passed the cadre of loyalty in Fayemi’s political movement describing himself as a ‘devotee’ of Fayemi. “For those who desire to profit from what does not exit, that I Bimbo Daramola did not enjoy cordial relationship with Dr Fayemi, they would have perish thought or beat a retreat. “Our relationship span over a period of 40 years. And for 15 years, I was a major member of Dr Fayemi’s Strategic Committee. At a point, I was appointed Director General of his Campaign Organisation .You don’t give this kind of position to your enemy. “Why would I not be in good terms with Fayemi? First and foremost, we do not have ideological deference’s, neither do we have political differences Even though, I ran at the governorship primaries with him and I have alluded to the circumstances that made me took that action. I could not have ventured into that without duly consulting Fayemi. And if he had said no, I won’t bother venturing into it. “So, let me made it clear that if some people are just attaining the cadre of loyalty in Fayemi’s camp, I have moved up the cadre I am now a devotee,” he said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 