Ilorin – A governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State, Moshood Mustapha, has said that he will probe incumbent Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led government if he emerges governor of the state in the 2019. Mustapha is a former aide of the Senate President, Bukola  Saraki, who has just returned to PDP with his associates in the state, including Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed. He was a commissioner under the administration of Saraki as governor of the state and also a special adviser at Saraki’s Senate President office before he recently parted with his boss. Mustapha., while declaring his intent to run for 2019 governorship race on Monday, dispelled insinuations that he was a mole in the APC as he said he said he would make sure the PDP administration accounts for its deeds while in office. The APC governorship aspirant, who said that his administration would change the face of governance when elected, explained that his vision was to create a Kwara State that works for all irrespective of tribe, gender, religion or political affiliation. “I wish to categorically state that I am not a mole: I’m not playing games with future of Kwarans, I will never do anything that is inimical to growth and development of the APC both at state and national levels and my intention to run for the office of the governor of Kwara State is borne out of my wish to salvage Kwara from socioeconomic and political problems,” he said. Mustspha, who resigned his appointment as special adviser to the Senate President on Inter Parliamentary Affairs, Protocol and Special Duties, said that virtually all politicians in the state have had relationship with the Saraki family until political differences tore them apart, including himself. He, however, said that he had to pursue his own political agenda when efforts to promote internal democracy allegedly failed in their political relationship. “It’s on record that virtually all politicians in Kwara State have had one form of relationship or the other with the Sarakis until political differences tore them apart. Mine is not an exception. My dad, Alhaji Usman Mustapha, the Wali of Ilorin, and the late Dr. Olusola Saraki were political associates and this relationship rubbed off on the children. I worked for Senator Bukola Saraki right from when he became the governor of Kwara State up till when he became the Senate President and I carried out my duties diligently and effectively. But I had to quit after all efforts to allow for internal democracy failed,” he said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 