Yenagoa – The Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) has sealed off 321 premises of pharmacies and patent medicine shops in Bayelsa State for various offences bordering on compliance. The figure is made up of 36 pharmacies and 285 Patent and Proprietary Medicine Vendors (PPMVs) out of a total of 427 premises visited during an inspection and monitoring exercise in the state by the Drug Distribution Committee of the PCN. Briefing journalists in Yenagoa on Friday at the end of the exercise, Anthonia Aruya, Director, Inspection and Monitoring, PCN, said the 427 facilities visited in various parts of the state comprised 71 pharmacies and 356 PPMVs. She said that Bayelsa was the 28th state to be visited so far by the council in the field exercise. Aruya said, “Thirteen premises comprising seven PPMVs and six pharmacies were given compliance directives for various offences ranging from improper handling of controlled substances, unhygienic environment and poor documentation, dispensing ethical/prescription of drugs without the presence of a pharmacist. “Observations from the field in Bayelsa State revealed that many people go into sale of medicines without following due process. Others do not have the requisite knowledge or skills to handle medicines in their premises or are operating beyond approved scope. “A good number are in full employment without adequately providing for personnel covered by law to oversee the activities in such facilities.” According to her, the implications of these actions could expose members of the public to great danger, urging people to ask for the registration status of facilities by requesting for their licences in order not to  patronise quacks. Aruya further advised members of the public to source their drug needs from registered pharmacy outlets and over-the-counter drugs from registered PPMV shops, warning that “drugs sold in unregistered outlets cannot be guaranteed to be genuine.” The PCN Director, who noted that the sale of controlled drugs like tramadol and codeine had drastically reduced in Bayelsa, disclosed that the action of the PCN was the first phase in streamlining the distribution system as further actions would be taken in due course because the council was committed to full compliance to the National Drug Distribution System. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 