Warri – Prior to last Saturday’s gubernatorial election in Osun state, a lot of people did not give Senator Ademola Adeleke, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) a chance. With the incumbent Rauf governor, Aregbesola still in charge , coupled with the congregation of all APC leaders in Osun from all over Nigeria for the APC mega rally ahead of the polls, many had given up on the PDP as it was conceded in some quarters that PDP and the other opposition elements would be easy crush for the APC just as it was in Ekiti state. Even when music star, David Adeleke, aka Davido, nephew to Senator Adeleke rallied thousands of fans in support of the PDP candidate ahead of the polls, there was cautious optimism about the prospects of the PDP at the polls. Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) had vowed that Osun is a must win  for the party, The APC-led federal government had released over N17billion naira to Governor Aregbesola to help clear the backlog of workers’ salaries which was about 18 months in arrears. Adeleke, the PDP candidate was harassed to no end by agents of the state over alleged non-possession of WAEC certificate, but WAEC officials graciously cleared the air few days to the election, giving Adeleke a clean bill of health as possessing a valid WAEC certificate. Adeleke became famous as the dancing Senator and he was and still is never ashamed of dancing at religious and social gatherings. Oshiomole, the midget APC national Chairman with oversize mouth, threw tantrums at him, deriding him as unfit to be governor because of the way he danced. His nephew, Davido took his dancing spree to another level and Osun caught the fire of enchanting and alluring support for the Adelekes with sensational grip. By the time the result started trickling in on Sunday morning with Adeleke posting impressive results, people became enraptured with the progress. Those who thought APC will grab a straight victory as they did in Ekiti saw the twist in fate too stunning as APC social media followers  were shocked beyond imagination. This writer saw many of them withdrawing into their shells, hiding their faces under the facades of calls for re-run. That was when it dawned on Nigeria that APC was in trouble. In the final analysis, the INEC Returning Officer, declared the election inconclusive. Speaking in a chat with our correspondent, a PDP chieftain said “One thing is sure, PDP has won Osun State and despite what APC may do before, during and after the rerun scheduled for September 27, the Osun polls have made very incredible statement on the 2019 general election, suggesting that candidates, and not political parties will decide victory in 2019. Any rejected candidate, who hopes to win election by flying the flag of a big political party, may be humiliated in 2019”. “The electoral process has improved tremendously and votes are counting. Aregbesola took the people for granted for 8 years and have paid heavily for it. Even if the table is turned against the PDP during the rerun, one thing is clear, PDP’s outing is impressive and a shocker to the APC across Nigeria. If Osun poll with APC incumbent governor could be driven so hard to the extent that INEC could not declare the APC candidate winner and had to resort to a rerun to scrap some reprieve albeit dishonorably, it shows 2019 will definitely be a year of the people and not the system. There was federal might and heavy military presence before Osun decided to defy a non-performing governor to vote their choice”. One of the lessons from the Osun poll according to a political commentator,  Peter Igele is that “no political party and power of incumbency can save a non-performing public office holder. What counts is how the people rate the candidates and their perception of their persons. That too could play out in the presidential polls as the complaint against President Buhari, being explained away by his media goons cannot turn the tide in his favour in 2019. Every candidate would be judged by their fruits as merit and performance will count afterall”. “Those who thought votes don’t count may also have reasons to change their minds now as Osun recorded dry vote in all the units. There was no vote padding and ballot snatching. The people were determined to vote, ensure their votes count and were resolute till the end. Again, another lesson is that anybody who fails to treat the people well but turn to become emergency Father Christmas on the eve of election like Aregbesola will have his hopes dashed in 2019. Awareness is very high on the part of the people and their democratic consciousness has peaked over time”. Another lesson from the Osun polls is that the era of demi-gods on the political scene is gradually wearing away. No man can play God and Aregbesola’s un-usual demeanor as Osun emperor has been demystified. Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s position as the principality and power of the South-West has been shattered and his ego roughly torn in the battle to install Oyetola, perhaps against the popular wish of Osun people. That too is a huge lesson for the ‘Ambode must go’ crusaders in Lagos state. Those who dare to play God in the affairs of others are warned to let peace reign because when the people decide to rise on the strength of their democratic consciousness, even the so-called federal might pales into insignificance. Also speaking, another political analyst,  Mark Bolouwei said “What PDP must do ahead of the Thursday rerun is to reach out to candidates of other political parties for the polls to build a strong alliance capable of pushing APC to a sure and final fall. Senator Bukola Saraki should complete the good work he has started by marshalling more forces into Osun State to ensure votes are not padded to give APC undue advantage during the rerun”. “All PDP leaders across Nigeria should see Osun as a template for 2019 and must work hard to stop the APC rigging machine so that the people’s choice could carry the day. Osun have spoken, hope is rising and PDP is on the verge of winning one State in the South-West again. The dancing Senator may well be the albatross of the APC in the South-West as he has suddenly danced APC to a fall to the delight of genuine democrats”. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 