MAIDUGURI – Following several appeals by the residents of Borno, Alhaji Babagana Tijani Banki, an astute politician fondly described as a crowd puller has finally heeded the clarion call of his people to join the gubernatorial race in Borno state under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). To demonstrate his seriousness, he has since purchased his Nomination form and Expression of interest which he had subsequently submitted at the APC secretariat in Maiduguri. Banki has absolute confident that in all the 22 contenders aspiring for the number one office in Borno state, he will at the end of the day emerge APC flagbearer especially being the most popular aspirant amongst them. Babagana Banki is not a green horn politician in Borno having been elected a Member of House of Representatives for three consecutive times. Presently, he is the Commissioner for Housing and Energy in Borno state and he has been doing wonderful well in that Ministry especially working towards ameliorating energy sector in the state. Perhaps, due to his wealth of experience, Governor Kashim Shetimma of Borno state decided to appoint him for second time as a Commissioner. Interestingly too, many people who have also tested his leadership quality since 1997 to date have been subtle but passionately calling on him to go for elective position which he has finally accepted. He is a man worth voting for into high elective position like a governor so that, he continue to be a purveyor of the needy. Babagana Tigani is highly experienced, hardworking, committed and focused who believes that, the youths should not be political thugs but agent of positive change for the betterment of the society. However, before delving into the murky waters of politics, Tijani Banki is a business mogul born into the family of a business oriented elder statesman of blessed memory, late Alh. Tigani Banki, his father, a philanthropist par excellence. The young Tijani is a verily silent achiever who refused to be an empty vessel that makes the loudest noise. His close interaction with the grassroots earned him seemingly everlasting spur among them. No wonder why, his people fondly refer to him as “mai gaskiya” meaning a sincere man who hardly fail his people or even other tribes at the time of their needs. He is always keeping his promises to the people intact. Meanwhile, on the day the Bama-born politician returned to Maiduguri after purchasing his nomination form and expression of interest from Abuja, it was a herculean task for the security personnel both plain and uniform to control unprecedented crowd of people who came out enmasse to give him a lousy welcome. In fact, from the airport to the APC secretariat, it took the conveyor of the gubernatorial hopefully 3hours because of crowd of people. This is undoubtedly an indication that, his popularity before the masses is not in doubt at all. Speaking shortly after submitting his nomination form at APC secretariat in Maiduguri, Babagana Banki said that, if elected as a governor of Borno state, his government will focus more on Education, Agriculture and Youths Empowerment. He however call on the people of the state especially all the party delegates to support and give him their votes on the day of primary election which is slated to be on 29th September 2018. One of the Tijani’s political colonies, Ahmed Kimba Mohammed has describe him as a grassroot politician whom everyone will like to reckon with at any time. “Babagana Tigani Banki is an easy going politician that needs our support and we shall give him our votes during the primaries” he added. Meanwhile, as the date for APC primary election is just few days away from now, all the aspirants who have just returned to the state after being thoroughly screened in Abuja are now seriously demystifying strategies before the D-day. Already, some delegates are anxiously waiting for the day of the primary so that they can show their trust and loyalty to Tijani Banki by voting him to become the governorship flag bearer of APC in Borno. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 