AVM Frank Ajobena (rtd) an All Progressives Congress (APC) member and former Military Administrator of Abia State, in this interview with JOHN AMUDO spoke on his party’s coming primaries, among other issues. Excerpt: People are for and against the adoption of direct or indirect primaries by your party. What is your take on this issue? The decision for direct primary was well articulated by the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and everybody keyed into it. Even President Muhammadu Buhari bought into it. It was agreed that this direct primary is an innovation that will broaden the base of the country’s democracy, because it opens the road for the people to participate. That is what democracy is all about. Anyway, it is the people’s participation that is the best. So, everyone who is a card carrying member of our party will be in a position to cast his or her vote for those that will represent the party and to throw up the popular candidate. That is what the direct voting is all about. So, we have settled for that. What is your take on indirect primary? Well, the indirect primary is fraught with serious corruption. If you follow what happened in the last election, you need to see the kind of money people were using to buy delegates, build houses and enrich themselves. But, I must say that indirect voting is an expensive process. It actually buys the people’s conscience to vote against their candidate. Besides, it is for the highest bidder. So, it was a good thing the National Chairman brought out that idea because it is a cheaper way of ensuring that which can always throw up a popular candidate. In fact, that is where we belong. So, I support it whole heartedly and that is where my heart goes to. Don’t you think that the chairman is dancing to the tune of President Buhari because it is Mr. President that appointed him and the process will favour APC? No, it has nothing to do with favouring APC. Whatever method he uses, Buhari is popular enough to win an election. In fact, it is not about Buhari at all. Why should Buhari influence anything?  You see, those who are opposed to it are mainly the governors. If you look at everything very well, it is the governors. They are afraid that at the end of the day, the primaries will be a way of getting rid of them. That is their fear. But, if you, as a governor, has performed well, you don’t have to be afraid. You will expect everybody to support your course. But, it is because many of them do not know what is good enough to do, hence they are afraid. Unfortunately, some of them have not done well. That is why they try to push in this indirect agenda to take care of few people, I mean the delegates. In fact, that is corruption. Can we rule out money politics in Nigeria’s democratic system? Honestly, you cannot eliminate money politics. I just told you that my daughter who wants to contest elective position is doing consultations everywhere. In doing this, you don’t go with empty hands. You buy them drinks. Sadly, it is even worse in this our Delta State because they mix culture with politics. They are complicating the whole thing. We don’t even know what is going on. So, for long, it will be an involving process. However, money is still important because it still has a major role to play in politics. Even in developed democracies, they still spend money. But money is an influence. But, the effect will minimise as we progress. Once everybody buys into the direct primary, it is like a mini election on its own, I mean it is like picking your president, governor and even Houses of Assembly members. It is a first step within the party family to pick your candidate. By that, you are giving everybody a level playing ground. Do you see APC surviving 2019 elections going by the recent defections of its former top chieftains at state and federal levels? Why won’t APC survive? As we lose members, people are coming into our party. They come in their droves. Did you not see people like Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan now in APC with his teeming supporters? They have abandoned the PDP and this is what is happening everywhere. So, you lose some, you gain more. It is not a threat to anything at all. Like in Isoko, there is a strong politician they called Joel. Although I don’t know him, he was a staunch PDP man and he is contesting for House of Representatives now under the platform of APC. In the words of my friend, ‘What you lose in the corner, you gain it when you come to the straight line. Sometimes, what you lose in the curve, you win it in the straight.’ So, that is the way politics is played. How would you assess the performance of President Buhari? He is doing a great job. In every sector, he has made his impact. The railway lines are working. Major road construction programmes are being executed. There is a lot of improvement in agricultural sector. Very soon, we will be exporting local tomatoes and the rest of them. In fact, Mr. President is doing very well. Even electricity has improved a lot. That was part of the things he did when he went to China recently. Energy has been the major setback of our industrialisation. It is one of those things that have kept foreign investors away. As soon as he can address those issues, there will be constant energy and unemployment will be reduced. Of course, that will also impact on the security of the country because insecurity is a symptom of poor economic performance. Truly, Mr. President is addressing all those issue. Life will be normal for everybody. Two prominent world leaders Mrs. Theresa May of Britain and Mrs. Markel of Germany recently visited Nigeria. How would you react to their visits? Would say they have political undertones? No, it has nothing to do with politics. There is an adage that where there are carcasses, there the eagles gather. Everybody now sees the benefit they can derive from the Nigeria system. So, everybody is scrambling to have a piece of the action. They are preparing the way for their industrialists and investors to come to Nigeria. They have seen China and their eyes are opened. Chinese have taken over their former colonies. If they fail to wake up, their economy will suffer. The truth is that African economy is being exploited to advance the course of Europe. As at today, the world’s resources are in Africa, the only continent that can boost the volume of minerals and other resources. All others have been badly depleted. So, Africa is still very rich in resources because a lot of minerals abound. That is why they have been detribalising central Africa. Those are strategic countries in terms of exploiting minerals, because, minerals cannot be found anywhere in the world. The foreign countries need the minerals for their space system and many others things. So, if both Britain and Germany don’t buckle up and China establishes something here, as it is doing now, they will be in trouble. It is diplomacy for them to reach out to a country like Nigeria. In fact, we don’t have anything to be afraid of. Their visits have nothing to do with politics. President Buhari’s performances in domestic arena are enough to win him a re-election. President Donald trump of America recently described President Buhari as ‘lifeless’. What is your take on this? President Trump talks too much. He cannot control his mouth and his mouth runs all the time. He quarrels with everybody. He is an embarrassment to everybody. It is better to ignore a person like Trump, because, he does talk like a responsible leader. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 