MAKURDI – Benue State Government has alleged that N4 billion may have been withdrawn out of the N14.9 billion Paris Club refund without its consent. It could be recalled that the Federal Government may have “force-debited” the account of the state government by recalling the money that was earlier given the state. In a statement issued in Makurdi on Friday and signed by Terver Akase, Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Governor Ortom said the act may be a ploy to steal N4 billion out of the money due to the state. He insisted that the state government would take nothing short of the initial sum when the money was subsequently returned to its coffers. The government spokesman warned that if the act was to sell a dummy to the state and fraudulently take money due the state, then those hatching the scheme should have a re-think. Akase further said, “We have heard the rumour about a certain N4 billion ‘disappearing’ from the N14.9 billion final tranche of the Paris Club refund to Benue State which the Federal Government later recalled from the state bank account. “We hope that the rumour remains a mere rumour. Nothing must happen to the N14.9 billion the Federal Government recalled from Benue State accounts. “If this is a ploy to sell a dummy to the people and later take away the said amount of N4 billion, those selling the dummy had better change tactics, for their game plan has already failed”, adding “We will accept nothing less than the N14.9 billion back to the state accounts!”, he insisted. According to him, “Agents of such rumours should be told that the Benue State Ministry of Finance received withdrawal notification ( bank alert) the very minute the N14.9 billion was taken out of the state accounts by the Federal Government, so anyone hoping to play games with the government and people of the state needs to come up with another gimmick. What we do know is that Benue’s N14.9 billion final tranche of the Paris Club refund is intact in the custody of the Federal Government and will soon be returned to the state,” he stated. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 