LAGOS – In a bid to promote physical fitness among the indigenes of Onicha-Ugbo, Aniocha North Local Government Area of Delta State, Zitas Marathon Project has said it would host the first ever marathon race in the community. The race is schedule to take place on Friday, September 8, 2018. The Chairman, Planning Committee for the race, Kogolo Paul made the disclosure while briefing newsmen in Lagos. Kogolo, a US trained Sotfware Quality Assurance Engineer, while speaking on what the initiative is set to achieve said   the marathon race will promote oneness as well as educate the people on the many benefits of keeping fit. Stating other benefits participants stand to enjoy, Kogolo said cash and trophy rewards would be given to the first three winners in both male and female categories, while others would smile home with various largesse, adding that there are also medals for runners who complete the race. Speaking further, the organising chairman said: “What inspired this initiative is health, prosperity, communal benefit and wellness. “You cannot undermine the essence of sports in our lives. One of such sports is running. There are many benefits of running, you tend to shed unnecessary weight and remain fit. So this marathon is a way of transferring knowledge to the people. This is one of the many ways I think we can reach out to our people. “This is the first edition and we are just testing the waters with this edition. With time, it will become more effective and impactful.” On how intending participants can register, Kogolo said a functional website https://runonichaugbo.com has been developed for this purpose and registration is free to everyone from anywhere. He however added, “It will be my joy if the locals win the prices.” Highlighting security measures that have been adopted for the race, the chairman said the Police, the local vigilante group, the Federal Road Safety Corp (FRSC), medical and ambulance service and several others would be on ground. He called on the private individuals and government agencies in Delta State to embrace the initiative and partner with the organizers. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 