The National Assembly last Monday indicated that it would no longer reconvene on September 25, 2018 as formerly planned. The Senators and House of Representatives members concluded that it was practicality impossible for the planned emergency session to hold and approve the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) budget in a single sitting. The leadership of the National Assembly had said after a meeting with Prof Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC Chairman, that the two chambers would reconvene on September 25  to consider and approve INEC budget and the revilement requested by President Muhammadu Buhari. Yakubu had told newsmen that he was assured that the budget for the 2019 election would be approved soon. However, as it turned out, it became obvious that the lawmakers would no longer reconvene as they term it as impracticable. The lawmakers, having realised that to consider and approve Buhari’s request, it would take them close to a month at the least. One of the lawmakers was quoted as saying: “The request by President Muhammadu Buhari is not just a single line item that would just require a one day sitting. “The request has variety of committees that would be involved, including the Appropriations, Finance, INEC and other Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). “It is different from a situation whereby the President is asking for an increase in the size of the budget through a change of benchmark. “The request by Mr. President is not something that can be done in one day. Even those who are pushing the agenda know it.” He maintained that the National Assembly would achieve anything even if it was reconvened for one sitting “because the request has to be passed to the necessary committees and the committees have to meet with relevant MDAs for their input. He added, “Besides, there is another issue that has to do with the Constituency projects. The letter is requesting the lawmakers to remove funds from their constituency projects and use the same to fund INEC. “Remember that the Constituency projects are not a one line items in the budget. You can’t imagine how long it would take the Appropriations committees to sort out that issue with the MDAs. Another lawmaker stated: “Reconvening the National Assembly will not really work. It would mean that you want to keep the lawmakers around for the next one month, which defeats the idea of the annual recess. “The letter by the President is not just requesting for an increase in benchmark, which can be handled in one day through Senate or House resolution. Treating the letter by the President will take two to three weeks, or even more weeks.” He said that that the logistics of securing a quorum of either the Senate or the House was becoming more and more difficult as members were getting deep into their recess. He said: “Many of our colleagues travelled for Hajj. Many are in their constituencies battling the challenges of re-election. A number of people have travelled. It is not practicable to reconvene now.” The lawmakers argued that reconvening now would affect their participation in their parties’ primary elections for the 2019 general elections, as most of the lawmakers want to stage a come-back. In view of the forthcoming election, what would happen if the National Assembly postpones their September 25, resumption date? Barr Adeniyi Ladega, the Lagos State chairman of Fresh Democratic Party of Nigeria (FRESH Party), stated: “I believe that they will resume. If the leadership of National Assembly fails to resume then, they are not fair to Nigerians. But, I strongly believe that they will resume. The opposition cannot muster the number to remove the leaders of the National of Assembly. If they (opposition) try to do that it will turn chaotic. I think that the right thing for National Assembly to do is to resume. What will be their excuse for not resuming?” Non-Resumption May Affect INEC’s Time Table – NGP Chief Chief Nnamere Vitus Uruji, is the chairman of the New Generation Party (NGP), Oguta LGA in Imo State. According to him, “The 2019 election is already being threatened by what is taking place at the NASS. If the lawmakers fail to resume as being expected, it means that the electoral timetable released by INEC would no longer be possible and should be adjusted. But, I pray that this does not happen.” ‘Hope For 2019 Elections Will Be A Mirage’ Mrs. Nneamaka Victoria Obodiukwu – Woman Leader National Unity Party (NUP), Obowo LGA, Imo State, stated: “If the NASS fails to resume sitting, it means that our hope to have another general elections may be a mirage.” The System Will Not Be Grounded – Trade Unionist Comrade Augustine Isimebor Asimaoh, a Benin-based trade unionist, said: “On what will happen if the National Assembly postpones their September 25 resumption date in view of the forthcoming election, I will say nothing will happen because since the adjournment, they have been working through the committees. They have passed the supplementary budget for INEC through the Joint Committee in charge. “They are also working on the Electoral Amendment Bill, which I believe will also be passed through the same process. Even if they fail to reconvene throughout the remaining period, I don’t think the system will be grounded. In fact, all arrangements for the general elections have been made and indirect campaigns are already on. The members are working for their return to the National Assembly. I am very sure the system will move on even if there is no sitting before the elections.” It Will Negatively Affect Electoral Processes – Activist Dr. Adeoye Stephen, Executive Director, Advocates for Advancement of Economic Growth and Development Initiatives, stated: “It will be a very unpleasant experience because it will negatively affect a lot of things. Several things can be affected should the National Assembly postpone their September 25 resumption date in view of the coming elections. “It will in general terms have dire negative consequences on Nigerians and the government in area of what is already budgeted for the 2019 elections, culminating in added cost for related schedules. “This will also likely disenfranchise the electorates who are already highly suspicious of the sincerity of political class as well as, the election umpire, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “Thirdly, the populace gradually lose faith in the entire democratic processes in Nigeria as they patiently watch the disgraceful attitude of vote buying/selling and related vices, which came with the present dispensation. “What is happening today has become history to the discredit of this government and as well what Nigerians will live to remember in many years to come about the second coming of President Muhammadu Buhari, a  retired military General turned civilian President of the most populous black nation in the world. “Nigerians are patiently watching. This disgraceful vote buying or selling are evident of desperation of this government or present day politicians, which was first noticed during the Edo State governorship election and that of Ekiti State. Now, we can say that it would not manifest in the Osun State as those politicians who are experts in the manipulation of electoral process would still be brought in to do the same bad job to enable them win and continue in power?” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 