Lagos – The Nigerian Gas Association (NGA) yesterday advised the Federal Government to reverse its planned decision to revoke the licences of oil companies that failed to stop gas flaring in their operations in the country. Engr. Dada Thomas, President of the group who gave the advice at a pre-event biannual conference of the association in Lagos, said the decision to revoke such licences would entangle the Federal Government and the operators in stormy legal issues, which would not augur well for the sector. Dada, who said elimination of gas flaring, was in phases globally, stated that Nigeria had done well in the last decades in reducing gas flaring through strident advocacy. He added that the Federal Government should explore ways of continually mounting stringent advocacy against gas flaring through its initiatives in the country. Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, had on Monday said the government would from 2019 commence the revocation of the licences of oil companies that failed to stop gas flaring in their operations in the country. He spoke at the 2018 Buyers’ Forum/Stakeholders’ Engagement organised by the Gas Aggregation Company of Nigeria, where he said the government had been locked in a battle with upstream oil companies over the issue of gas flaring. He noted that the government was keen on ending gas flaring, but oil companies still give a lot of reasons why gas flaring cannot be ended. Dadam spoke on the nation’s gas prospect, saying Nigeria’s gas reserves could potentially be as high as 600 trillion cubic feet, compared to the current proven level of 192trillion cubic feet if deliberate steps were taken to explore for gas as opposed to coincidental discovery during oil exploration, the Nigerian Gas Association(NGA), has said. He added that there would be increased availability of natural gas, which would enable Nigeria to maintain its drive in the expand the gas value chain due to gas development. ‘’There will be wider environmental benefits for the country as increased gas use displaces some elements of diesel and petrol-fired energy generation. There will be significant interest in exploring for and/or developing a local natural gas industry in Nigeria.” The association’s bi-annual gas conference holding between October 14 and 16, 2018 in Abuja with the theme; ‘Shift to Gas Economy: Pace and scale of innovation in the west African sub region.’ According to him, the  list of confirmed speakers included Luis Bertran, Secretary General, International Gas Union; Maikanti Baru, GMD, NNPC; Ben Asante, CEO, Ghana National Gas Company; Walter Perez, MD, West Africa Gas Pipeline Company; Tony Attah, MD, Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas ; Mordecai Ladan, Director, Department of Petroleum Resources; Osagie Okunbor, MD Shell Petroleum Development Company /Chairman OPTS; Simbi Wabote, Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development Monitoring Borard  amongst others. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 