Determined to provide Nigerians users high speed and secure broadband internet experience, Spectranet Nigeria recently installed a new state of the art firewall technology, opened new customer centres among other industry initiatives the company has undertaken in recent times. DAVID AUDU reports on these developments in a chat with the CEO Ajay Awasthi. Excepts: What are you doing to improve customer service for the brand? The definition of customer service extends beyond addressing customer’s complaints and a responsive organisation trying to meet customer’s demands. We regard customer engagement as a journey, thus we started working on what we refer to as improving the Customer Service Quotient (CSQ) of the organisation. CSQ simply means how responsive and sensitive an organisation is towards the customer. It is not restricted to the customer service department only. It means the same thing to me as the CEO as it means to the Head of Marketing responding to issues raised by customers and keeping them engaged. CSQ should be a cultural issue. If the culture is not properly communicated from the front desk to various departments of the organisation, we would never succeed. We would never be up there. A serious-minded organisation yearns to offer the best in terms of customer service. This is the thrust of this journey. We have created channels for customers to express themselves. We have eased the process of communicating with the organisation. The world is in a digital era. In this era, we felt it was imperative to revamp our website. We changed the look of our website to make our customer purchase and get solutions without stress. Also, we thought our customers would like to engage with us while on the go. Most times, they are always with their smartphones. You need to have something which is easy for them to access and state demands just like someone moving around with a MiFi to access the internet. We have created an app to address this. I am happy to share that the feedbacks we have received so far are encouraging. Customers are pleased and happy with the simplicity of the app. In this era of Artificial Intelligence (AI), we felt it was important to infuse elements of AI into our website and app. This birthed Eva, a chatbot we created to interact with customers. Eva provides answers, solutions and responses to questions and inquiries anytime of the day, 24/7. We want them to express, we want them to offer suggestions so that we can improve ourselves. The brand is concentrating more on Customer Service than Growth. Is it on the background that growth is getting limited? It is not exactly so. I think the philosophy here is service business. If you do well with customer service, sales will automatically happen. We believe that there is a bigger space out there and we just want to occupy that space by excelling in customer service. I am optimistic that once we have done that, we will have meaningfully engaged customers and business will start happening. That is why we are doing so much with creating sales and service outlets located within arms-length. Could you share the reason for the introduction of express shops and what it means to the consumers? Differentiators in the internet service market are not restricted to product and pricing. Customer engagement is important too; it is critical to us as a brand. The introduction of Spectranet express service outlets is hinged on the importance of customer engagement. We believe it is very important for the company to excel in that regard. Spectranet embarked on this journey six months ago to uplift our customer service offerings from good to being the best-in-class in Nigeria. We want to be up there as the best-in-class in addressing customers’ concerns. In the last six months, we have done a lot in terms of expanding arms-length service footprint. We are ensuring that there is a Spectranet shop resolving customer service issues, just within 2-3 kilometres. In Lagos, we have a couple of shops created and operated by the brand. It is a reflection of the business terminology, Company Owned Company Operated (COCO). We have about 12 of them, scattered across Lagos. On the other hand, we have Franchise Owned, Franchise Operated (FOFO) outlets. There are about 13 of them run and operated by franchises approved by us. This puts the total of number of express outlets at 25 at the moment. By December, we should have 35 outlets. It is going to be the way forward. We are keen on spreading them evenly across the state. Are customer service quotient, arms-length distribution and service footprint connected to the investment you have made in upgrading your system and service experience? We are quite mindful of the fact that customer service quotient is important. It is not just about the creation of solutions. One of the major enablers of IP networks is the 4GLTE advance technology because they are internet based in that sense. 4G LTE is a victim of cyber-attacks and threats. It is ideal to put up firewall to protect your systems. The purpose of the firewall is to keep on detecting those threats. Across the world, there are automated bots. People do mischiefs; they meddle with your networks and then gain access to your customers. You would have experienced this with mails. At times, your mail box gets infected with embarrassing mails. These bots constantly search for vulnerabilities. We understand that it is important to be one step ahead of those bots. This influenced the upgrade of firewall protection for our systems. We brought in the latest generation of firewall, Firepower 9300 to secure our customers. It’s the first of its kind in Nigeria. The firewall is intelligent; it detects viruses and threats in data packets transmitted in large quantities from our systems. It is efficient in deep package inspections. We have made huge investment in networks so far. We are almost through with our optimization whilst we are focusing on Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) which can prevent sophisticated level of threats. Safeguarding our customers and business interests is important to us as a brand. We understand that some of our customers have websites that deserve the right kind of protection. We have invested significantly in this regard. That is why we have put in place the latest kind of firewall to guarantee safety. Can you explain further the security process of the new firewall you have just installed? Let me explain what happens when we transmit data. The data goes in parcels, and there are firewalls which see these parcels and say, ‘ok, you are fine go, and so on’. But people have been very smart and what they do when sending these harmful parcels is to put them layer by layer deep inside the parcels to avoid easy detection by just any firewall. But the new generation of firewall, particularly the one we have just installed inspect deep inside the data parcel being sent. It has to do so much work because we carry trillions of data in our system every day. Because we carry hundreds of terabytes every day, we need a security system to be in place that could analyse the data at extremely very fast speed to ensure the safety and security of our customer’s data. For us to achieve all these it means we have to make huge investment in our networks and data security, and that is exactly what we have done. Infrastructural companies (INFRACOS) are also playing important roles in terms of rolling out broadband infrastructure across the country. Are these roles helping ISPs to deploy their services? The biggest challenge of rollout at this point in time is the cost of bandwidth. We can carry traffic from Lagos to London at one-fourth of the cost we have to spend to carry traffic from Abuja to Lagos or Port Harcourt to Lagos. There is no infrastructure existing there. If we consider moving into Kano or Kaduna, practically there is no infrastructure. There are no lease lines. The ones that are available are too expensive. The cost of renting space from Tower INFRACOS is prohibitive. More infrastructures should be provided for ISPs to function effectively. Bringing down the cost of using infrastructure is equally important. These suggestions will boost the viability of the industry and ISPs. Recently, NCC stated that 40 million Nigerians don’t have access to internet even though mobile internet penetration is growing in millions. What are you doing to bring in people who are outside the internet space? One of the key drivers of internet penetration is availability of compatible devices at affordable prices. So, if more number of smartphones comes into the country at affordable rates, more people will get connected. If import duties are reduced, prices will come down. Government should help us in bringing in these devices at cheaper rates so that we can make them affordable to customers. What are you doing to drive broadband penetration to achieve the maximum target by the end of 2018? We are in business to make reasonable money whilst we offer internet solutions to our customers. If we don’t achieve this, investors wouldn’t bring in the required capital. That is a fundamental point. Spectranet is working towards this goal but the infrastructure required to support this is in short supply. Rate of tower rentals is one of the highest in the world; the cost of bandwidth is high too. This implies that the core structure critical to driving this goal is completely unfavourable. On the other side, we have TELCOS offering data at rates which are below cost and rates in the ISP market. Due to the absence of floor price for data, it is practically difficult for ISPs to match up with TELCOS and effectively roll out broadband. How can regulators come in to help? Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has been quite sensitive. I am sure they understand this issue very clearly. At the moment, KPMG is carrying out a study on understanding the core structure of providing data services to customers. NCC should step in urgently to announce floor prices for data. This is critical to the survival of ISPs considering some of the activities and data promotions of TELCOS. In spite of your huge investments in network and security the industry seems to be shrinking with the number of ISPs in the market at the moment. What is responsible? The issues are contextual. Clearly, the challenges we are experiencing at the moment has to do with the viability of the industry. Without floor pricing, the market may continue to shrink. As a broadband provider, we have a niche which is high value customers who want high speed, larger number of GBs and nice experience. However, the cost of servicing these customers is very high. When a customer raises a concern, we deploy a fix service executive to take care of the concern. There are over 100 fix service executives working with us at the moment. The bigger players- TELCOS can afford to slash data prices because they have significant customer base. However, their actions are impeding the services rendered by ISPs. What can bring the prices down? More companies should come in to erect towers and make prices to be more competitive. Certainly, we will witness a surge in the number of viable ISPs if this is achieved. TELCOS come together to erect infrastructure. Why is it difficult for ISPs to achieve this? The cost of laying fibres is quite expensive. Getting permissions is another limitation. However, there are companies renting out fibres to ISPs at the moment. But we need more of them in the market to create infrastructure for ISPs to roll out much faster. Beyond Lagos where you are consolidating to reach customers, are you taking franchising beyond Lagos? Lagos is our major presence area. We are in Abuja, Port Harcourt and Ibadan. We definitely want to grow to the next level by consolidating operations in our coverage areas and more areas. Customer reward is an aspect of customer engagement. Recently, Spectranet organized a World Cup promotion to reward customers. Why did the brand decide to do that? There is a popular notion that if you have a loyal customer, you must engage them often else they will become passive. The best way to engage customers properly is to create means of bringing happiness to them. The promo was very successful. We connected with a significant number of the country’s youth population during that period. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 