On Saturday September 22, 2018, the people of Osun State came out en masse to elect the successor of the incumbent Governor Rauf Aregbesola. However, at the conclusion of the exercise, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the election inconclusive. Ademola Adeleke, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had polled 254,698 votes to defeat Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who polled 254,345 votes. However, alleged irregularities marred the election at some polling units in Ife North, Ife South and Orolu local government areas, including cases of card reader malfunctioning, ballot box snatching, among others, leading to the cancellation of 3,498 votes recorded in the affected polling units. Thus, INEC declared the election inconclusive and ordered a rerun in the affected areas. However, it must be noted that the Osun poll was not the first time INEC declared elections inconclusive and held a rerun or supplementary elections, as it has done so several times, but on different grounds. Examples are in Imo, Kogi, Anambra, Rivers states, to mention just a few. Quoting INEC’s Standing Rules at the commission’s headquarters in Osogbo, the state capital, Prof Joseph Fuwape, the Returning Officer and Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Technology, Akure, said since the margin between the two leading candidates was lower than the registered cancelled votes, the election had to be declared inconclusive. He stated that a rerun would take place at the affected polling units on Thursday, September 27, 2018. At the end of the rerun, Oyetola, the APC candidate, was declared the winner. Thus, Adeleke of PDP, who led during the main election, became the eventual loser. Since these development, a cross section of Nigerians has been wondering if INEC was right in declaring the Osun governorship election inconclusive. Judiciary May Rubbish INEC At Last – Activist Comrade George Amen Agberele, a Benin-based activist and member of Civil Society Organisations, said: “For INEC to have declared the election inconclusive, they may be relying on a section of the electoral laws, or else they will be rubbished by the judiciary at the end if the aggrieved are able to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt.” INEC Did What It Felt Was The Right – KOWA Party Chief Justus Amaegbu Ugwulo is the chairman of KOWA Party, Owerri West Council Area. According to him, “INEC did what it felt was the right thing. It is the nation’s electoral umpire, which is statutorily saddled with the responsibility to conduct elections for us. “He who wears the shoes knows where it pinches most. So, I believe that the commission did not do anything wrong in this regard.” The Rerun Election Was Uncalled For – DA Chief Eunice Nnadi Okafor, Women Leader, Democratic Alternatives (DA), Amaugwu Ward, Owerri North LGA, stated: “INEC ought to have declared Ademola Adeleke winner because he really won the election. The rerun election was uncalled for because if the APC candidate had gathered the votes Adeleke scored in the main election, they would have declared him winner. Even a baby in the womb knows this. I stand for justice at any time.” INEC’s Action Was Constitutional CDHR chief Comrade Prince Kehinde Taiga, chairman, Committee for Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), said the election held in Osun State was rendered inconclusive so as to prevent conflict, adding INEC’s action was not unconstitutional. He said: “It is not unconstitutional as we have different laws that guide elections. By the virtues of the Electoral Act, the declaration of the election in Osun State was not illegal.” He said elections can be postponed in line with the guidelines, adding that in a situation where conflict is foreseeable as a result of the announcement of the elections result, it is not wrong to deem it inconclusive. “If the declaration of the winner will cause war, then the probability of declaring a result of such elections is rare,” he added. Nigerians Are Fed Up With APC Govt – Computer Analyst Moshud Abdullahi, a computer analyst, stated: “What we are experiencing today is a replica of what happened in the past. It is not necessarily because it is the right thing to do. I personally don’t agree with the INEC declaring the Osun governorship election inconclusive because of the power play we heard that transpired there. I heard happened after they realised that the PDP candidate was leading. Apparently, the powers-that-be in the state were simply saying, ‘it can’t be possible’, and so decided to turn the outcome against the wishes of the people. I believe Nigerians and the whole world are watching. “I used to be a big fan of President Muhammadu Buhari. I have great respect for him. But, the way Nigeria is today, I am not proud of him anymore because of the sufferings in the past three years. What is happening in Osun State is just a replica of what they will want to do in the 2019 general elections. That was how they came into power by force. Your vote or your life! Anything got by force does not last or stand the test of life. Why did they not allow the people’s wish to be done instead of manipulating everything by force and expect people to be clapping hands for them? The truth is that the dignity and command of followership of the ruling APC) has faded. Nigerians are angry. They are not happy the way things are happening. A hungry man is an angry man. Nigerians are hungry and angry. They are not ready to listen to anything now. Only few people that are benefiting from this government have remained resolute, trying to force Nigerians to accept the continuation of the Buhari’s APC government. “If indeed you are doing well as a government, serving the interest of Nigerians who voted for based on trust, you need not deploy security men that almost outnumbered voters during the election. What we have seen shows that the APC administration is not sure of itself, or that it is afraid of its shadows. So, it opted to use force to get the votes where many could not vote due to intimidations, physical molestations and harassments as witnessed by local and foreign observers. “I see recent elections as more of reflection of the mindset of this government, pursuing personal vendetta than for the collective gains and interests of the generality of Nigerians. I rather remain in my home if my life will be endangered simply because I want to vote. That means my vote will not count. They will simply dump the ballot papers somewhere else and do whatever they want to do. “One day, the truth of what happened in Osun will manifest. Let us stop playing god simply because we want to cling to power, forgetting that there will be tomorrow which we will not be able to account for.” What INEC Did Was Wrong –  APGA Chieftain Hon Chibuike Iwu, Chairman, All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Lagos State chapter, said the that INEC and APC should have perfected the rigging plan earlier, instead of turning around to waste the precious time of voters in the name of conducting a re-run election. He said it was obvious that INEC and APC were not ready for election. Iwu said that what played out in Ekiti election and Osun states had shown a picture of what would happen in 2019 general elections. The APGA chieftain said that Nigerians expected INEC to learn from the mistakes during Ekiti election but berated the electoral body for being a biased umpire, even as he commended the electorate for always ensuring that it protected its votes. The politician frowned at the effort of the ruling party in reducing  the electoral body into a stooge “APC has refused to allow the independence of INEC. What we are witnessing in Osun has just suggested that INEC is not ready for 2019 election. The electoral body still operates under the control of the ruling APC. It is so unfortunate that Nigeria has failed to get it right even at 58. “The report we are getting now is that there are shootings and voters are scared from going to exercise their franchise in Osun. The APC government is not a government of the people. The ruling party is determined through its action to scuttle our democracy” he said The politician said that the thinking was that INEC would learn from its mistakes during the Ekiti election. He noted, “Unfortunately what INEC has done by declaring the Osun election inconclusive and organizing a re-run where voters are scared from casting their votes means that they have something up their sleeves” Iwu said that INEC has a responsibility to conduct free and fair election, adding that it should do everything within its power to ensure that the confidence of the electorate and Nigerians was restored by doing the right thing. He stressed that posterity would judge INEC by what it does or fails to do to protect the democracy by making sure that it resisted any temptation by APC to destroy the institution. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 