Leasing industry remains a major force in equipment finance, which has evolved, and been impacted by various significant events such as technology boom, the proliferation of sales aid and legal, tax and accounting guidelines. In Nigeria, the industry continued its growth trend in 2017 recording a lease volume that grew to N1.44 trillion, against N1.26 trillion in 2016, representing a growth of 14.5 per cent. OYENIRAN APATA, OLUSEGUN KOIKI and CHRIS EBONG take a cursory look at the impact and challenges of leasing system in the country. The asset-based financing and leasing industry is the largest provider of debt financing to business customers and consumers around the world after the traditional lenders (banks and credit unions). In 1998, a World Bank report said that the equipment and vehicle leasing industry was financing $150bn worth of assets, and by 2007, the value of assets financed had risen to $305.4bn. Automobiles have been by far the top asset leased by consumers around the world, including some countries in Africa. Companies can lease almost everything they need from printing presses to power plants, passenger cars to trucks and buses, hay balers to helicopters and office copiers to offshore drilling rigs. Globally, leasing has been established as a creative financing alternative for the acquisition of capital assets. The appeal of leasing lies in the fact that it tends to meet the specific needs of the equipment user bringing flexibility and convenience in terms of rental payment and service delivery. Though not well appreciated in the country yet, there has been a record of some success in the sector. According to Mr. Andrew Emonuwa, Executive Secretary, Equipment Leasing Association of Nigeria (ELAN) leasing has made a significant progress because in Nigeria. “Today there is no sector you will not feel the impact of leasing whether in aviation, road transportation, oil and gas, manufacturing, and the agriculture sector that has taken a root. According to him, leasing over the years has grown significantly and has contributed over N15trillionn in the past 10 years into the Nigerian economy. “This is significant. We will continue to make sure that businesses are impacted effectively for growth. The sector has also created job employment in the region of over 15 million directly and indirectly because people that service the leasing industry are Nigerians and some of them are gainfully employed to run essential services for the sector. He advocated for the support of the government for the sector as in every economic endeavour. “The government support is important in putting the framework in place and part of what the government has done in this direction is the provision of a legal framework for the sector. We now have equipment leasing Act 2015. “The purpose of that is to stimulate investment in the industry and promote local and foreign investments. I want to tell you that on a daily basis we attend to enquiries coming in from overseas about the desire to invest in the Nigerian economy and the leasing industry. Acknowledging the capital-intensive nature of the sector, the ELAN Executive Secretary assured that the association will continue to look for ways of attracting the right funding on medium to long-term financing. On the contrary, he said, “What obtains in the Nigerian capital market is short-term financing which is not too good for leasing and rather expensive. We are equally appealing to Federal Government agencies like the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for the various intervention funds already in place that can also be channelled through leasing. He called for an extension of the various specialized funds like what obtains in agriculture, the SMEs N200billion fund, mining and various sectors, saying that part of such funds can also be channelled to leasing that is also contributing to the economy. He said: “So, funding is very important. In other climes, special funds are significant for leasing. These are the kind of assistance that can stimulate growth for the leasing industry. “The government has a role to play in the sector and I believe it will not be out of place if the government steps in. In Ghana, the government encourages banks to give loans to leasing companies just as the sector also enjoyed tax rebate as a way of stimulating growth and encourage the sector to do more like the last resort for SMEs as the backbone of growth in any economy. We appeal for right funding both locally and internationally for the sector”. Speaking on the 2018 report on global leasing industry, Emonuwa recalled that the profile of Nigeria had been on the steady rise in the continent and getting more pronounced. “Globally, Nigeria presently occupies the 44th position in the world leasing rating. In the African continent, Nigeria is about the next to South Africa. We have been positioning ourselves and the country is well situated in the continent’s leasing trade. A lot of other countries are borrowing from Nigeria, for instance, we are developing leasing trade in other countries like Sierra Leone, Rwanda, Liberia and others. We also partner with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) just as we are a significant member of the African Leasing Federation. He acknowledged existing potentials for the country to excel but identified the area of encouraging industries to put more infrastructures in place to enable the sector to continue to grow. “The leasing industry cannot operate in isolation of the micro-economy it is still part of the Nigerian economy. Leasing is a catalyst for economic growth. “For instance, the devaluation of the naira has shut up significantly the cost of cars, vehicles and other lease equipment. The cost of brand new cars that cost N4million prior to the recession now go for as much three times the initial cost and that is where leasing comes in because many can no longer afford to make such capital embedded purchases,” he said. Enumerating the order of performances of the various sectors in leasing, he identified the oil and gas industry as the traditional player as the leader in leasing. He said: “ In order of performance, the oil and gas remain the top performing sector in the leasing industry in Nigeria. They are the early birds that took to leasing. In fact, the oil and gas industry is basically driven by leasing. The transportation industry has also done well just as manufacturing has not done bad too. He identified the healthcare sector at the emerging industry where must fund is required to improve medical infrastructure and treatment. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 