Abeokuta – Fifteen years after liquidating Nigeria Airways, the Federal Government has approved the immediate release of N22.68 billion for part payment of the former staff of the rested company. The payment constitutes 50% of the N45.3 billion total entitlements of the former workers. The government has also approved the release of N20 billion to revitalise public universities in line with demands of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). These were revealed by Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, the Minister of Finance, through her Twitter handle, @ZShamsuna, which was also retweeted by the verified official handle of the ministry, @FinMinNigeria. The minister said the plight of the ex-workers, many of whom had gone through untold hardship, should not be allowed to continue under a responsible administration. In line with extant financial rules, Ahmed said a committee headed by the Secretary of Presidential Initiatives on Continuous Audit (PICA), Dr. Muhammad Dikwa, had been set up for immediate implementation of the presidential directive. According to her, the committee was to verify the claims of the pensioners and relevant next of kin before the release of the fund. The statement reads: “Fifteen years after, I’m happy to announce, today, that President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the immediate release of N22.68 billion, being 50% of N45.3 billion total entitlements of the ex-workers of Nigeria Airways Limited in liquidation. “As you might be aware, the ex-workers of Nigeria Airways Limited (in liquidation) were not paid their retirement benefits for the past 15 years. “Many ex-workers have been through untold hardship. This unfortunate situation cannot be allowed to continue under a responsible administration. “To ensure that these presidential directives are duly implemented in line with extant financial rules, I have constituted a committee to be headed by the Secretary of Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit (PICA), Dr. MK Dikwa (Mni). “Other members of this committee include representatives of the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Federal Ministry of Aviation, Federal Ministry of Finance, Bureau of Public Enterprises, Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD), Union of Ex-Workers of Nigeria Airways Limited (in liquidation) and Budget Office of the Federation. “This committee is expected to physically verify the claims of pensioners and relevant next-of-kin before the release of funds to the approved beneficiaries. “Other modalities will be worked out by the committee to ensure speedy payment, transparency and integrity of the process.” Giving further details, the ministry said an initial N78 billion was submitted as retirement benefits but was reduced to N45 billion after verification by PICA and other relevant agencies, in line with the condition of service of the workers. “Regarding the settlement of outstanding retirement benefits due to the ex-workers of the Nigeria Airways, the initial submission for their retirement benefits was N78 billion. “This amount was verified by PICA & other relevant stakeholders in line with the condition of service of Nigeria Airways Limited in liquidation and other extant rules and regulations. At the end of verification, N45 billion was agreed as total retirement benefits of affected staff.” Meanwhile, since the airline was liquidated in 2003 by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, no fewer than 900 of the over 6,000 workers on closure had died in different circumstances. Just last week, Mr. Emmanuel Ologundulu, a former dispatcher with the airline died in Lagos after a protracted illness while another staff, Engr. Tunbosun Akinbode, of the same airline was last Friday buried at Isabo, Abeokuta Ogun State. Engr. Godwin Jibodu, the Chairman of Elders Forum, Nigeria Airways, recently mentioned Capt. Asuquo, Capt. Akintaju, Capt. Ohioma, Capt. Akinyosade, Engr. KC Amah and Mr. Onyebuchi Anunobi, Felix Agbabuwa and Engr. Ray Sunmonu as some of the former staff of the airline who died between 2017 and 2018. According to Jibodu, those down with ailments are Engr. Bose Oladamiye, Mrs. Adedayo Awoyinka, Engr. T. Belgam and Engr. Ebenezer Akinbode, among others. It would also be recalled that immediately after the liquidation of the carrier in 2003, the Federal Government had paid 25 years severance benefits to foreign workers of the airline in accordance with the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) requirement while their Nigerian counterparts only received five years benefits. The five years severance packages were paid to the former workers by President Umaru Yar’Adua in 2008 with a promise to pay the remaining 20 years before 2011. But the death of Yar’Adua made the promise unfulfilled. His successor, former President Goodluck Jonathan refused to continue with the promise of Yar’Adua when he took over about a year later despite being his vice president. Throughout his tenure as president, Jonathan refused to pay the remaining 20 years benefits to the former workers as agreed with the staff by his former boss. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 