Elizabeth Oludolamu is a 300 level mass communication student at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye, Ogun State. She is also the chief executive officer of Dainty Beth Collections, which sells bags and shoes. In this interview with VICTORIA KEHINDE, she spoke about her passion to succeed in the business despite the challenges in the business environment.  Excerpts: What inspired you to go into this business? As a student, I looked at my environment to see what business would move fast and I noticed that ladies were carrying different types of bags and wearing all manner of shoes. So, I took that as an opportunity and decided to go into bag and shoe business. Selling bags and shoes is what I have always wanted to do. So, I really did not see it as an option but an opportunity. How did you raise capital for the business? Raising the capital was not easy at all; I can actually say that again. But I am someone who does not give up quickly. I raised capital with the help of my family. How long have you been in this business? Dainty Beth Collection has been in business for eight months; sometimes it feels like it was just yesterday that I started but I started planning a year ago. Has the patronage been good so far? I will say it has been good. Many people patronize me, students especially. Students in my department, church members, neighbours and students from other schools like TASUED. I have friends there that patronize me. WhatsAapp has been very helpful. I just take pictures of the bags and send to my customers, they pick their choice and I deliver. So you do delivery? I do delivery most of the times but my delivery is in and out of Ijebu. If it is in the axis of Ijebu-Ode, Ijebu-Igbo and Oru, I will not charge much for delivery, I might just tell the customer to pay the fare but if it is outside these areas, I will charge for delivery. I won’t charge those that live within Ago-Iwoye, where I am based. What are the challenges you face in this business? When it comes to the challenges, I’m facing many. Students like to buy things on credit but there is no way one will do business and not sell on credit. Some students will tell you that their dad will soon send pocket money but two months down the line you will still be looking to collect your money. Transporting the goods from the market back home is tiring. I pack my shoes and bags in a big bag and carrying it from one place to another is not easy. I am looking for open-space where I can sell my things. Also, balancing the business with school activities is the major challenge. Talking about balancing school activities with the business; is the business not distracting you from schoolwork? Combining school activities and business is not an easy task. It’s not easy because school alone is stressful. I just have to manage to balance them. For instance, last semester, in a week, I only had lectures for three consecutive days – Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. So, I didn’t go to where I sell on Mondays and Tuesdays. I went on Wednesdays after my 8am-10 am lecture. Also, I have to balance all with church activities because I’m a leader at church. It hasn’t been easy but I thank God. The economic issues in the country has it been a major setback for effectiveness. Though, my customers, parents complain of not being paid while students complain of not being given pocket money. Also, the transport fare is high but with all that, I still make some profit. How do you know what your customers want? When I get to the market, I know ladies want. When I carry or see a bag or shoe, I will ask myself if someone presents this bag or shoe to me as a gift, would I like it? In most cases, the colour and size of the bag matter. Students don’t really carry big bags and I buy common colours like white, blue, pink, nude especially black. Also, I don’t buy fake goods. Some may say it’s expensive but I know I sell quality goods. Do you intend going on with the bag and shoe business even after you might have finished school? I so much love with this business and I’m planning to go on with it fully. I’m even thinking of selling clothes like tops, dresses, and trousers when school resumes. I’m also praying to God to help because I also have a plan to open a very big boutique when I graduate from the university. What’s your philosophy of life? In life, everyone has different definition and view on what achievement means. Some people’s achievement is getting married, and then they have fulfilled their goals in life. To some it is just to be rich and some to be educated or have kids. So when some people behave the way they do and you think they lack brain, no they don’t; they are only working to achieve their own goals. The way you define your success and how you understand it, is how it comes to you. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 