Chief Charles Idahosa, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), was a former Commissioner for Information in Edo state. He also served as Special Adviser on Political Matters to former Edo state governor, Adams Oshiomhole. In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he speaks on issues of national interests and developments in his state. Excerpts: How will you describe Nigeria as a country having spent over four decades in politics? Nigeria is a great country, we are doing very well. But a large chunk of my life was taken over the military. I have seen Nigeria through good and bad times. I went to England in the 1970s and I remember at that time, when you hold the naira, it was like you are holding the dollar, we were respected; my school fees then was £150, my dad used to send £300 pounds into Crown Agents account . But when it was my turn to start sending my children to school, I was paying between £15,000 and £16,000. We had problems with leadership and that affected us badly. The country never allowed our first eleven to lead us. Chief Obafemi Awolowo was a great politician, a great leader who had vision but unfortunately the system did not like him. You can imagine if Awolowo had been president of this country as at that time, Nigeria would have been like Singapore and many of these great economise in the world. Look at what he achieved in the Western region, sometimes you can imagine how I feel when I know that the first television station in Africa was in Ibadan Western region of Nigeria, the first Olympic Stadium was there and you now go to Morocco, go to Tunisia, go to South Africa and you think that Western Region of Nigeria was ahead of these countries? That is one pain I feel that we achieved that so much early but today, look at where we are? We are still grappling but we are lucky to have a man like Muhammadu Buhari now who has a lot of integrity. He is the only man that can take us to where we are going no matter what people are saying. Like I have said in several interviews that corruption will fight back and it is fighting back and the man is doing well and I pray to God that he should win again next year so that he can do a lot of things. I was reading Balarabe Musa and he said I don’t like Buhari but among the multitude of presidential aspirants, there is no alternative. You know people like Balarabe Musa, they don’t speak just like that, he says things the way they are . Can we say Nigerians deserve the kind of leadership they get? I have been in politics for a long time and I only won election once in my life under zero party in the days of Abacha. If there were primaries I would not have won. At the zero party, the people actually decided. After that I tried other election under political parties but it did not work out because a selected people will decide your fate. We don’t have Independent candidature here. Our people are good but there is hunger and poverty. By the time they said take this, you see them rushing at it. The leadership uses money to force the followership to toe their lines. In this country, a poor man cannot contest election. The way the economy is going, it is still money. What is the way out to improve the country’s economy? It is for the Federal Government  to create employment. I feel sad about this country. I was driving through Ikeja the last time I went to Lagos and saw that places that used to be an industrial estate has been turned to places of worship. Churches have taken them over. What we need to do is to create employment, just as Obaseki is trying to do with the establishment of Industrial Park. If we have factories, there will be jobs. Once there is employment, our people will be engaged. I pray that Nigerians are smart enough to re-elect Buhari and not put politics ahead. We need this kind of Government of integrity. You can see that a man is in charge. If it was the PDP, they would have swept the issue of Adeosun under the carpet and nothing will happen. She resigned, it shows a direction, it shows change that people are pretending not to see. A Director of DSS being removed; these are the kind of changes we are waiting for and seeing. Adeosun had to resign because of the scandal. Saraki and Dogara should have resigned because they did not contest election as Speaker or Senate President. Buhari has no House in London and Abuja. A former minister of Petroleum, Head of State and Governor, if he travels out, he stays in the Nigerian Embassy. He means well and I am proud of him. The Ibos should look very well and plan properly because a Buhari presidency is the best bet for them to get the Presidency in 2023. The South West, the North and South-South have had it. It is the turn of the South East in 2023. People should know that it does not make sense to make South West President. All they need is to vote for Buhari. This is their best chance. Nobody needs to tell them. What is the situation of holding the APC together in Edo? By this time few years ago, people were defecting from the PDP to the APC, now people are moving more to the PDP from the APC. We have to understand that different government has different ways of doing things. Obaseki’s style is different from Oshiomhole’s. Human beings are receptive to change. I think Obaseki was trying to put in drastic change in cutting cost by not allowing leaders to do some things. It generated a lot of heat and leaders including myself are resisting. The Governor is watching the mood and slowing down which he has to. At the last leadership meeting, the governor shifted ground on consensus. We are now going for indirect primaries. Everything will be settled at the end of the day. When you are in Government, you want to do things the way you feel. Obaseki will know that things are not down drastically. We are bent on settling our differences. We will not leave the APC. We will remain inside and fix the party. We will tell them the way we want things to be done. We will surmount our problems. We will fight to keep the party. What will you say about the crisis in Lagos involving Governor Ambode and the leaders of the party? The issue of Lagos State surprised me. Up till now, I didn’t know they had problems in Lagos. What I read in the papers about what Ambode was doing to party leaders surprised me. That is where Ambode is stucked now but they should be careful because we don’t want to lose the state. What goes around comes around. Fashola did not want Ambode but Tinubu joined others against Fashola. We pray they do not have problems. When I was reading the papers about Ambode, I was reading Edo State. Our problems will not get to the level of that of Lagos State. We will not let it get to that level, we will intervene. We will not wait till governorship election is few months away. Our governorship election will be in isolation, We will sit with the Governor and discuss our way out. The Governor is dreaming of an eldorado. He is more of a technocrat. In the process of pursuing the big contract and big firms like seaport, he need to carry along small projects that will keep the people going. Oshiomhole kept people busy with red roof revolution. A situation where you forget the political leaders and pursuing big project that will take about four years, we should embark on something we are seeing now. The stark reality is that there is nothing yet to campaign with. We can talk. If he doesn’t want to talk. We will continue to say what is right. The National Chairman will not want to lose the state and we will not leave the party. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 