President Donald Trump of United States of America (USA) reportedly told his aides that he would not like to meet someone as ‘lifeless’ as Muhammadu Buhari,  Nigeria’s President, again. His remarks, reported by BBC, quoting Financial Times, came after President Buhari’s visit to the White House earlier this year. When Buhari and Trump met at the White House on April 30, 2018, both leaders discussed issues bordering on fight against terrorism and economic growth. However, Trumps’ statement has attracted the interest of Nigerians, especially the political elite. When Trump’s scathing remark hit the newswave, it made headlines and generated a lot of interests, especially in Nigeria. Since Nigeria is gearing up towards the 2019 general elections, what does Trump’s comment on President Buhari indicate, especially as he has indicated interest to go for second term, and will most likely flag the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential flag? Trump’s Comment Will Have No Effect On Buhari’s Re-Election  – Architect Dr. Philip Agbonze Ederhoro, a Benin-based architect, said: “If it is true that the US President made such comment about our President, I will describe it an insult on all Nigerians. It is not the business of President Trump of the United States of America to tell us that our President is lively or lifeless. It goes to show the type of character Trump is. He has no respect for himself let alone another person. I have always seen him as a flippant person who has no regard for anybody. Despite the fact that he is the President of the most powerful nation in the world, I don’t see him as a serious human being. “On what the comment indicate on the President Buhari’s second term bid, l will say none. Trump is not Buhari’s medical doctor who will inform Nigerians that their president is lively or lifeless. President Buhari is a Nigerian and not an American, who does not require medical certificate or permission from President Trump to run for an election.” Trump’s Comment Will Not Stop Buhari From Contesting – Activist Mimi Ate, an activist, described the comments of the US President as on point. “Buhari is lifeless on all levels so, that is a no brainer even for us”. That Trump said it is not in doubt and it is totally within his character”. On the effect of the comment and Buhari’s chances if he takes another shot at Presidency for a second term, I will say that it will be no consequence to him. For someone like Buhari, Trump’s comment will rather emboldens him. “Buhari’s mind is made of steel. He has a tenacious determination to remain in power. He is drunk and giddy on it. The attacks enrage him enough to damn everything to get at power. How we deal with it as a people is more important than how he does. The race against him grows daily and so does his rabid desire to hang on. Even though we have cornered the sewer rat, we must put into consideration how deadly a cornered animal is. “Bulls eye concentration is needed to defeat him. We have a battle in our hands. The conventional way is not going to do it. There is need to be worried even as we know he is dead meat where the minds of the average Nigerian is. Anything more is belle face politics of self-centredness and unholy cronyism. Meanwhile, the same Buhari is not fooled.” Nigerians Should Reject Buhari If He Goes For Second Term – Onovo Chief Martins Onovo, the 2015 Presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP). According to Onovo, also a 2019 Presidential aspirant, what Trump said was the truth about President Buhari. Onovo stated: “Is President Buhari really not a lifeless President? Buhari, as a President, is lifeless. Apart from his ill-health, he has taken life out of Nigerians and the Nigerian economy. His sectionalism has resulted to strife and deaths.” Onovo cited the way President Buhari administration has continued to silence the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) and the Shiites as well as the alleged support of the Fulani herdsmen who have been attacking and killing Nigerians en masse, even as pointed to the inability to overcome the Boko Haram insurgents. According to him, there is nothing to write home about Buhari administration, which he said has impoverished Nigerians and plunged the nation into unprecedented huge foreign debt. Onovo added: “Trump is right. He is not speaking without reference. He has the US Department Report of 2017. Buhari has taken hope out of Nigerians and must therefore be rejected at the poll if he goes for second term. I agree with him that Buhari is really lifeless.” Trump Must Have Seen That Buhari Lacks Qualities Of A President – Anike Hon. Charles Anike, National President of Eastern Union (EU), in his response, said that Trump must have his reasons to describe President Buhari as lifeless. He stressed: “Trump is outspoken. He says things as it he sees it. He has met Buhari and must have assessed him. “During his discussion with Buhari, he might have discovered that he (Buhari) lacks qualities of a President that should lead a country like Nigeria. It does not mean that Buhari is not alive as a human being that breathes. “Going by what has been happening in the country since Buhari became President over three years ago, we tend to agree with President Trump that President Buhari is a lifeless. It is left to Buhari to prove him wrong. President Buhari’s attack dogs, Femi Adesina, Garba Shehu and Lai Mohammed, should respond and prove Trump wrong. If Buhari has life, they should prove Trump wrong.” Nigerians Should Go For Young, Strong, Agile President – Odumakin Yinka Odumakin, National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, in his reaction, stated that Nigeria needs a young, strong and agile president come 2019. Odumakin, who was reacting to Trumps’ alleged statement, said, “The job of managing the affairs of Nigeria is not for somebody in a vegetative status.” Odumakin said: “If someone who wants to be President of Nigeria had to be trekking 800 metres to convince us that he is fit, I have always pointed to the fact that it is evidence that there is something wrong. “If the President of America could make that kind of observation, it is clear that the situation of things is not what the President’s handlers want us to believe. Someone that went to spend months in hospitals, that is going on medical vacation every now and then to London, clearly something is wrong. “The job of the Nigerian President is not the job for anybody that is vegetative. We need a strong, agile, president come 2019.” Trump Is Saying That Buhari Is Not Healthy And Will Be APC’s 2019 Waterloo  – Enweruzo Dr. Victor David Enweruzo,  Coordinator, Lagos Atikulated Agenda 2019, agreed with President Trump, who he said is a man with foresight, who looks far into the future. He said: “I am in agreement with what he said about President Buhari. For the past three years, our President has been travelling in and out of the country on medical tourism, instead of providing good governance. Nigerians does not need such a President. “As Nigerians are marching towards another election, Trump is making it clear that he is interested in who becomes Nigeria’s next President. He is saying that he does not want to work with such an ailing President as President. He has indirectly declared his interest in the 2019 presidential election in Nigeria. “So, Nigerians should think now. This is an opportunity for Nigerians to choose someone who is healthy, strong and capable to rule the country and restore the nation’s lost glory. “The All Progressives Congress (APC) should read the handwriting on the wall. If it picks President Buhari as its flag bearers for the 2019 presidential election, it will be its waterloo. “The APC government has disappointed Nigerians. The leaders are now intimidating people to join it. But, for the opposition, especially the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), they should take a bold step and ensure that Buhari is voted out of power come 2019. “The PDP should take a bold decision and pick the former Vice President Atiku Abubakar as its flag brearer, because he is capable to restore the hope of Nigerians and make Nigerians smile again.” Trump should leave Buhari Alone – Adeniran Debo Adeniran, the Executive Chairman of the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), who also spoke on the issue, maintained that President Trump is fond of speaking from both sides of his mouth. He stressed: “When President Buhari visited United States of America, Trump praised him to high heavens. Has Trump been able to deal with his own challenges? “We have a President who is ill and does not hide it. There are so many leaders all over the world who have health challenges and have not disclosed their ill-health. “We have a President who is non-compliant to corruption, who is humble, does not live flamboyant lifestyle. President Buhari is an example of how people can live within their economy. “Trump cannot compare his Presidency with ours. He cannot compare American democracy with ours. Unlike Buhari, he lives ostentatious life. His companies have been exploiting the Americans. He should leave our President alone. “Our sovereignty is different from that of America. We did not stat when America started. Our tradition and culture are different from those of America. Trump should leave Nigeria alone.” Buhari Fit To Run In 2019 – Media Team Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) described Trump’s remarks on President Buhari as disrespectful. The group, maintained that despite what it termed as Trump’s ‘hate speech’, President Buhari “is fit and capable to run for the 2019 elections and oversee the affairs of the country for four more years.” Niyi Akinsiju, the group’s chairman, stressed that this was not the first time the US President made such derogatory remarks at world leaders, and that President Buhari would not be distracted by such. Akinsiju said: “We are aware that President Trump’s disrespect for world leaders is not new; his comments on Canada’s Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, calling him ‘meek and mild’; his reference to Germany’s leader, Angela Merkel’s actions as ‘insane’, or his outlandish Tweet at the UK’s Theresa May, and more recently, the alleged remarks he made after meeting President Buhari. “It is indeed not the first time President Trump would be heard lowering the standards of respect for his colleagues on the world stage. “We are not surprised, we know that this age-long character of the US President would not change anytime soon. But, it is important that we put it on record that President Buhari remains fit and sprightly, even for the next decade. “We recall that during President Buhari’s visit to Trump in the White House, the US President commended the successes that the Buhari administration had recorded, especially in the fight against insurgency and the war on corruption. “The US President was full of admiration for Nigeria’s President during the visit, thus such outlandish remarks as reported by the Financial Times are not just to be taken with a pinch of salt but are untrue in themselves.” The group stated that President Buhari has continued to show fitness and capacity to run the country post-2019. It stated that though the President’s Sallah day 800-metre walk, where he acknowledged the cheers of members of his constituency, was not intended at showboating, it was an unscripted reference point that further proves a fit and lively President. The group stated that President Buhari would not be distracted by this report, whether it was indeed said or in fact unsaid, but would in his character continue to remain focused on his mandate to deliver on his promises to the Nigerian people. Trump’s Statement Shows That US Has Rejected Buhari’s Second Term Bid – ADP Chieftain Nzeh Joshua Nwakauba Uloakolam – ex-Councillor and member African Democratic Party (ADP), said: “Is it true that President Trump actually made this comment about Mr. President? To me, this sounds like hearsay. “But if I am wrong, it means America, being the most powerful nation on earth under Donald Trump has rejected the 2019 ambition of the president. It will also add more impetus to the call by some Nigerians on the President not to re-contest in 2019. “In fact, the second term ambition of the President will suffer a setback internationally because whatever America says carries a heavy weight across the globe. But, let us wait and see.” Trump Vindicated Nigerians Advising Buhari Not To Run Again – NUP Stalwart Prince Ikechukwu Johnson Amauhe, Secretary, National Unity Party (NUP), Owerri North LGA of Imo State, said: “The comment allegedly credited to President Trump about President Buhari is a clear indication that the President is unfit to run for a second term. “President Trump must have made the comment based on facts available to him. President Buhari has been going abroad for treatment. Are you saying that President Trump is not aware of the health challenges he (President Buhari) is passing through? The statement has vindicated Nigerians who have before this time, advised the President not to seek re-election next year.” Trump Said The Obvious About Buhari – Rights Lawyer Adebiyi Adegbenle, a human rights lawyer, has admonished Nigerians against reading negative sentiment to comment passed by the United States of America’s President, Trump on President Muhammadu Buhari, alleging being lifeless. Adegbenle, while reacting to the comment, warned Nigerians, especially the political class, against reading political undertone to the comment. He said that Trump’s comment is not derogatory as being claimed by section of Nigerians. Adegbenle explained further that President Trump is saying the obvious, but, has been misinterpreted negatively by some Nigerians. What President Trump is trying to talk about is President Muhammadu Buhari’s age and health challenges he is facing. “It is like saying somebody is not lively. It is like saying the age is telling on somebody. It is like saying age is not on such a person’s side and so on. It is not actually a derogatory statement against President Muhammadu Buhari. “Mr. President has equally said something similar to that to himself when he said he became President of Nigeria when he is old, regretting that the job should have come when he was much younger and active. “You could all remember that President Buhari contested for the position for about four or five times before winning the election that brought him to office in 2015. The fact is that President Buhari is not much active on the account of his age and health issue and anybody in that age bracket can do the same. “Nigerians elected President Buhari into office at that appointed time. He has the constitutional right to seek re-election. Everybody is getting older by the day and there is nothing we can do about it. Adegbenle noted that except for old age and health issue, there is nothing that is lacking in the current administration since the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, is very much active to do most of the jobs assigned to him by his boss. “There is no way you can equate President Buhari to his Vice, Professor Osinbajo, who is much younger and lively. President Buhari was our choice by the time Nigerians elected him into the office. We should desist from relegating the office and passing unnecessary comments about his age and health.” Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 