Kamal Ayinde Bayewu, a House of Representatives aspirant for Ajeromi- Ifelodun Federal Constituency under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has submitted his nomination form at the National Secretariat, Abuja with a promise to give the people of the area adequate and people-oriented representation if elected next year. Speaking with journalists after his submission, Bayewu, a two-time chairman of Ajeromi- Ifelodun Local Government and senatorial aspirant for Lagos West during the 2015 elections said he is overwhelmed by the show of love and support he has received from his constituents since he expressed his intention to represent them at the Lower chamber of the national assembly. “The response of the people has been so awesome. It has been a massive, enormous support.  You need to see everybody, both at Ajeromi and Ifelodun, the entire Ajeromi- Ifelodun Federal Constituency, everybody is happy that their own man, Kamal Ayinde Bayewu, the real person that understands their idiosyncrasies is now out to represent them”. “From the Christians, to the Muslims and as you know Ajeromi- Ifelodun is a multi-cultural environment, all the tribes represented here are persuading me to run for this position and that is because of what we have done during my tenure as the local government chairman and my experience as a seasoned banker which I deployed in turning around the council to its enviable position today”. “During my tenure, I was doing what we know as the Old People’s Grant where elderly ones who are 70 years and above were given the sum of N5,000 on a monthly basis. We also empowered our youths in several ways and many of them are employers of labour today. We shot up our IGR from N30m then  to N160m”. “So, these records are there and the people have seen it and that is why the support has been so overwhelming. A lot of people have volunteered to do a lot of things such as handbills, posters, campaign jerseys pro bono. Some commercial bus drivers have even promised to donate their buses when the campaign starts. I can challenge you to do a survey and ask the people who they want as their lawmaker in the House of Reps” he said. In a related development, many of the residents who spoke with Daily Independent said they believe Bayewu has the much needed experience and followership to reclaim the constituency for the APC. They also claimed they have been denied adequate representation since 2015 when  Honourable  Rita Orji who currently represents the constituency under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was elected. A resident, Nneka Nkwocha, who resides in Baale Alayabiagba street said “ I am one of those clamouring for the emergence of Bayewu as our next representative in the House of Reps.  I am Igbo and I won’t say my sister, Rita Orji has not tried but we believe we have not gotten adequate representation from her.  Since her election, she hardly comes home even when they are on recess and so she hardly knows what the people of Ajeromi- Ifelodun.  Bayewu resides here and carried everyone along irrespective of your tribe during his tenure as council chairman”. Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 