Awka – The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has announced that following the success of ‘Operation Cow Dance’ in the United Kingdom, it would repeat the exercise to be known as ‘Operation Cow Dance 2’ to coincide with the planned arrival of President Muhammadu Buhari in Washington on April 30. The aim of the exercise, it said, “Is to apprehend and submit the man who has been doing the job of impersonating Buhari and deceiving millions of people all over the world to a DNA test.” In a statement by its media and publicity secretary, Comrade Emma Powerful, the group insisted that the real Buhari died two years ago and was buried in Saudi Arabia, and that a Sudanese had been posing as Buhari. It said it was in the best interest of the “Fulani cabal” to suspend the president’s planned trip to the US and take further steps to prevail upon Jubril not to contest as Buhari in 2019 because he would be unmasked. It added, “When our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the prophet of our time, said that Buhari will usher in Biafra, this scenario currently playing out with Jubril must have been what he had in mind. “We patiently waited for the cabal to announce that Jubril will run again in order to trap them in their own web of deceit and now we have done that, we are now going to bring an end to Nigeria by revealing the grand conspiracy and deception that created this Buhari alter ego. “IPOB will prove to the world that Jubril is not the Buhari that died in early 2017 and buried in Saudi Arabia. “The heat is on to obtain Jubril’s DNA during this US trip. Technology exists that can extract DNA from the most unlikely of sources. “So, no matter what his handlers do in the US, Jubril must leave his DNA which will be matched with the DNA of one of Buhari’s children and his sister which is in IPOB possession.” It argued that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo ought to have taken over government when Buhari died. “We could have attempted the extraction of the DNA in London but decided against it because we know the British government always favoured Islamic Arewa regimes and will do anything to protect and perpetuate their rule. “USA is the best terrain for IPOB to obtain it since the latest technology in remote extraction of DNA is publicly available. “From now onwards a drop of sweat from Jubril, every microphone he uses, everywhere he leaves a sweaty palm or fingerprint, every surface he touches, he leaves something that will prove he is not Buhari,” IPOB said. It vowed that the present person clothed as Buhari would never contest in 2019 because he would attend rallies, public meetings, and he would definitely sweat or leave his bodily fluid somewhere. “This is a trap from which Nigeria will never recover,” the group boasted. 0 comments