When Kemi Adeosun, finance minister said last year that there would be a shift from oil because the commodity is needed in the interim to build other sectors, I was among those who didn’t believe her. Or rather, I didn’t believe that billions of naira would be thrown into new exploration given the global shift away from oil to more sustainable alternatives.
But the resumption of activities around Kolmani River Basin of Bauchi state, tells of her seriousness in the matter and by extension, the priority of the Buhari administration. The move would deepen the N629.5 billion already expended in excavations in the Lake Chad region, an amount that is a quarter more than the N448 billion expended on education in 2017.
I compare quickly with the investment on education because I believe strongly that that is the way to go for any serious government. Against the background that oil is a finite resource, the country should concentrate on building human capital with the requisite skills that can think the economy out of the present ‘developing world’ status into a reference point. It doesn’t take too much or a fortune to achieve that. Rwanda is a reference point here.
Rwanda with GDP of $8.4 billion is 47 times as poor as Nigeria, yet the country has emerged from the ashes of genocide where over 800,000 Tutsis and Hutus were killed into a reference point on how to develop not only in Africa but also around the world. Major events now jostle to be held there giving the world class transportation system and events centres.
Still on education, Tech Mogul, Bill Gates of Microsoft on a recent visit to the country broached the issue to the angst of the people managing this economy. Human capital should be prioritised. Period! The billions sunk in exploration for ‘finite oil’ can find alternative uses in empowering the people. The multiplier effect here is just not quantifiable.
Oil is a risky asset compared to human capital. Oil price can no longer be relied upon to stay up and guaranty handsome earnings for producer-countries as it did in the mid 1970s and 80s, leading to the so called oil windfall. This is partly because the market is flooded from activities of shale oil producers and the non OPEC oil producers despite OPEC’s frantic and frenetic efforts to curb supply. This should be the first hint to managers of our economy, that it is time to make a major shift away from oil. It goes to speak that the cartel to which Nigeria belongs has lost its grip on a market she controlled for more than five decades.
The reality that must hit home is that the world has since moved on from fossil fuel to environment friendly alternatives. What remains is ability to produce these alternatives efficiently and in exportable quantities, otherwise called mass production. It was in the news recently that the Japanese have devised a way for cars to run on water. This was the stuff of dreams and fiction that was once used by a defunct Nigerian bank as a powerful imagery for achieving the impossible. The Japanese are the world leaders in car production as the Toyotas, Mitsubishis and Mazdas attest. After cars, other vehicles running on crude oil derivates would be targets including airplanes, ships and even generators. What would be the irony then would be that these new machines are sure to flood Nigeria in our bid to spend as little as we can to run our cars and generators, the biggest expenditure items in our households and corporations. So not only would the oil business be dead abroad, it would also be dead at home. Against this background, government should not be expending billions to find new oil wells or invest same for alternatives. The oil industry in Nigeria should be imploding not expanding.
The threat to oil is further seen in the exploitation of electricity as a veritable source of energy to power cars. India for instance would hate to see cars within the country powered with anything else other than electricity by 2030. And as we have argued before on this space, that reality would effectively mean Nigeria losing its biggest oil trading partner. The Indian initiative will have a knock on effect on the whole of Asia especially in places like Indonesia and Malaysia.
Beyond the India initiative, the works of South African genius, Elon Musk are furiously bearing fruits in the form of the superb electric cars under the Tesla brand. Only recently, the company introduced a device by which the Tesla can be charged at home. The argument used to be made that Tesla cars are not mass market oriented; they are expensive and so unaffordable by the middle to lower class. The purveyors of this logic tend to forget that technology is constantly changing and is getting cheaper. As though to respond to this argument, Tesla on Friday July 7, 2017 launched a mass market brand, the Model 3.
Clean energy, of which electricity is part, is where the world is going. It is not uncommon to pick a foreign newspaper and see headlines like these: Clean Energy Jobs See Sharp Spike in India; Renewable energy sets new record for UK electricity generation; Chinese province runs entirely on renewable energy for 7 days. The headlines are little more than a pointer to the state of the world in the coming years. Shouldn’t the men responsible for this economy soft pedal on fossil fuel and pay more attention to alternatives? Shouldn’t oil’s place as the top forex earner be disrupted from within before it’s extinguished from without? 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.