The federal controller, housing, Bayelsa, Mr. Nwachukwu Achebe, has said the National Housing Programme has commenced in the state. Achebe said this recently at the site of the housing programme estate in Elebele, Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa during a media tour of ongoing Federal Government projects in the state. He said the project, aimed at bridging the housing deficit across the states of the federation was also to engage some unemployed persons to work in the site. He explained that the project consists of two and three bedroom semi-detached bungalow as well as three houses made up of 24 units of flat with total of 72 housing units. Achebe said the project is designed to take care of the low and medium income earners across the country. “At the moment, we have cleared and sand filled five hectares of land; the deepest areas have already been coTraders and suppliers involved in the construction of the National Housing Projects (NHP) in Lokoja have expressed excitement over the project stressing that it has empowered them and increased their welfare. In Lokoja Local Government Area, Kogi State, the artisans, who spoke during an inspection of the housing project in crusher community pleaded for the continuation of the project. Representative of the workers, Mr. George Mataga said that the host community has benefitted from the scheme, adding that when aggrieved youth attempted to disrupt the construction work, the traditional ruler the Olu of Oworo, Oba Hirohin Adoga, intervened to ensure hitch-free implementation. “The people in charge of this project received us as the landlords and we commend them for the good job they are doing,” he said. Sand supplier, Mr. Ahmed Bami, lauded the Federal Government for the initiative and pleaded for its continuity. He expressed optimism on quick implementation of the second phase of the project. Earlier, the Team Leader, Veronica Enesi, said the project has reached 85 per cent completion while 24 units of flats are ready to be occupied. She explained that from the 76 units and 38 blocks of flats, only four units are yet to be completed in terms of roofing. In his remarks, Zonal Director, North Central, Federal Ministry of Power Works and Housing (FMPWH), Valentine Nwaimo described the project as the fulfillment of the Federal Government promise on affordable housing. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.