Dr. Bukar Usman Foundation was established exactly 10 years ago in Abuja to provide the family members, associates, well-wishers, individuals and organisations with similar objectives and aspirations, an enduring platform to extend gestures of goodwill to the needy members of the society in all manner of circumstances. President of Nigerian Folklore Society and founder of the foundation, Dr. Bukar Usman, erstwhile permanent secretary in the presidency, foremost novelist and public security expert has lived up to expectations, based on testimonies from various observers and beneficiaries of this venture, 10 years after. The foundation has offered scholarships to uncountable students who, though are gifted, by have financial challenges, home and abroad. Apart from this, with its veritable publishing outfit, Klamidas Communications Ltd, it has donated millions of textbooks and literatures to schools, organisations and individuals as its contribution to improving reading culture in the country. Usman, with more than 30 books to his credit, writes both in English and Hausa languages. In appreciation of this unique gesture, he has received awards from various countries. With the prevailing circumstance in Yobe State, the rare interest of Usman in literary growth has not only doused the tension but has recently encouraged one Malam Umar Faruq, former student of Yobe State University, Damaturu, and a class teacher of Honesty Nursery, Primary and Secondary Schools, Nguru, Yobe State. Faruq came across Usman online in 2016 and fell in love with his creative works. Along the line, he requested that this iconic scholar (Usman) should help read his manuscript on Almajiri. Not minding his status, Usman, a humble septuagenarian, not only accepted to read the manuscript but also donated bags of books to the school, Faruq’s employer. The gesture has been globally appreciated by several writers and dons from various universities even as the initiative has further added to the laurel of the Abuja based foundation, as one of the best literary groups in Africa which shows rare compassion to intellectual growth regardless of race, religion or ethnic difference. In a letter signed by its president, Dr. Usman, the foundation donated a number of books and Cds to the school to enhance its productivity. These include one copy of A History of Biu; two copies of Leadership, Security and National Development; one copy of Voices in a Choir…; three copies of Folklore and History…and  one copy of Public Policy Formulation in Nigeria. Others are two copies of Issues and Challenges of National Security; two copies of The Bride Without Scars; Assorted Hausa Tales (7 Copies); one copy of Ebedi Review; one copy of Diwanin Wakokin Baka and 30 copies of newspapers and Cds (4). In his appreciation letter, Faruq expressed how the foundation has motivated him. “I want to use this medium to express my deepest appreciation on what you did sir. It is really appreciative and motivating to young students like me. I am honoured Doctor. I have benefited in my relationship with you what I haven’t benefited from all the people around me for many years. I pray God keeps my good relationship with you doctor. As a young student, I also hope that you will keep guiding me where it is possible. Thank you a lot.” Usman narrated how he met Faruq as requested by this writer. “As a matter of fact, Umar Faruq and I have never met. We got acquainted online as far back as March 2016 if not earlier. We have been communicating since then, still online. It was in January 2018 that he requested me to help with the editing of his manuscript. I obliged. It was a nine chapter, 69 page manuscript titled ‘Almajiri.’… “Upon noting his interest in literature, I requested for his mailing address and forwarded to him and the school he is employed some of my publications…” Prof. Gidado Tahir, Department of Educational Management, University of Abuja, said the effort was commendably fascinating. “This is fascinating indeed.  You are appreciated all over the place. May Allah SWT continue to place you in an exemplary position so as to inspire the upcoming ones for the betterment of our country and generations yet unborn. Thank you sir.” Professor Ismaila A. Tsiga, Department of English and Literary Studies, Bayero University, Kano, Nigeria also described the adventures he had shared with Usman. “I recall leading an NUC accreditation team to the university at the height of the Boko Haram attacks a few years ago. Many other senior academics invited to participate in the exercise earlier had declined, because they feared for their safety. But we had to take the risk, because the first set of students in the university were getting into the final year; and, without accreditation, they could not graduate. As though to underscore the risks, Boko Haram attacked FGC Gujba the very night we arrived into Damaturu! It’s really gratifying that the university is now doing well.” Professor Salisu Ahmad Yakasai wondered that though Usman is retired but not tired in influencing his world. “Salam and hope that all are fine with you and family. Thank you very much for the usual educative mails, which always justified the fact that although you are retired but certainly not tired. Our prayers have always been that Allah (SWT) should continue to crown your efforts and make all your affairs a huge success. The mail from UMAR FARUQ, and whose subject was appreciation, is one among many of the testimonies of your support and assistance to the society.” Professor Ahmad Kofa Babajo said the writings of the literary guru have been celebrated in all tertiary institutions, especially in the northern Nigeria. “Your initiative is yielding rewards and good results as your writings are available in almost all tertiary institutions of northern Nigeria. More kudos to your unflinching support to promote literature.” Musa Kachalla Biu described the scholar has a rare giver. “That write up to you is commendable. I appreciate the courage in the young man (Umar Ibrahim Faruq). There are many people who appreciate you and would like to vent it but could not for certain reasons, some, for the reason you don’t know them. But some took stance which are most expedient, and that is the prayers they offer to you and your family. I am always happy to associate with you because l learnt wisdom from you. May you live longer healthier and happier Doctor.” Ikobho, Anthony Howells said Usman’s legacy has changed many lives. “Touching lives through education, mentorship, coaching etc is the one true legacy we can bequeath the younger generation. Thank you for continuing to invest your time, energy and resources in the younger generation.” Irikefe Gbeyonron said “appreciation well-deserved. You have been a mentor and a pillar to a million people.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.