Mr. Godwin Obaseki, Governor of Edo State, has assured that the state government was committed to building the capacity of teachers to ensure that teaching and learning experience in public schools meet the best standards with the deployment of digital teaching aids. Obaseki spoke at the flag-off of the Edo Supporting Teachers to Achieve Results (Edo STAR) programme, an initiative under the framework of his reform agenda for basic education aptly tagged Edo BEST (Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation). He stressed that the state prioritises teacher training and with the deployment of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) to classrooms, pupils are sure to get the best from public schools. In a rousing acceptance of the reforms by Governor Obaseki, over 2000 teachers are currently being trained by the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) for the pilot of the Edo BEST programme. Edo STAR is a Teacher Professional Development Training expected to build capacity of teachers in the use of digital technologies in classrooms as well as new classroom management techniques. The training kicks off the teacher professional development component of the Edo BEST scheme. Dr. Joan Osa Oviawe, Special Adviser to the Governor on Basic Education and Acting Chairman, Edo SUBEB, said the two-week training would equip teachers with knowledge and skills in deploying new technologies in the classroom. She noted that over 2000 teachers and Headmasters/Headmistresses participating in the exercise would receive computer tablets and smart phones. She added that the training component of the Edo BEST programme was identified by the acronym Edo STAR, which stands for Supporting Teachers to Achieve Results. She said, “Edo BEST is about imagining the education of tomorrow and starting it today. Governor Obaseki is committed to a holistic change in our basic education sub-sector. On the first day of training, we realised that the training was over-subscribed. “Over 3000 teachers showed up. It was a herculean task to send some away because we have a set limit we could accommodate for this training. We will have more trainings as we expand Edo BEST to other schools.” Noting that the governor is deeply interested in the welfare of teachers, she said, “As we continue to say, Mr. Governor wants to empower teachers and with that, there is a high level of expectation for teacher professionalism, decorum and integrity.” 3 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.