The Federal Government in August last year disclosed that Ajaokuta steel company has the capacity to create 500,000 upstream, downstream employment when it becomes operational. In the view of Mr. Isah Onobere, the Sole Administrator of the company, he said that the first phase of the plant would also provide direct employment for 10,000 technical staff when inaugurated. He also said the first phase had been completed, adding that it was envisaged to produce 1.3 million tonnes of liquid steel per annum. Onobere stated that it would cost 400 million dollars to complete Ajaokuta steel, which had reached 98 per cent completion. However, in the face of the optimism created by some stakeholders, there have been reservations about the company which has been met with series of interruption. According to him, two billion dollars is needed for infrastructure rehabilitation and operational cost, adding that the government had begun to commit resources toward the maintenance and preservation of the equipment and facilities of the plant recently, and called for improved efforts. According to him, government is considering the report on various options on the way forward for the completion of the project. These options he said include outright sales, concessioning and joint venture of Ajaokuta steel. He, however, denied rumour about the company equipment being obsolete, adding that the company, with 98 per cent completed, could stand test of time, adding that all its equipment were functioning appropriately. The Cost Conundrum The project is said to have been executed close to 98 per cent since 1994: Between $8 and $10 billion has been spent to complete 40 of the plants. Another $2 billion to complete the three remaining plants was provided in the 2017 Budget. But a technical audit is already ongoing to determine the actual cost to complete the project. The House of Representatives doubts the credibility of the consultant, PricewaterhouseCoopers, which was also consultant to the current concessionaire, Global Infrastructure Nigeria Limited, from India. Concession Brouhaha The steel company was concessioned to GHIL between 2004 and 2005 during President Olusegun Obasanjo administration for $300 million However, the Indian firm did not live up to expectations as it could not manage the company. Following the failure of GHIL to manage the company, the Federal Government under late President Umaru Yar’Adua was compelled to revoke the contract. GINL instituted arbitration for a breach of contract against the Federal Government at the International Arbitration Court in London. This development led to the Modified Concession Agreement: GINL withdrew its $1 billion claim, to retain NIOMC for seven years, with another 10-year option. The ASC reverts to the Federal Government The National Assembly is currently opposing the move by the Federal government to concession the multimillion dollar steel company. The House of Representatives adopted two bills seeking to prevent the concession of Ajaokuta Steel Company and to ensure its completion. The bills, each sponsored by 301 lawmakers, were introduced for first reading on March 21. The bills are: An act to provide for the Ajaokuta Steel Company completion fund and a bill for an act to amend the public enterprise privatisation and commercialisation Act. It was then passed for second reading on March 22 and subsequently referred to the committee of whole. Considering the committee’s report during plenary recently, the lawmakers resolved to use $1 billion from the Federal Government’s share in the excess crude revenue for the completion of the company. The lawmakers also said the money should be applied by the minister only for purposes of the steel company’s completion and as approved by the National Assembly. The lawmakers had earlier asked President Muhammadu Buhari to direct Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, to stop the process of the concession. The bill amending the privatisation Act sought to remove the steel plant from the list of public assets which the Federal Government had powers to privatise or concession. Muhammadu Bugaje Kazaure, representing Jigawa in the House of Representatives, claims that an Indian steel mill, which was inaugurated the same day as the Ajaokuta Steel Company, already produces feeds for India’s automobile and aircraft manufacturing industries. South Korea has no iron ore deposits, yet its steel mill, which started about the same time as Ajaokuta, yields annual revenue of $60 million, and employs 65,000. But the Minister of Mines and Steel, Kayode  Fayemi insisted that there is no going back on the concession. Fayemi said in its 2017 budget, the ministry indicated ‘concessioning of Ajaokuta plant’ and the national assembly approved it at N2 billion. “So, I find it surprising when I hear what Dogara said that concession is no longer allowed. All that we have done is to commence the process of implementing what they passed in the law. “We have agreed Nigeria will not spend one dollar on the so-called completion. We have spent close to $8 billion since 1979 when this started.” Fayemi added that the ministry had commenced the technical audit of the steel plant after which it will roll out plans for the concession. He said since 2015, there has been at least 14 companies that have indicated interest in taking over the plant but “we told them we would not undergo the process without a technical audit and transaction advisory service. “We will only give the steel plant to people who participate in an open bid that is transparent and independently verifiable. And this will only happen after the technical audit that is ongoing.” Stakeholders Express Fears Over Concessioning Experts in the mining sector have said that concessioning Ajaokuta Steel will lead to corruption and mortgage the security of Nigeria and commended the decision of the House of Representatives for unanimously opposing the concession of Ajaokuta steel. Prof. Benjamin Adewuyi, a former president of Nigerian Metallurgical Society, said reconcessioning the plant would result to putting the future and security of Nigeria in the hands of foreigners. Adewuyi commended Mr Speaker and the House of Representatives for speaking the minds of Nigerians, especially stakeholders in the sector that had long been canvassing that Nigerian government should revive and complete the steel plant. Mr Attah Achimugu, Managing Director/CEO, REPROM Company Nigeria Limited said that no investor would want to invest in the abandoned project like Ajaokuta steel with the current drop in steel market. Mr Anthony Madagua, former, Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer, Delta Steel Company, Aladja said that he would stand with a caveat on Dr Kayode Fayemi’s side to concession the steel plant. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Mr. Andrew Efurhievwe Secretary, Equipment Leasing Association of Nigeria (ELAN), said the Federal Government needs to be proactive with some economic policies, especially now that the issue of diversification is on the front burner in this present administration. According to him, “Nigerian environment is very complex. Ordinarily, one would suggest that the company be put into private hands for efficiency. But my main concern is the transparency of the concession process. A case in point is the power sector. When Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) was sold, it was expected that the dilemma erratic power supply being faced by Nigerians would be a thing of the past. But as we all can see, the situation seems worse. “To concession the steel company is indeed a good idea. If this is done, the country stands the chance of conserving foreign exchange. It will also create industrialisation in Nigeria, which will significantly help the country’s economy. Efurhievwe said the Federal Government must fine-tune the transfer process so as not to repeat the same mistake of committing a national project into the hands of those who may not have financial ability. “Caution must be taken if government wants to concession Ajaokuta steel company. We are witnesses of what is happening to the power companies sold to private companies. To avoid the same mistake, concerted efforts should be made to ensure that people who have technical and financial capabilities are considered,” he added. Prof. Jonathan Aremu, Nigeria Consultant, ECOWAS Common Investment Market, told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the country should be serious while considering what to do with the steel company. “Steel industry is the backbone of many countries. In Nigeria, Ajaokuta steel company ought to be the country’s economic pillar because of its relevance to industrialisation. Mind you, it is because of steel market that US has been having issues with World Trade Organisation (WTO). There is no doubt to the fact that the private sector looks more efficient. But, looking at it the other way, the public sector has the strength of social cost and social benefit which are quite alien to private ownership. “Steel in other countries is in the hands of the public, but perhaps our environment is what is creating this abnormality. The fact is that if the public is in charge of a company like Ajaokuta steel, it will be more affordable. The major challenge is that most efficient people are not allowed to be in charge. 0 comments