Maiduguri  – Major General Rogers Nicholas, the Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole, on Monday paid a visit to soldiers who are currently undergoing medical treatment within the Theatre of Operation in Maiduguri, Borno State. The commander, who was represented by Cdr. Aminu Hassan, his deputy, led an inspection team comprising the representative of Colonel Kasim Sidi, the General Officer Commanding 7 Division of the Nigerian Army; Brigadier General Idowu Akinlawon, the Chief of Staff, Headquarters; and other senior officers on a monthly routine inspection of the inpatients’ wards and other facilities at the 7 Division Medical Services and Hospital, in Maimalari Cantonment. The team also visited soldiers who are hospitalised under referrals at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH). Speaking during the visit, the commander stated that the team was on a monthly routine inspection of medical facilities and routine check on the condition and recuperation of troops undergoing medical treatment of various injuries and ailments sustained in the ongoing counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency operations against Boko Haram in the North East. While interacting with the patients, he urged them to remain steadfast and positive, assuring them that their health and well-being were of paramount interest to the military. He added that their sacrifice for the unity and defence of the sovereignty of the nation was not in vain and is well appreciated by all Nigerians. The commander further lauded the efforts of the management of the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital and the 7 Division Nigerian Army Medical Services and Hospital for their selflessness in managing the soldiers. He enjoined them not to relent in their service to the nation. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.