The Federal Capital Territory Administration, FCTA, has begun the demolition of night clubs operating in residential areas across the nation’s capital. The authority further warned religious organisations whose worship centres are located in residential areas to reduce noise pollution or face the wrath of the law. Umar Shuiabu, Coordinator, Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC),  who gave the warming, stated that the Administration had to take these actions due to complaints by residents of the city. Shuaib said that the Council had noticed a dangerous trend of turning residential buildings to night clubs, which he said was against development regulations in the city. He, therefore, ordered owners of such properties to correct the anomaly or be prepared to face prosecution. “The Council has observed the increasing trend of conversion of residential buildings to lounge/night clubs and has taken several steps to address the situation. This is in recognition of the fact that the implications are beyond noise nuisance and also include intractable traffic challenges within the precinct, and negative social influence on the psyche of youth resident in the areas where these lounges are located,” he said. Shuaibu, stated that the Department of Development Control had already demolished some of the night clubs in the city, including De Point Lounge, located along Lungi Crescent; others located on Kampala Street, Cadastral Zone A08, Wuse II district, after they failed to adhere to the warnings. According to Shuiabu, the Administration, “in order to ensure an inclusionary governance process” in managing the city, convened a meeting with majority of night club operators and owners, where the FCT Permanent Secretary, Sir. Christian Ohaa, informed them that their activities were a contravention of the Abuja Master Plan, with a view to having them revert to original use as stipulated in the master plan within 30 days. “According to clause 10 in the condition of Certificate of Occupancy, a developer is not to erect or build or permit to be erected or built on the said land building other than those permitted to be erected by virtue of this certificate of occupancy nor to make or permit to be made any addition or alteration to the said building to erected or buildings already erected on the land except in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the President or the other officer appointed by the President on his behalf, in this case the Minister of FCT. “Also, a developer is not to use the said land except for the purpose for which the space is allocated, “he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.