Abuja – Dr. Osagie Ehanire, Minister of State for Health, said schoolchildren, the elderly and childbearing women would enjoy healthcare access, without risk of financial ruin to their families. Ehanire stated that the Federal Government recognised the importance of the Universal Health Coverage in the National Health System, as part of the social protection architecture to ensure that Nigerian citizens get quality health service, when and where they need it, without suffering any financial hardship. He added that government was working to provide physical access to health care with the revitalisation of one functional PHC Centre in every political ward to serve citizens, even when they do not immediately have money to pay. Dr. Osagie made this known at a press briefing to commemorate the 2018 World Health Day with the theme, “Universal Health Coverage: Everyone, everywhere” while our slogan is “Health for All.” He said this theme is apt, because it neatly tallies with the promise of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Administration to ensure better health for all Nigerians. The World Health Organisation, in 1952 set aside April 7th of every year for the commemoration of World Health Day, to draw attention to various topical global issues in the health sector. He further stated, “Since UHC strategy and approach to better healthcare vary from country to country, Nigeria has studied other countries’ models. Lessons learned towards the goal of Universal Health Coverage for Nigerians yielded the National Health Act (NHAct) with guidelines for the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF), National Health Care Financing Policy and Strategy, Primary Health Care Under One Roof (PHCUOR), National Health Policy, National Strategic Health Development Plan II (NSHDP II), among others.” “The National Health Act enacted in 2014 to provide a framework for regulation, development and management of a National Health System and lay down standards for rendering health services and related matters in the Federation, set aside 1% of Consolidated Revenue Fund as Basic Healthcare Provision Fund, of which 50% enters the NHIS gateway and 45% the NPHCDA gateway, leaving 5% as Emergency Fund to utilize via the FMOH gateway, he buttressed. The Minister noted, “Operationalisation of the Act as a step towards UHC, is expected to support physical and financial access to healthcare by aiding revamping of neighbourhood PHC Centres and solving Human Resource for Health challenges, for a basic healthcare package that includes free antenatal and post natal care, free immunisation service and free treatment of children under the age of 5. “Healthcare delivery quality is expected to improve significantly with more Value for Money, Transparency and Accountability. Appropriate payment exemption schemes are to be determined by the National Council on Health to provide access to the vulnerable.” He said that as a partner in the movement to accelerate global attainment of UHC, Nigeria in its National Health Act is to provide a minimum of social (healthcare) benefits to its citizens through the purchase of a set of preventive, promotive and curative services from accredited private and public facilities. “The government so recognizes PHC Centres as the platform for UHC and is pursuing the rehabilitation of almost 10,000 PHC Centres in Nigeria between now and the end of 2019, the operational design of which shall be the Ward Health System (WHS).” He said the UHC could not at the moment realistically include all health interventions on a sustainable basis, adding that it goes beyond giving a minimum package of health services. “It is also about growing resources and planning for progressive expansion of coverage with financial protection,” he said. He however stressed that UHC was not just about treatment but included service to the populace in form of public health campaigns for clean water, personal and food hygiene, environmental sanitation and balanced nutrition. “UHC is also broader than giving or financing healthcare: it regulates all aspects of the health system – care providers, service delivery, health facilities, communication and information systems, health technologies, quality assurance mechanisms, system governance and legislation. He added, “Nigeria has participated every year of the last four years, in the annual UHC walk and Ministerial press briefing to create awareness of government’s efforts, in concert with the global movement to accelerate UHC attainment. The events give FMoH the opportunity to connect with Nigerians and assure them of commitment to addressing health needs.” He noted that the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) pledges to improve Nigeria’s health sector in collaboration with states and development partners. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.