This column last Saturday called for a state of emergency in Nigerian football. The call was premised on the outcome of the first leg results of the CAF Confederation Cup involving four Nigerian clubs. The performance of these clubs;- Plateau United, Akwa United, Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries and Enyimba- really brought to the fore, the dreadful state of Nigerian football-the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). The performances of these clubs, in the second tier continental club championship, after Plateau United and MFM, failed to secure passage into the CAF Champions League group phase, confirms my position that the Nigerian league is a huge joke. And when the second leg matches held on Tuesday and Wednesday, it was only Enyimba that qualified for the group stage. Plateau United were humiliated 4-0 by USM Alger in Algiers, Akwa United were bundled out by Al Hilal of Sudan, while MFM failed to cross Djoliba hurdle. To add insult into injury, CAF came out on Wednesday to confirm that Nigeria can only register a club for each of the club championships as from 2019. Reason is the poor performance of Nigerian clubs in the continent. Our rating has dropped and the country is now ranked amongst countries that can only register a team for each of the two club championships instead of two teams for each of the championships. To buttress the fact that we are no longer there, the last time a Nigerian club won a continental trophy was in 2004 when Enyimba retained the CAF Champions League. Since then, the best by any Nigerian club was Heartland losing the final of the CAF Champions League to TP Mazembe in 2009. And we delude ourselves as ‘Giant of Africa’. Even the LMC prided the league as the second best in Africa for winning silver in the last CHAN championship. Remember we lost the final 4-0 to Morocco. What is wrong with the Nigerian football? To Patrick Omorodion, Vanguard Deputy Sports Editor in his facebook page said, “The message of these results is that our Premier league is a huge joke and a scam. The league is always for the highest bidder and the organisers know this but no one wants to talk about it. “Everyone is involved in the scam- the club officials; the league officials; the football administrators both at the federal and state levels, the referees and  thesports journalists.” It is not only Omorodion, who holds this view, Coach Zakare Baraje, one of the most experienced coaches in the country, also agrees with him. Baraje has coached Akwa United, Heartland, and Plateau United just to mention a few. So he has a firsthand experience of the goings on in the league, the behind the scenes. To him, the problem is that the best club never wins the league. “We have been shouting that we have arrived but we are not there yet; our teams are poorly prepared and the real champions do not actually represent Nigeria and in that situation, tell me how they can perform? “I will blame the whole thing on Nigerian factor. The Nigerian factor has robbed us of effective planning and those who are managing the game are limited in what they can do due to several inhibiting factors. Our organisation is very poor. Our league is poor and there is no academy to nurture young talents. Even if there are some, young players are quick to go abroad because the league promises nothing for them,” he said in an interview with Daily Independent. The problem of the league is absence of the political will by the NFF and the LMC to change the ownership structure of the clubs. As long as the clubs are owed by the state government, all efforts geared towards developing the league will amount to nothing. Until this fundamental problem is solved, we are all joking. Nothing positive will come out of the league. To the state governors, the clubs are campaign tools; an avenue to launder funds; a tool for settling political jobbers. Those appointed by the governors know next to nothing on club management. Players’ welfare is not their concern.  And in order to remain relevant, these appointees are ready to pay any amount to win home games. Referees are their willing tool. Any referee who refuses to accede to their nefarious plan will be threatened with death. And because there is no security, some of the referees who have conscience will be constrained to go along. After all, if they are killed it is their family that suffers, life goes on. To worsen the situation, the club administrators, parading themselves as club owners have turned themselves into nuisance. They have become untouchables. The LMC cannot do anything to them. Even the laws governing the league are flouted with impunity and the LMC only looks the other way. At the end, it is the highest bidder that wins the league. And what we get are clubs that lack the capacity to do well continentally. 0 comments