People see the duck sitting pretty on the surface of the water, but a glance in the water reveals that it is paddling furiously. That’s the price it pays for the calm and serene face it wears. Wendy Lawal, Tinsel actress has a face that mirrors the epitome of real beauty. With all her achievements even as a student up till now, it would seem she simply sits pretty while good fortune just falls at her feet. The reverse is the case though, she puts in a lot of work and effort. In this interview with Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade, Wendy talks about life as an actor, pageantry and what’s to come after. When did you decide to start acting? When I wrote Post UME, I got in to Olabisi Onabanjo University to study English, but my mother refused to allow me go because it was far from home. So she made me wait an extra year and then I decided that I would do a course that I loved. I used to participate in church drama and all, so I decided to go for Theatre Arts in UNILAG. Thankfully, my parents are not the kind of people who pick courses for their children. My immediate older brother was studying Theatre Arts at the University of Ibadan at the time. Theatre is broad, so he was into Set and Lights and I wanted to do Acting. So I got into UNILAG for Theatre Arts. I got my first acting role in Year One. There was an audition, I went with some of my friends and we got roles. The first time I was actually on TV was in 2008. It was for a series titled ‘Living in Lagos’. Asides this, I had been in stage plays and all that. I just knew I was going to be in the arts because I sing pretty well and I enjoy acting. I had initially thought I would end up in radio, but you know, when God has other plans… So where did pageantry come in. Was it part of your list of things to do? It was in final year, I was in a carnival band at the time called ‘Locomotion’, I was dancing, and it was fun for us: my friends and I. And then they needed somebody to represent them for the beauty pageant. I was confused, my friends even believed in me more than I did. I would not be the first person to raise my hand if anybody suggests a pageant. I’d rather keep to myself. But they felt I could do it and I just said okay. I just decided to try it because I am a tomboy really and truly, so getting into the dress, and all the other requirements was an effort. And then, it was a difficult time for me because I was writing final year exams at the time, so I had to shuttle between camp and school. It was tedious, but I did it. After the pageant what was life like? The car I was given was branded, and I am a private person, but I got so exposed. People would see the car and then they would wave at me. Police officers would wave and they won’t stop me. If they stopped me, it was just to say “hi”. It was a popularity that I wasn’t ready for at the time. My number plates read ‘Queen 3’. I’ve taken it off now. I got exposure, I got to meet people, I got to meet the governor at the time, and it was an exciting experience. How did you get the role you are so known for in Tinsel? Tinsel came in before the pageant. I was still a student. It was in 2011 – I think, I can’t remember clearly. I was going to submit an assignment with my friends, and I saw three people, who later became my bosses, walking towards me. So they came to me, a man and two women, and they asked me if I watched Tinsel. I told them, “yes, when I can.” So they told me that they want me to come in for a read. Then it was still at Ojota. So I said, “okay, no problem.” School wasn’t too far from Ojota at the time. I was given a call time of 9am, and I got there 8:30am. Everyone that knew me in UNILAG knew that I was a jeans and T-shirt girl, so I wore my usual jeans and T-shirt, went to the office and arrived there at 8:30 instead of nine. And then, at 9’oclock, I started seeing a barrage of ladies in heels and everything. I just kept thinking,” I did not get the memo, what is happening? Nobody told me that this was how it was going to be.” Eventually, you know how auditions are – people would come in; there would be those that would make you feel uncomfortable, those that would make you feel inexperienced… I just wanted to do it and go back to school. So we went in one after the other, according to the way we came, did the read, and then someone came out and said: “who is Wendy Lawal?” I replied: “Hi, over here.” And he just said “the rest of you, thank you very much.” That was it, it’s been seven years now. How did you feel afterwards? I didn’t believe it o. You know some things happen to you and it doesn’t hit you until later. It didn’t sink, because even the first time I shot, the line producer at the time came to the floor and said if I don’t get it right, that he may just write the character off. I was shaking, I was nervous. And then as soon as I finished my scene, he just walked off. I didn’t understand what that meant until later when he said he was very pleased with my acting, and I thought, “okay!” Do you believe that your training as a thespian is what made you a success? Well, theatre students are exposed to a lot. The thing about acting is that because of the diversity – there’s stage acting, there’s screen acting – different people with different trainings can come into the arts. I believe that yes, it is good to have a background knowledge of theatre, it will help you, but it doesn’t mean that the field is limited to theatre students. Maybe I had an advantage, but it doesn’t mean that people that are fantastic actors studied theatre. What are some of you other works, and which took you out of your comfort zone? I can’t remember them all, but I’ve done ‘Jemeji’, ‘Our Best Friend’s Wedding’, a few Africa Magic correctional films, a recent short film, ‘Out of sight’… quite a few. The movie that was most challenging for me was the role I played in ‘Jemeji’. The character was an illiterate, so most of my lines were in pidgin. So when I read the script in English, I have to translate and deliver it in pidgin. I still had people tell me that my pidgin was too fresh. I had to put myself in the village girl character and think of what I would do if I were in the person’s shoes. If I was a village girl and I didn’t know anything about civilisation, how would I react to issues? I put myself in a place I had never been before. It was quite challenging, but it was very interesting. There were things that I did in character that I even surprised myself. I loved that I was able to play something different. So what next for you? You know, I am actually considering opening a make up studio later on. You’re engaged to be married, is there a wedding date in sight? You know the interesting thing about African weddings, once you have announced that you are getting married, it is out of your hands. So I am waiting for my family. There’s no date yet, but we are working on it. This year by God’s grace. Do you still get advances from men even with the ring? Being engaged is not so far from single life, it’s just that there is a ring now and everyone knows. Even with the ring I still get advances. We are human beings. Men chase married women, so who am I not to be chased? Some people even think it is a fashion ring. I have made more friends now because of the engagement ring. Most of the time when they find out that I am engaged, we just end up being friends. But our society is funny, ring or not, you will still be chased. Even pregnant women get chased. How do handle attention from zealous fans? First of all, I don’t go out much except I have to. I also try as much as I can to not be rude. No one wants to know if you’re having a bad day once you’re an actor or TV personality. I once went to the mall with my friends, and a woman comes to me with her children, and she pulls and pinches my cheeks playfully. I actually do not like it when people touch my face, but she does it over and over saying “you, this troublesome girl on Tinsel.” I was so upset but I had to smile, because if I had given off a slightest inkling that I was mad, the news would be that I was proud. So every time I go out and I know I have to be in a public place, I just brace myself for impact; whatever kind of impact it is. I smile extra and I’m extra nice. 0 comments