Abuja – The House of Representatives on Wednesday asked President Muhammadu Buhari to personally appear before it to explain the actions he has taken in response to the ongoing wanton killings by herdsmen in the country, especially in Benue State. The House earlier contemplated going to visit him to convey their hard feelings concerning the widespread incidents of bloodbath in his administration. The House, however, swiftly reversed its plan, considering the magnitude of the matter affecting the people they were representing. To underscore the fact that the killings nationwide had reached its crescendo and that their people were in pains and tears, the House resolved to suspend its sitting for three legislative days, in solidarity with their constituents. The House also passed a vote of no confidence on all the security chiefs and advisers, demanding their immediate removal from office and replacement by more proactive and sensitive personnel. Also, it said the killer herdsmen were terrorists and asked President Buhari to immediately go ahead to declare them as such as well as ensure that all genuine cattle rearers were immediately registered to distinguish them from the terrorists. The House, presided over by Speaker Yakubu Dogara, also asked the relevant committees of the House on security to immediately investigate all the attacks and report back to it. These decisions followed a motion on urgent public importance raised by Mark Gbillah, over the kind of bloodshed that was being witnessed daily in Benue State, especially the killings, on Tuesday, of Catholic Church priests and worshipers. Gbillah’s motion was entitled, ‘Alleged attack by army personnel on innocent residents of Naka in Gwer-West LGA of Benue State and the inability of the army and other security agencies to quell the incessant murder of indigenes of Benue State by armed herdsmen”. Gbillah said he was alarmed at the numerous eye-witness accounts that rampaging Nigerian army personnel on Thursday, April 19, attacked Naka, the headquarters of Gwer-West Local Government Area of Benue State in several Hillux trucks with army colours. He said the attacks led to loss of lives and destruction of property. He recalled last week’s military invasion of Naka community in Benue, burning down of houses in retaliation over alleged killing of a colleague. Gbillah said the incident brought back the sad memory of Odi and Zaki Biam. The lawmaker complained that the state was already under siege as innocent people were being killed recklessly by armed herdsmen and allegedly by those who ought to protect them. Gbillah’s motion raised serious concerns on the floor of the House as all the lawmakers who contributed to the debate on the motion said there was hardly any part of the country which was not experiencing bloodbath. They concluded that President Buhari was running a failed government. The lawmakers were unanimous that the killings had gone beyond sentiment as they ignored their party, religious, regional, and all forms of differences to condemn the criminal acts and sought common solutions to the problem. Condemning the ongoing killings, Emmanuel Orker-Jev, Chairman of Committee on Rules and Business (APC, Benue), said: “It seems we are facing mental capacity shock. People no longer believe in the nation state.” Another member of the ruling party, Edward Pwajok (APC, Plateau), said in his reaction: “If we are to compile all motions on killings in Nigeria, it would be in volumes. “We are moving toward being declared a failed state. It is that we are just lamenting for lamenting sake. “The time has come to interact with the president or have a powerful committee to grill the heads of security agencies. We are turning to a house of lamentation.” Also speaking on the motion, Tarkinghin Dickson (APC, Benue) said: “The Food Basket of the Nation has turned to blood basket. We have collusion and connivance by the security agents. “The army claimed that 27 of its personnel were killed by herdsmen nothing happened but laid siege to a village for one soldier killed. “Just this morning, 22 people have been confirmed dead, slaughtered in my local government area. “The people of Benue have lost faith in this government. The president has failed to protect the people.” However, members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) called for the impeachment of the president as they argued that the government had failed, citing section 14(2) of the constitution on protection of lives and property, and threatening to invoke section 143 of the constitution. Karimi Sunday (PDP, Kogi) said it was high time to trigger section 143 of the constitution and remove the president as he claimed that the president’s past was insufficient to tackle the insecurity confronting the country. He said: “Lawlessness all over the country. There is anarchy all over, killings, invasion of the Senate. “The Buhari we have today is not Buhari of 1985. It is time the president goes; it is high time to invoke section 143 of the constitution.” Also calling on the members to remove the president was Nicholas Ossai (PDP, Delta) who said: “Last week, we said the security apparatus is dysfunctional. The current ruling party has failed. The president has failed. He has failed to proscribe the herdsmen, we must act. The president has to go.” Although, the House was yet to announce the date to shut down legislative activities, Abdulrazk Namdas, Chairman of House Committee on Media and Publicity, while briefing journalists, said that the three days would be determined by the leadership of the House. He said that summoning the president became imperative as previous meetings with security chiefs had failed to end the killings. “We have met with service chiefs and the killing persists, we should instead meet with the president who appointed them,” Namdas said. 0 comments