Lagos – The National Conscience Party (NCP), activists and family  the family of the late legal icon and rights activist, Chief Gani Fawehinmi at the weekend held the 80thPosthumous Birthday and Symposium for the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi. The first event on Saturday April 22, held at The Lagos Centre,  Oregun, Ikeja, Lagos, attracted hundreds of the party faithful as well as activists from several organisations, who all came to honour the late Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), better known as the Senior Advocate of the Masses (SAM). Fawehinmi’s advocacy on the side of the masses of Nigeria, made him to have countless brushes with security agencies as well as detentions at several prisons. The theme of the symposium, was, ‘Gani Fawehinmi: The Man, The Struggle and Lessons For the Generation Today.’ It attracted participants not only from Lagos, but from several states in the South West as well as Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Comrade Fatai Ibu-Owo, chairman of the NCP in Lagos in his address, called on the Nigerian masses to unite to continue the struggle for their total liberation from the suffering being unleashed on them by the nation’s ruling class in line with the example set by the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi, the party’s founder and late legal luminary. He said it was only by continuing the struggle started by the late activist-lawyer, that they would not be inflicted with greater pains by the ruling class in future. Describing Fawehinmi as the hero of Nigerian democracy, Ibu-Owo lamented that most of the ills the late activist stood, fought and died for on behalf of the masses still persist today, even in a greater proportion. He said there was need to raise the political consciousness of Nigerians for them to unite to liberate themselves, stressing that the ruling class, represented by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), would only continue to impoverish the masses and increase their sufferings due to their selfish interests. Comrade Gbenga Komolafe, Executive Secretary of the Federation of Informal Sector Workers’ Union (FIWON), in his speech, said the time had come for Nigerians to reflect on what the late Fewehinmi lived and died for, adding that the late activist preached change, lived and died for change. He maintained that Fewehinmi was a victim of what he was fighting for, a victim of the structural problems of the nation and the inadequacies of the nation’s health sector. Komolafe said: “Hundreds of Nigerians still die due to poor healthcare system, just like Gani Fawehinmi. We keep on losing people due to lack functional healthcare system in the country. We need perfect system that will work for the common good of the people. “Our education is poor, infrastructure is poor, and railway system is poor. We have all manner of problems in all sectors. Every year Nigeria loses 50,000 women during child birth. This is just a conservative figure that does not include those who die in traditional medicine homes, herbalist homes and churches, because they cannot afford proper attention in hospitals.” Venerable Funso Awe, an Anglican Priest and governorship aspirant under the NCP recalled efforts of the late Fawehinmi, Dr. Tai Solarin, Dr. Beko Ransome-Kuti, Fela Ransome-Kuti and a lot of others, who he lamented, died in the struggle for the emancipation of the masses. He however lamented that a lot of activists who were part of the struggle had been silenced, even as he took a swipe of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the former Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) president, who he said had been silenced after he has tasted power. At the second event held on Sunday April 23, 2018, Prof. Wole Soyinka, the Nobel laureate, expressed the joy that the NCP has been able to carry on Fawehinmi’s vision, even as  he called on party to ensure that it works hard to take over the reins of governance to give meaning to the visions and aspirations of the late legal icon. Dr. Tanko Yunusa, the NCP National Chairman, called on Nigerians to embrace the party, describing it as the only vehicle for the total liberation of the country and emancipation of the people. He urged Nigerians and all lovers of Fawehinmi to register for the 2019 general elections and cast their votes for the NCP. Another special feature of the Fawehinmi’s 80-post humous birthday was the unveiling of the late activist’s statue by Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, the Lagos State governor, at the ‘Liberty Park’, in Ojota, Lagos. Unveiling the 44-feet statue, Ambode, who was represented by his deputy, Idiat  Adebule reiterated the personal sacrifices made by Chief Fawehinmi in leading the struggle for attainment of human rights and dignity, saying the late activist would continue to remain a hero and role model. He described the late legal luminary as a relentless human rights lawyer, social critic and a towering figure in human rights activism. “This event is a celebration of the life and times of Chief Gani Fawehinmi as well as his contributions to the pursuit of the ideals of democracy and human rights. Chief Fawehinmi remains a hero and a role model to many till date. “His memory would remain evergreen in our minds while his lifetime should encourage us to seek for greater good of the people in the society. As a government, we draw inspiration from his struggles and ideals as we strive to make life meaningful for our people”. “We will continue to keep his ideals alive and pass it on to the next generation, the monument stands as a testimony of Fawehinmi’s strength and courage. He will continue to inspire us as we forge ahead with the mission of building a better society,” Ambode said. Mohammed Fawehinmi, son of the late activist, thanked the Lagos State government, the NCP and the activist family for the honour done to his late father, even as he maintained that his father did not die in vain. He said: “I want to laugh in the faces of three leaders and unfortunately one of them is dead. The triumvate of Olusegun Obasanjo, Ibrahim Babangida and Sani Abacha. My father would have beaten hell out of Abacha in heaven. But to Obasanjo and IBB, the man they wanted to kill his spirit is the one a governor of this country has erected his statue here. Let me see how they will come here and destroy it.” He commended Governor Ambode, saying apart from being a befitting representation to the legacies of their patriarch, the statue would place their father’s name on the global map”. “I am totally overwhelmed. I want to say a big thank you to Lagos State Government and another very big massive thank you to Governor Ambode. In all honesty, he is the man I least expected this to come from. “We understood when former Governor Fashola started this with a smaller statue and we were all glad that at least he remembered our mentor, our father, our leader in the human rights struggle and Senior Advocate of the Masses, SAM. But now seeing this, I now say to myself that Governor Ambode has placed the name of Gani Fawehinmi on a global map,” Mohammed said. 0 comments