Brother (Engr.) Mike Orugbo is the Chairman, Conference of Laity of God’s Kingdom Society, Warri, Delta State. He spoke to Justice Iyasere during the 2018 Conference of Laity of the Church which held from March 30 to March 31, 2018. Excerpts: What is your take on the statement made by  General T.Y. Danjuma that Nigerians should defend themselves from attacks? Danjuma is an important citizen, and it is obvious to everybody that something drastic has to be done to salvage the situation before us. I do not know of anyone who would allow himself or herself to be killed, without resorting to self defense. And of course, Prof. (Itse) Sagay who supported Danjuma’s position is a very renowned lawyer. From a legal point of view he is right, it is allowed by law, and by human nature. It would be stupid of anybody to just fold his arms and allow his family to be slaughtered. So Danjuma has said the mind of the average Nigerian. The matter should be addressed in that context that the Government has failed, and for us not to carry out his threat, the Government should do the needful. How would you encourage the citizens to participate fully and actively in next year’s election? It is very easy and straight forward, do not soil your conscience, do not sell your votes, do not allow politicians to bring to you bags of rice and salt which is dehumanizing, when they bring to you bag of salt and rice for you to give them your vote, when they get there, they will be eating chicken and you would not even have food to eat. So what the electorates need to do is to vote for their conscience not because of money any individual will give to them. They can take the money from the politicians because it’s our money, so take the money, but do not vote because of the money, that is the message. What is your take on the inability of the Federal Government to defeat the Boko Haram insurgents? They have not completely defeated Boko Haram, the President himself has said so. The Minister of Information too has admitted that they have not completely defeated Boko Haram, but it is true they have weaken them. Terrorism, the fight against Insurgency is not an easy war. It is not easy to win it completely. They degraded them, but at a time I think they were carried away. They thought they were already there, but they are still very far from where they are. If the things we are hearing and the happenings are anything to go by, all of us are aware that they are not yet there. What is your message to Mr. President on the non-release of the only Christian girl kidnapped amongst the 110 Dapchi girls? I do not have the details, but to me, that girl has demonstrated faith. For her to have denied herself liberty because of her faith, it is commendable. But the Government of the day must demonstrate to us that; that girl is not left behind on religious reasons. She is the only Christian among them and if I could remember very vividly if my information is correct, and being the only Christian among them, the Government should see it as something they need to do, to disabuse peoples mind over religious sentiments as they relate to the current leadership. What does the Church hope to achieve from this year’s conference? From the theme you will understand that we would talk about leadership and followership. Then as a Church we are more concerned with spiritual matters than worldly matters. However, because we live in the world, we cannot isolate ourselves completely from the world. Our main concern is to strive to continue to do things that would benefit us as an organisation, as individuals, and things that would prepare us for the kingdom of God when it is fully established. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.