The Nigeria Agip Oil Company (NAOC) and Apoi Community in Bayelsa have disagreed over claims concerning the payment of compensation for the September 2017 oil spill which polluted the neighbourhood. The Joint Investigation Visit (JIV) report on the oil spill had blamed the oil leak on the corrosion of NAOC’s “10 Tebidaba-Clough-creek pipeline’’ in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa. The oil leak reportedly discharged some 180 barrels of crude into the environment. However, it was gathered that out of the 180 barrels of crude which leaked into the environment, 124 barrels had been recovered, while the remaining 56 barrels, which could not be recovered, spread into and polluted the surrounding waters and farmlands. Apoi Community said that the clean-up of the area was yet to commence, while the terms for compensation was yet to be decided but the management of NAOC maintained that it had paid compensation for the oil spill incident in March. Mr. Marco Rodondi , District General Manager of NAOC, dismissed the community’s claims regarding the non-payment of compensation for the oil spill as false. He said that conflict between Agip and Apoi Community after the incident had initially frustrated the clean-up efforts, which had currently reached the final stages. “This spill caused us a lot of headaches due to intra-community clashes between two factions which impeded access to the spill site and severally delayed repair and clean-up operations.” “We commenced the clean-up of the spill with an initial recovery phase, right after the leak, by the recovery as much as possible of free oil. “The second phase of the clean-up activity was severally stopped by a faction of the community. This substantially delayed further clean-up efforts. “We carried out a joint monitoring of the clean-up site with government regulatory agencies and the contractor on site to conclude the clean-up. “We also wish to inform you that compensation has been paid to the community through Ebieri Global Concept Nigeria Limited, to whom the power of attorney for the payment was given. “The payment was made in February this year. Therefore, we totally reject this false allegation regarding the non-payment of compensation,’’ Rodondi said. However, Chief Kemela Godspower, the spokesperson for Apoi Community, rejected the NAOC claims; describing them as regrettable. Godspower said that the claims were a clear indication that the oil firm was up to some mischief. Godspower, who is the Chairman, Apoi Council of Chiefs, wondered why and how NAOC, which had been operating in the area since the 1980s, would decide to deal with persons who were unknown to the community. He said that Apoi people never authorised anyone outside the community to negotiate compensation issues with NAOC. On the oil spill, Godspower said, The Agip spill was caused by some corrosion right under the pipe. “That pipe was laid in 1980 and Agip has not changed it till date. Yet, Agip was arguing with us until the matter went before the Bayelsa Government. “It was the deputy governor who prevailed on Agip before they came and clamped the ruptured spot. It was a tug-of-war before we were able to get the JIV report from them. “They initially did not want to give us our copy of the report and up till now, no compensation has been paid by Agip either as individual or general community damages. “We want the state government to come to our aid, just as we need the company to come and do the needful to help us too since we are their landlords,” Godpower said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.