I have been an ardent chronicler of political activities of the Governor of Imo State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha since the return of the current unbroken 19-year-old democratic dispensation. A former leading member of the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP), he pursues his political ambition with unwavering determination and commitment, to the extent that while still in his early 40s some years back, he threw his hat into the country’s murky political waters with the aim of becoming the long-awaited President from Igboland; but he lost at the primaries. This, painful loss notwithstanding, he finally defected from his party and joined a relatively young and unknown All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) founded by the late indomitable Igbo leader, Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu. As a political strategist of great repute with deep pocket and founder of Rochas Okorocha Foundation (ROF), he knew that having failed to realise his presidential ambition on the platform of his former party, it was time for him to humble himself politically, by vying for governorship position on the ticket of a party with overwhelming goodwill in the two most politically dynamic state in the South-East  __  Anambra and Imo. Anambra was the first to produce a governor on the platform of APGA and he was the immediate past helmsman, Mr. Peter Obi. He was succeeded by Chief Willie Obiano who has just been sworn in for second term. When Okorocha contested election in 2011 and won, he became APGA’s second state governor. Ordinarily, Obiano and Okorocha, being governors in two states controlled by APGA throughout Nigeria, were expected to collaborate to promote the ideals of their party and ensure other parties did not capture their states. Unfortunately, this was not to be. So due to inordinate ambition, Obi, who while in office as APGA governor, was known to be hobnobbing politically with the then President Goodluck Jonathan of PDP, did not disappoint observers when he dumped APGA for PDP on completion of his two-term tenure. This devastating development must have dampened the spirit of Obiano but he remained undaunted. The situation became compounded when APGA broke into factions. As envisaged, Okorocha, a celebrated orator, finally moved his faction away to join the political groups that gave birth to what is now known as All Progressives Congress (APC). Naturally, this has since led to political enmity between Obiano and Okorocha, as well as APGA’s loss of Imo to APC thereby making Obiano’s state the only one-legged party in the country. However, since he became governor in 2011, how far has Okorocha justified the confidence reposed in him by the generality of Imolites? Was his re-election in 2015 for another four years in spite of controversies concerning his style of governance indication of the love Imolites have for him and his APC-led administration? Are the various claims in respect of democracy dividends being published by him real or are mere propaganda traits to hoodwink Imolites ahead of 2019? By the way, will the widely reported demolition of buildings, including markets, to pave way for development, as well as erection of statues of some African leaders using tax payers’ monies affect chances of APC in Imo in 2019, which marks end of the governor’s term? He should not allow his political ambition ahead of 2019 to either destabilise Imo or create enmity between him and his political colleagues in the South-East, as this could retard whatever progress the region might have recorded in its socio-economic and industrial endeavours, aimed at uniting the South-East with the rest of the country, irrespective of political affiliations. Meanwhile, the political atmosphere, as 2019 elections are fast approaching, does not seem to give many cause to be happy. The situation is likely to assume more worrisome dimension when INEC formally lifts ban on political campaigns. Already, the confusion, controversy and acrimonies generated as a result of Okorocha’s untimely endorsement of his Chief of Staff who also doubles as his son-in-law, youthful Chief Uche Nwosu, as his possible successor,  when he vacates office on May 29, 2019 are not only mind-boggling but could also heat up the charged polity in Imo. He has repeatedly stated that there is no going back on his unilateral choice of Nwosu. He has remained adamant without minding whose ox is gored in his desperate bid to foist his son-in-law on Imolites as next governor. His Deputy, who was reported to have also indicated interest in contesting, seems to have been shoved aside in preference for Nwosu. This is quite unfortunate for practice of democracy in Imo. It is saddening that in a statement released last week, Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Sam Onwuemeodo, said: “Imo people are desirous of who would sustain Governor Okorocha’s monumental achievements or even do more than him and the person is Uche Nwosu. It is absurd that even before the election is held next year, Onwuemeodo and his principal are already optimistic that Nwosu would emerge victorious in both the primary and final elections. It is unfortunate that this show of shame and flagrant display of power drunkenness, political rascality and arrogance are going on in Imo with huge population of educated and enlightened people who should know when their rights are being trampled upon by the selfish political class. Okorocha should be mindful of the type of legacy he wants to leave behind in 2019 and refrain from actions capable of setting Imo on fire and compounding the problems of Imolites just because he wants to install his stooge in office as successor to cover up his misdeeds. If he is a true progressive and has no skeleton in his cupboard, he should not be afraid of who will succeed him. Instead, he should allow all APC aspirants compete on a level-playing field to ensure fairness, justice and transparency. Failure to do so, would lead to incalculable disaster for APC in Imo. It is morally wrong for Okorocha to force Nwosu on Imolites who should be given free hand to elect their candidate, as this would ultimately lead to desperate move to ensure undeserved victory in a do-or-die election, for Nwosu. I sympathise with Imolites if at the end of the day, Okorocha goes to the Senate, as he is planning, and Nwosu becomes governor. It means Okorocha will continue to determine the fate of Imo while Imolites will forever remain in the pocket of his family. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.