Kenya’s Ministry of Health and World Food Programme (WFP) have renewed call for strategic investments and policy reforms to boost nutrition status of adolescents in the country. Senior officials who spoke during the release of an assessment report on adolescent nutrition in Kenya noted that this demographic was at higher risk of hunger and malnutrition due to social, economic and cultural factors. Christine Wambugu, the Head of Adolescent Health Programmes in Kenya’s health ministry, said the assessment report triggered the urgency for government and multilateral lenders to prioritise nutrition for young adults. “This report is timely as we are at a time when the country is deciding on the best way to holistically address the nutrition needs of adolescents,” Wambugu said during the launch of the report. “We want to encourage stakeholders to engage in discourse, coordination and leverage opportunities in understanding this research to comprehensively address the needs of adolescents,” she added. Kenya’s Ministry of Health in partnership with WFP and industry carried out the survey to assess the nutrition status of adolescents, who comprised 22 per cent of the country’s population. The study revealed that 10-19 year olds were at higher risk of stunting and anemia due to micro nutrients deficiency. According to the study, the nutrition status of Kenyan teenagers is mainly influenced by household income, social norms, levels of education, income generating activities and climatic factors. The study proposed adolescent-friendly policy interventions, coupled with public education to improve the nutrition status and achieve socio-economic development. Brenda Behan, Senior Deputy Country Director at WFP Kenya, said improving nutrition status of adolescents in the country would have positive outcomes on critical sectors like education, health and security. Behan emphasised that data driven interventions were key to dealing effectively with nutrition challenges affecting Kenyan adolescents. “From the findings of the report, we have noted that many data gaps in terms of evidence have been hindering effective strategies to address nutrition challenges in adolescents and girls in particular,” said Behan. “As WFP, we recognise the opportunity to support the government in meeting the needs of the adolescents in Kenya through health, nutrition, education and economic empowerment,” she added. Experts proposed enactment of adolescent friendly policies accompanied by vigorous public education to ensure their health and nutrition needs are at the heart of national development programmes. Judith Kimiywe, a professor of nutrition at Kenyatta University, said enlightened policies and outreach targeting adolescents is key to improve their access to quality diet. “From the report, there is a clear indication on the need to devise innovative ways to better reach adolescents with essential information in order to end the cycle of poor nutrition in the country,” said Kimiywe. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.