Unilever Nigeria Plc has intensified efforts to improve its local sourcing of raw materials by partnering with farmers and intermediary companies as part of its new policy to aligning with Federal Government’s backward integration policy. Thomas Mwanza, Procurement Director, who gave examples of steps taken by Unilever to achieve this drive in Packaging and agro-based materials at the recently concluded Manufacturing and Equipment, Nigerian Raw Materials Expo, Unilever, West Africa, said the organisation believes this will enable it to achieve a significant reduction in the importation of raw materials by working with local partners. He noted that under its ‘Partner to Win’initiaive’, Unilever will be investing in capabilities of intermediary companies to enable them to convert farm produce to usable goods that will be sourced by the company as part of its raw materials locally. “Already, Unilever has achieved over 90% in local sourcing of packaging materials. The aim is to achieve 100% by the end of 2019 and overcome the current challenges of local vendor’s capacity to meet up with global best standard. “In agro-allied sector, Unilever is partnering with intermediary companies, for the supply of cassava and starch”, he said. Providing the motivation for this decision, Thomas said, “the backward integration programme of the Federal Government is a sound policy and as an organisation we are committed to this initiative”. “We have found strong connections between this policy and our business model. This has spurred us to enhance our local sourcing capabilities that we have embarked on for about a decade.” Speaking on the economic benefits of aligning with the government on this strategy, Thomas said, “by working with the intermediary companies to source these materials, we are contributing to up-scaling the technical skills required for sustainable commercial farming in Nigeria. “We are also investing in the production of palm oil for use in BlueBand and soaps, and exploring local production of herbs and spice for our seasoning cubes”. He, however, said: “We believe that our partnership with these investors will not only create jobs within the agriculture sector but also provide support that will enhance their technical know-how and skills.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.