One of the issues that entrepreneurs in Nigeria have is the capacity and requisite skills to manage and grow their businesses. However, Oxfam-EDC is organising a progrome to meet that need. The programme supports Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) with a social or environmental impact strategy to grow their company, create more employment opportunities for youths, and increase their impact. Specifically, the Oxfam, a multinational private sector development agency, noted that the programme is open to those who manage an SME, ready for growth, want to get tailor-made support to boost their business, tackle challenges and those who desire to diversify their market, increase competitiveness, improve the value chain of their sector, and create opportunities to manage their business in a more sustainable and responsible manner. Interested Nigerian entrepreneurs have up till April 14, 2018 to apply for the 2018 Oxfam-EDC SME development programme. The agency said, “We are looking for companies that have a clear social and/or environmental impact strategy. This includes for example creating jobs for youth, using sustainable resource management solutions, developing renewable energy solutions, sustainable sourcing from local suppliers (e.g. farmers), or selling relevant products/services to low-income Nigerian households. “Any sector is welcome to join, especially agribusiness (the entire value chain), light manufacturing, producers of women’s consumer products, renewable energy and recycling.” Those eligible to participate are entrepreneur/managers who are 25 to 45 years old, with annual turnover of N40million and above, between 10 and 250 employees and their company should have existed for at least two years. “We believe SMEs have the potential to contribute to sustainable growth through increased employment, higher income and relevant products and services for people living in poverty, particularly small holder farmers, youth and women. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.