Lagos – Three soldiers and two civilians have been arrested over the attack, invasion of the home of the Mr. Ibrahim Magu, chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), with an alleged intent to assassinate the anti-graft boss.
The farm house of Magu, which was located at Barkin Uza Karshi area of Abuja, was on 12th of December, 2017 attacked by gunmen suspected to be hired killers.
During the invasion, a Mobile policeman attached to 45 PMF, Sgt. Haruna Sarki who was on duty in Magu’s house was killed.
The armed men carted away two AK47 rifles belonging to 45 PMF.
It was gathered that the house of the EFCC boss was ransacked fortunately, Magu was not in the house as at the time of the attack.
DAILY INDENDENT gathered that since then, the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim K. Idris had directed his Intelligence Response Team (IRT) to go after the culprits and bring them to justice.
However, the unrelenting follow-up covering about four states was launched and by April 19, 2018, five of the suspected armed robbers/assassins were arrested.
Also, the two AK47 rifles belonging to the Nigeria Police Force(NPF) that were carted away from the attacked house, were recovered in a remote village in Benue State.
The arrested suspects include Inalegwu Omikpa, a 36-year-old native of Ameju Okpoku Local Government Area of Benue State. He is said to be the gang leader. Francis Ochife, 38-year-old native of Otukpo in Benue State; dismissed Lance CPL Vincent Michael who was attached to 403 flying training School Kano. Vincent after the arrest was dismissed and handed over to the Police, after which he led IRT operatives to a remote village in Otukpo area of Benue State were the two AK47 rifles were recovered under the bed in his village house.
Lance CPL Awua T. Timothy attached to DHQ Abuja. He’s currently detained by the military and under trial based on evidence the police provided. He is yet to be handed over to the Police and Sgt. Paul Sunday who is attached to the DHQ.
Sunday is also being detained and under trial by the military based on evidence police provided to them. He is not yet handed over to the police.
Police affirmed that efforts were in progress towards arresting the remaining gang members. 1 comments