Abakaliki – The frosty relationship hitherto existing between Fulani herdsmen and farmers in some communities in Ebonyi state seems to have ended as herders and farmers in rural communities in the state now live in peace and harmony. It would be recalled that pockets of clashes had recently erupted between some herders and farmers in some communities in the state, which resulted to loss of lives and wanton destruction of properties. For instance, in February this year, farmers in Akaeze in Ivo Local Government Area of the state clashed with herdsmen .In the melee, no fewer than four persons sustained serious machete injures. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that while three herdsmen were left with head injuries, one of the farmers received machete cuts on various parts of his body. The incident had caused panic and apprehension among the residents of the community which made many of them fled the area for fear of reprisal attacks from the herdsmen. The clash erupted when herders from Mpu, in Ani Nri Local Government Area of the state reportedly invaded farmlands in Akaeze and destroyed crops and farmlands. Worried by the development Governor David Umahi immediately summoned emergency security meeting with security chiefs in the state, leaders of herdsmen, local government chairmen and stakeholders of Ivo local government. During the meeting, Umahi who directed the setting up of 10-man committee to investigate the cause of the crisis, also banned grazing in the local government area to pave way for the return of peace and to allow security agents ample opportunity for investigation into the matter. Speaking during the meeting, governor Umahi reiterated his position on the sanctity of human life, irrespective of tribe or ethnicity, and appealed to farmers and herders in the area to sheathe their swords for the interest of peace. “This issue is becoming complicated. I want the CP (Commissioner of Police), the Army and the SSS to set up a committee. It should be a 10-man committee to investigate the matter and we will convene another emergency security meeting on the matter. “The investigation should commence immediately. But, I am banning any herdsman from entering Ivo local government until this investigation is completed and I want the security men to carry out my instruction. No herdsman should enter the place; no cattle should enter Ivo local government again until investigation is completed. “Security people, I want you people to note it down that any herdsman that is coming into Ebonyi must follow the procedure and must not ‘carry’ animals late into Ebonyi state. You bring animals by (via) vehicles and there is (are) no cattle routes in Ebonyi state. There is no grazing reserve in Ebonyi, there is no colony Ebonyi. “So, no animal should come to Ebonyi by routes, it is by vehicle and before they are coming, the ‘Ardo’ they are coming from should do a letter that they are coming in here. You cannot come into somebody’s farm without his permission, you can’t do that,” he said. “Anybody that kills the cows of a Fulani man, should go to prison for one year and also pay for the cattle. Any Fulani man that destroys the farm of a farmer, will go to prison for one year and pay for the cost of the farmland,” Umahi stated. In another ugly development, herdsmen and farmers also clashed last month in Enyibichiri community in Izzi Local Government Area of the state which resulted to the loss of four lives. Confirming the incident, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Loveth Odah, said that two farmers died instantly during the clash. She added that another farmer, including one herdsman who was wounded during the clash, later died at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki. Our correspondent gathered that the clash ensued when a farmer ordered the Fulani herdsmen, who invaded his farms to vacate the area. The incident was one that truly tested the leadership prowess and ingenuity of the governor in handling serious leadership issues. This is even as the incident occurred few days after the governor returned from a tour of states in various parts of the country towards looking for permanent solutions to the farmers and herdsmen intermittent clashes in the country. In his reaction, Governor Umahi, who is also the Chairman of the National Economic Council Committee on Farmers and Herdsmen Clash, immediately convened a meeting of farmers, security agents, stakeholders and leadership of the Miyetti Allah in the country. Speaking at the Executive Council Chambers, Government House, Abakaliki, venue of the meeting, Chief Umahi who is also the Chairman of South East Governor’s Forum, condemned the clashed and called on the aggrieved community not to retaliate, promising to find a lasting solution to the menace. The governor and the National Chairman of Miyetti Allah, Alhaji Bello Bodejo, also jointly warned that the incessant killings by herdsmen my spark-off national war if not properly addressed immediately. The meeting, which also attended by leaders of cattle herders in the South-east and South-south states, residents of the troubled community, as well as all the security chiefs in the state, attended the meeting, called for caution in handling the herdsmen menace. Addressing the gathering, Umahi, who described the killings as unprovoked, ordered herdsmen around the area to leave the place until he calmed the embittered villagers down to avoid reprisal attack. “It is unprovoked killings; life is so sacred. You can’t kill people as if they are fowls. Izzi people are warriors; I physically held them back not to go for retaliation. The herdsmen there in Izzi have to leave the place for now until I calm everybody down. “The way we are going, it can provoke national war and it will not help anybody. If there is reprisal attack, I will hold all the leaders squarely responsible, I will charge all of you for any reprisal attack. Governor Umahi has also among other things appointed some Fulani herdsmen as his Technical Assistant (TA) on herders and farmers affair towards creating a friendly relations and atmosphere for the herders and farmers to coexist in the state. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that since the last meeting in March between the government of Ebonyi state, security agencies, farmers and the national leadership of Miyet Allah, peace has since returned to the troubled communities as herders and farmers now go about their businesses without making troubles. There has also not been any single clash between farmers and herders in any part of the state. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.