Owerri – Members of Orlu Zurumee, a socio-cultural group from Orlu Zone in Imo State, are excited over the governorship ambition of Sam Amadi, the former chairman of National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) due to what they described as his transparent lifestyle and vision for the people of the state.
The excitement came soon after Amadi showcased his qualifications for the plumb job which include humility in public service, zero tolerant for corruption, deliberate economic plan and capacity to deliver on promise during his recent courtesy visit to the people of the area.
He promised to be transparent in the handling of Imo State affairs and would be willing to call for collective method at solving problems if he becomes the governor of the state.
“I conducted myself well and ensured transparency during my stay as the executive chairman of National Electricity Regulatory Commission. The House of Representatives, the current Minister of Power, Babatunde Fashola, and the senate voted me as the best and most honest person in the public service.
On his campaign programmes anchored on productivity, health, human development and accountability, Amadi said, “Every town in Imo State will have a functional healthcare centre incorporating ICT for effective diagnoses.
“The new Imo approach to rural healthcare is early diagnoses and prevention through an integrated sustainable livelihood system.
“Accountability is ruling in righteousness. It is being a good steward of the resources of the people. It is being a faithful trustee of the collective will of the people. The new Imo will bring back Dr M. I. Okpara’s formula that made the South East economy the fastest growing economy in the world early 1960’s. My priority will be on the establishment of town and village enterprises, industrialization and low-tech innovations.” “Crime is on the increase in Nigeria and the answer to it is not policing or the acquisition of military hardware. The best we can achieve is to create jobs. If people are not working, they become poor and a poor idle man will be poor in health and such persons can be very dangerous in the society,” Amadi stated. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.