Osogbo – Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II has charged Christian faithful not to relent in making sacrifices that would deepen peaceful coexistence in the country. Oba Ogunwusi gave the charge while felicitating with Christians on the celebration of Easter. The first class monarch asked Christians to emulate Jesus Christ who accommodated everyone without hatred or bigotry. In his goodwill message to followers of Christ as released by his Director of Media and Public Affairs, Moses Olafare, Oba Ogunwusi admonished the faithful to see themselves as their brother’s keepers. He said that if Nigerian live in peace, the country’s social economy would be improved thus calling on Christians to always ensure harmonious relationship with members of other religions. The monarch said, “Peaceful coexistence is a catalyst for socio-economic development in this country and the world over. That’s why the followers of Jesus Christ especially in Nigeria must take the season of this year’s Easter celebrations as a new dawn of harmonious relationship with other religions with a view to ensuring peaceful coexistence,” Ooni said. “Jesus Christ being celebrated today made a huge sacrifice by choosing to die for the deliverance of mankind and also as Prophet of God, lived an exemplary life of Godliness characterised by discipline, simplicity, forgiveness, generosity, magnanimity and kindness which must be emulated. “As Christians, you must be ready to make sacrifices. You must emulate Jesus Christ by imbibing the spirit of simplicity, discipline, forgiveness, generosity, magnanimity and kindness. These are what the Lord Jesus demonstrated and still represents till date.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.