Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, Chief of Army Staff, on Monday inaugurated a 10-man committee to probe the allegation levelled against the army by Lt. Gen. Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma (rtd.), former chief of army staff. Danjuma on March 24 at the convocation of Taraba State University in Jalingo, alleged that some troops on internal operation in Taraba colluded with killers and marauding herdsmen and did not protect the people against attacks. “You must rise to protect yourselves from these people; if you depend on the armed forces to protect you, you will all die. “I ask all of you to be on the alert and defend your country, defend your state,” he admonished. Danjuma said the unnecessary killings, which is akin to “an act of ethnic cleansing” being perpetuated against the people of Taraba, specifically, and Nigeria, at large, must stop. He then accused the military of being part of the killings: “This ethnic cleansing must stop in Taraba, and it must stop in Nigeria. These killers have been protected by the military; they cover them and you must be watchful to guide and protect yourselves because you have no other place to go”. Danjuma’s call ignited mixed reactions around the country and it now appears the military wants to get to the root of the accusation. The army in February deployed troops in Taraba and five other states under ‘Exercise Ayem Akpatuma – Cat Race’, to assist civil authority in tackling herdsmen/farmers clashes and other forms of criminality. Inaugurating the committee, Buratai noted that the allegation by Danjuma could make Nigerians lose confidence in the army, hence the need to investigate to determine its veracity. According to him, the deployment of soldiers in recent military operations, particularly in Taraba State has been criticised by individuals and interests groups from different sectors of the society. “Some of these concerns have come from the state government, non-governmental organisations and very senior citizens from the state. “Most recently on the 24th of March, 2018, a former Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. T.Y. Danjuma (rtd), speaking during the convocation of the Taraba State University, alleged that the armed forces of Nigeria, colluded with the armed bandits and other criminal element in the society. “Statement of this nature could damage the reputation of the armed forces of Nigeria and thus cannot be ignored if the Nigerian army is to continue to earn the trust of the populace. “Thus, it became imperative for the Nigerian army to set up this panel to confirm the veracity or otherwise of this allegation,” Buratai said. He said that the army was well spread across the country and deployed in virtually all the states for one internal security operation or the other. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.