Mr Oliver Enwonwu, the President of the Society of Nigerian Artists, has appealed to Nigerians to embrace cultural integration for all to achieve mutual understanding and foster national unity. Enwonwu gave the advice in Lagos on Monday. He said that when Nigerians cultivated the habit of knowing more about other people’s culture and arts, they would understand the diversities and got integrated. He said that the knowledge and understanding of other people’s culture would also  bring about unity and cooperation among Nigerians. He advised Nigerians to cultivate the habits of visiting museums across the country for them to  appreciate better other people’s cultures. According to him, museums are places where the tangible and intangible aspects of people’s culture are kept ; and can be seen and read information about them. “People must  recognise that through our rich cultural heritage and arts, we tend to understand other people’s culture. “The visit to museums by the public will always be inspiring because one will see and learn about other people’s arts, and this will promote unity among Nigerians. “In the museums, we will see and learn about other people’s arts and culture; have a  deeper and broader understanding of others way of life. “That is how Nigerians can begin to understand their cultural and ethnic diversity and begin to learn how they can tolerate one another,” he said. He urged the Federal Government to organise more cultural exchange programmes that would further entrench people in other people’s culture and foster unity among Nigerians. He said that equal treatment should be accorded all the cultural heritages from Nigerians , stressing that a particular culture should not be considered alien. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.