Lagos – Rt. Rev. Dr. Matthew Hassan Kukah, the Bishop of Sokoto Catholic Diocese, is well known for his outspokenness on issues of national interest. He has always spoken out not minding whose ox is gored. As Nigerian Christians joined the rest of the world to mark the Easter on Sunday, the cleric came out with an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari. In the letter, he accused President Buhari of bringing back ethnicity, which Nigerians felt they had overcome. He lamented that in their country presently, Nigerians have never been so alienated from one another as obtained during the present administration. Kukah stated that during his campaign, President Buhari promised to fight corruption and make the nation secure, but lamented that so far, the president has fallen short of expectations. He therefore urged President Buhari to connect with Nigerians and fulfil his promises. Bishop Kukah said: “You know sir, that you rode into town like a Knight in Shining Armour, carrying the joys, pains, anxieties and fears of a people whose broken dreams had littered and turned the landscape into a kaleidoscopic scenery of desolation and despair,” he said. “In your campaigns, you promised to restore a sense of national pride in us by slaying the dragon of corruption, banishing the retrogressive scourge of Boko Haram, bringing back our daughters from Chibok and making our country and citizens truly safe. “We waited in hope right to the end of the first year, but somehow, amidst some hazy weather, all we heard was the sound of screeching tyres with the plane carrying our hopes seemingly unable to take off. It finally did but we had barely gained altitude when sickness struck and you spent the better part of a year seeking healing. “The nation prayed for you and miraculously, you recovered. Evidently, you had been saved for a purpose. Our prayer is that this realisation will help you understand that you have a date with history and divine judgment. For now, before your eyes and in your hands, our country, our communities, our people are all in a state of stupor. “We have never felt so alienated from one another. The bogeyman of religion, region and ethnicity, which we thought we had overcome by the sheer nature of your support base, has come back with a vengeance to haunt and threaten the very foundation of our existence. “Mr. President, you are too distant from your people. There is a sad feeling that you do not share in the pain and suffering of your people. You must very quickly find a way of connecting with your people before the devil takes over the space. For taking on this challenge and connecting with Nigerians.” The bishop also asked politicians to desist from the practice of enriching themselves from the government’s purse. “The average age of governors and legislators across the country is 50. These are the years of dreams, maturity, sacrifice, patriotism and self-giving,” he wrote. “But, sadly, you do not seem ready to depart from the culture of cronyism, prebendalism and primitive accumulation. The result has been ruination and decay. “I appeal to you to please abandon the spirit of selfish accumulation and embrace the principles of integrity and genuine service of our country. Do not let this country collapse in your hands. For accepting to make some sacrifice, respect and listen to our people.” He appealed to Nigerians not to succumb to pressure and allow the rich or the political class divide them. Kukah reminded them that God has plans for all of them. He said: “But you yourself, no matter how rich or poor, how educated or otherwise you are, have a duty to understand that God has plans for you and for every individual and you have a duty to both yourself and your neighbour. “You have to defend your personal dignity and seek the enforcement of your rights to have property and to raise a family as opposed to waiting for the crumbs from our greedy leaders. Defend your dignity as human beings and children of God. Do not allow the rich and powerful, who are rich because you are poor, to divide you. “They have light and water in their high fenced houses, not because they are Muslims or Christians or that they are from this or that or the other tribe but simply because they are rich. You are poor, homeless, have no road, no water, and your children are sick and illiterate, not because you are Christian or Muslim or from this tribe or the other, but simply because you are poor. “You and your children vote, but their children do not vote because they are abroad. Your children beg and die on the streets while their children are abroad, fraternising with those they call infidels. They give you a fake religion that enslaves you while they give their own children the religion of education that will liberate them and make them rule over you. Rise and defend your right to food and shelter because poverty is not a divine inheritance.” Barrister Nnamdi Anopueme, a Lagos lawyer, maintained that he was 100 percent in support of Bishop Kukah’s assertion. He said the war against corruption has been lopsided and considered and is being targeted against the critics of the administration. According to him, “it is only the critics of the government theatre reported to the EFCC and the ICPC. Once a supposedly corrupt APC politician crosses over to APC, he is no longer seen as corrupt. “Look at the useless list they released. Where are the names of Babachir Lawal, ex-SGF, and Ayodele Oke, former NIA DG, whose cases run into billions of Naira? But, because of N400 million they are punishing Olisa Metuh to the point of death. This is unfair.” He also alleged that the former PDP politicians who used government fund to fund the APC campaigns are being seen as saints and have been occupying top positions in the current administration. Chief Martin Onovo, the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) said: “What the Honourable Bishop Kukah said is clear and correct. We have been saying the same thing since last two years. President Buhari’s sectionalism and extreme parochialism are the cause of the high wave of ethnicity and division in the country presently.” Onovo maintained that the administration has been promoting corruption, and that corruption is worse in the current regime. According to him, “if you are with the government, you are not seen as corrupt. That is very clear to everyone.” He cited corruption allegation in the foreign exchange business and in the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), even as he maintained that the corruption in the civil service is now worse than ever. Barrister Nnaemeka Iheonu, also a Lagos lawyer, maintained that Bishop spoke the mind of majority of Nigerians in his letter to President Buhari. According to him, from the beginning, President Buhari, in his appointments, showed that he preferred northerners. His appointments have been lopsided and are not based on quality. “He has always favoured the North, especially in the appointment of security chiefs. He has not been fair to other ethnic groups. “In the area of corruption crusade, it has also been lopsided. He is fighting only the PDP politicians, especially those who served under former President Goodluck Jonathan and are still in the party”. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.