Benin – Environmental Rights Action/Friends of the Earth, Nigeria (ERA/FoEN) has thrown its weight behind plans by Friends of the Earth, Netherlands to take Shell Petroleum Development Company to court if it does not act on demands to stop its alleged destruction of the climate in all its areas of operation. Dr. Godwin Uyi Ojo, ERA/FoEN Executive Director,  who announced this in a press conference in Benin yesterday said Donald Pols, Director of Friends of the Earth, Netherlands has accused Shell of being among the ten biggest climate polluters worldwide. According to Uyi Ojo, it is a known fact that for over 30 years Shell has been causing dangerous climate change by continuing to extract oil and gas and invest billions in the search and development of new fossil fuels without realizing the effect on the climate and the soil. “In Nigeria, according to the UNEP report on Assessment of Ogoni (2011) Shell is guilty of polluting community lands, community waters and gassing communities through gas flaring which is a major contribution to climate change. “Aside the widely known Ogoni pollution which Shell is responsible for, it still continues to flare gas in contravention of a High Court judgment in Nigeria in 2005 that makes gas flaring illegal in Iwherekan community in Delta state and other Nigerian communities. “By the day it is becoming evident that Shell may be running from its mess but cannot evade justice. The plans by Friends of the Earth Netherlands to take Shell to court will further embolden impacted communities in the Niger Delta to institute more cases to demand that their lives seized and ruined by Shell’s activities are taken back,”Uyi Ojo said: Uyi Ojo also revealed that the case against Shell was also being supported by Friends of the Earth International, which campaigns for climate justice for people across the world impacted by dirty energy and climate change, adding that Friends of the Earth International has 75 member group globally with many of them working to stop Shell extracting fossil fuels in their country. Uyi Ojo further disclosed that Karin Nansen, Chair of Friends of the Earth International in his comment said, “this case against Shell matters for people everywhere because Shell is doing enormous damage worldwide resulting in climate change and dirty energy that have devastating impacts around the world, especially in the global South and with this lawsuit we have a chance to hold Shell to account”. “Friends of the Earth Netherlands’ case is part of a growing global movement to hold companies to account for their contribution to dangerous climate change. In January, the city of New York went to court to claim compensation from the five largest oil companies, including Shell, for the consequences of climate change. The cities of San Francisco and Oakland as well as several countries in California are doing the same. A Peruvian farmer is suing the German energy  company RWE for its contribution to glaciers melting above his village caused by climate change”. The Friends of the Earth Netherland’s case is unique because it is the first climate lawsuit demanding that a fossil fuel company acts on climate change, rather than seeking compensation. This ground-breaking case, if successful, would significantly limit Shell’s investments in oil and gas globally by requiring them to comply with global climate targets” Nansen said. Nansen added ‘If we win this case, it has major consequences for other fossil companies, and opens the door for further legal action against other climate polluters. Friends of the Earth International wants to see binding rules for corporations like Shell who so often regard themselves as being above the law including when it comes to climate goals”.’ Dr. Uyi Ojo recalled that ERA/FoEN has been in the Vanguard of communities holding Shell and other oil corporations accountable for their pollutions. Aside several suits against Shell in Europe, in 2017, ERA/FoEN and the Ikebiri community took another bold step by filling a lawsuit in Milan against Italian Oil Company Eni demanding compensation for damage caused by an oil pipeline explosion in 2010. “We anticipate the Friends of the Earth Netherlands suit will open the doors for impacted communities to demand that Shell and its co-polluters in the fossil fuels industry are made accountable fortheir environmental injustices across the globe and this is the way to go”. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.