Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp insists “there will be fire” when the Merseyside club host Manchester City in Wednesday’s UEFA Champions League showdown.
The German said his confidence was hinged on the fact that his team, at their best, were capable of defying the odds to reach the semi-finals.
Twelve goals have been scored in the last two meetings between the teams.
“If I had the choice to watch a UEFA Champions League game on Wednesday I would watch this one,” Klopp told reporters.
“It is about tactics, but there will be fire in the game. So, that’s cool. And it’s at Anfield anyway. So, a good atmosphere to watch.”
Liverpool suffered a 5-0 league defeat at the Etihad Stadium in September after forward Sadio Mane was sent off.
But they exacted their revenge with a 4-3 win at Anfield in January, which remains City’s only English Premier League defeat of the season.
In spite of the defeat, City remain 16 points clear at the top of the standings.
Klopp accepts it will be difficult to knock City out over two legs in Europe.
“Did we think before the first game we would lose 5-0? No. Did we think before the second we would win 4-3? No. But do we know we have a chance? Yes,” he added.
“Actually that was clear before, but they are the favourites. We should finish the game with 11 first of all, that would be cool. We know it’s difficult.
“At specific moments we are on a similar level, but they have been much more consistent, and that’s why they are higher in the league. We see our chance, but we know it will be unbelievably difficult.”
Both teams warmed up for the tie with away league wins over the weekend.
Liverpool cemented their third-place position in the table with a 2-1 triumph at Crystal Palace, while Manchester City eased to a 3-1 victory over Everton at Goodison Park 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.