The Africa Group at the UN has restated its commitment to ensure free movement of people and goods within the region so as to foster integration. Mr Akinremi Bolaji, Minister Plenipotentiary, Permanent Mission of Nigeria to the UN, made this known at the 51st Session of the Commission on Population and Development. The theme of the debate was: “Sustainable Cities, Human Mobility and International Migration’’. Bolaji delivered the Africa Group’s statement at the event which held at the UN Headquarters in New York. Bolaji said: “We recognise the positive contributions of migrants for inclusive growth and sustainable development. “We also recognise that international migration is a multi-dimensional reality of major relevance for the development of countries of origin, transit and destination, which requires coherent and comprehensive responses. “We will continue to cooperate internationally to ensure safe, orderly and regular migration involving full respect for human rights and the humane treatment of all migrants regardless of their migration status.’’ Bolaji said that it was important that each individual should have the right to the highest standard of living. “In order to achieve this, we are committed to free movement of people and goods within countries to foster rural-urban inter-linkages, and regional integration.” According to him, migration issues should be reflected in national development plans and strategies. He urged that Africa’s migration policies should maximise the benefits and minimise the costs and repercussions of international migration. “This implies that they should be evidence-based, particularly aimed at vulnerable groups, especially women and youth, and protect the rights of both migrants and citizens. “We must reinforce and establish bilateral, regional and global partnerships on migration to progressively reduce barriers on movement while upholding the fundamental human rights of all migrants. “We should make migration an instrument of mutual development for the benefit of both migrants and countries,’’ he said. He urged promotion of policies that would foster integration and reintegration of migrants and returning migrants. Bolaji said that there was the need to address investment in people, especially youths and women, to unleash the creativity and energy of the young population of Africa. He said that this would require scaling up investment in early education, vocational training and investment in science, technology, research and innovation as well as access to adequate health services for the youth. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.