Lagos – The Bayelsa State Government has congratulated the Nigeria’s wrestling contingent to the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in Australia for their victorious outing. In a press statement signed by the State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Daniel Iworiso-Markson, the Government commended the resilience and dogged disposition of the wrestlers, who won a total of eight medals, made up of three gold, two silver and three bronze. The statement was full of praises for the Bayelsa wrestlers, who accounted for four of the eight medals, noting that, their performance underscores Bayelsa’s position, as the cradle of wrestling in Nigeria and Africa. The Commissioner also described the feat of the wrestlers, as a direct manifestation of the Restoration Government’s investment in the sports sector in the last six years. According to him, the Nation’s wrestlers did not only have their pre-games camping in Yenagoa, but were provided with a conducive atmosphere and supported during the two-month camping period, which made them to excel in Australia. He went on to commend Blessing Oborodudu-gold medalist, Melvin Bibo-silver medalist, Amas Daniel and Ebikewenimo Welson, bronze medalists for making the State and Country proud at the games, stressing that, their place in the annals of sporting history at the State and National levels would remain indelible. He paid special tribute to the President of the Nigerian Wrestling Federation (NWF) and member of the State Legislature, Hon. Daniel Igali for his drive; passion and personal commitment to the growth of wrestling in the country, noting tha, his efforts have continued to yield positive results for the country. “As a State and as a Government, we are proud of the performance of the wrestlers and for Igali, he has remained a shining star and a motivating force behind the success story of Nigerian wrestling. We can only, but keep supporting and encouraging him to do more for the country” According to him, the Bayelsa State Government, will at the most appropriate time accord the worthy sporting ambassadors a deserving honour and recognition. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.