Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has called for more synergy among various security agencies in the country to tackle the various security challenges confronting it. Akeredolu, who made the call when members of Course 11 of the Institute for Security Studies, Abuja, paid him a courtesy visit on Monday in Akure, commended the security agencies for the existing collaborations in the fight against insurgency. The governor noted that the state was enjoying peace because security agencies share intelligence among themselves. He said: “I commend the security agencies in Nigeria for what they are doing in terms of collaboration and synergy. We are all stakeholders in the project of making Nigeria peaceful. “Now that Nigeria is going through a lot of security challenges, it requires the collaboration of everyone to sustain it. “The politicians, the military, the DSS, the Police, the Security and Civil Defence Corps and all of us must come together to address security issues before it escalated.” Ralph Ameh, the Deputy Director, Research and Analytical Support of the institute, said the visit was part of activities before the induction of the members as Fellows of the Institute. Ameh said that 50 participants from 21 agencies were participating in the course, even as he stressed the need for synergy among security agencies as none could provide security for the country alone. Ameh said the course would enhance analytical capacity building of participants and prevent rivalry among security agencies. He said the theme of this year’s course is “Cultural Value and Democratic Governance”. Ameh said the team was also in the state to interact with government on cultural values, governance, state and national security. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.