In this encounter with STEPHEN UBIMAGO, senior lawyer, Mr. Norrison Quackers (SAN), speaks on the challenges facing the administration of justice in the country. He insists that resolving the said challenges would require that the offices of Chief Justice (CJN) and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) be occupied by persons with strong character. Excerpts… The Nigerian judiciary is bedeviled by a host of challenges, including alleged corruption. This is quite ironic because the bench’s elevated position derives from, among other things, its moral authority. How did the bench get to this alleged ethical nadir?
You cannot isolate any institution, including the judiciary, from the society. Judicial officers are products of the Nigerian society; they live in Nigeria. Whatever the judiciary is is a reflection of the society. Ours is a society that has lost its soul, where values are no longer the order of the day. It is a society that no longer thrives in the promotion of values, integrity, and such like. What we see today is, thus, just a reflection of the Nigerian society. Some of the major challenges confronting the Nigerian society are corruption, nepotism, quest for material things, greed, selfishness, and such like. Judicial officers are also Nigerian citizens, and to that extent are not entirely isolated from the public. Owing to corruption, some judicial officers have been sacked and others suspended by the National Judicial Council (NJC) in a purge that actually started during the tenure of Chief Justice Mariam Aloma-Mukhtar, and sustained by her successors. What is your assessment of these developments?
I was one of those who rejoiced when the retired Honourable Justice Alooma Muhktar was appointed Chief Justice of Nigeria. I said to myself that we will see changes; we will see some level of seriousness and sanity in the bench. We will see a situation where Nigerians will begin to have confidence once again in the judiciary, because she was thoroughbred, strict, disciplined, and forthright. For the first time in the annals of the Nigerian judiciary, we saw a woman given the responsibility of piloting the affairs of the judiciary. So when the purge began, I was not surprised. But the most impressive thing about the former CJN is that she initiated a process that outlived her tenure in office, because the purge was sustained by her successors. Indeed the action is in line with the general perception of what is expected of the occupant of the office of CJN that one of the core duties of that office is to ensure that the bench is blame-free and worthy of the honour bestowed upon it. For us to have a sanitised judiciary, you must have a strong and fearless Chief Justice. You must also have a strong Attorney General. It is my expectation that the current CJN, Honourable Justice Walter Onnoghen, will vigorously sustain the effort to keep the bench shielded from the rot that permeates the Nigerian society. And from what we have been seeing since his inauguration, like his setting up of COTRIMCO, among other laudable initiatives, nobody should be in doubt that the judiciary is being repositioned to discharge its constitutional role more effectively than ever before. Has the current Attorney General of the Federation, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN), impressed you with his handling of his office as the nation’s chief law officer?
If you have a strong AGF, what you will get is growth and development in the dispensation of justice across the land. We can only expect him to be more proactive. How would you assess the level of infrastructure provision in Nigerian courts in terms of their adequacy for the dispensation of justice?
Some jurisdictions have done well, although there is still room for improvement. But if you go to some states, you will weep. The structures for the administration of justice are simply not available in very many states of the federation. You have a situation where in some places there are no fans, no air conditioning system, files are not properly kept, decrepit courtroom, among many other inadequacies. However, in some places things are much better. It will be quite unfair to compare the standard in Lagos, Port Harcourt, Abuja and a few other places with what obtains in some other remote locations in the country. It takes a governor that believes in the administration of justice to invest money in the judiciary. Talking about the anti-corruption war, do you think that a merger of ICPC and the EFCC will make the campaign more effective?
I don’t believe the institutions should be merged. I believe in collaboration and coordination. The problem is not in the separateness of the institutions, but the operators of the institutions. The reason there have been clamour for a merger is because in some instances you have what you can call overlap of functions. Regardless, they can still collaborate in such areas as investigation, especially, and the like. If the ICPC appears not to be effective, I think it is because you have a situation where some sacred cows in government have kept it lame-duck so they could continue to operate with impunity. Some have argued that the lack of integrity in the bar is one of the major problems rubbing off on the bench. Do you agree?
Where you have a virile bar, an independent bar, a fearless bar, it is not only the bench that will benefit; the society will also reflect the gain. You will find out that the Bar will always be there to speak on behalf of the people. But where you have a compromised bar, then the country is in trouble, because it will be compromising the bench, considering that the bar and the bench are mutually reinforcing. Where you have a corrupt and compromised bar, who will speak for the people? Who will speak to hold the government responsible and accountable to the people? Who will speak up to put government to task over obnoxious policies they may roll out from time to time; policies that are contrary to the interest of the people? Therefore, if we have a corruption-free bar, it will be fearless, and then it can stand and speak for the people. In short, we advocate for a corruption-free and independent bar much as we do call for the independence and integrity of the bench. The criminal justice system in Nigeria is sluggish. Criminal cases often drag on for years. This obviously is detestable. What is your take?
There are many factors that are responsible for this ugly trend. The problem we are having in the judicial system, especially in the criminal justice sector, is that 90 per cent of cases at the Magistrates’ Courts are hardly concluded. We have more awaiting trial inmates than those who are convicted in the prisons. They take you to court, whereas investigations have not been thoroughly done. Even for matters that ought not to go court in the first place, the police will arrest and still take the person to court and congest the docket, as well as congest the prisons, because the accused persons are not granted bail at times. And even when they are granted, the conditions are so onerous that you find it difficult to fulfill the bail conditions. In fact, now in Lagos, what is going on is that you cannot today be charged in any criminal court and be released that same day. It is almost impossible, because of the onerous conditions that these magistrates impose upon the sureties that will bail these accused persons. They will tell you to bring 10 or 15 years tax clearance, certificate of occupancy, and then you must bring original C-of-O, and even the prosecutor will go and verify the addresses of the surety. You see all manner of impositions that tend to make it practically impossible for the accused person to get out even within one month. If you go to Kirikiri or even Ikoyi Prisons you will see many people who are in custody not because they have not been granted bail; or because they have been sentenced to a jail term; but simply because they are awaiting the perfection of their bail conditions. Some have in some cases, while waiting for the perfection of their bail conditions, remained in custody for three, four, five months, or even a whole year. So the system is rotten. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.