Asaba – Charles Aniagwu, the Chief Press Secretary to Delta State Governor, has challenged Victor Ochei, former Speaker of Delta State House of Assembly (DTHA), to reveal how he made his money. This may not be unconnected with the speaker’s comment on the Okowa administration’s achievements while fielding questions from Niyi Ojemakinde of Trend Talk on Trend 100.9 FM on Wednesday. Ochei had described Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as the worst governor ever produced in Delta. But Aniagwu, who had claimed never to join issues with Ochei until the question came from his interviewer, had to query Ochei’s moral justification to speak rudely against his boss. He posited that Ochei did not possess the moral requisite to question the developmental integrity of Okowa, alleging that the former speaker was the biggest fraud produced in politics. “Who was Victor Ochei before his entrance into politics? How come he became stupendously rich just by being in the House for 12 years?” he qeried. The CPS stressed that it was inconsequential joining issues with Ochei’s vituperation, maintaining that Ochei reigned as speaker yet could not repair the road leading into his official quarters at the Legislative Quarters. He also alleged that Ochei as speaker manipulated the Independent Power Plant (IPP) project and many other state contracts to his company, got paid but refused to deliver. Aniagwu mentioned several star projects of Governor Okowa’s administration, including the Asaba airport repairs, Asaba stadium, the Storm Water Drainage going on, Cable Point road, Delta State Job Creation Initiatives, and Ukwu-Nzu road in Aniocha North. Also, some aides to the governor and some Deltans have been condemning Ochei for making such comments, having been part of the rot created in the system, which Governor Okowa is trying to fix. Ochei, who was in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), defected to Accord Party after his failure to secure the PDP governorship ticket. He later jumped ship to the All Progressives Congress (APC) where he is also seeking another opportunity to contest the Governorship of Delta. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.