Awka – The  proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (:IPOB) has vowed to disrupt the planned summit of Ohanaeze Ndigbo should it go ahead to discuss restructuring of Nigeria instead of referendum for Biafra sovereignty. Describing the summit as “Fulani sponsored Igbo summit”, the Biafra agitators vowed that the meeting would not be allowed to take place. In a press release signed by IPOB’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, the group accused the President General of Ohanaeze, Nnia Nwodo and some Igbo leaders of sabotaging the Igbo cause by hobnobbing with those it called the Fulani oligarchy. Nnia Nwodo, however, responded quickly saying that as a father, he would not want to enter into any crossfire with his children (IPOB) In a telephone interview, he said: They can say what they like. I’m not interested. This people are my children; I don’t want to enter into any crossfire with them. I’m their father, I can’t be replying to anything they say. “I think, the Secretary General of Ohanaeze has replied them. I’m not interested.” But IPOB in the statement warned that there would be catastrophic consequences should the Ohanaeze Ndigbo dare it by holding the summit. Part of the statement read: “We the indigenous people of Biafra  and its leadership worldwide once again warn Chief John Nnia Nwodo of Ohaneze Ndigbo not to dare hold the Fulani sponsored Igbo summit in Enugu as earlier warned by the movement. “IPOB warned Nnia Nwodo and his collaborators not  to dare IPOB or face the consequences from the youth. ” We respect and recognise our elders, including freedom of speech and assembly but not one designed to enslave us in the deadly Nigerian contraption for another 100 years. “We are well aware of the nocturnal meetings between Nnia Nwodo and a certain Brigadier General affiliated to the GOC of 82 Division Enugu. The same people, Ohaneze Ndigbo and South East governors ran to and convinced to launch Operation Python Dance II are the same people Nnia Nwodo and his Ohaneze Ndigbo are running to now for security. “If Ohaneze Ndigbo likes let them surround the venue with armored tanks and Fulani soldiers, one thing is certain, the summit will not hold unless Nnia Nwodo and his collaborators kill us all on that particular day.” The group maintained that the only summit that would be tolerated by it from Igbo leaders would be a summit to sensitise and educate the people on a referendum to decide a sovereign state of Biafra and  not on restructuring to remain in Nigeria “ It vowed to go after Nwodo’s children, those of the south east governors and other organisers of the Enugu summit should anything untoward happen to IPBO members who would come out en masse to resist the summit. It added, “Nnia Nwodo and his fellow Hausa Fulani servants will understand how enraged we are on the day of this their so-called summit scheduled to hold in Enugu. “Should the Nigerian army arrest or kill anyone on that day, Nnia Nwodo’s children and that of the governors and anybody else involved in the betrayal of IPOB and Biafra in general will suffer the same fate regardless of where they are.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.