Osogbo – The chances of the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to win the September 22nd Governorship Election in Osun State on Thursday suffered a setback following the moves by the former Deputy Governor in the state, Senator Christopher Iyiola Omisore to do away with the party which he joined almost 17 years ago. Omisore left Alliance for Democracy (AD) in 2001 at the peak of the political crisis that engulfed Chief Adebisi Akande led government in the state. Though, Omisore is yet to officially announce his exit from the PDP and the political party he intends to join, actions of his loyalist and supporters at his campaign office located along Gbongan-Osogbo road on Thursday revealed that Omisore and his group are on the way out. His loyalists who are visibly angry about alleged gang up against Omisore’s gubernatorial ambition in the forthcoming governorship election set ablaze four PDP flags hung on poles at the frontage of his campaign office. The action, political watchers in the state says might have signaled the departure of Omisore from the PDP. It was learnt that Senator Iyiola Omisore had invited his supporters to meeting at his campaign office to brief them on the happenings within PDP and next action to take when PDP’s flags were burnt. Former Special Adviser to Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola on Students Affairs, Mr. Adeniyi Bamidele popularly known as Sangaruwa supervised the burning of PDP’s flag. Omisore later arrived at the secretariat in 18 passengers Toyota Bus and moved in convoy to the major streets in Osogbo in a show of popularity. He has since declined comment on the action of his supporters and his mission. The crisis rocking the PDP in Osun was fallout of the March 25, 2018 State Congress of the party held at Osogbo City Stadium on the alleged instruction of national secretariat of the party. Omisore has been a major stakeholder and financial of the party for several years. Even though, he was still on trial over alleged murder of former Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Late Chief Bola Ige when he was elected to the senate to represent Osun East Senatorial District of the State in April 2003. He was re-elected in 2007 and left in 2011. At a point, Senator Omisore determines who becomes who and finances most party’s programmes and donated his campaign office for the party as secretariat. There was however alleged gang up against his aspiration to contest the September 22nd 2018 governorship election in the state having contested and lost that of the 2014 bid to Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. Some stakeholders within PDP in the state were of the opinion that Omisore has credibility challenge having been allegedly fingered in the murder of Chief Bola Ige of which the court has consequently discharged and acquitted him. These set of people in the party maintained that Omisore would not be able to garner enough votes and give the party victory in the forthcoming governorship election in the state having lost to Aregbesola in 2014. Some party members pitched tent against his ambition, a reason for the splitting of the party into two of which Hon. Soji Adagunodo control a faction and Senator Iyiola Omisore through Dr. Bayo Faforiji control another faction. The party’s congress held on March 25th 2018 that produced Hon. Soji Adagunodo as new State Chairman of the party was the last stroll that broke the camel’s back in the party.  Omisore camp faulted the conduct of the congress because of the subsisting suit against it and that it was even conducted against the dates approved by the National Working Committee of the party. The Director General of Omisore’s camp and former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Bade Falade said that the National Working Committee sidelined his camp when directive for the reconvening of the congress was passed. According to him, “the congress that produced Soji Adagunodo was sham. This is because when the instruction for the reconvening of the congress was passed, the directive was given to Adagunodo group by the National Working Committee. They now said they have concluded the outstanding ward congresses so also is the local and the state congress without us and this was supported the National Working Committee of PDP”. Falade stressed further that, “there has been court actions trying to establish a ward congress that was conducted and concluded in Osun State by Makarfi led National Working Committee before he departed and that serves as an instrument during the national convention held in Abuja.” ”On the basis of the court action, we thought there is no need for ward congresses again but in the wisdom of the National Working Committee, they felt it was needed to conduct their own which they did. We did not participate in the congresses. Falade said “We have come here today to brief our people about the issue because they have been restless since the congresses were held. We thought we could bring them together to let them know the state of affairs but before we uttered anything, they lowered all the flags and billboards were all destroyed.” He however stated that the action taken by the members is not at the instance of the Faforiji or Omisore camp. All the leaders from Faforiji’s group are still in PDP. Although our people might be aggressive but we will pacify them. By implication Senator Omisore has not exited from PDP, he is sttill in PDP. We have litigations pending in courts and nothing can be done until they are determined.” But in a swift reaction, Hon. Soji Adagunodo, State Chairman of PDP has condemned the action of Omisore’s supporters describing it as too hasty and unnecessary. While describing the burning of PDP’s flags as unfortunate, Adagunodo enjoined the former Deputy Governor of Osun state, Senator Iyiola Omisore not to fall for the antics of the ruling All Progressives Congress to hold on unto power in the state. Adagunodo told Omisore not to forget that the PDP saved him from political annihilation from Alliance for Democracy (AD) and that PDP made him a senator. Describing Omisore’s defection move as action that will affect the chances of the party in the forthcoming governorship election in the state, Adagunodo said he was surprised at the conducts of PDP members in Omisore’s camp despite efforts to reconcile the two factions. Adagunodo reminded Otunba Omisore of the fact that it was the PDP that God used to save him from political annihilation in the Alliance for Democracy (AD) and subsequently made him a ranking senator of the Federal Republic who rose to become the Chairman of the Appropriation Committee in the upper Legislative Chamber. Hon. Adagunodo however urged the teeming members and supporters of the PDP in Osun state to remain calm and focused on the ultimate target of winning the next governorship election and restoring the state back to its prosperous path beginning from November this year. Senator Omisore had been nursing ambition to govern the state since 1997 under the defunct UNCP days when he was the sole governorship aspirant on the platform of the party before it was disbanded by the General Abdulsalami Abubakar’s Military Regime. He later joined Alliance for Democracy (AD) with the ambition but was persuaded by the former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Late Chief Bola Ige (SAN) to step down for Chief Adebisi Akande in 1999 and eventually became deputy governor under Akande’s administration. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.