Akinbode Oluwafemi, the Deputy Executive Director of Environmental Rights Action/Friends of the Earth Nigeria (ERA/FoEN), studied English in the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN). The activist spoke with INNOCENT ANORUO on the anti-tobacco campaign in Nigeria and around the world, championed by ERA and other civil society and labour groups. Excerpts: How is ERA and its numerous campaigns? ERA is a Nigerian environmental, social justice advocacy group. We’ve been around for close to 10 years championing campaigns like challenging corporations involved in the despoliation of the environment of the Niger Delta. We have challenged abuse of human rights by oil multinationals. We have worked in the areas of policy in the environment and health sectors. In fact, I happen to be the official that designed and started the execution of ERA’s campaign on public health, which first campaign was on the global treaty on tobacco control. I have worked on several cases like the bitumen, in the extractive industry. It has been a long journey as an individual. But for me, there are some correlations between the role of corporations, impact on our environment and social justice. We are beginning to see that some corporations are bigger than the state, and that we should be able to make them accountable. Phillip Morris, for instance, recently announced an $80 billion grant to set up what it called smoke-free foundation, which is essentially to further deceive the people about the dangers of smoking. So, you find out that some of these corporate organisations are way bigger than some of our democracies, and so they can compromise our policies. It is time to again re-organise the people to begin to build resistance to abuses by corporations, be it the tobacco industry or the oil industry. That is what I have been doing in the past few years. Originally, you were known to be a member of the pen profession, the media industry. What attracted you to activism? Let me tell you that for my generation, those who were in school during the military era, it is natural to have this culture of resistance. So, what people later described as activism is what comes to us naturally. I got to the university and read very widely, and realised that some of the social injustices we are facing ought to be challenged. Some of us naturally found ourselves in student unionism challenging the military through marches and rallies. The military wanted to dehumanise us; you are just like a second-class citizen under the military. There was the Niger Delta struggle led by Ken Saro-Wiwa by the time I was leaving school. There were great icons like Gani Fawehinmi, Tai Solarin andFela Anikulapo-Kuti (who were challenging governments and institutions). Somehow, those things sowed some seeds in us in building what people term as activism. I am also an Ekiti man; people say in Ekiti, we normally rebel against injustice. When you leave university in those days, the natural place you can easily berth is journalism. So, I think it was actually activism before journalism; it was activism that led me to journalism. Some of us are almost like unemployable, because the states and corporations friendly to the states didn’t want to touch you with a long pole. Only the media then could accommodate people like us. Even when I joined the media, I was also active in unionism in the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ). I was involved in the Lanre Arogundade/Lawrence Ojabo struggle. It was a major struggle between some us that believe in democracy and those that were sympathetic to the state as it where then, which was controlled by the military. I was one of the founding members of Journalists for Democratic Rights (JODER), an arm of NUJ championing the democratic struggle. It was tough and sometimes fun, as you got to read government issuing some funny statements against activists. As a journalist, I was also very sympathetic to the Niger Delta struggle. One day, Oronto Douglas (of blessed memory) in one of our media strategy meetings said to me: “Look, Bode, I don’t think you are a journalist; you are an activist. You just need to come and resume with us. Then I was working underground for ERA as a volunteer. He asked to come fully into activism. It took me a whole year to take that plunge, to move to where I think I naturally belong. The biggest news on tobacco is the new excise duty on the product, which Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) is against. Can you give insight into the policy? Taxation is one of the most effective tools for controlling the use of tobacco. We have said it over and again that the current taxes on tobacco in Nigeria make it to look as if the government is subsidising tobacco products. And when you do that, you are just making this deadly product accessible to the young, to the poor, to the whole lot of the population that are not supposed to be smoking. We all know that 50 per cent of smokers are going to die of smoking-related illnesses; cancer, stroke, low birth weight etc. Governments around the world are using taxes on tobacco, not only to generate revenue, to protect public health. Activists recommend nothing less than 75 per cent tax on the cost of the product. We have done this advocacy. The Nigerian Tobacco Control (NTC) Alliance did a lot of work on this issue. We are actually canvassing 100 per cent levy, apart from the duty that they increased on the product that can be used for public good. The government’s announced 20 per cent levy is a good step, but it is way below our expectation. We are actually shocked that Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) came out to oppose it. The most outrageous thing is the excuses they are giving; that 20,000 people are going to lose their jobs as a result of the tax. Who gave them the figures? Do they think that we are a nation of fools? How many people are employed by tobacco companies in Nigeria put together? So, 20 per cent increase in tax means that they will shut down and the people would lose their jobs? The last time we checked at the parliament, the biggest tobacco company in Nigeria made it clear that they have 964 workers overall in its employ. How they suddenly got 20,000 people is a mystery. Again, the responsibility of government includes protecting the health of its people. You won’t say because a few people are going to make profit, you ignore the lives of millions of people that will be dying as a result of tobacco smoking. Governments at this point in time need to demonstrate that they do not exist to serve the profit of these corporations that don’t have the health and wellbeing of our people at heart. The Federal Government needs to start very strong, not only in defending this 20 per cent increase, but in beginning to move to the architecture and framework to impose 100 per cent tax on tobacco products to fund public health facilities. Do you think heavy taxation will stop tobacco use, considering that hard drugs like cocaine and heroin that are very expensive are still being consumed illegally? As I was saying, we are looking for extra 100 per cent levy. At a time, the Federal Government introduced petrol levy and used it to service the transport sector. Now, what is clear is that taxation is one of the numerous measures that are being recommended globally. When you apply these measures together (ban of tobacco advertising, sponsorship and promotion, mass education, 100 per cent levy, smoke-free public places), it will give those effect in terms of reduction. And reduction is not an event; it is going to happen over a period of time, like five to 10 years. Why are the tobacco companies against taxation? They are afraid of taxation because they know it works. They know taxation, among others, works. There is a joke we crack in the parliament that “if it will work, they will shout”. Mind you, they are not the ones to pay the taxes, the consumers are the ones that will pay. However, they are afraid that with the taxes, fewer people will patronise them. There is also the issue of your call on the International Labour Organisation (ILO) to stop receiving funding from tobacco foundations. Why are you particular about the relationship between the ILO and the tobacco industry? It is so sad that United Nations (UN) agencies or organs are having this unholy alliance with the ILO, which has a programme against children working on tobacco farms and funded by the tobacco industry. We think the tobacco industry is using that to leverage and undermine the campaign. They are using that to sit on the table. We have organisations from 160 countries mounting pressure on the delegates. There is a recent report from Zimbabwe, I think from Amnesty International, which shows that tobacco companies are doing nothing about tobacco farmers using children in their farms. Back to labour matters. What is the status of the suit between former British American Tobacco (BAT) workers and the company? It is very shocking to us to discover that BAT that manufactures these dangerous products does not treat its workers right. Some workers who reportedly contracted life-threating ailments while working in the BAT plant are trying to use the court of law to seek redress. That’s the much I can say because the case is in the law court and I expect the law to take its course on that matter. With the delay in the implementation of the National Tobacco Control Act, can you say anti-tobacco groups are winning or losing the war against tobacco use? It depends, because you find out that some aspects of the law are being implemented, in terms of the smoke-free regulations. We wanted things to move much faster. Nigeria is a big country; sometimes processes are slow, but we continue to call on the government to fast-track this. This government has shown that it really wants to implement this law. One tiny aspect of it is the 20 per cent tax on tobacco that has been published. There are regulations that are also pending approval. But we want the government to move very fast. Above all, we want people to see tobacco control as a movement. We are trying to do that in certain communities. As a citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, you can demand that people should obey the law if they are smoking where they are supposed to smoke. Those of us who have the right education on the dangers of tobacco smoking should begin to educate our children, our brothers and sisters on how to quit smoking and live safe lives. Also that people can join this movement to continue to mount pressure on the government, on parliamentarians, on agencies to do what exactly they need to do to protect lives of our people. What is ERA as an organisation doing to effect attitude change in smokers, because when demand falls, supply also will fall? What we are doing is to shrink that environment that encourages people to smoke, and that is by way of the policies and the laws. Originally, the environment even encouraged you to smoke. Have you forgotten the era of ‘Golden Tones’ and ‘Loud in Lagos’ (concerts sponsored by a tobacco company)? Have you forgotten the ‘Benson & Hedges Roadshow’? Have you forgotten all those gigantic billboards? Those billboards were put on all the highways for people to see them and embrace smoking as a culture that is cool. All those adverts, promotion and the rest of them are no longer there. There was even a time that they were even circulating domestic bags that will have their logos and stuff like that. We challenged all those things. Recently, we were taking the sensitisation to communities. We are doing programmes with the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC). If we can get the pool of those young adults into this movement, we would have achieved a lot. We have gone to Enugu, Lagos and we are going to Abuja. We are also building cells of this tobacco control movement in communities. We want people to take ownership of this campaign and to preach it. That is how we can make Nigeria a smoke-free country. 0 comments