Abuja – Dr. Wondi Alemu, the World Health Organisation (WHO) Country Representative in Nigeria, has said the UN agency would ensure that Nigerians have access to basic health care services. Dr. Alemu therefore encouraged government to ensure that comprehensive health services is available for Nigerians at no cost. He made this known during a walk organised to commemorate the World Health Day Sunday in Abuja. The walk took off from the WHO building to the ministry ‘then to the Eagle’s Square and back to their office.There was display of songs and various exercises by the staff who were present for the walk. He said this year’s theme, “Everyone, everywhere is very crucial at this point in time, whether they have money or not, I hope Nigeria would get to this level where citizens can access health care serves with or without money. He said that Nigeria has made considerable progress since 2014 when they decided to go for Universal Health Coverage and the government was working towards achieving this mandate through the revitalised primary health care services. “When we talk about UHC, we should also talk about the quality of service that has to be improved, that is why the revitalisation of the existing resources is very important so that people can have access to improved services wherever they live,” he added He stressed that, Universal Health Coverage was also about preventive medicine. “You don’t have to wait till you are sick before receiving treatment; we place too much emphasis on treatment. “It involves living healthy and maintaining healthy lifestyles due to various health services being rendered,” he stated. He further stated that the president launched a programme which is called Community Influencer’s meant to strengthen health systems among the population with the right resources coming into place. Dr Alemu disclosed that Nigeria would be able to achieve this mandate by 2030. Similarly, Moses Onogom, the Health Systems Adviser, WHO, said Nigeria has clearly set an agenda for universal health coverage through PHC revitalisation and  it has come up with  legal quality framework to be able to realise this PHC revitalisation mandate. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.