The President of the Insurance Awareness and Advocacy Group (IAAG Nigeria), Mr. Idongesit Mat has called for a legislation to make accident insurance cover for road travelers compulsory. Mbat in this discussion with ISAAC ASABOR spoke on other importance issues as regards insurance in Nigeria. Excerpts: Your call for compulsory passengers’ insurance in Nigeria is timely looking at the fact that many victims go uncompensated. But don’t you think this might be resisted by the operators who might think will add to their operating cost and the passengers who might fear will lead to increase in transport fares? There is no proposed law or policy that does not meet some kind of resistance. That is why engagement with and education of all stakeholders central to that policy or law is very critical. In any case, I do not foresee any serious resistance from the operators because currently the NURTW and some other operators have on their own instituted insurance for their passengers. This is quite commendable, but this is just few out of thousands of operators in the country moving millions of passengers every day. Also, the fear of increase in cost of operation is not an issue at all because accident insurance is the cheapest form of insurance today and premium computed and paid on single-trip basis is extremely low.  For the passengers, there is nothing to fear because most operators will not pass the premium cost to them and this is going to be to their advantage. But we see some officials in the motor parks adding some “insurance money” of N20 to N50 to fares and making passengers to pay. What do you say to that? Well, like I said earlier, a few operators have insurance schemes but I cannot talk on their modes of premium collection. But let me say that in this type of scheme the premium can be paid in three way – only by the passengers, only by the operator and shared by both the passengers and the operators. Whichever model is used depends on the arrangement between the operators and their insurers. However, I think from the amounts you mentioned, you will agree with me that the premiums are very minimal and is nothing the passengers should worry about. Okay. Let’s talk about claim settlement, do you think the insurance companies will have the capability to handle claims that may arise from this kind of policy looking at the huge volumes of claims that may arise vis-à-vis the regular complains by customers of slow claims settlements while a handful of the populace still believe insurance companies do not pay claims. What is your take on this? You have raise three important issues here. First, the issue of capability is not questionable at all. If insurance companies in Nigeria have been able to handle and settled huge oil and gas as well as marine hull claims which run into millions of Dollar at times, then passenger insurance will be a kindergarten assignment for them. Second, the speed of claims settlement will vary from one company to another depending on their commitment for prompt service delivery and the structures they put on ground. There are underwriters I have great respect for and I will always recommend for prompt claim settlement. Like you mentioned, huge volumes of transactions will be expected from this kind of scheme but the volume of claims may not be as huge. Not necessarily so. The third issues about people believing insurance companies do not pay claims. I would say, this is a matter of ignorance compounded by poverty. I tell you from my research and awareness campaign work I realize that those who carry this notion don’t do insurance and perhaps has never made an insurance claim. It’s based on hear-say. That is what public awareness is very critical and the insurance awareness level in the country is still very low. That is why IAAG and its partners are involved in this aspect to create awareness to the populace. It is also the issue of brand building and brand communications by the insurance companies. I feel really sad when I listen to some advert of insurance companies that talk about how fast they pay claims but without any mention of the core benefits of the products that claim will be paid fast! So, how will you rate insurance companies in terms of claim settlement? I can rate the insurance companies comparatively but there is not data for such comparison. However, I think the industry as a whole has done well. The regulator also has done exceptionally well in terms of holding insurance companies to live up to their promise to their customers. I can give them above average. A lot more still needs to be done. As someone who has been in the insurance industry for 15 years, what would you say is the greatest challenges of the industry? I thinks it is the issue of rates… No. Not rate cutting. It is the inability of the industry to charge adequately for its services. Consider this: When I joined the industry in 2002, the premium for third party motor insurance cover was N5000 and 15 years after, the premium still stands at N5000 and even with the tendency to go down while the cost of motor claims has continued to rise. For instance the cost of replacing a car headlight in 2017 will be higher compared to last year.  It’s amazing that the industry still survive despite this challenge! How would one ever expect that the industry can grow that way? With the general increases in the prices of goods and services, interest rates and worsening exchange rates, you still see insurance premium rates stagnating and even declining. It is a dangerous issue the industry players must work on and urgently too. For me pricing is the greatest challenge of the insurance industry. If the industry can overcome this, it will overcome all other challenges. What do you think is the cause of this problem and what solution alternatives are available for the insurance industry? There are many reasons that can be adduced to this. One of these is the problem of ignorance and the general lack of awareness of the importance of insurance to individuals, families and businesses across. This is the cause of low demand for insurance products. Where you have low demand, it becomes very difficult to increase prices. The few buyers of insurance seems to detect the prices. There is this fear that if you increase the price, you risk losing your customers to competitors who are ready to reduce their prices. So this is where “rate-cutting” issue comes in. You see underwriters taking to price reduction as the major competitive tool. This should not be so. The earlier the industry players move away from price competition, the better for the industry and the insuring public. If this continues for long, it will gradually erode the industry’s financial and underwriting as well as shareholders value. I can see you are so passionate about educating Nigerians about the benefit of insurance. How far has your group gone with this onerous task? It is an onerous task as you have said. We are not deterred because of the passion we have for it. It is our driving force. We are happy for the support of our partners. We launched an awareness campaign last year with the FRSC Lagos Command and this was focus on road safety and motor insurance. We have Advocacy Partners in some strategic locations of the Commission doing insurance advocacy and public education concerning insurance. we are also working with the fire service to educate people on fire prevention homes and shops as well as how insurance can provide respite in case of fire outbreaks. One major breakthrough we have had is the acceptance by schools for us to come in and educate our futures leaders about the importance of insurance. This give is what has given us the greatest joy so far because we are build insurance knowledge base in the future generations – this is what those in our generation did not have. We have been on several radio stations and have participated in seminars and make lot of online awareness initiatives. Let me tell you this. In the course of this work, we met with the editor of one of Nigeria’s biggest online newspaper and after our discussion, he said “do you know that at my level of education I was still an illiterate as regards insurance until you came?” We have uncountable cases where people came out after our awareness events to say “all along I used to think insurance was a fraud. Now I know better”. The work is huge but like I said, we have the passion to drive it through and we will not relent until all Nigerians are reached. What about the area of health insurance? Most people seem not to key in to it. Is your group also concerned with educating people about this? Sure. From our activities, it is one area of insurance that most audients would first indicate interest. In fact it is one area of insurance that people easily understands and connects with. What is that so? It is because the risk of falling is so real and common that people don’t need to deny its existence. I think every person we speak to must have fallen ill at some point in time so when you ask them for instance “if you fall sick now and there is no money, what will you do”? You will notice a short silence and nobody says “God forbid”. But if you are talking about motor insurance and you say “suppose an accident occurs involving your vehicle…..” and before you finish that statement, you will hear everybody echoing “God forbid, God forbid”. Although we have a way of subtly presenting these issues to them but this shows the reactions we get at first and also indicates that sometime we live in denial and therefore fails to take necessary preventive or remedial actions that that limit our losses if disaster happens. So, for health insurance, there is are enormous opportunities for the players to grow the businesses. One of our major partners is a medical doctor and he anchors this particular aspect of insurance awareness campaign for the group. Let me say this concerning the issue of believability of insurance offerings – if a medical doctor talks to people about the need for them to subscribe to health insurance, the probability of acceptance is higher than an insurance marketer doing so. This is because the marketer is seen as coming to sell his product whereas our’s is to create the awareness people believe us easily. In an event where people come forward after an awareness campaign to buy insurance how do you sell it to them at that point. We do not get involved in selling insurance. We leave the decision to buy and sell to the interested individuals and the insurance marketers. We have a list of all licensed insurance companies in Nigeria displayed during our campaigns and we tell our audience for instance “if your motor insurance is issued by a company not found on the list then it must be fake”. Also, we invite insurance companies to our awareness campaigns and those who come around engage the prospective customers one-on-one after the campaigns. What about the issue of collapse buildings which has become so rampant in Nigeria. Is there any insurance for this and does your group concerned about this also? Yes we do talk about professional indemnity, public buildings liability insurance, builder liability insurance and others when we are talking to people involved in the building industry. In fact an executive member of our group is a building engineer. He leads discussions on this class of insurance when we are engaging his colleagues in the building or housing sector. One thing you will notice is that we have professionals from all key sectors in our group and makes it easy to speak the language of our target audience ant every point of our engagement. Are efforts in the pipeline towards the presentation of this issue before the National Assembly? Off course! We are already working on that. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.