Lagos – On Saturday, April 7, Tehmis Point International, in conjunction with the National Youth Council of Nigeria, NYCN, in celebration of a new set of Nigerians who have acquired skills via their skill acquisition programme, will be holding the graduation ceremony for the Vocational Skills Acquisition programme that had just been concluded. Scheduled to take place at the Marian Academy Compound, 149 Gaskiya Road, beside Golden Super Filling Station Roundabout, Amukoko, Lagos, at 10:00am, the event promises to churn out the successful students who have both benefitted from the programme and also emerged successful.
For the event, which is expected to be compered by Com. Wasiu Oladipupo and Wustaf Abdullateef Badmus, the chief host will be Com. Hamdalat Oloola while the host is Com. Ganiu Agbalaya.
Among those expected to speak at the event is Prof. Olaosebikan Ebenezer of the Lagos State House of Assembly. Asides sharing valuable life wisdom, Prof. Olaosebikan will be speaking to motivate the graduands who have gained new skill sets to enable them work hard for a better future for themselves.
Seeing as what a person knows is the only thing that an individual truly owns, the programme is a welcome initiative in a nation like Nigeria, where every skill can become a goldmine with hard work.
PDP Demands Apology From Omisore For Anti-Party Activities
Gbenga Faturoti, Osogbo
Former elected political office holders and other stakeholders on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun State have condemned former Deputy Governor, Senator Iyiola Omisore for denigrating the party under which he (Omisore) realised his political ambition as senator.
The party chieftains also expressed dissapointment at the attitude of his loyalists and supporters for burning the flag of the party declaring their conduct as unacceptable.
The stakeholders therefore demanded from Senator Iyiola Omisore to tender unreserved apology to the party leadership within the next 72 hours or be ready to face the music.
The spokesperson, Tajudeen Adeyemi, former majority leader of the Osun State House of Assembly, stated that Senator Iyiola Omisore denigrated the party after he had realised his political ambition on the platform of the party.
It would be recalled that supporters of Sen. Iyiola Omisore had reportedly burnt PDP’s flag.
Adeyemi said that Omisore’s actions was the peak of his self-determined war against the PDP, the party of which he has been a major beneficiary.
“Omisore’s action is uncalled for, despite being favoured by the PDP during his travails.
“The Senator’s action was a self determined war against the PDP which he had been a major beneficiary.
“He had recently approached two different political parties who rejected him due to his political desperation.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.