Popular rap artiste and son of ace musicians Queen Salawa Abeni and General Kollington Ayinla, Sheriff Ilori aka Big Sheff spoke to INDEPENDENT’s Oyinkan Somorin on what it’s like having two icons as parents. He also reveals details of his sojourn into the world of music. Why the name Big Sheff? The name Big Sheff is taken from my name Sheriff that I shortened to Sheff. And I am also a big person, so all I did was to add Big and Sheff together to form Big Sheff. How was it growing up with your parents as celebrities? Growing up was fun; I was restricted to many things while growing up because of my mum’s job. She knows the way they see artistes and since she is a very private person by nature, she was careful about a lot of things. We were not allowed to go out and explore. It’s not that we couldn’t go anywhere, but as kids, we were really restricted basically. Growing was fine because she usually has time with us when she is less busy but sometimes, when she is busy, we don’t have a choice. While growing up, did you ever think you would do music? If I thought I was going to do music when I grew up, the answer is no.  Did I like music? Yes. Back in primary school, I composed for her (Salawa) sometimes, and in high school, I actually won the best rapper all through from JSS1 until I finished. Even at that time, it wasn’t something I thought I was going to do. In school, whenever there was a new song out, they will always call me and they would ask me if I have heard the song. I was kind of talented because when a song comes out, all I had to do was to listen to the song in one day and I will know most of the wordings of the song. Sometimes to get away from punishment, I rap and I get to go while the others who get into trouble stay behind. Music has always been fun to me, but I never thought it was something I would end up doing professionally. Apart from music, do you do any other thing? I do music full time. Do you believe you can succeed like your parents in the entertainment industry? That is a big shoe to fill because in this case, it’s my mum and my dad. How does one supersede over 50 albums? I don’t think I am going to put out up to 50 albums before I retire. That is impossible. Why do you say that? I say that because it means I will have to drop an album every year and I don’t put out music that way. Lots of musicians can bring out an album every year but I don’t do it that way – it is not my style. You need to give the old schools kudos. Back in those days, they had side A and B. On one side is like an hour and thirty minutes or more but now in the new school, a track is like four minutes and they are done. Have you ever worked with your mother’s band? No, but growing up I have watched them record albums. They have separate microphones unlike now that modern technology has introduced pianos and computers, everything is organised in our modern age and within few minutes all is done. So, to even come close to what they have done is going to be quite impossible, but I can try. My mum started really young. I think she started at the age of 11. I don’t know the age that my dad started but I can’t compare their times to my time. So far as I have support from my fans, I believe I can do my best. Is safe to say that you live in the shadows of your parents? If I am going to use an example, it would sound disrespectful. But let me put it this way. Jaden Smith, I believe, is still under Will Smith’s shadow. You can’t talk about uncle Femi Anikulapo Kuti and not mention his late father, Fela Anikulapo Kuti. So can you not mention Big Sheff and my parents are not going to come up. It’s not because I am under their shadow, it’s just impossible to touch my story and not talk about them. I sang with my mother once and every other one has been solo. The one I did with her was a remix to her old track. But if they feel I am under their shadows and it is giving me the money, I don’t mind, I will gladly be under their shadows. I am fine with it if that is how they feel. You know, let the shadow keep guiding me and giving me the money, I am not mad about that. It’s a welcome gift to me. What were your toughest times in the industry? I am still facing them. I have never said this before but I know I am not there yet. I am still pushing. I have a vision. I have a dream. I am not even living a quarter of what I envisioned for myself. Every job has its challenges and chaos; so definitely, the part of me being in their shadow comes up again. In some places, the name has opened some doors and in some places, it has actually shut some doors. It doesn’t open all doors for me. Maybe they have had beefs with some people. Every job has its own troubles; like they say, no pain no gain. Have you released any album yet? No albums for now, but I have mix tapes. Funny enough I haven’t dropped anything this year. So when would your fans be expecting to hear from you? Very soon. I posted something some days ago on Instagram and my fans were really excited. Before I bring out my work, I will have to put in a lot of work in the music because I am a critic. I criticise my works as well. I am not like some artiste who put out a record every week or every month. I will listen to it and I would like to hear views from other people. So how do you relax after a hard days work? I eat. I know that is going to get some people pissed off, but I eat. I get to swim sometimes though I don’t swim as much as I would love to. I am also a very family oriented person, so any time I get, I spend with my family. What is your best food? If I say it now, all these girls chasing me would like to cook it. So I don’t want wahala. My best food is any good food. Any special person in your life? No. There is no special person in my life. I am not really a social person like that. My social life is zero. With the way I grew up, I would say it still affects me. I am not used to having people around me. I am always in my own space. I grew up with my family and I spend a lot of time with them also. So, if any special person comes or you know any special person, I am single though I am not searching but I am single and very ready to mingle. comments