The recent call by Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state on the indigenes of the state to defend themselves against armed invaders who continue to wreck havocs on local communities has once again brought into focus the legitimacy of self- defence in view of the spate of violent attacks that have become a frequent occurrences on weekly and if not on daily basis in the country.
Only recently, General Theophilus Danjuma, former Chief of Army Staff and one time Minister of Defence elicited intense mixed reactions and condemnation from military authority as well as the federal government over a similar call by him.
Indeed while speaking at the convocation ceremony of Taraba State University, General Danjuma had alleged collusion of the military with armed herdsmen who have so far killed hundreds of Nigerians across communities in the country and consequently called for self-defence to check the perennial attacks and killings.
In the course of the heightening bloodletting that has continued unabated, the Ekiti state governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose has also repeatedly urged inhabitants of the local communities to defend themselves against wilful attacks by armed attackers.
Recall that in 2015, the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, specifically “urged self-defence against the activities of insurgents in Nigeria’s northeast region. Speaking in Auchi, the headquarters of Etsako West local government Area of Edo State at the closing ceremony of the 29th National Quranic event in January 2015,
Emir Lamido Sanusi who noted that the “first responsibility of the state is to protect lives and properties of its citizens or it loses the basis of its existence” reiterated his earlier call on Muslims to defend themselves following the attacks on a mosque in Kano in 2014. According to the Emir, “if your enemy comes to attack you and you run away, Allah will not help you”.
Self-defence would appear to connote legitimate meaning in the ordinary sense of the word and certainly there are Nigerians who insist that the legitimacy of self-defence has become too obvious to be discountenanced or denied as a result of these attacks.
But there are concerns that open declaration of support for self-defence by notable citizens may portend greater danger for the polity in the immediate and long terms.
While the government appears to have lost the steam in curtailing the rampant killings by armed bandits across Nigeria, we are compelled to agree that the public clamour for self-defence would not be the right antidote to the insecurity situation in the country.
While we are not unmindful of the fact that the preponderance of calls for self-defence is no doubt a reflection of the failure of the Nigerian state, the danger inherent in such call by political office holders and opinion leaders is the tendency to be misconstrued as open and insidious invitation to anarchy.
The call for self-defence by critical stakeholders like state governors would appear alarming, it is however rather unfortunate that the insecurity situation in Nigeria has degenerated so abysmally. Indeed, nothing typifies the dangerous dimension of insecurity in the country than the seeming helplessness of state governors; the supposed chief security officers of their states who genuinely have no choice than to ask the people to take up the responsibility of defending themselves against armed invaders who regularly visit mayhem.
To this extent, we share the frustration of Governor Ortom in particular, who reportedly asked the already dehumanised internally displaced persons (IDPs) in camps to return home and defend themselves.
Even without the governor asking citizens in jeopardy to defend themselves with stones if the need arises, there should be no pretending that Nigerians who are faced with inherent dangers of annihilation would naturally by instinct deploy available means of defence.
The Governor must have been utterly frustrated with the situation when he declared: “I believe in the rule of law, equity and fairness, but I cannot continue to keep IDPs”. There is therefore the need to arrest the pervasive descent into frustration which makes the calls for self-defence apparent.
The federal government on whose shoulders lay the constitutional responsibility of deploying the architectures of security owes it a duty to forestall the palpable danger inherent with citizens resorting to self defence as the only alternative. Rather than term the calls for self-defence reckless, government should urgently deploy more reliable and realistic measures towards redressing the widening gaps that have become too obvious amonst the security agencies. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.