Umuahia – Chikwendu Kanu, Abia State House of Assembly speaker, says leaders deserve to be appreciated by residents on efforts made to provide basic infrastructure in their constituencies.
He made the call, weekend, at a reception in honour of Chukwudi Apugo representing Umuahia East State Constituency by his Nkata Ibeku Community at the community’s primary school.
According to Kanu, leaders who have the interest of the people at heart may not worry if the people appreciate such efforts, but appreciation would ginger them to do more.
“What is happening here today is very symbolic. This is the second time I am seeing people appreciate their son. What is happening in Nkata is evidence that your people appreciate what you have been doing through the achievements you have made in your constituency,” he said.
The development currently going on across the state, he added, was as a result of the cordial relationship between the legislature and the executive.
In his response to the address presented by his kinsmen, Apugo thanked his people for the honour done him and promised not to disappoint them, while pledging to attract more government projects to his constituency.
Apugo, who said their support would spur him to attract more projects, canvassed for the re-election of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu and other Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) office-seekers in the 2019 general election.
He urged members of his constituency to obtain their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs), which is the only guarantee for the re-election of candidates of their choice.
The people recounted projects attracted by Apugo to include the construction of Uzi-Uhabiri-Umuchime-Afara Ukwu Road, construction of Ukome-Okwoyi Road, fencing of Nkata Primary School, paid bursary to 81 students from his constituency, among 42 other projects executed within three years. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.