Chief Willy Ezugwu is a civil society activist and Life Patron of the Coalition of Civil Society and Human Rights Activists of Enugu State. Ezugwu, the Secretary General of the Alhaji Balarabe Musa-led Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP), spoke with IFEOMA ONONYE on Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s administration and the Enugu State politics ahead of 2019 general elections, among other issues. Excerpt: As the activities leading to the 2019 general elections in Enugu State kick-starts, and numerous second term endorsements coming in favour of the incumbent governor, a situation people have described as mere political endorsements. What is your assessment of the Governor Ugwuanyi administration? I have answered the question on my assessment of the Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi government in the last three years many times. Knowing my antecedents as a civil society personality and for the fact that I hail from the same senatorial constituency with the governor, this question arises anywhere I encounter media people. However, I will give you a simple answer. Enugu has a man from God as the governor of the state. And why did I say that? It is only a man who is God-sent like Governor Ugwuanyi that can do what he is doing in Enugu State. Only a God-sent can be as humble, God-fearing and friendly as Governor Ugwuanyi is to the people of Enugu State. It is only a God-sent that can be a team player, bridge builder and peace maker like Ugwuanyi. It is only a man sent from God that can have the level of passion for philanthropy that Governor Ugwuanyi has. The people love him because of his exemplary leadership qualities. This did not start from the current office he occupies as governor of Enugu State. If you recall, he was a three-time member of the House of Representatives and he has, since his days in Abuja as a representative of the people, been a man of the people. His humanitarian services and his style of political leadership has brought him this far. Now, I can tell you that Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has in the last three years surpassed in achievement all achievements of all former governors of the state since the return to democracy in 1999. Remember that before he became governor in 2015, he was the longest serving National Assembly member in the Enugu North Senatorial District of Enugu. And I can tell you categorically that if he did not contest the governorship in 2015, he would have been in the National Assembly. Why did I say that? It is because of his heart of service and love for the ordinary people. That explains why his administration has concentrated more on projects that impact positively on the lives of the ordinary people. He has been opening up villages and farm areas with access roads. You can see why the endorsements are coming from every individual and groups in the state. That sounds so patronising because some people within his constituency are said to be indicating interest to unseat him in 2019 as some of them like Kenneth Okonwo and the rest are already warming up for the governorship contest next. That in no way indicates that he has failed as governor. As many as want to contest the governorship are welcome. But, there is no vacancy in Enugu State Government House until 2023. It that your conviction? I am not the person that said it. I’m only quoting the people. You know as a traditional ruler, I’m in touch with the ordinary people in the state and they talk to me about what they feel about the government. The ordinary people are not interested in any other candidate in 2019 except the man of the people, the ‘Gburugburu’ himself. The governor has proven to be trusted and can be trusted with a second tenure. That is what the people are saying. And mind you, the former governor of the state, Okwy Nwodo has endorsed him, clergy men, including Bishop Onaga, and Bishop Chukwuma and business moguls in the state have tipped him for 2019. You can see that his endorsement cuts across all classes of people in the state. So, any person coming out to contest against the governor in 2019 will suffer a colossal defeat; and it will be worse for anyone from Enugu North, the governor’s constituency. What will you tell the people? That the governor is not working when they are seeing what he is doing? It won’t work. All the people in Enugu North know that it is their turn to complete two terms like other Senatorial Districts in the state. So, the people are committed to seeing Governor Ugwuanyi complete his two terms of eight years. You spoke about the governor’s performance while at the House of Representatives. Looking at the state, what can you say about its representatives at the National Assembly? In other words, how have they performed in terms of constituency projects in the state? To be sincere with you, I am always heartbroken each time I remember the poor quality of representation at the National Assembly from Enugu State. And it is worse in Enugu North where I come from. Since the return of democracy in 1999, the previous governors of the state were so wicked to the state that they imposed on our people individuals that take no responsibility for anything and cannot be held accountable for anything. Look, the major reason why the state has been backward in terms of development over the years is because former governors killed the spirit of competition through imposition of candidates. They left the state in the hands of greedy political businessmen who have over the years lived their lives for material acquisition for the singular purpose of intimidating the people through irresponsible show of wealth. Politics is not about how much money you amass. It is about how many people your life and wealth have touched and changed their lives. What I am saying in essence is that politics should be about service to the people. And this is where Governor Ugwuanyi stands out. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.