The recurring ugly decimal of rigging of elections in Nigeria is one salient reason behind the emergence of the people’s enemies into the country’s most sensitive plum political positions. Given the high cost of accessing power, the do-or-die battle to win elections, the obscenely high and attractive pay package, one is not surprised about the recent confessions of the former Deputy Senate President, Ibrahim Mantu that he rigged election for the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. Mantu, a member of the Board of Trustees of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), had in a television chat with Channels TV on March 30, 2018 openly admitted to have rigged elections for the party through bribing electoral officials, security agencies and party agents. Though the confession came like a bolt out of the blues to millions of Nigerians, it did not to others who have known the truth all along. The pain in it all is that after all the hue and cry, Mantu’s issue will suffer the Doppler effect and he will still walk our streets as a free man! Truth be said, he belongs to the untouchables. Like several allegedly corrupt former governors and politicians, even if the case goes to court, it would be subjected to a long-winding judicial process that at the end of the day would amount to nothing! What do you expect in a country where we are not equal before the law of the land? Where the very reprehensible idea of amnesty for the blood-sucking Boko Haram extremists is even given flicker of thought in the high corridors of power! Where court orders are disregarded even by those who swore allegiance to the oath of office to protect the ethos of our statutory books. That is Nigeria for you. And, sad to say, that of course, is the self-decimating culture of impunity that some of us have repeatedly decried over the years. As expected, the PDP in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in Abuja said Mantu’s claim has nothing to do with the party. He said the PDP had never directed any of its members to rig election on its behalf at any point since its formation. Said he:“Individuals run their elections on the platform of political parties once they emerge as candidates. In the PDP, candidates are issued with the party’s Code of Conduct containing the basic rules of electioneering engagements. There is nowhere in these rules of engagement where candidates or party members are directed to rig elections on behalf of the party”. Well said, one would say. Or, some other critics would tell him to tell that to the marines. As expected, going for the jugular, the All Progressives Congress, APC, is trying to make a political capital out of it. But truth be said, election rigging has no political colours. Not because one Doyin Okupe said so but the electoral crime has become the rule rather than the exception. So, who is to blame? What about the compelling centripetal attraction of well-paying political offices, with all the apparatchik of office attached? This has contributed in no small measure to all manner of electoral malfeasance here in Nigeria. It would however, be foolhardy for the nation-state with a vision to right the many wrongs of the past to continue to habour, tolerate or out rightly encourage what has brought the country to this sorry political pass. Something has to be done and speedily too. That feeling prompted me to make a similar post on Facebook, decrying the odious fact that Mantu is still a free man. This triggered the instant responses from concerned Nigerians. Mr. Dipo Olayokun, an analyst has this to say: “Mr. Ayo Baje, if Mantu is picked up today, they would say that Buhari has continued with the persecution of PDP members. And is Mantu telling us anything new? Not done he went down memory lane: “ A member of BOT of PDP,Chris Uba under Obasanjo addressed a world press conference in Enugu where he told the world that he rigged the 2003 election for Ngige. Let me quote him:” When I was bribing INEC officials and security agents to rig elections for him to become the governor of Anambra state, where was he? Did he know how I did it?” Furthermore, Olayokun added the clincher: “ Instead of Obasanjo arresting Chris Uba he was made a member of the BOT.And now you want security agents to arrest Mantu. And they will start telling the world that Buhari is a dictator who wants to kill opposition”. That is food for thought. On his part, one Adebayo added this view: “Same for Miyetti Allah, the association of Fulani herdsmen. They claimed responsibility for genocide without anything happening under Buhari!”. While Hamza Jatto said: “That‘s our country for you, a young, talented writer added with a note of sadness: “Our country is a joke, Sir!” On my part, one cannot but join voice with an Abuja-based human rights lawyer, Ajibola Jimoh, who has called on relevant authorities to immediately begin the prosecution of  Mantu, after he confessed to election rigging. Jimoh said that under Section 28 of the Evidence Act, 2011, voluntary confessional statements were the best form of evidence to arrive at a conviction. Citing the Act, he said: “A confession is an admission made at any time by a person charged with a crime, stating or suggesting the inference that he committed that crime.” What more does the law state? In line with the Electoral Act, 2010 rigging is an offence. It is therefore, the duty of INEC and the professional duty of lawyers as conferred by Rule 1 of the Rules of Professional Conduct for Legal Practitioners, 2007 to weigh on to the matter. The lawyer said private legal practitioners could also apply for fiat from the Attorney General of the Federation to conduct the prosecution according to the provisions of sections 109 (e) and 268 (1) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA), 2015. Should nothing be done about this critical issue of national importance, which compromises our electoral integrity and brings us crooks and criminals as our ‘heroes, it would mean that we are under Mantu’s mantra or a binding spell. We are waiting and watching! 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.