Lagos – Police in Lagos have arrested a 30-year-old woman, Ayo Sheriff, over alleged burnt inflicted on the upper and lower right limbs of her biological daughter, 16-year-old Aishat Sheriff with hot electric pressing iron. The police commenced an investigation into the matter following a case of child abuse reported by Chosen Child Orphanage in Gastya Estate area of Ijora-Badia. The orphanage that took up the matter reported the case to the police that the girl ’s upper and lower right limbs were allegedly burnt by her biological mother, with electric pressing iron over they termed as a minor misunderstanding. The Lagos State Police Command Public Relations Officer, Chike Oti who confirmed the incident to DAILY INDEPENDENT, said that what led to the abuse was that the victim, who is a student in a secondary school and also an auxiliary nurse in training was given the sum of N500 by her boss with instruction to remit N200 to someone on her way home, spend N50 on transportation and return a balance of N250 to her trainer the following day. Oti, a Superintendent of police, said that however, on the day she was supposed to return the balance of the money to her boss, the victim defaulted, adding that she told her boss that the money was with her mother. According to the police image maker, when the girl’s boss called her mother on the phone, she denied knowledge of the money. “When the victim returned home from work, her mother who was already waiting for her, plugged an electric iron and waited until it was red hot. At this stage, she used the red-hot iron to welcome her daughter home, accusing her of being a disgrace to the family.” The police image maker said the Commissioner of Police, CP Imohimi Edgal was miffed at the sight of the horrible wounds inflicted on a child by her mother and called on parents to be cautious when correcting their children. He said the rate at which cases of domestic violence is increasing now has given cause for concern to the Command,” adding that the Gender Section of the Command, headed by SP(Mrs) Adejoke Cole, had concluded investigation into the case and would charge the suspect to  Ikeja Magistrate Court today Monday, 30th April 2018. 0 comments