Abuja – Monica Frassoni, President of the European Centre for Electoral Support (ECES), has canvassed a cautious deployment of technology and ICTs in the electoral management, warning that technology can both serve as facilitator and spoiler of the electoral process. In goodwill message she presented at the opening of three-day International Conference for Election Management Bodies (EMBs) in West and Southern Africa, Frassoni said use of technical aids in electoral management is fraught with pros and cons. She stressed that public perception of the EMBs as an impartial arbiter in the electoral process in most instances affect to a large degree the acceptability of any technical aid deployed to improve the electoral process. “What ICTs have in common, not only when used in electoral process but in our societies at large, are the possibilities to both facilitate our lives but also create confusion. “The overall perception of the quality of the electoral process plays in when it comes to how the introduction of technology is being received. The perception of an impartial and competent electoral body is a precondition for technology to be perceived as an aid to the perception of the electoral process,” she said. Ms. Frassoni said the overall objective of the conference tagged, “Opportunities and Challenges in the use of Technology in Elections; Experience from West and Southern Africa, among others things,” is geared toward enhancing capacity of participants in the choice and use of ICT in elections for straightening the credibility, integrity and transparency of the electoral processes in ECOWAS and SADC countries. She however declared sustained support of the centre to improved, transparent electoral process in Africa. Earlier in his address of welcome, Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu, Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and ECOWAS Network of Electoral Commissions (ECONEC), said the conference was seeks to explore the advantages and challenges of technology in elections. He observed that whereas the various electoral management bodies had been using technology in various forms in training, capacity building, biometric registration of voters, delineation of electoral constituencies and geo-referencing and the actual voting proper, deployment of technology has its numerous flaws, ranging from high cost, choice and effectiveness of the technology. He also raised concerns over the communication and security of the entire process given that data often reside with third parties and must be protected in the light of reported election meddling in the United States. “This coming together of election managers and experts to share experience, we shall be better prepared in making the choice of the appropriate and cost-effective technology that will increase public confidence in the electoral process and further protect the sanctity and integrity of the ballot,” he said. Other speakers on the occasion include the  Chairperson of Executive Committee of the Electoral Commissions Forum of Southern Africa Development Community (ECF-SADC), Adv. Notemba Tjipueja who extolled the efficacy of new computer based software systems used on voter registration, biometric identification, result processing and electronic voting. Notemba who is also the chairperson of Electoral Commission of Namibia disclosed that her country used electronic voting system with resounding success. Namibia was the first country to use electronic voting system in the continent. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.