P/HARCOURT – Governor Nyesom Wike, the Rivers State governor, has charged Nigerian youths to respond to President Muhammadu Buhari’s statement that they are lazy by ensuring that they vote him and the All Progressives Congress (APC) out of power in the 2019 general elections. Wike, who spoke on Monday, described the APC federal administration as a failed government, even as he accused it of destroying the nation’s economy, saying that the youths have the responsibility of voting it out of power. The Rivers State governor spoke as the Nigerian Automobile Technicians Association, Rivers State branch, endorsed him for a second term, citing his performance as the reason behind the decision. Wike, who was addressing members of the association, who were on a solidarity visit at the Government House, Port Harcourt, said the APC administration had no plan for the country’s future, having destroyed all the viable sectors of the economy. He said: “A government that has no plan for the people, does not think of their welfare and security, goes ahead to say that the youths are lazy. “Having collapsed the country, they want to blame it on others. Things were not like this before they worsened the situation.  I am happy that we now know our mistakes and we are not going to continue with that mistake in 2019. “I know that our youths are not lazy.  The only power we have is our Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs).  If you don’t have your PVC, then you are lazy. “We must use our PVCs to chase away this lazy party  out of Nigeria,” Wike said. He said his administration has a deliberate policy to grow the state’s economy and empower the youths. Comrade Stanley Amadi, chairman of Nigeria Automobile Technicians Association, Rivers State branch, announced the group’s endorsement of Wike for second term. He said 20,000 mechanics working in Rivers State would work hard to ensure that Wike emerged victorious at the polls. He said that the endorsement was to allow the governor complete all ongoing projects and consolidate on the gains of his first term. Highpoint of the occasion was the decoration of the Wike as a grand patron of the association in the state. comments