Moscow is not planning to appoint the head of Russia’s permanent mission to NATO for the time being until it sees the Alliance is ready for serious work, Russian Foreign Ministry’s European Cooperation Department said. The director of the department, Andrey Kelin on Thursday said. The post of the head of Russia’s permanent mission to NATO has remained vacant since January, when Alexander Grushko, who had held this post for almost six years, was appointed Russian deputy foreign minister. “This position will remain vacant until we see a real willingness by NATO to work seriously,’’ Kelin told newsmen. Kelin also said that the current political situation was quite complex and that political tensions were heightened. “Currently, the situation is quite complicated, and military and political tensions are high. “Particular steps to ease tensions are needed. We see neither the willingness to make these steps yet, nor readiness to hold serious talks. “In such a situation, I can say with certainty that it will be complicated for our mission to NATO to operate at its full capacity due to objective circumstances,’’ he added. In his statement, Kelin did not specify what retaliatory measures Russia might implement in response to the NATO decision to expel seven Russian diplomats over the poisoning of former Russian intelligence officer Sergei Skripal in the UK city of Salisbury. The relations between Russia and the western countries, particularly NATO member states, have worsened significantly since early March, when Skripal and his daughter were poisoned on UK soil. The UK has put the blame for the attack on Russia, while Moscow has refuted the allegations categorically, pointing to the lack of proof of its involvement in the incident. Apart from NATO, the majority of EU members and other countries, including the U.S., have expelled so far over 150 Russian diplomats. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.