The Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) has expressed displeasure over the recent invasion of the hallowed chamber of the senate by hoodlums and miscreants who carted away the mace and other paraphernalia of authority, warning that a future occurrence of such an act would be met with action. The Congress said the action is a violation of the sanctity of the Senate, and constitute a threat to our democracy. In a statement issued by the President, NLC, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, he said the ugly incident represents a throwback to those dark old days we are better off without. It is equally a sad commentary on the quality of representation. According to the statement, the union affirmed that it condemns the undemocratic act in its entirety, urging Nigerians to rise and condemn the crude and sordid act or conduct. Ayuba recalled that, “The Senate, from the days of the Greeks, and Romans from whom the world borrowed this concept of democracy, has always been a sacred arena for the nobility (in carriage, thought or mind), the best and the brightest, the gifted in oratory, a hatchery of the supremacy of ideas delivered in the most sublime and profound language in furtherance of the interest of fatherland.” He added that: “As a house packed full of representatives from different parts of the Republic, there are bound to be differences (of opinion, tactics, strategy) and even conflicts; but these are expected to be resolved in a dignified manner befitting of men and women of character and learning! It is for this reason there are rules of engagement that every member is made to understand as a precondition to swearing in.” He said it is in consideration of the act of brigandage and thuggery that perpetrated in the hallowed chamber that prompted the union to describe what happened as a big anomaly. He said: “We do also believe that the National Assembly Security apparatus should be called to question for laxity or compromise.  “Whereas they have often distinguished themselves by keeping at bay constituents and peaceful protesters from the precincts of the National Assembly, these thugs seem to have walked on a laid red carpet.” 0 comments