Umuahia  – Rev. Dr. Uma Ukpai, Nigeria’s frontline evangelist and  Founder of Uma Ukpai Polytechnic, Asaga-Ohafia, Abia State, has said that his dream was to build the first aeronautical engineering university, where aircraft will be assembled and serviced. Dr. Ukpai, who wept at the Polytechnic’s auditorium during the institution’s maiden matriculation, said he had engaged six professors from India and assembled three crafts to be used in the school, “but enemies of progress stopped me from continuing with that project.” He said: “The dream started in 1973. I was the first missioner to Ahmadu Bello University and University of Nigeria Nsukka in 1972 and 1973 respectively. I saw the beauty of schools and began to dream about building a school in Asaga.” The cleric, who expressed optimism that his dream was not yet over, maintained that in future, aircraft would be assembled in Nigeria, even as he stressed that he had been looking for tomorrow’s thinkers in the country. He lamented that Africans had been snubbed and looked down by the whites, who he said saw nothing good  coming out of the continent, even as he called on Africans to brace up with the challenge and do the continent proud. “I am looking for tomorrow’s thinkers in Nigeria. I am looking for students who will wipe out the labels given to us by the white man. I am looking for students who will send satellite to the orbit. I am tired of men who give excuses, who believe in impossibilities,” he stressed. Ukpai, reminded the students that education without Christ is an accident waiting to happen, promising to encourage the best five science students of the institution with N5million. Elder Alwell Onukaogu, the Rector, in his welcome address, called on the Federal Government to review its policy on TETFUND. The Rector decried a situation where TETFUND makes no provision for private institutions, describing it as unfair and should be reversed. He suggested that all approved private tertiary institutions should be given some financial assistance to enable such institutions to be able to hire and retain quality staff, adding, “when this is done, private schools may then review their fees and reduce the burden on the parents of their students.” He said: “I do know that those days when missions and individuals partnered with government in school ownership at all levels, once a school met all the requirements prescribed by government, governments on their part gave such schools what was called grants in aid.” With this, private schools were able to hire and retain quality staff and these inpatronise were able to compete effectively with government schools. “Today, private institutions that invest heavily in high level human capacity development, are hardly appreciated. What this means is that governments are discriminating against certain citizens who attend private institutions. He reminded the matriculating students that Dr. Ukpai, the institution’s founder, is a respectable Christian evangelist, stressed that they would be carefully remoulded so that when finally injected into the economy, they would make the difference and in turn be grateful to the institution. “We will continue to handle you with utmost care and will ensure that when you would be graduating, you will stand out not only in learning but also in character,” he pointed out. While commending Dr. Ukpai for subsiding the fees and accommodation of students, as each student pays N100,000 including accommodation, the Rector said, “if every community would have an Uma Ukpai, no community would ever be in darkness. “I therefore hope that the Asaga community, the Ohafia people, the Abia people and indeed all Nigerians will appreciate our founder and patronize this college.” In all, 95 of students, drawn from Departments of Computer Science Technology; Computer Engineering Technology; Accountancy; Electronic/Electrical Engineering Technology, Statistics; Departments of Continuing Education- Business Administration and Management, were matriculated. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.