The drama started with the suspension of Senator  Ovie Omo-Agege, who represents Delta Central Senatorial District, for 90 legislative days for taking the Red Chamber to court. Then on Wednesday, April 18, 2018, people suspected to be political thugs invaded the Senate chamber during plenary and made away with the mace, the Senate’s symbol of authority. The three invaders entered the chamber about the same time the embattled Senator Omo-Agege, walked into the chamber. The invasion occurred at the beginning of the plenary, when the senators were presenting petitions from their constituents. As Senator Samuel Anyanwu was making his presentation, the thugs struck. The Sergeants-at-Arms at the entrance of the chamber challenged them, with one of them engaging the invaders in fisticuffs. The thugs, however, overpowered the security men. One of them went for the mace where it was positioned, as the remaining two engaged those who tried to stop them. A female sergeant-at-arms was pushed down and was injured in the process. The thugs quickly escaped from the chamber with the mace and escaped in a black Sports Utility Vehicle stationed at the main entrance of the National Assembly complex. It was gathered that when the vehicle was prevented from going out at the main gate, the driver manoeuvred the car and drove it out through the Presidential Villa exit. The development disrupted proceedings as some senators, who were visibly shocked, moved towards the two ends of the chamber, while the invasion lasted. Omo-Agege, who was seated, watched as the drama played out, in less than 10 minutes. Several minutes after the thugs had left, many of the lawmakers remained where they stood, while some of them moved towards Ike Ekweremadu, the Deputy President of the Senate, who presided. Ekweremadu repeatedly called on the senators to settle down for continuation of the proceedings, describing what had happened as an invasion. He said: “The Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has just been invaded and we are not going to take it lightly. This is an institutional infraction. I want everybody to settle down. We will continue with our deliberations. Please settle down. If you are not a senator please leave this chamber now.” The lawmakers later went into a closed session. When the session was re-opened, a new mace had emerged at the chamber. In its first reaction to the incident, the Senate alleged that Omo-Agege led the suspected thugs into the chamber. The Senate, in a statement issued by Senator Aliyu Sabi-Abdullahi, the Chairman, Committee on Media and Public Affairs, said the act was an attempt to overthrow the legislature. The Senate’s statement read in part: “Today, some armed hoodlums, led by suspended Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, walked into the Senate’s plenary and seized the symbol of authority of the upper legislative chamber, the mace. “This action is an act of treason, as it is an attempt to overthrow a branch of the Federal Government of Nigeria by force, and it must be treated as such. All security agencies must stand on the side of due process and immediately mobilise their personnel to retrieve the mace and apprehend the mastermind and the perpetrators of this act.” House of Reps Lent Support Members of the House of Representatives led by the Deputy Speaker, Yusuf Lasun, visited the Senate chamber to express support for the senators. The joint session resolved that the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, and the Director General of the Department of State Services, Lawal Daura, must recover the stolen mace within 24 hours. Deputy Speaker of the House, Yusuf Lasun, who led the House of Representatives members, stated that there would not be democracy without a functional legislature. Welcoming the representatives, Ekweremadu said the lawmakers would get to the root of the matter, adding that the police and DSS bosses to recover the mace. Ekweremadu said: “We are giving the Inspector-General of Police and the Director General of the DSS to recover our mace within 24 hours.” Omo-Agege Whisked Away As Senator Omo-Agege, who was accused by the Senate of being behind the invasion, was stepping out of the chamber, he whisked away by security operatives. He was whisked away by policemen led by the Commissioner of Police, FCT Command, Sadiq Bello, who was accompanied by the Divisional Police Officer, National Assembly Police Division, A. Sulu-Gambari. However, the Senator said he was not under arrest, while the police later said that he was only taken into protective custody. He was, however, later released. While this was happening the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, was attending the Spring Meeting of the World Bank/International Monetary Fund in Washington. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, Saraki commended the leadership and members of the Senate “for standing up firmly in defence of democracy” with their  decision to defy those who machinated the attack. Saraki, who is, also lauded the swift reaction by the leadership and members of the House of Representatives “in demonstrating their solidarity with the Red Chamber and thereby sending a strong signal that enemies of democracy and those who want to undermine the legislature will be resisted.” He added: “With the way the Senate has defied those seeking to undermine it, we have sent out a strong signal that we are always ready to defend our constitutional mandate and nothing will deter us from this. “I associate myself with the comments of the Deputy Senate President that we are ready to get to the root of this assault on democracy and ensure that those who are responsible, no matter how remote, are brought to justice.” Ekweremadu Briefs Osinbajo Immediately after the invasion, Ekweremadu met behind closed doors with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to brief him about the attack. It would be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari has been in London on vacation. At the end of the meeting held inside Osinbajo’s office at the Presidential Villa, Ekweremadu told newsmen that the Vice President had promised to join forces with the federal lawmakers to get to the root of the matter. He said the invasion was not acceptable to Buhari and Osinbajo, just as it was not acceptable to members of the National Assembly. Ekweramadu said: “We run democracy, we are all in one government and it is the responsibility of the President or the Vice President to ensure that there is law and order in the country. “The Vice President has sympathised with us over what happened and he is going to join forces with us to get to the root of the matter and to make sure that this will not happen again. “For us, it is a threat to our democracy. The invasion of the parliament is not acceptable to any person, it is not acceptable to me, it is not acceptable to the VP, it is not acceptable to my colleagues and I believe it is not also acceptable to the President. So, those who acted this script are on their own.” On the access of the suspended Senator Ovie Omo-Agege into the chambers, Ekweremadu said, “It was a breach of the law for him to force himself into the chambers. The police are still investigating.” FG Orders Probe Of NASS Invasion However, the Federal Government said it had directed security agencies to unravel the circumstances surrounding the breach of security that led to the invasion at the Senate chamber. Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information and Culture, said in a statement that the government had ordered that security around the National Assembly complex be reinforced to prevent a recurrence. But, few hours after the mace was taken away, it was recovered under a bridge in the Federal Capital Territory,(FCT), Abuja. However, observers wonder if it was justified for Senator Omo- Agege to have allegedly invaded the Senate after his suspension. This is as the Senator has reportedly denied link with the invaders. It Is Shameful – Rights Activist Prince Thomas Ahonfoh Adoakhai, a University lecturer and Benin-based human rights activist, said. “The issue of Chief Ovie Omo Agege’s involvement in the invasion of the Senate by thugs has not been fully established by security agents. “If it is established that Senator Agege was actually involved, I will describe it as shameful and I will say it is the issue of insecurity that led to such act by a supposed distinguished Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria who happens to be a lawyer by profession. “If it is found to be true that Agege led or sponsored that invasion and I stand here to say I am not disappointed by his behaviour, I am not being truthful to my conscience and my creator. “Again, if what we are hearing that his alleged action is in furtherance of Mr. President’s reelection bid and this is the type of assignment he, Agege, will agree to perform to ensure the re-election of Mr. President, I will say it is a dishonorable assignment, because, it does not befit the legacy his father, Justice James Omo-Agege of blessed memory. Justice Agege, as a practising lawyer and as a sitting Judge and chairman of many tribunals and commissions as well as the Chief Justice (CJ) of Delta State, commanded the greatest respect of all and sundry. This is why I am still denying or refuse to believe that Senator Ovie Omo-Agege was involved in that invasion.” It Is A Big Disgrace – Politician Adeoye Michael, a politician cum transporter, said: “What Senator Ovie Omo-Agege did was a very big disgrace to himself and the people he represents. It goes a long way to show the kind of person he is and more unfortunately to his family, because I am sure his children watched and saw what he did. Is this the kind of character he would love his children to emulate or take after him in the name of politics? “Again, what Senator Omo-Agege did was a proof of the kind of characters that made up the party members and as well as the level of desperation by the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) government to remain in power against the wishes of Nigerians. “They believe in forcing their way to get whatever they wanted. Or, how do you explain what happened during plenary at the Chambers of the upper legislative arm of government, the highest in the land? “I understand he is being investigated after he was declared suspended for 90 days or so. But for him to mobilise touts to invade the National Assembly for whatsoever reason(s), is the highest of impunity for somebody who calls himself a Senator. It beats my imaginations what some of our lawmakers do just to have their way. But, that is rather a very big minus for the entire APC family. “I even heard that the Presidency has condemned and dissociated self from the incident. So, who was he (Senator Omo-Agege) fighting for? President Buhari promised that he will serve for just one term, which was why many Nigerians voted for him. “Now that his handlers want him to re-contest, they should tell Nigerians why by way of convincing Nigerians on the change of mind convincingly, instead of turning everything into mischief and causing trouble here and there. The Senator’s action is not in any way justifiable at all. It is condemnable by every right thinking Nigerian.” It Is Unfortunate – MPPP Chieftain Chief Chukwumere AfodinkpaIbeji: Ex-Reps Aspirant (Owerri federal constituency and chieftain of the Mega Progressive Peoples Party (MPPP), said: “Well, if really Senator Omo-Agege masterminded the invasion of the senate by thugs because of his suspension, then it is unfortunate. “That amounts to one taking the law into one’s hand and it cannot be a solution to his problem. The embattled senator, as a lawmaker, is expected to be a shining example, which the younger ones should emulate. “There are decent ways and means he can seek justice instead of resorting to violence and rascality.” Omo-Agege Should Be Disciplined – YPP Chief Nzeh Victor Obijuru Durun: An Owerri, Imo State-based businessman and member, Young Progressive Party (YPP) stated: “Senator Omo-Agege should be disciplined in accordance with the provisions of the law for acts of lawlessness. If an elected representative can behave like Omo-Agege and is allowed to go scot free, then where do we go from here?” 0 comments