Abuja – Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, took a swipe on the opposition camp, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Sunday. Shehu said the PDP had become perturbed since President Buhari announced his intention to seek a second term in office. According to the presidential media aide, Buhari was not particularly desperate to become president a second time as the opposition party had claimed. Shehu, who took out time in a lengthy piece to undress those opposing a second term for Buhari, noted that PDP members could not extricate themselves as major culprits in the current crisis between herdsmen and farmers in the country. His comments came few hours after Buhari returned from the United Kingdom where he had participated at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM). While at the CHOGM, Buhari had raised observations about the polity in Nigeria on which the opposition feasted back home in Nigeria. But the presidency interpreted the PDP criticisms differently. It argued that since Buhari announced that he was seeking a second term in office all hell had been let lose, not minding the fact that PDP could not boast a single candidate that could challenge Buhari at next year’s polls. Shehu was media point man to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar who recently defected to the PDP and has declared his intention to run for the Presidency in 2019. According to Shehu, “The country is gearing itself up for the general elections in February next year, and with President Muhammadu Buhari announcing that he will bid for the governing party, APC’s ticket, to run for a second term, all hell has been let loose by the chaotic, ill-prepared opposition camp. “A joke on WhatsApp last week was about the abuse and insults heaped on Muhammadu Buhari, attacking him for everything wrong with the country but failing to answer an important question: who do you have that is better? “In democracies around the globe, second terms by incumbents are usually harder to get simply because, somehow, there is always some kind of anti-incumbency leading to a loss of faith among those supporters. “For President Buhari, who won with massive votes in 2015, his major challenge is to do as well as he did, or even better. “He came to power with a lot of expectations and Nigerians had, justifiably placed very high hopes on him. “As we said sometimes back, he as a consequence, has become a victim of the tyranny of expectations. “The weight of unrealistic expectations has evidently blinded many of the people from seeing the revolutionary changes happening across the nation. “Nigerians expected him to undo the damage in several decades of misgovernance and naturally, many are already feeling frustrated that he hadn’t done that in three years. “The problem with our opposition is that beyond fault-finding, they are unable to give or innovate a vision of their own on how they can make the nation better. “A so-called Third Force has failed to get political traction since it birth. “This is understandable, given that they have promised to give the country everything that is new but have so far produced no new faces, no new ways of doing things. “Certainly, there is no face that can be called the president of Nigeria. “For the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) parading itself on the glory of being the largest opposition, the party has not less than 10 leaders acutely ambitious to rule Nigeria. “It will take them minimally two to three terms of presidential tenure, that is eight to twelve years to reinvent the party. “Looking at the entire opposition landscape, it can be said that they cannot be united by ideology, the type that made the pre-2015 opposition fuse into a formidable challenger that pushed an incumbent out of office. “There is in no way, therefore, they can choose leaders with unanimity. “What then they have taken to, is scaremongering by fanning ethnic and religious divisions among the minorities especially in the Middle Belt where hundreds of innocent citizens are confronted with violent death. “Before they take the words out of my mouth, let me state that the spate of those killings are tragic and unacceptable. “They ought not happen and I am aware of how sad the presidency is about these unfortunate goings-on. And there is so much that is being done to end the killings. “More, however, could still have been achieved if there is cooperation extended to the security agencies by everyone, and by everyone, I mean especially the political opposition. “A political warlord recently ordered the provocative stoning of a Nigerian Air Force personnel as their chopper landed in a North Eastern state. “Today, government has irrefutable evidence that much as most of these killings are arising from herdsmen-farmers attacks, some of it is driven by politicians. “The recent arrests by the army in Taraba State point to a clear political sponsorship, and the kingpins, some of whom have been arrested have been handed over to the DSS for further investigation. “Others who are being sought have either gone into hiding or they are pulling strings of blackmail to force the hands of government to abandon the search for them. “It is clear by now that the Middle Belt killings, even if they are not caused by the opposition, are no doubt seen as a political opportunity to set the tone for the 2019 elections. “Another matter of great disappointment is the ongoing attempt to victimise a group of religious leaders, the Arewa Pastors Initiative for Peace, representing 45,000 members, simply because they paid a visit to President Buhari. “We see this development as an unnecessary distraction at a time the country should be united against its common problems and challenges. “We are both mystified and disturbed by the growing lack of tolerance and accommodation by some groups who see it as their birth right to visit and address the president on their issues but lack the modicum of respect for others to do the same. “It is regrettable that an innocuous visit is becoming a subject of needless and unprintable attacks on the president and his visitors for doing nothing wrong. “For the avoidance of doubt, the president would not want to set a dangerous precedent for the country by discriminating against any group exercising their democratic rights of freedom of speech and association. “The Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, told the tale of the toad at the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu Colloquium recently in Lagos. “Let’s discuss tails,” the toad was told. It, not having a tail, the toad said, “no, let’s talk about other things. “Rather than coming to the table to discuss what has been achieved or not in key areas of policy, the conversation is today limited to one, the morbid tale of the relationship between farmers and herders. “Sad as these incidents involving farmers and herdsmen are, I wonder what the result will be if half the newsprint and airtime devoted to this is used to draw attention to malaria which kills 300,000 Nigerians every year; the 88,000 malnourished children and the 230,000 malnourished, pregnant women in the North East, a quarter of whom the UNICEF said would most likely not make it. “An important motivation for President Buhari’s bid for second term is that the gains made from 2015 should not be frittered. “Buhari is not involved in corruption and is not desperate for the office. He is among the few leaders we have who are not obsessed with money, cars and homes but working passionately for the country’s economy, peace and safety. “If a corrupt politician wins, we will go back to where we were in 2015. “Many by now have forgotten where we are coming from. The daily bomb blasts in our cities between 2012 and 2015, including the deadly attack on the United Nations office in Abuja have been forgotten by many.” 0 comments