Ado-Ekiti – Over 300 houses have been demolished in Ekiti State under ongoing urban renewal project embarked upon by Ayo Fayose administration.
State Commissioner for Lands and Urban Development, Mr. Tayelolu Otitoju who made this known said that the exercise affected houses in Ado Ekiti, Ikere Ekiti, Efon Alaaye, Omuo Ekiti, Ise Ekiti, Emure Ekiti and Ijero Ekiti among other major towns.
He explained further that government embarked on the projects to ease traffic congestion, adhere to urban policy expected of any civilized society among others, most especially Ado-Ekiti the state capital.
The commissioner also declared that government would not compensate owners of demolished houses that were built on waterways and setbacks, noting that the recalcitrant property owners had treated several government notices of contravention with disdain.
Meanwhile, the government continued its ongoing demolition exercise in Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, the action took a new turn on Friday as some adherents and custodians of shrines engaged the bulldozers’ men in a row.
The state government had Thursday made good its vow not to yield to pressure by the traditional institution in the ancient city to stop the demolition.
This, it did when it extended the exercise to some houses, shops and make-shift places directly adjacent the palace of Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adeyemo.
No fewer than 10 houses were brought down during the first day of the exercise on Thursday while a total of seven tombs were marked for exhumption. As of the close of work on Thursday, no fewer than four of the corpses had been exhumed while the remaining are awaiting action. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.