Akinwunmi Ambode, Lagos State governor, has assured that his administration would continue to support the National Youth Service Corps to provide the necessary platform for the socio economic growth of the state. Ambode gave the assurance on Tuesday at the swearing-in ceremony of the 2018 Batch ‘A’ Corps Members at the NYSC Orientation Camp, Iyana Ipaja, Lagos. “It is in recognition of the contributions of corps members past and present in areas of education, health care services, agriculture, social services as well as the implementation of many government programmes that my government will continue to support the NYSC in Lagos State. “We will continue to create avenues to partner and work with the scheme to provide the necessary platform for the socio-economic growth of Lagos State,” he said. Governor Ambode who was represented by Jemilade Longe, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Relation, also urged the Corps members to pursue the path of excellence during and after the orientation course. “As we induct you into national service, I wish to celebrate the exploits of your predecessors who provided worthy services to our people and encourage you to imbibe and pursue the path of excellence which they towed. My young compatriots, the orientation course is very crucial as you start the service year because it provides the platform to prepare you for challenges of the service year and beyond. I therefore admonish you to take all aspects of the orientation course seriously and ensure that you imbibe the values of the scheme,” Ambode said. He also commended the management of the National Youth Service Corps for the establishment of the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship. “The Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme which is designed to train and prepare you towards achieving self-reliance during and after the service year should be given utmost priority,” the governor, said. In addition, during the swearing-in, Prince Mohammed Momoh, State Co-Ordinator, NYSC Lagos State, said a 2,768 Corps members comprising of 1,172 males and 1,596 females were registered to take part in the three weeks orientation course. He urged the corps members to take full advantage of the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development Programme which is aimed at turning the corps members into job creators rather than job seekers. While he acknowledge the support of the State Government for its unwavering support to NYSC in the state, he singled out the contribution of Mrs. Bolanle Ambode to the welfare of the corps members. 0 comments