Turkey, Russia and Iran stressed their determination to speed up efforts to “ensure calm on the ground and fight against separatism in Syria,” a joint statement released after the trilateral summit on Wednesday said. “The Turkish, Russian and Iranian presidents vowed their joint resolve to speed up efforts to ensure calm on the ground. “They also vowed to protect civilians in the de-escalation areas, as well as to facilitate rapid, safe and unhindered humanitarian access to these areas,’’ Turkey, Russia and Iran said. Meanwhile, the three countries expressed their determination to stand against separatist agendas aimed at undermining the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria as well as the national security of neighbouring countries. “The leaders reject all attempts to create new realities on the ground under the pretext of combating terrorism,’’ they said. The presidents “underlined that the Astana format had been the only effective international initiative that had helped reduce violence across Syria. It had also contributed to peace and stability in Syria, giving impetus to the Geneva process in order to find a lasting political solution to the Syrian conflict. A tripartite summit on Syria was held in Ankara with the participation of Turkish President Recep Erdogan, Russian President Vladimir Putin, and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani. The closed-door meeting lasted around one hour and 40 minutes, during which the leaders discussed steps that would be taken in the coming days to resolve the Syrian crisis. The first such tripartite summit was held in Russia’s Black Sea resort of Sochi on Nov. 22, 2017 to discuss progress made in the Astana peace talks and changes in Syria’s de-escalation zones. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.