Barrister Mutiu Agboke is the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) in Oyo State. He featured on recent live programme ‘Sunday Morning Live’ on FM radio in Ogun State recently. OYENIRAN APATA who monitored the session, brings an excerpts: People have accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of registering underage people as voters. How could the public object to false information provided by voters during registration? When you are objecting to false claims by a person, you must be sure of your objection and the grounds that you have better information to guide us. If you know somebody that has committed this offence and you object strongly, come with verifiable evidence and INEC will act. What is the level of voter education in the country and what is the relationship between INEC and the National Orientation Agency (NOA) in terms of reaching out to the voters on election duties and responsibilities? We have a very robust and highly cooperative relationship with the NOA. There is no way INEC can do it alone and one of the methods INEC has introduced in this regard is for our development of two things. One is INEC’s strategic plan with a view to consolidating free and fair elections in Nigeria for the period of 2017 to 2021. The second is what INEC tagged Strategic Programme of Action. The main thrust of these documents is a robust engagement and inclusion of our major stakeholders in all INEC activities. By major stakeholders, we meant political parties, civil society groups, the people with disability, NOA and other organisations that are working for the entrenchment of democracy and democratic values. The NOA is important to us and we have been doing it together. For instance, the Oyo State, the NOA Director gives me reports of what transpires during an interface with the public on a daily basis. As we have electoral officers in local council areas, so also the NOA has its offices in local council areas and they furnish me with reports on what happens in the respective localities. Could you educate Nigerians on the voter registration exercise? What we do with CVR is not just for anybody to register. They are meant for certain categories of Nigerians like those individuals who at the time of registration turn 18 years old; those who in their lifetime have never register with INEC; the third are the people who are in possession of our temporary voter cards (TVC). Of course, they have registered, but they are given the temporary card but did not know what we call the VIN number on the upper side of the card on your left is a long number. Those numbers, in most cases, may not be complete due to the error by the machine that perhaps captured few of the 12 numbers that is supposed to be on the card. Such people’s PVC may never come. We use this period to effect correction on the card or perfect the registration for this group of the voter. If you have PVC that is defaced or the security features on the card have washed off for one reason or the other, you will be given a form that will be processed and print another one. For those who have misplaced or lost their PVCs either to theft or other reasons, they will be given forms to fill and we will reproduce. If hitherto you lived in Ota, and now you have moved to Abeokuta on election day, practically you will not be able to move to your former location to exercise your right. You don’t need to do fresh registration; the best to do is to bring the TVC or PVC to INEC. If you have lost the temporary card, don’t go for fresh registration, just come to INEC and tell us your plight you will be given a form. But, if it is the PVC you have misplaced, you need to obtain a police report, do an affidavit and bring it to us. This is necessary because anybody can claim to have lost his or her PVC. If it is the temporary card, you may not require report because if you have received the PVC and lied, it was the TVC you lost, you cannot lie to us because our data base will expose you. Go to the local council where you currently reside because you cannot be living in Odeda in the past for instance and think you will return to Odeda to show solidarity. It is about where you are currently resident. Our officer will help you to move your voting right to the polling unit closer to your new place of abode. It is important for all of us to take part in the exercise and it does not leave out leaders of religious bodies. If men of God refuse to participate in the process, the devilish ones will take charge and if you pray to God, he may not answer for being lackadaisical. What assurances would you give on the safety of the citizens and children that would be used as ad hoc staff? On the issue of security on and before the election, security agencies will be there. A synergy has already been established. In all the states, all the RECs have a committee that allows us to meet every time and then. I am the chairman of my state and the Commissioner of Police is a co-chairman. We look into the issue of security even before election approaches. We meet and discuss and analyse the realities on the ground. People should not be pessimistic. We are going to deliver in these areas. People had been complaining that they were tired of going to queue at registration centres. How would you react o this situation? On the issue of registration, people have complained to me that they are tired and that the crowd is much. They just have to endure and we have to manage the crowd. As I speak, people get registration centres as early as 4.am to pick a number. People have complained of the crowd. We just have to endure, but maintain orderliness. On the voter card collection, nobody should to collect PVC based on last year’s registration. It is not yet out. Those who registered in 2017 should not disturb INEC. In Ondo State, where I just left, there are 370, 000 PVCs uncollected. Oyo my present posting has 649, 183 PVCs uncollected, while Ogun State has about 400, 000. What are we talking about? It is about those cards for 2011 and 2015. Those who have just participated in the ongoing registration, their cards will start coming out by the middle of May this year Nigeria now has 68 political parties. How would INEC manage this situation? Apart from the 68 political parties officially endorsed, there are over 90 associations that have approached INEC for registration. If they meet the INEC requirements, they will be allowed. It is INEC’s responsibility to devise a means, the modalities and methodology to make the system work. What would the ballot paper look like? It can be as long as long as the prayer mat used by Muslims. As I speak to you, we have gone round and participated in elections. I was in Angola. INEC was in Pakistan, where their ballot paper is as long as prayer mats. Even if is for us to have a booklet, the challenge INEC is pushing to all the stakeholders is that they should educate the electorate to identify the logos, emblems and identities of their choices. Recently, it was in the news that INEC would burn unclaimed PVCs. What would happen if owners of the cards later turned up to request for them? Let me put a few things in proper perspective. There is nothing like burning of uncollected PVCs. My brother REC in Ondo, Dr. Rufus Oloruntoyin Akeju, was purported to have made that statement that has since been refuted. He was misquoted. If that will happen, it is not the responsibility of state REC to state that. INEC is the one. We don’t have INEC Oyo, INEC Ondo or INEC Benue. INEC is one. On a matter of policy, such information will emanate from the headquarters. As I speak, INEC headquarters has not said that uncollected PVCs will be burnt. That is a misrepresentation. As regards the election timetable that generated a lot of controversies, is INEC worried about this development? INEC is not worried. Why do we need to be worried? We have a mandate as provided by the constitution to conduct the election and in line with that, we have come with a timetable. We stand by the timetable. To other arms of government, the timetable has generated a lot of issues and INEC is watching. For now, we stand by the timetable we have released. If anything unfolds tomorrow, INEC will comply. According to the Electoral Act, is INEC subject to instructions from the National Assembly? INEC is not is being supervised. We have to get this right. But it maintains and sustains a synergy between it and the National Assembly. The National Assembly has a Chairman, Senate Committee on INEC. There is another House Committee on Electoral Matters. All these committees perform certain oversight functions on things we do, which they say they should observe. But, they are not part of our policy makers. INEC makes policy and will defend the policies. What assurance would you give Nigerians and the young ones like the corps members that will serve as ad hoc staff in the election? I want to say it again that INEC is on top of the situation. All that we need is the assistance to deliver. I am assuring Nigerians that the 2019 elections will be on the principle of one-man, one-vote. The modalities for us to deliver and distribute PVC are surrounded by so many factors, like the failure of the people to collect PVCs. Based on the field experiences I conducted in Oyo State, at one of the retreats we did, one of my colleagues from the North Central made a presentation where it was revealed that majority of those who have not collected their PVCs in the North are housewives. This is because since they are mobilised to register, nobody to mobilise them to go for collection. It is easy for people to register. But, to collect, somebody has to beg before this is done. In my state Oyo, I called one my HoDs and suggested that we should do an experiment to verify certain facts and see what the outcome will be to enable us to determine next line of action. We assembled 100 PVCs that are yet to be collected. I now said we should start calling their phone numbers. Out of the 100, it was just one person that is currently resident in Oyo State. Each time we call, the response we receive is, ‘INEC, so you can call now. Ah Nigeria is getting better. Unfortunately, I am now in Akwa Ibom’. Another person will say ‘thank for this call. I am not in Umuahia’. That was what we did for all the uncollected PVCs. We now understood what the problem was. What we did was to quickly encourage them not to go and do fresh registration, but to collect a form and we will help them to transfer their voting right to their present place of residence. This is one of the reasons for uncollected PVCs. Where you have an area populated by students, most of them would have graduated. Also, where you have corps member during service period, once they complete their national service, they will relocate to different parts of the country in search of jobs or back to their base. However, we will continue to step up the tempo of our awareness. Registration is only within your registration area. In Oyo State, the stakeholders insist that we should be carrying our machines across the registration area. That is the wards. As we go with machines, we carry the PVCs along and it has been working for us and we have been careful and we don’t just allow the card to go. This is because as we are trying to perfect the system. Politicians are also perfecting their own strategies. Somebody can claim that someone has stolen his card. You can’t tell. We are guarding it jealously. In terms of security, police are the ones that have the sole jurisdiction to provide security during elections. All others are giving supporting roles, like the NOA and others. We are launching our INEC voter education in secondary schools. You know usually when prefects are to be appointed in schools, you know what plays out. I was made the Assistant Senior Prefect. But, I knew what led to that. It is such that somebody’s desire would have overridden the interest of another person. We decided that we should start entrenching democratic values in the minds of our students. You know what we did? We carried our ballot boxes to the various schools, give them ballot papers to vote because they know themselves too well. They know those who are just talkative and those who are intelligent and others that exude leadership traits and we asked them to cast their votes and results will be counted and a winner declared. That is what we are trying to do. Again, another important stakeholders are people with disabilities. We are engaging them because they also have a stake in the system. We are talking to political parties to allocate certain offices to them. Likewise, we are mainstreaming women. We are bringing them into the system. We are talking to women not to collect N500, N1,000 or measurement of rice from politicians. They must also be part of the process. What is the stand of INEC on alleged illegal registration centres in Kwara and issuance of voter card to underage voters in Kano? As far as INEC is concerned, we have not discovered any underage person in our register, unless somebody has a superior information and evidence that can controvert our position and we are open to that. We are prepared to stop politicians from perpetrating electoral fraud. Because of the development in Kano, all RECs have been given marching orders by the chairman. That led to what we discovered in Oyo East Local Government. We discovered a woman who specializes in the production of our temporary voter card by superimposing people’s picture on it and selling same for N300 and N500. We caught her and handed her over to the police. She confessed she knew it was an offence and we have taken her to court and she was arraigned. That is because we have opened our eyes. Oyo State matter is temporary voter card; in Kwara is a permanent voter card. Any card fabricated or illegally produced anywhere will be detected because the smart card readers are healthy and ready. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.