Nigerians were shocked last Monday March 26, 2018, when after three years it lost power to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2015 elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the nation’s former ruling party, apologised to the citizens for the “mistakes” it made during its 16 years of governance. Prince Uche Secondus, the National Chairman of the party, which is desperately seeking a return to its lost glory, issued the apology in Abuja, indication that the party has learnt from its past mistake. Secondus said: “We made mistakes. On behalf of my colleagues and members of this party, I apologise to Nigerians. We have learnt from our mistakes. “It was all part of our evolution process. Without it, there can be no maturity. I believe that PDP is more matured to provide the best for this country.” The PDP ruled Nigeria from 1999 to 2015. PDP Justifies Apology As Nigerians were still ruminating over the party’s sudden and shocking apology, the PDP next day tried to justify its action. It hinged its apology on the need to chart a pathway to national healing, renewal of hope and re-mobilisation of the citizenry for the task of rescuing the nation from the pains inflicted on them by the current ruling party. Speaking through Kola Ologbondiyan, the party’s National Publicity Secretary on Tuesday, March 27, 2018, the PDP said that as a responsible party with the interest of Nigerians at heart, “It is deeply saddened that our people are suffering because the nation allowed the All Progressives Congress (APC), a movement that has neither structure nor plan, to scheme itself into governance, devastate the country, wreck our once robust economy and plunge our citizens into a situation of hunger, starvation and daily bloodletting.” Ologbondiyan, in a statement, said that while certain mistakes were made in the party’s internal administration prior to the 2015 general elections, its new leadership has already smoothen the rough edges to ensure strict adherence to internal democracy and good governance in all processes. He stressed: “It is imperative to state that our apology has to do more with the fact that we made certain mistakes that allowed an anti-people movement to take over governance in our country. “Our situation under the APC has become so pathetic that the world is now contemplating on how to help us. Under the APC misrule, the average life span of Nigerians has become abysmally low, purchasing power is eroded, the middle class has been wiped off, security is almost non-existent, all the economic gains of the PDP years have been destroyed, and our nation is now placed on auto-pilot. “It is painful to note that under the nightmarish rule of APC, Nigerians have become so frustrated that they now consider suicide missions and slavery as options. “Our apology is to ask Nigerians, once again, to put their trust in the rebranded PDP, particularly, as our party is the only platform that is committed to the national agenda of peace, unity, justice and prosperous nation.” FG Reacts Expectedly, the next day after the PDP’s apology, the Federal Government, through Lai Mohammed, asked the former ruling party to go the whole hog with its apology to Nigerians by returning all the funds looted from the public treasury under its watch during its 16 years in power. Mohammed, in a statement, also challenged the party to show the genuineness of its apology through a discernible change of attitude. He said: “The PDP presided over an unprecedented looting of the public treasury, perhaps the worst of its kind in Nigeria or anywhere else in the world. Therefore, the best evidence of penitence for such a party is not just to own up and apologise, but to also return the looted funds. Anything short of that is mere deceit. However, a cross section of Nigerians has since been wondering if the FG’s call on the PDP was necessary. A Case Of Pot Calling Kettle Black – Lawyer Dr. Ighomon Samson Jomo , a Benin-based lawyer and public affairs commentator, maintained that the APC-controlled FG is not competent to ask PDP to return looted funds. He said: “I am not a politician. But from what we have seen so far of the APC-led FG in their three years in saddle, I think they are not qualified to accuse the PDP of looting when the looting is yet to be abated. “I will say if you take a critical look at the APC government today, you will discover that most of those who looted in the PDP government are the ones holding sway in the present government. Therefore, I will describe the FG’s call as a case of pot calling kettle black. “Looting has not ended. Those who looted and defected to the APC are there behaving as if nothing has happened and the government is not ready to beam its search light on them. “Rather, they are seen as political heavyweights, who will give them easy sail in the next elections and as such, are all untouchable.” FG Lacks Moral Standing To Ask PDP To Return Funds – Activist Comrade Kindness Jonah, a human rights activist, reasoned that if PDP truly admitted that it looted funds, it should return it. He, however, maintained that the APC-led FG lacks the moral standing to ask PDP to return funds, adding that before making such call, the government needs to engage in self-cleansing because there are traces of corruption in the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. Like Jomo, Jonah stressed that even in the APC government, there have been reports of corruption and as such, APC asking PDP to return funds amounts to a kettle calling the pot black. ‘APC Should Extend Call To Politicians Of All Parties’ Nze Michael Nwadinobi Ukachukwu, Second Republic Politician, and ex-chairman of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), aid the call on the PDP to return all our looted funds is alright. Ukachukwu, now a Zonal Chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP) in Owerri, Imo State, however, said the call should be extended to politicians of other political parties found to have equally stolen the nation’s money. He asked: “Are you saying that it is only the PDP members that soiled their hands when they were in power? “All have sinned and have fallen short of the glory of God. So, let us confess our sins, plead for forgiveness and return all that we stole.” FG Must Go Beyond Blame Games – Security Expert Michael Oladimeji, Osun State-based security expert, maintained that FG’s call on PDP to return looted funds is unnecessary He accused the FG of still repeating the old story of blame games, stressing that the government must go beyond this blame games it has embarked upon since 2015 when it took over the administration in the country. He said that the government must stop the blame games especially as it also has some shortcomings in the term of administering the country. Oladimeji noted that there are myriads of problems that the government must address, adding that some of the chieftains of the ruling APC have been fingered in some corrupt allegations. He said the government must face governance squally and work to ensure that dividends of democracy are brought to the door steps of Nigerians. He said: “The current government and its officers are also facing internal democracy problem and there must be need by them to sit down and resolve their crisis so that it can translate into dividends of democracy for Nigerians. “The government must look after its organisation and structure and resolve their crisis. Three years is enough for the government to be stable and meet the expectations of Nigerians before the end of this year. “Government should stop playing politics with the lives of Nigerians,” he said, adding that administration is a serious business and must be tackled with all the seriousness it demanded. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.