Makurdi – The Benue State Government has raised an alarm over planned attacks by suspected Fulani herdsmen on communities in the state. The alarm is coming at the heels of simultaneous attacks being carried out by the insurgents on communities in Nasarawa state. The Tiv farmers of Nasarawa state have alleged that the herdsmen had dropped the insurgents that were packed in lorries in the state before the attack on Tiv communities in the state about three days ago. It could be recalled that similar alarms raised by the Benue state government before the January 1st attacks were ignored by security agencies in the state. The action of security agencies led to the mass killing of farmers in Benue on New Year day by the suspected Fulani herdsmen early in the year. The Benue State Acting Governor, Benson Abounu disclosed this in Makurdi after the State Executive Council (SEC) on Wednesday. He explained that security reports available to government indicated that a large numbers of hired mercenaries have occupied the Benue valley with intentions to launch simultaneous attacks on five major communities in the state. According to him, the mercenaries have already taken positions aimed at attacking the identified areas, which are mostly in the riverine communities of the state. He also called for immediate action by the Federal Government and security agencies to safeguard lives and property of the Benue people. His words, “We have received security reports which indicate that a large numbers of hired armed mercenaries have moved into the Benue Valley and had mapped out five different locations in Benue state to launch possible attacks on the communities in the state simultaneously. “This development is absolutely worrisome and unhealthy to our state and we condemn it in totality. “The reports further showed that the hired mercenaries would be carrying out their nefarious attacks on those communities occupied by people around the riverine areas of the state. “Since we got this report, we have never rested in our oars. I have been meeting with all the heads of security formations in the state for us to find ways of stopping these people (mercenaries).” Abounu urged the Federal Government to make concerted efforts towards the deployment of more troops to the state, as well as the need for roadblocks to be mounted in and around border communities of the state as measures to check the activities of the herdsmen. 0 comments