Abuja – The three-member panel set up by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to probe the circumstances surrounding Nigeria’s forfeiture of their last 2018 World Cup qualifying match to Algeria has submitted their report. Nigeria forfeited the match for fielding an ineligible player, Shehu Abdulahi, who had accumulated two yellow cards, in the last qualifying game that ended 1-1. He was expected to sit out the match. But for the fact that Nigeria had qualified for the World Cup, the country would have lost out of the mundial, if the result of the game was needed. However, the committee, while submitting its report, recommended the appointment of an Assistant Team Secretary for the Super Eagles. Nigerians had blamed the lapse on the technical department and the office of the general secretary but it appeared the panel had a different outlook. The Committee headed by Seyi Akinwunmi, NFF 1st Vice President, blamed the lapse on the workload placed on the team’s secretary, Dayo Enebi Achor. It, therefore, recommended that the appointment of an Assistant Secretary with some technical savvy would forestall such a future occurrence. The committee, however, frowned at the inability by the Super Eagles to identify that Shehu was on suspension after the yellow cards in previous games and was therefore ineligible to play against Algeria. It regretted that after the Super Eagles had earned a point from the game to finish unbeaten in their group, an avoidable mistake did not only withdraw the point but embarrassed the country before the world. But it appears the NFF board did not give serious attention to the findings and recommendations of the panel, going by the decision that the federation reached at its recent Executive Committee meeting held at Transcorp Hilton.  The NFF had in a communiqué engaged itself in back slapping, even commending the players, coaches and backroom staff for a job well-done, contrary to the position of the panel. The Executive Committee was also silent on recommendations to appoint an Assistant Secretary to the team to forestall future occurrence. Besides the recommendation for an assistant secretary for the team, the committee noted that all the staff staff must be cautioned to ensure that anything that could embarrass the at the World Cup was avoided. It wondered how Nigerians would have swallowed the bitter pills that would have come as a result of such mistake if that match was the match Nigeria needed to qualify for the World Cup. The three man committee headed by Barr. Sheyi Akinwunmi has Alhaji Ibrahim Musa Gusau (Chairman of Chairmen on the Executive Committee of the NFF) as a member and Alhaji Nasir Saidu (Sokoto state FA chairman) as Secretary. Report of the committee was submitted to the minister of Youth and Sports Solomon Dalung before Team Nigeria left for the just concluded Commonwealth Games. He instructed the NFF to act appropriately as the World Cup is at the doorsteps but the NFF, we gathered authoritatively may have swept it under carpet and has no plan to employ the services of an assistant secretary for the team. 0 comments