Players in the African aviation industry at the 59th Airports Council International (ACI) Africa hosted by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), said for the continent to compete with its counterparts in Europe, America and Middle East, its airports infrastructure must be modernised. OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. In 2016, the African continent initiated 35 new airport projects in a bid to expand its airport infrastructure, while also undergoing expansion in airport development, but the aviation industry on the continent is still hampered by poor airport infrastructure, lack of physical human resources, limited connectivity and lack of transit facilities. However, despite the new airport projects and expansion drive, more investments are needed to boost the growth of airport facilities, but stakeholders and professionals in the global aviation industry have proffered solution to the infrastructural gaps in the system. Players in the industry at a week’s long Airports Council International (ACI) Africa conference and exhibition organised by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) held in Lagos observed that the infrastructural deficits are huge, but surmountable if all continent’s managers are ready to work with private investors. The 59th ACI Africa conference with the theme: ‘Business Transformation for Sustainable Development of African Airports,’ speakers said was apt, coming at a time the continent was striving to ensure a thriving aviation industry. In her speech, Ms. Angela Gittens, the Director-General Airports Council International (ACI), observed that the continent in spite of its human and technical resources was yet to develop its potential. She declared that in terms of infrastructural development, the continent was yet to measure up to others and challenged African Governments to collaborate with private investors in order to improve the gaps in the system. Gittens, insisted that the continent especially Nigeria needed to improve on its infrastructure in order to meet the challenges of 21st century. She expressed that the continent could only achieve transformation in its airports through the support of the governments and private investors. She emphasised that Nigeria as the most populous African nation had a role to play in the development of aviation industry, stressing that the country had a large market, but lacked proper coordination. She said: “The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) is walking the talk in its policy of ‘No country is left behind.’ Africa is referred to as a sleeping giant in terms of business and effective aviation organisation. Africa is referred to as a sleeping giant in terms of aviation business and we need to wake up to this challenge and change that belief. “Nigeria has role to play in the development of aviation industry because of its large market. We welcome Nigeria’s efforts to strengthen its airports and ACI as a body is dedicated to support Nigeria in tackling some of its challenges.” Also, Mr. Alli Tounsi, the Secretary General of ACI Africa,  in his presentation at the event expressed that charges pay by airlines on the continent could not be justified because of the poor infrastructure in most of African airports. He insisted that airports and the entire aviation industry were catalysts to nation’s development and required huge capital to operate to international best standards. He lamented that several airports on the continent still depended on aeronautical revenues while their non-aeronautical revenues were less than 15 per cent. The ACI’s Secretary General, observed other airports outside African earned between 40 to 70 per cent on non-aeronautical revenues, stressing that the only to measure up was to develop the non-aeronautic revenues. He called on the managers of airports across the continent to develop and diversify their revenues in order to recover invested funds and operate more profitably. “African airports should device a mean of generating revenues in order to compete with its counterparts outside the continent. We need to transform our airports and use available tools to help us reach the next level,” she said. In his paper, Bernard Aliu, President in Council of ICAO, noted that aviation had become a catalyst for sustainable social, economic and human development, directly and indirectly supporting 6.8 million jobs and generating $72.5bn in Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He explained that airports served as veritable gateways to this development and prosperity, facilitating the connectivity, tourism and trade, which in turn foster economic growth and new opportunities all over Africa today. He enthused that the connectivity was presently being enhanced with the launch of the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia earlier in the year, as well as through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AF CF TA) which was newly established by African Heads of State in Kigali, Rwanda earlier in the year. The current efforts by African Government, Aliu said would reposition air transport in Africa, and ensure its sustainability, stressing that regional air traffic was still forecast to grow at roughly 3.8 per cent annually through 2032. He, however, observed that this expanding air traffic could only be sustained and optimised through the continued development at modernisation of local aviation infrastructure, particularly at airports. He added: “This is a key reason why ICAO’s global plans are helping to establish globally-harmonised objectives and requirements in support of the worldwide modernisation of our sector, which is now underway. “Our related goal is to ensure there are no constraints of infrastructure capacity, technology and financial resources for aviation development. It has become increasingly difficult however, for many States and airport operators to mobilise the significant and dependable funding and investments required for high quality aviation infrastructure. “The very limited volume of official development assistance (ODA) and South-South cooperation funding currently available for our sector’s infrastructure projects is a big part of this challenge, as are the constraints being faced with respect to public financing more generally.” In a bid to ensure private participation in airport projects, Aliu called for sufficient institutional, legal and regulatory enabling frameworks, stressing that the absence of this had made it very difficult for financial institutions to invest in airport projects. He expressed that airport facilities were beyond just impressive new terminal buildings and called for more attention to be paid to the airside safety priorities at Africa’s airports, including international airport perimeter fencing, taxiway and runway safety and effective fire services and wildlife management. In his speech, Engr. Saleh Dunoma, the Managing Director of FAAN and the President of ACI Africa, declared that Nigeria had been in the forefront in striving to attain the highest levels of safety standards, which culminated in the certification of two airports in the country, thereby becoming the only country on the continent to achieve the feat. He explained that the goal of the management was to certify all of the country’s five international airports, stressing that the agency was working tirelessly to achieve the layed down programme. He expressed that the evolving nature of airport management demanded a transformation of aerodromes as public service providers and not commercial enterprises that were efficiently managed to generate more revenues and subsequently declare profits. Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of State for Aviation, said the government was willing to partner with private investors in order to close the infrastructural gaps in the nation’s aviation industry. He stated that government alone could not develop all the infrastructural deficits in the sector and charged investors to key into its policy of collaborating with private business organisations for growth of the sector. He added: “The full implementation of our projects will improve efficiency, service standards, economic base and curb capital flights. Our roadmap for aviation is on course. I assure that Nigeria will cooperate with member states to further improve aviation practice on the continent.” Mr. Boss Mustapha, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) insisted that in order to transform aviation business in Nigeria, the Federal Government would continue to attain and maintain global safety standards, strive to achieve competitiveness and user friendliness, install infrastructure and navigational aids to maximize aircraft utilisation for passenger and cargo movement and achieve costs competitiveness. He added: “For sustainable development of African airports, new strategies must also evolve. These strategies include holistic planning for defined development targets; effective and efficient financing plan and successful implementation. “The role of partnership with the private sector cannot be over-emphasised. This administration is committed to attracting investors and investments into Nigeria and is providing appropriate legislation, infrastructure and security to protect them.” 0 comments