Lagos – Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) at the weekend described Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as a terrible failure, saying his tenure has been a great disaster for the party. Speaking in an exclusive interview with Sunday INDEPENDENT in Abuja,  Sagay also hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for kicking against the one year tenure extension granted the party’s executives by the National Executive Committee (NEC), stressing that it would have provided the easiest way for the opposition Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) to regain the presidency. On attempts by some governors to ensure he gets a second term, Sagay, who has always been critical of Oyegun’s handling of the party’s affairs, said it would be suicidal as Oyegun has not shown the resolve and strength of purpose to direct the party the way it should. He said Oyegun not only tolerated the emergence of Bukola Saraki as Senate President and Yakubu Dogara as Speaker of the House of Representatives against the party’s directives, he was also hobnobbing with them instead of taking decisive action against them to serve as deterrent to others. “Oyegun has been a terrible failure as national chairman of the party. He has not shown the resolve and strength of purpose to direct the party properly and rid it of moles and enemies. “When a person, against the party primary goes to contest as Senate president and another one contrary to the party’s primary contests as Speaker of the House of Representatives, that is gross indiscipline and people like that should be punished and the punishment is suspension and possibly, expulsion from the party. “That did not happen under Oyegun.  Rather, he was cuddling, befriending and appeasing them, thereby allowing them to become monsters. The result now is that the National Assembly is the official opposition of this government; all that is created by Oyegun’s appeasement.  So, his tenure has really been a disaster for the party “I supported the rejection of the one year extension not because I didn’t like Oyegun but because if the tenure elongation had been allowed to stand, the PDP would have had an apian way, expressway to the presidency and the other offices because all the nominations of the APC would have been held illegal and invalid because the people who organised it themselves are not entitled to be there”. ” People who are occupying illegal offices could only produce illegal nominees. So, the president saved the party from catastrophe by rejecting the tenure extension,” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.