Abuja – Senator Andy Uba, representing Anambra South senatorial district in the National Assembly, on Friday faulted the Federal Government’s appointment of Evangelist Victor Uwajeh as a consultant to trace and recover looted public funds.
Uwajeh was recently appointed by the Chief Okoi Obono Obla led Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property.
In a statement by Uba’s lawyer, Anayo Adibe, on Friday, the Senator wondered the rationale behind the appointment in view of a four-count criminal charge pending against Uwajeh, before Justice John Tsoho of the Federal High Court Abuja.
“It presents a great obstacle to the intellect to fathom the reasons for and ramifications of Victor Osita Uwajeh’s proposed appointment to a Federal Government office as a ‘consultant on asset recovery’. “The gentleman, l use the label merely in respect of formal convention, in question is, until he presents himself bona fide to clear his name, and establish that his character remains in good stead.
“This is public business, and we as honest members of the Nigerian public retain the right to scrutinise those who are mandated to act on our collective behalf” Uba’s lawyer stated.
Frowning at the appointment, Uba stated that Uwajeh has refused to stand trial and provide himself the opportunity to clear himself of his charges.
“He remains, as described by the presiding judge, ‘a fugitive of the law’, and certainly a man of dubious character.
“What is certain, is that this is not someone who appears worthy of such an appointment.”
“If we are to persist with this rewarding of a disregard of our nation’s laws, we are only complicit in the soiling of our reputation on a grand stage. “Have we no remnant sense of propriety? If we do not take ourselves seriously and hold ourselves to some standard, we are only quickening a downhill slope into a dovetail of ludicrousity and disrepute.
“To drop metaphor, if we do not respect ourselves – and with such decisions as the one to appoint Uwajeh, we seem so hellbent on disrespecting ourselves- no one else will respect us” Uba’s lawyer declared. 1 comments