Lagos – As he comes towards the end of his second season in England, Pep Guardiola remains something of an enigma in the country in which he now lives. It is challenging for one to ask whether he remains the same – or whether England has changed him. The 47-years-old was born 70km from Barcelona in the sleepy town of Santpedor, Catalonia in 1971. He was the third of four children born to Valenti Guardiola, a bricklayer, and Dolors Sala and raised in a working-class home with solid family principles and a clear sense of dignity. He joined FC Barcelona at the age of 13. Guardiola made his full Barca debut in 1990, remained at the club until 2001 and was part of the ‘dream team’ that won the European Cup in 1992. He went on to play for Brescia, Roma, Al-Ahli and Dorados before retiring in 2006. He also made 47 appearances for Spain, scoring five goals. He has managed FC Barcelona B, Barcelona, Bayern Munich and now Manchester City. If life teaches us anything it is that those who are the very best at what they do are invariably the ones that work the hardest. Pep is no exception. Johan Cruyff became Guardiola’s great mentor, a man he would meet regularly before and after becoming a manager. Cruyff was a huge influence on Guardiola and they remained close until his death in March 2016 The principles are the same. It is not just about being the best at playing the game or cooking the best meal, but more about changing the way the game is played and how the food is served and perceived – while having fun in the process. Innovation, genius and talent combined with total dedication and unstinting toil and effort comes in many forms, be they sporting or culinary. “It is important for me to say this about Marcelo Bielsa because it doesn’t matter how many titles he had in his career,” Guardiola has said. “We are judged by that – how much success we have, how many titles we have won. But his titles are much less important than how he has influenced football and his football players. That is why, for me, he is the best coach in the world.” Bielsa told Guardiola during an 11-hour chat at the Argentine’s villa that football is all about an idea, fighting for it, improving players, and never losing the passion. Former Argentina manager and World Cup winner, Cesar Luis Menotti, who earlier this year shared conversation and wine chosen by connoisseur Pwep, admits Guardiola has changed football. “Pep is the Che Guevara of football. I always said a revolutionary wins or dies in the fight and Pep’s idea remains unwavering,” said Menotti. “He’s never going to change it: he wants to play well, he wants to own the space and he wants command of the ball. And he wants to handle the time, to stay ahead of the curve.” His obsession with football can lead to feelings of guilt and remorse with those people closest to him, mostly his family. In the early years of his coaching career he would prepare for any game in the same way, no matter the opponent. Three days before it, he spent hours watching videos of the rival, identifying weaknesses. Then he would show clips to the players followed by a training session solely about the match. It is here you will find Guardiola’s real magic. Once he has spotted a weakness in an opponent’s armour he can explain to his players how to exploit it. Speaking about the 2011 UEFA Champions League (UCL) final at Wembley – when Barca beat Manchester United 3-1 – Javier Mascherano said: “While he was talking it wasn’t as if he was referring to a game that we were about to take part in, it was as if we were actually playing it right there. “He was up and down, side to side in front of the board, gesticulating – and if you shut your eyes you were out there in the middle of the action. “Everything that he said would happen, happened as he said it would. During the match I was thinking, ‘I’ve seen this already, I’ve already heard all about it – because Pep has already told me about it’.” Mascherano said the 2011 UCL final played out exactly as Guardiola predicted. Like most people, Guardiola is a man who would like to be popular. The difference is that unlike many he will not compromise his principles for popularity. He cannot afford to do so if he wants to get to where he wants to get to – but perhaps it was not always like that. In the past he could not handle a bad look from a player, from say Samuel Eto’o or Thierry Henry, but now he understands it is part and parcel of the job. He will tell you one of his biggest challenges is to ensure his players love him and believe in him. He would like to be able to explain to a player why they have been left out – but knows they will never understand. “I was a footballer, I know why they feel that way,” Pep admits. So part of the job now is to find a bench full of good people because it helps to make, he says, “a team of champions”. To do so, Guardiola reckons it is important to make his players realise the privileged life they lead as footballers. “He showed us a video that was really emotional,” said Pablo Zabaleta, who played for him at City last season. “I nearly cried. Some of the players were crying. “There were some people from Barcelona who were working with immigrants, rescuing people from the streets. And he brought the physios and everyone in and said ‘I want you all to see how lucky you are to be doing what you are doing. We have the best building, the best training ground, we stay at the best hotels’.” He was very closely and emotionally linked to his players at Barca and said he had to leave because they were going to “hurt each other” as there were difficult decisions to make. To fully understand why and how he has transformed City we need to look at how he has changed things wherever he has been. When he took over at Barcelona he explained his ideology and how he wanted to play. Shortly afterwards, goalkeeper Victor Valdes came to see him. According to Valdes, this is how the conversation went: Valdes: “Can I talk to you boss?” Guardiola: “My door is always open…” Valdes: “I need to ask one thing; all that you are talking about is fine, but only if the centre-backs want the ball.” Guardiola: “I will make sure they want the ball.” That was it. End of conversation. By his own admission, when his new young coach arrived, Valdes had zero tactical knowledge. Four years later, by the time he left, he could have taken a PhD in the subject. In its simplest form Pep, who inherited a City side that had finished with the same points as United, has changed the club by identifying what was missing and what was surplus to requirements, then making the necessary changes. Then it was a matter of train. And train. And train. And convince them all they could win more and enjoy more with his methods and ideas. There is more of course. Mark Hughes and Mark Bowen were invited to Pep’s room after the 7-2 defeat of Stoke in October and they asked him about his time at City. How is the second season different to the first? And how do you keep motivating them to keep winning week in week out? “It’s easy when your two best players work harder and run further than anyone else in your team,” he said. He was referring to De Bruyne and David Silva. “What excuse does any other player have, if those two were doing that?” Through his career he has transformed players who thought they had made it, who probably thought they had nothing new to learn. Shortly after Pep’s appointment as head coach at Barcelona, Xavi had been considering his position at the club. Eager to find out where he stood, he went to see the new manager. Xavi: “I won’t beat around the bush, Pep. I have one question for you; do you count on me?” It took Guardiola 20 seconds to reignite Xavi’s spark at Barcelona Pep: “I don’t see this team without you in it. I just don’t see this working without you.” With that, Pep had reignited Xavi’s spark. The whole conversation had lasted less than 20 seconds. While at Bayern he converted Lahm, one of the best full-backs in the world, into a great midfielder. Pep later called him “one of the most fantastic players I ever trained in my life and one of the most intelligent”. Lahm went on to captain Germany to victory in the 2014 World Cup, often playing in the centre of the park. Now at City he has transformed De Bruyne, with whom he has long conversations about football and life. But mostly football. De Bruyne is one of those players who get everything with very little explanation. Clearly, he had been doing his homework and knew Guardiola was going to challenge him to come out of his comfort zone. After the first few conversations, and once he had confirmed his quality in training, Guardiola devised the idea of giving him a more central role. De Bruyne could almost be considered the first signing of Guardiola’s era because Begiristain knew such a player would fit perfectly in a Pep team. And Pep fully agreed. Raheem Sterling has been transformed from being a figure of fun into practically a near-certain starter for his country. Defender Nicolas Otamendi was ridiculed by many but has gone on to become one of the most effective defenders in the Premier League. Most importantly, Ederson apart, the regular starting line-up is filled not with players Pep has bought but with those there when he arrived and who he has improved. In fact most of the players that have significantly marked his tenure wherever he has coached (Sergio Busquets, Xavi, Messi, Lahm, Arjen Robben, De Bruyne, Silva, Otamendi, Sterling) were already at their clubs when he arrived. That, ultimately, is his greatest achievement. But the game is, like everywhere else, 11 versus 11 and the dimension of the pitches are basically the same. So he has learnt all about his players. He has found out who is good for his style and who is not. Then he has applied to them his principles, which do not change because otherwise, as he says, “what is the point of doing something you don’t feel inside”. So, more than the Catalan adapting to the Premier League, what we have been watching is a squad that has adapted to him. For Guardiola to enjoy his job he needs to find it a personal challenge, he needs a club that really wants him and people who trust in what he does and believes. It is all interlinked and it is all at City. He thinks there is still much to be done – and won. He is happy in a City he knows well, going to music concerts and regularly visiting restaurants with his coaching staff or family – his wife Cristina and his children Valentina, Marius and Maria, who live with him in the city centre. He does not watch three matches of his side’s next opponent any more, which at the time he thought vital to avoid anything escaping him. Now he watches selected pieces of action in half-hour sessions. And so he arrives at the games fresher. He still hates it when the opposition have the ball, but depending on the players he has, he can mold the method of attacking when possession is regained. In fact, since he left Barcelona, where he thought the team had to attack together and mostly in one particular way, he has learnt different ways of hurting rivals with the ball. Guardiola enjoyed a glittering playing career with Barcelona that saw him win six La Liga titles and the Copa del Rey twice. He also won the European Cup and the European Cup Winners’ Cup. As Barca boss Guardiola won 14 trophies in four seasons – La Liga (3), Copa del Rey (2), Spanish Super Cup (3), Champions League (2), Super Cup (2), Club World Cup (2) Won a further seven trophies in three seasons at Bayern before leaving for Man City in 2016. After a trophy-less first season in England, he won the EFL Cup this season and has now won the Premier League. He is the first Spaniard to win the English top-flight title, and he has won the top-flight league title in seven of his nine seasons as a manager. Man City captain Vincent Kompany: “It’s the same feeling as the first time and you can’t describe it. It’s amazing, such a difficult achievement and I’m proud of the team and everyone involved. This one differs in that we were consistent the whole season and we were able to play at the level we’re expected to perform at. “I’m buzzing, over the moon, so happy. I’m proud to be able to share this with all our fans, everybody who’s been there to support us.” Chris Sutton, ex-Chelsea striker, on BBC Radio 5 live: “Manchester City deserved it. Their brand of football this season has been scintillating. “They’ve scored more goals and they have a brilliant manager. Their football on the eye has been superb and they’ve been streets ahead of everyone else. “Old Trafford was a Theatre of Nightmares this afternoon. You’d think they’d back the derby win up with a strong performance. But they’ve handed the title to City on a platter.” Ian Wright, former England and Arsenal striker, on Match of the Day: “They have been magnificent. Guardiola has brought the right players. They have been scintillating all season and very much worthy champions. “City are already thinking about making sure they can retain it next season and do better in the Champions League.” Leon Osman, ex-Everton midfielder, on BBC Radio 5 live: “They definitely deserved the title. They’ve been fantastic this season, right from the start. Their performances out of the blocks in the first 10 games were incredible and they really set the tone for the season. “City have done it in amazing style. That’s what’s been so beautiful – the way City have won this league.” Man City chief executive officer Ferran Soriano: “Winning the Premier League again is a great honour for Manchester City. We are delighted to have done so providing our supporters with some very exciting and unforgettable moments. “We are committed to playing beautiful football and we are proud to have done it so brilliantly this season. For all Manchester City supporters, at home and globally, it is time to celebrate, acknowledge our friendship and enjoy our passion together.” Martin Keown, former England and Arsenal defender said: “Last year Antonio Conte was the pragmatic manager but this year Guardiola had the flare. “Guardiola is a serial winner of trophies so you go up another level. He made the necessary changes – he had the money to spend of course – but he spent it wisely and he set the tone. The players clearly know what they are doing and it’s a canvas for success.” 0 comments