Chief Henry Ajomale is the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the second term ambition of President Muhammadu Buhari, the Fulani herdsmen attacks, as well as his party’s performance within the last three years of the administration, among other issues. Excerpt: Sir, a lot of things are presently happening in the nation. So, how do you see the current state of the nation? It is unfortunate that we found ourselves in the situation we are now in the country, especially the activities of the cattle rearers or Fulani herdsmen. They have been killing and maiming Nigerians. It is a very serious concern to the government and the people in general. Nigerians and other ethics groups have been living with the cattle rearers for centuries and there has never been this kind of tension between the populace and the cattle rearers. The Federal Government and President Muhammadu Buhari should constitute a high-powered committee to find out exactly what is happening, or from where things are going wrong. Some of us believe that it is more serious than what we are thinking. Foreigners are infiltrating the country in the name of cattle rearers. As we know, a lot of cattle rearers are nomads. They move from one place to another. A lot of them move from Mali, Chad, Niger and come into Nigeria with cattle. I find it difficult to believe that the Fulani’s cattle rearers are the ones carrying guns and AK 47. When you go to Chad, one can buy AK 47 as cheap as N15,000. If it is so cheap, then it is very accessible to those who are coming from that side of the world. But, the fact is, there is still gun control in Nigeria and people are really afraid to carry guns. But now, how come there is this proliferation of arms? Again, some people who are Boko Haram could be coming into the country in the guise of cattle rearers, when they are actually Boko Haram members. That is why the herdsmen and farmers’ crisis should not be a matter for the police alone. Going by the sophisticated weapons the cattle rearers carry, the Nigerian police may not withstand them. So, as I see it, the crisis is more serious than what we thought. I believe that all the intelligence agencies, all the security agencies should unite to find a lasting solution to this problem. They should even consider it as being more serious than the Boko Haram. Boko Haram is worse, but this Fulani herdsmen menace is even worst. One may not know if those pretending to be cattle rearers are Boko Haram members. That is why the nation’s intelligence organisations should be at the fore front of the crisis to unravel this problem. It concerns all of us. Every Nigerian must be concerned about it and proffer suggestions on how to end it. With what is happening in the nation, would you say that President Muhammadu Buhari has a full grip of his administration? No doubt, President Buhari has a full grip of his administration. But, there is no way one can say it is 100% when some of these things had been in existence even before he took over the government. Can he turn himself to a magician to eradicate something that has been in existence for so many years? When one talks of Boko Haram, it has almost taken over Nigeria before Buhari came in. If ex-President Goodluck Jonathan had continued to be in the saddle of leadership, who knows whether Boko Haram would not have taken over the whole of the North?  They were able to get to Abuja, the capital of Nigeria. There were bombings here and there during the Jonathan’s era, even at the United Nations headquarters in Abuja. But, have you heard of any bombing in Abuja recently? During Jonathan’s time a lot of people died of multiple bombings here and there; in the market places, in the United Nations headquarters and there were bombings everywhere. Who said Boko Haram would not have overrun Nigeria if not for the present administration under Buhari, which has been able to curtail and incapacitate them in terms of force and weapons. During the time of President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration, the issue of Fulani herdsmen was not as pronounced at it is now. Why is it so now? The herdsmen and farmers’ crisis has been in existence for long. The difference is that now, it has escalated. Why has it escalated at this time? That is the question I ask you. Don’t you think that it is the Boko Haram that are behind it, pretending that they are cattle rearers? We have been living with the Fulani cattle rearers for centuries and there has never been this spate of violence. So, let us find out exactly why the crisis escalated when we are still fighting Boko Haram. Maybe, it is another area of getting into our territory and taking over Nigeria. Who said it is not possible? Everything is possible when you have a theatre of war anywhere. Boko Haram is not a regular army that would wear uniform. So, Boko Haram can come up in any form and become very dangerous for the Federal Government. Let us beam a serious searchlight on what we see. It may not be cattle rearers alone. May be, the herdsmen are being used by Boko Haram, who may be entering the country in another way. How do you see recent advice by Fr. Ejike Mbaka that President Muhammadu Buhari should not contest in 2019? The other time, Rev. Fr. Mbaka said that ex-President Goodluck Jonathan would lose. He cannot turn himself to God and Jesus. If Pesident Buhari will win, he will win. If he will not win, he cannot win. President Buhari should not be discouraged by what Fr. Mbaka said. He is doing a very good job. I concur with Senator Bola Tinubu that there should not be an automatic ticket to anyone who wants to contest election. If Buhari wants to contest, let him go back and seek for another mandate. If it is given to him, fine. That is the most democratic thing to do. Don’t you think that Senator Tinubu may be having presidential ambition in 2019, or may be working for the emergence of another candidate? If President Muhammadu Buhari is as popular as we think, there will not be any problem. Whoever comes out to contest against him have to run. In 2014, four to five people contested against him and he won. People still have more confidence in him that he will still win the presidential primary election, irrespective of other aspirants. When it comes to the election proper, that is a different thing. But, within the party, the thinking is that he will still win. Looking at the current administration so far, would you say that President Buhari has performed better than ex-President Jonathan? No doubt, Buhari is far better than Jonathan in terms of governance in all aspects. Buhari has performed far better that Jonathan. Corruption was at its peak when Jonathan was there. All his men were corrupt. Every one of them were going about enjoying themselves without the President even knowing about it; or, he pretended not know. Nigeria’s money was being shared openly. So, how could Jonathan have been better than Buhari? They are very much far apart. There is no comparison at all. In terms of security, corruption, dealing with the economy, Buhari is far better. There is no way one can compare Jonathan with Buhari. Buhari has beaten him in every way one may think of. But, ex-President Goodluck Jonathan asserted that the APC government has delivered more corruption than the promised ‘Change’. How would you react to his assertion? What is the proof? Oh, I don’t like people talking without facts. Does he have facts to support his claims? If he has facts, I will agree with him. I don’t hide under the canopy of APC. I am supporting Buhari because he has been curtailing corruption. Before him, the money that should have been meant for Nigerians and the poor masses was being taken away by a few people in this country. If Jonathan has any proofs that he knows of anyone that has stolen money in this government, let him come out and say it. I will back him, support him and even shout to the world from the rooftops to support him, if only he can come out with the proofs. It is not important for him to be saying that. What Nigerians want is the evidence. There must be proofs that some people are corrupt. And who are they? He should name them. There is no need of saying nonsense when you don’t have the facts. When you see somebody trying, it is good to commend that person than to condemn him. How do you expect the person to perform better in future? He would rather be saying, ‘That whatever I do, they are going to abuse me and so, why do I bother myself?’ That is what people like Jonathan are telling Buhari. I don’t think it is fair. The present administration is doing its best. They have been trying to put right what was done wrong, righting the wrongs of the 16 wasted years of the PDP. This is barely three years and you expect the man to perform miracles by putting right the 16 years of destruction which the PDP plunged us into? It is not possible. He has to take thing one after the other. Look at the area of agriculture. Thank God that the government took decisions on seedlings. They have worked hard on it and it has been successful. We are getting results. Today, we are not importing rice anymore. We are saving billions of dollars. Is that not an achievement? What really has PDP done in this regard during the Jonathan’s era? What can one point to as an achievement for Nigeria under Jonathan? Nothing of course! Corruption was at its peak then. But, a lot of Nigerians are saying that Nigeria is now descending to the level of a failed state under President Buhari…? (Cuts in…) Well, if Nigerians say that, then, what happened during Jonathan’s era? They should go and compare. As I have just told you, during Jonathan’s era, that was the time you found our people going to Libya; crossing the Mediterranean Sea and dying there! So, why were they running away from Nigeria? If the situation was good, why were they running away? Now, it is very rare that you find some people saying that they are going to Libya. One needs to be creative and that is what this government is after. One doesn’t have to depend on government for everything. And people have taken that to their heart and are working hard on it. Now, even some of them are employers’ of labour. If this government is not encouraging them, where do you think we would have been today? We have more foreign currencies available now than before, even when we were selling our oil for 100 dollars per barrel. On the last note, sir, what is your advice to Nigerians? Nigerians should exercise patience. They should give President Muhammadu Buhari time to be able to walk Nigeria out of the debts the PDP created over the years. A government of 16 years and that of two and half years are in two different worlds. I make bold to say that what APC has performed in two and half years, PDP was not able to achieve it in 16 year it was in power. So, Nigerians need to be patient. It is the responsibility of all of us. It is not only by criticisms. People should not dwell in criticisms, but should make suggestions or find solutions to some of the problems.  Whatever comes out of it, it will be for the benefit of all Nigerians. Buhari is getting old. We are looking for something that can help our grandchildren tomorrow. Now, criticising for criticisms’ sake, because you are PDP and I am APC, then your criticisms are not the way out. What is more important is to suggest solutions to the present problems. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.