The Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) on Monday received heart and lungs surgery equipment donated by Project CURE, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) based in Denver, United States. Prof. Edmund Banwat, JUTH’s Chief Medical Director (CMD), who received the items, told newsmen that they worth “far more than $300,000.” He said the North-Western University, Chicago, in Canada, offered to pay $20,300 dollars shipment cost of the equipment toaNigeria. He said: “In these days of under-funding, these are innovative ways of bridging that gap.” Banwat said the gesture had fitted into JUTH’s strategic development plans of expanding its scope of services. “We want to offer crucial services, like heart surgery, but have been incapacitated by the lack of equipment. “We have more than 100 children with heart defects that require open or closed surgery to correct. Aside such congenital cases, we also have adults that have developed heart issues. “What we have always done is to screen the patients and take them to Abuja where surgeries would be conducted on them by Hospital for Humanity, a U.S-based NGO. “Some patients are also taken to Salaam Hospital, Khartoum, with the Sudanese hospital footing the bill as part of a partnership agreement with JUTH. “Now that we have the equipment, we shall carry out the surgeries from here; we already have one trained cardiothoracic surgeon and shall train more,” he said. He said that the experts from the U.S-based Hospital for Humanity, who had always undertaken the surgeries in Abuja, had resolved to hold the first heart surgery in JUTH on May 26. Banwat regretted that many heart patients often die before it was their turn for the surgery, even as he expressed happiness that the surgeries would now be carried out in JUTH. Dr. Njem Josiah Miner, the hospital’s cardiothoracic surgeon, said the arrival of the equipment was a milestone in Nigeria’s healthcare delivery system. He said that there was enough manpower for heart surgery at the hospital, adding that what was required was the enabling environment to work. “The heart and lung surgery machine is here; the required consumables are also here. What remains is for us to get down to work immediately,’’ he said. comments