Lt. Gen. Theophillus Yakubu Danjuma, former Chief of Army Staff and Minister of Defence, recently stirred the hornet nest when he raised an alarm, alleging an attempt at ethnic cleansing in the country and asked Nigerians to rise up to resist it. Danjuma’s outburst came against the backdrop of killings be the Fulani herdsmen and allegations of ethnic and religious cleansing, which are said to have risen since the advent of the current administration, especially in the North Central geo-political zone. Recently, people suspected to be Fulani herdsmen attacked communities in Benue, Kogi, Plateau, Taraba, Kaduna states, among others, even as they also do a lot of havoc in South East states of Enugu, Imo and Ebonyi states, as well as Ekiti, Ondo, Kwara, Delta and Edo states in the South South. Danjuma, who hails from Taraba State, spoke in Jalingo at the convocation of Taraba State University. He said Nigerians must be alert to defend themselves and the country. He accused the military of complicity in the killing of farmers by herdsmen. He also accused the Armed Forces of partisanship and colluding with armed bandits to perpetrated carnages across the country. Danjuma said: “When I arrived this arena, I saw rich cultural display, and I was amazed at the rich cultural heritage of our people. Taraba is a mini Nigeria with diverse ethnic groups living together relatively peacefully. But, the peace in this state is under assault. “There is an attempt at ethnic cleansing in the state and of course, in some riverine and rural states in Nigeria. We must resist it. We must stop it. Every one of us must rise up. “Our Armed Forces are not neutral. They collude with the armed bandits to kill people, kill Nigerians. The Armed Forces guide their movements. They cover them. If you are depending on the Armed Forces to stop the killings, you will all die one by one.” He enjoined Nigerians to rise up to defend themselves, saying Somalia would be a child’s play if they failed to act. He concluded: “This ethnic cleansing must stop in Taraba State and other rural states of Nigeria, otherwise Somalia will be a child’s play. I ask every one of you to be alert and defend your country, defend your territory and defend your state. Defend yourselves because you have no other place to go…God bless our country.” Danjuma’s outcry came amidst killings of hundreds of people in attacks on villages in Benue, Kogi, Adamawa, Zamfara, Kaduna and Taraba, Danjuma’s home state, since January. The 2018 attacks began in Benue, where about 100 people were killed in two local government areas on January 1. Danjuma is not the first former military chief with political clout to condemn the Buhari administration. Former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Ibrahim Babangida, both Military Generals, had condemned President Buhari for not doing enough to curb the killings. In January, Obasanjo openly called on President Buhari to “dismount” from power by 2019. Babangida also accused Buhari of failing to protect Nigerians and should shelve the idea of second term. He advocated for the emergence of a younger leader to lead Nigeria and make it competitive in a modern world. However, both the Federal Government and the Nigerian Army dismissed Danjuma’s allegations, saying that such calls were inflammatory and should be disregarded. FG’s Reaction Reacting Gen. Danjuma’s allegations, Col. Mansur Dan-Ali (rtd), the Minister of Defence, through his spokesperson, Tukur Gusau, said in a statement: “This is highly uncalled for and is invitation to anarchy and should be disregarded by well-meaning Nigerians. “The efforts of the Nigerian military towards restoration of peace, security and order in Nigeria are evidently clear and Nigerians continue to show appreciation for changing the security environment from what it was before.” Gusau stressed:  “The Armed Forces is well organised and highly professional in discharging its constitutional mandate. Therefore, if anyone has evidence of wrongdoing or dereliction of duty against our troops (the person) should please bring forward such evidence through the channel for necessary action.” He added that the military would “not be distracted” by comments like the one that came from Danjuma. Army’s Response In its reaction, the Nigerian Army described Danjuma’s statement as unfortunate. Brigadier-General Texas Chukwu, Director of Army Public Relations, in a statement, said the Army viewed the statement as most unfortunate at this critical time that the military had embarked upon demilitarisation of the North Central Region of the country. Chukwu said that the Army personnel had had to pay the supreme price for ensuring the sustenance of security in Taraba State. He said: “The attention of the Nigerian Army has been drawn to the unfortunate statement made by a former Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant-General Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma, during the convocation ceremony of the Taraba State University on Saturday 24 March 2018, in which he categorically asserted that the Armed Forces of Nigeria was colluding with militias and other criminal elements and was unable to provide security for the citizens of Taraba State. “He further called the people of Taraba State to take up arms and defend themselves.  The Nigerian Army views this statement made by the former Chief of Army Staff as most unfortunate at this critical time that the military has embarked upon demilitarisation of the North Central Region of the country. “While Nigerian Army would not want to join issues with the Elder Statesman, however, certain facts need to be clearly stated in the interest of the Taraba People and the Nigerian public. “The Nigerian Army is constitutionally charged with the responsibility of defending the territorial integrity of Nigeria and to aid the civil authority whenever called upon to do so. “In this light, the authorisation for the conduct of ‘Ex-Ayem Akpatuma’ was authorised and troops deployed to curb menace of the herdsmen-farmers conflict and other criminal activities in the North Central Region amongst others. “It is on record that the successes so far achieved in ‘Ex-Ayem Akpatuma’ have been recognised and accepted by Nigerians. The public is notified that Nigerian Army personnel have had to pay the supreme price for ensuring the sustenance of security in Taraba State. “For instance, a gallant non-commission officer of the Nigerian Army was beheaded on 16 March 2018 in Takum Taraba State by criminal elements” Chukwu said. The Army spokesman also accused the Taraba State government of not cooperating with the Nigerian Army at the inception of ‘Ex-Ayem Akpatuma’ due to the Army’s stance to remain absolutely neutral in the herdsmen-farmers crisis. “It is noteworthy to state that at the inception of ‘Ex-Ayem Akpatuma’, the Taraba State government did not cooperate with the Nigerian Army due to the Army’s stance to remain absolutely neutral in the herdsmen-farmers crisis.  The Nigerian Army will continue to remain as such,” Chukwu said. He advised Taraba people and Nigerians in general to continue in their day-to-day activities and be law abiding as anyone caught with arms and ammunition would be dealt with in accordance with the laws. “Every law-abiding citizen is assured of equal protection and security of their lives and property irrespective of his/her person,” he said. Sagay Backs Danjuma, Calls For Probe Professor Itse Sagay (SAN), the Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), quickly reacted to Gen. Danjuma’s allegation as well as the response of both the Federal Government and the Army. According to him, the law allows Nigerians to defend themselves from being massacred. He also backed Gen. Danjuma’s advice that Nigerians should defend themselves against killers. Sagay urged the Federal Government to investigate Danjuma’s allegations that members of the Armed Forces have not been neutral. According to him, the allegations that the Armed Forces guide the bandits to kill people and cover them up were serious. Sagay said: “General Danjuma did not say that the military is incapable. But, he accused them of bias and not protecting the people deliberately. That’s a very, very serious accusation. “And this is coming from such a senior man in Nigeria’s military – probably apart from former General Olusegun Obasanjo and General Yakubu Gowon, he (Dajuma) is the most senior former military officer we have – and he’s a man who has tremendous influence. “He has held important positions – Chief of Staff, Minister of Defence – so, he won’t speak lightly. So, his allegation needs to be investigated. “If there are elements within the military doing this, then the government has to take immediate steps to deal with them and put people who are responsible and patriotic in the positions.” On whether the resort to self-defence by Nigerians would not result in anarchy, Sagay said: “That’s an interesting point. “It’s a point I’ve always made myself. It’s not an illegal measure for Nigerians to defend themselves. If you look at our criminal law, there is the principle of self-defence. “If someone attacks you, and you feel endangered, and you defend yourself, and in the process you kill the person, the fact that you were defending yourself is a complete defence to any charge. The right already exists. “So, I think what General Danjuma is saying is that instead of each individual exercising that right, they should begin to exercise it collectively in their communities. I think that’s reasonable too. “There is breakdown of law and order if you’re in your house and someone comes and kills you. I think there will be less danger of breakdown of law and order if that person knows that the next time he comes to your house, all your neighbours would gather and stop him. “So, I think it’s worse for people to lie down complacently doing nothing while they’re being massacred.” Thus, based on Sagay’s advice, should the allegations of military complicity in the wave of killings in the country made by General Danjuma be investigated by the Federal Government?  Danjuma’s Allegations Are Strong, Should Be Investigated – Lawyer Dr. Ighomon Samson Jomo , a Benin-based lawyer and public affairs commentator, said:  “My response to that question is that this country owes Lt. General Theophillus Danjuma (rtd) a lot of respect because we know that he was a very efficient officer during his service days. “We know and are quite aware that he is one of the people that built this country and we also know that he is not a flippant talker. So, the statement he made, I believe, is very strong and before a man of such calibre came up with such a strong statement, he must have done his own investigation, based on the information available to him. “In view of the above analysis, therefore, I will suggest that the Federal Government should set up a high-powered commission of inquiry to investigate Gen. Danjuma’s allegation, because, if it is not investigated and corrected, there could be anarchy in this country. That would be difficult to curtail. “Let me add that the current killing by the herdsmen in the country is not good for this country and if we leave them like this, they can provoke a civil war. They can provoke disturbances that Nigeria will not be able to curtail. Killings have been going on unabated – Rights Activist Comrade Kindness Jonah, a human rights activist said it would be pretentious to call for investigation of the allegation made against the military by General Theophilus Danjuma (rtd), since killings have been going on in the country unabated. Jonah also alleged that killings have been a recurring decimal under the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. He stressed: “There must be secret collusion. Military is signing on the dotted line with the killer herdsmen, otherwise, they should have swung into action without Danjuma’s statement. Danjuma said nothing new. He stated the obvious.” Jonah also condemned the call by Myetti Allah for the head of Theophilus Danjuma, saying the statement amounts to declaring war on other Nigerians and will dovetail to other tribes in Nigeria sitting up against the Fulani. FG Should Not Joke With Danjuma’s Allegation – Politician Nze Michael Nwadinobi Ukachukwu, a Second Republic politician and former chairman of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), maintained that it is only a fool that can joke with such a sensitive allegation emanating from somebody like General Danjuma. Ukachukwu, now zonal chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP), and Owerri-based businessman, described Danjuma as one of the highly respected retired top military brasses in the country. He said: “If you check his military background, the series of offices and positions he held while in service, his role in successive military regimes till the time he retired from service, you will know that he is an institution of his own. “Therefore, for somebody like that to raise allegations of military complicity on any issue is not something that should be swept unclear the carpet at all. Danjuma is an elder statesmen and he has seen it all. “He knows the military inside out and so let us accord his allegation the serious attention it deserves by investigating it thoroughly and without sentiment. Doing otherwise will be to our own peril as a nation.” Danjuma Does Not Cry Wolf – APGA Chieftain Chief Osuji Uzodinma Onuchukwu, an All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) chieftain in Omo State, said: “Who told you that General Danjuma is crying wolf? Did you mean that he just woke up one morning and made that allegation? “General Danjuma is not a school boy and is not used to making unguarded utterances. Something must have provoked his comment. “I insist that he throws more light on his allegation because this has expectedly generated ripples across the country. Let the Federal Government not handle the allegation with kid gloves.” Military’s Bad Eggs Should Be Flushed Out – Security Expert Michael Oladimeji, Osun State-based security expert, has said that there is nothing wrong for the Federal Government and authorities concerned to investigate the allegations of military complicity in the wave of killings and crises in some parts of the country, adding that it is a welcome development. Oladimeji, while reacting to the allegations credited to General Danjuma that the military is incapable of protecting lives of Nigerians, said that conducting investigations into the allegations is good so that the authorities can take stock of what the present military, as presently constituted, is made up off. This, he added, will enable the authorities to take necessary steps to adjust and correct them before they get out of hands. Oladimeji, however, stressed that the military is not, and cannot be an island and must be the reflection of what the entire Nigeria society is made off. While noting that it is normal for such attributes to appear within the military as a body, he maintained that the military is also part of the Nigerian society and what happens in the country also affects the military. According to him, “It is possible that members of the dreaded Boko Haram, Fulani herdsmen and other militant groups across the country has their people in the military and there is no action that the military will want to take against his community or his people that he will fail to hint his or her kinsmen either to safeguard them or prepare for counter attack of the military action.” Oladimeji stated that to be sincere, the military has tried its possible best in the defence of the territorial entity of the country in the past and is believed to be very much ready to continue in this regard. “So, there cannot be an organisation like the military without some elements of bad eggs. As there are bad eggs in Police and other security agencies, so also there are good ones. It is the bad eggs that tarnish the image of the entire organisation. Until all these bad elements are flushed out, there is bound to be problem. “So, there is need to investigate the issue so that the authority will be able to take stock of all the elements in the military.” Aside that, Oladimeji said Danjuma’s comment could also be borne out of sentiments, “because, when he was also in the service as the military leader, could he boast that he had the total control of the total military body?? Military, Police Have Not Been Living Up To Expectation – Lawyer Barrister Nnaemeka Iheonu, a Lagos lawyer and member of African Bar Association (ABA), maintained that the Federal Government should proper investigate Danjuma’s allegations and should not see such as hate speech. He said: “Hate speech applies only to the poor and not for someone like Danjuma, a reputable retired Military General, who like Obasanjo and Babangida, cannot easily be arrested. He stressed: “Personally, I don’t see what he said as hate speech. His people are being killed. He has a military background. He feels that the military is supporting the herdsmen, who are President Buhari’s kinsmen, to kill his people.” Iheonu stated the government, the Police and the Military, have not been doing much to protect lives of the people. He cited the government’s clampdown on the possession of firearms, even when it is for protection, as one of such policies that are anti-people. He said: “The police do not do their work well. They look the other way when people are being attacked. They do not act to protect the people. Nigerians have lost hope in the Police. The Military also is not doing enough to protect the lives of the people, not only in Taraba, but also in Benue and Kogi and other states.” He maintained that instead of tackling Gen. Danjuma, the Military should do a self-assessment and flush out the bad eggs in it. Danjuma’s Allegations Should Be Probed – MPPP Chairman Hon. Dare Falade, the National Chairman of the Mega Progressive Peoples Party (MPPP), said that Gen. Danjuma was expressing himself, maintaining that he must have spoken based on information at his disposal. He said that the mIlitary and the government should not wave his allegations aside as incitement or see it as hate speech. He said that efforts should be made to investigate the allegations by the Danjuma. Falade said: “Gen, Danjuma is talking from the background of knowledge. The government should investigate his allegation, consider his utterances and buckle up. Such allegation coming from one with experience as a Military General, cannot be waved off by the government. “They cannot term what he said as hate speech. He is seeking a solution to a national problem and wants the government to shape up. That he is a Christian from North Central, he is expressing himself as his people are being killed. Or, is the government and the Military saying that there are no killings?” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.