Abuja – As Christians mark Easter, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Sunday said Nigeria could be likened to Christ who had gone through resurrection and progressing steadily. Osinbajo made the remark in a chat with State House correspondents shortly after the Easter Sunday worship at the Aso Villa Chapel, Abuja. He noted that the resurrection of Jesus Christ implied that the country was moving out of its present challenges to a point of greater hope and peace. “’The resurrection of Jesus Christ is also a strong and powerful message to the nation. “’The message is that our nation is on the path of resurrection; it’s on the path of progress; it’s also on the path of elevation. “We are moving out from all our challenges and we are going to a place of greater hope, peace, and prosperity and abundance for all of us,” he said. The Chaplain of the Aso Villa Chapel, Pastor Seyi Malomo, who delivered a sermon on, ‘The Temporary Hour of Darkness’, said Nigeria was going to rise again. He said that the resurrection of Christ signified that darkness can only reign but for a while. “According to the message today, darkness only reigns for a while. No matter the evil, the problem we are facing, just as Jesus only laid in the grave for three days, all these will be over. “As long as Jesus rose from the dead, we are going to rise again, even all of you listening to me,” he said. He called on all Nigerians to emulate the life of Jesus Christ who sacrificed his life for the salvation of mankind. He said: “In terms of sacrifice, we have to emulate the life of Jesus Christ. “’He sacrificed for mankind. And we are liberated and celebrating because he paid the sacrifice. “We are all called to do our role in giving that sacrifice that will bring the liberation, the greatness of our nation.” The high point of the worship was the rendition of songs to celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.