Airlines are bracing for threatened United States (U.S.) missile strikes against Syria within the next two days by heeding warnings to avoid flying over the eastern Mediterranean. President Donald Trump has threatened for days to strike Syria over an alleged gas attack in that country. His most recent warning on Twitter early Wednesday said Russia threatened to shoot down U.S. missiles fired at Syria. International air-traffic control system, Eurocontrol, warned airlines flying over the eastern Mediterranean during the next few days to be aware of the possibility of air-to-ground or cruise missile strikes into Syria. It also warned about possible disruptions of radio navigation equipment. Airlines seem to have heeded the warning with few flights going over Syria, according to FlightRadar24, an online service that tracks flights. The Federal Aviation Administration has prohibited U.S. airlines or foreign airlines flying with a U.S. certificate from flying over Syria since at least 2014 because of anti-aircraft weapons controlled by non-state actors, threats made by extremist groups and ongoing military fighting. “There are multiple extremist groups, known to be equipped with a variety of anti-aircraft weapons, including radar-guided surface-to-air missiles and man-portable air defense systems, which have the capability to threaten civil aircraft,” the FAA said in a statement. “Syrian and Russian military aircraft have been shot down during the course of the current conflict, and extremist groups have previously warned civilian air carriers against operating within (or providing service to) Syria.” The FAA prohibition doesn’t apply to flights of U.S. government agencies or contractors. The agency bans flights over about a dozen war-torn countries including Afghanistan and Iran. The worst threat is that a plane could be shot down, as happened with Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 in July 2014 while flying over eastern Ukraine. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.