Lagos – The newly launched business development and management platform, Ausso Leadership Academy (ALA) founded by Mr. Austin Okere, Executive Vice Chairman, CWG Plc, has received commendations from various business and managements experts in the country. Some of them who hailed the efforts in bringing to the academy to being are Leo Stan Ekeh, Chairman of Zinox Group, former Executive Vice Chairman of Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Dr Ernest Ndukwe, Mr. Segun Ogunsayan, Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Nigeria, and many others. Ausso Leadership Academy (ALA) has been described as a platform that will positively fine tune the mindsets of Nigerian top flight business. This represents the unanimous view of special guests at the official launch of the Academy in Lagos. In his keynote address, the erstwhile Executive Vice Chairman of the NCC, Dr. Ernest Ndukwe said the Academy is a welcome development. He singled out the ALA founder, Mr Austin Okere for praise, adding that his vision for the centre is good for developing business leaders. “The centre will serve as knowledge central bank for leading business owners to come for refueling of their business development ideas that will raise their marginal deliveries in corporate management from time to time,” Ndukwe said. “Time has come for even the extension of the ALA services to political leaders so as to retrain both public office seekers and those already holding the offices on the best ways of delivering the services for which they were either elected or appointed,” saying such consideration will “help the system get leaders that will give the best deliveries and scale up public services in the country.” Also speaking, the serial entrepreneur and Chairman of Zinox Group, Mr. Leo-Stan-Ekeh described ALA as “will fine-tune the business development and management mentality of chief executives on how best to achieve more using the same workforce and materials in the competitive world of business.” He, however, decried that “beyond attending the Havards, Cambridge and Oxfords of this world, Nigerian business leaders though they have the needed energies, they lack process and structure to go that extra mile that will make them global brands.” However, he was quick to note that “ALA will become that game changer that will positively fine tune the mindsets of Nigerian top flight business leaders in to believing that beyond whatever they have achieved in their businesses, they can aspire to inspire more in their chosen carriers.” Earlier, the ALA founder, Mr Okere revealed that the pioneer flagship masters class in the academy is billed to begin on the 17th of April even as other structured classes are being filled up gradually at the academy. He said the Academy was set up to address present days market realities. “The need for resourcefulness and an innovative mindset to reinvent oneself when disruption knocks on the door is a key skill every business needs to survive present market realities,” he emphasized. Okere added that the Academy has been armed to impact at least 200 Business Executives and Entrepreneurs each year in cohorts of 40 per Masterclass, with the first Masterclass coming on stream as early as April 17. He stressed that the goal is to crystallise a multiplier effect, disclosing that attendees will be mentored to become the beacons to other aspiring High Achieving Intrapreneurs (HAI). “We believe that attending Ausso Leadership Academy is a good investment in the future of Nigeria’s Business Environment, and hence you will recommend to your business followership,” he said. In her remarks, a Director at the Lagos Business School, Ms. Olamide Ibitoye congratulated the founder for his vision and charged him to remain focused in his drive to change the weak mentality of Nigerian business leaders to positivity and greater business development and management success. Other top business executives in attendance include the chairman of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) and other business leaders. The Ausso Leadership Academy (ALA) is a medium for experiential skill transfer from the some Nigeria’s Business Elites. Among the Champions who will be sharing their experience are Ibukun Awosika, Aigboje Aig-Imokhuede, Tony Elumelu, John Momoh, Frank Aigbogun, Austin Avuru, Toyin Sanni, Dotun Suleiman, Ndidi Nwuneli, Ernest Ndukwe, Mitchel Elegbe and Charles Anudu. 0 comments