Lagos – Senator representing Lagos  East senatorial district, Gbenga Ashafa,  last Friday embarked on an inspection tour of Intervention Projects sponsored by him in the 2017 budget, within Lagos East Senatorial District. The projects inspected are a fulfillment of some of his campaign promises to the people of the areas visited. The lawmaker who expressed his wish that funding for some of the projects had come earlier seized the opportunity to reiterate his commitment to ensuring that the people of the 98 wards of Lagos East enjoy the benefits of democracy in the tangible form. Ashafa, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Land Transport stated that “this is just an inspection tour of the projects requested by my constituents which I facilitated in the 2017 Appropriation Act. I would have hoped that the projects were completed earlier but then the funding for some of the projects just came recently as I have been informed by the contractors on site.” He  stated further that “I am only satisfied when I see that our intervention projects are delivered to each locality. That is one of the ways that our people in the grassroots would enjoy the dividends of democracy in tangible form.” Some of the projects inspected included a newly built block of classrooms with offices, toilet and storage at St. John Anglican Primary School, Imota LCDA, an ICT Centre/Town Hall also in Imota LCDA, a 500 KVA Transformer for residences of Agbowa, Ikosi Ejinrin LCDA where the lack of a transformer had led to persistent shortage of power supply for years. The Senator also inspected a Solar Powered Borehole in Itoikin, Ikosi Ejinrin LCDA. The residents who were full of thanks expressed their delight at the development in their area as they showered encomium on the Senator. Notable APC party faithful like Elder Lateef Sangosanya (L.G.A Chairman), Mrs Funke Ogun (Woman Leader), Hon. Sulaiman Yusuf( Former E.S and Youth Leader) and Otunba Nurudeen Yusuf (APC Chieftain) expressed gratitude to the Senator for a promise well kept and endorsed him for another term in Office. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.