As my dedicated readers might have already noticed, I hardly succumbed to the temptation of Nigerian movie-makers to always follow up an article with a Part Two. But today, however, I break my own rule. A number of readers have asked me what I thought should be the solution to the herdsmen threat in view of the President’s London disclosure. My recommendation is simple and almost pedestrian: Public accountability and good governance. The Nigerian government, like all democratic governments, must demonstrate open accountability in all its public conduct. I think President Muhammadu Buhari is mistaken in the belief that public accountability is only limited to financial matters; although, financial accountability is important, the most fundamental accountability, in my view, is the security and welfare of the people! All lives matter and governance is about the constant auditioning of policies and actions that promote, or detracts from, the security of lives and property of the citizenry. An accountable government can never afford the daily loss of lives the nation is witnessing from Taraba to Zamfara, Benue to Kaduna, Plateau to Cross  Rivers, etc, under a Police chief who thinks the killings are normal outcome of communal clashes and, in spite of such bizarre mind-set, is still allowed to continue public office. It is more confounding that all the while the President knew the unpalatable truth that the violence was the handiwork of malevolent elements, pursuing territorial and religious expansionist agenda, and, working in cahoots with international terrorism. The disclosure by President Buhari of the link between the herdsmen violence in Nigeria and the Libyan trained terrorists in the West African sub-region has now completely changed the matrix of security auditioning. And the fact that the government has failed to declare the aggressors as “terrorists” and invoke the relevant jus ad bellum (the law of war) defined by both the Geneva Conventions and the Hague Conventions (commonly referred to as the international humanitarian law), can get the Federal Government into hot water in the same manner President Omar Al-Bashir of Sudan did and he’s now being hunted with an international arrest warrant. The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) set up the Counter Terrorism Committee under its Resolution 1373 which was unanimously adopted on September 28, 2001. Currently under HE, Gustavo Meza-Cuadra, the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Peru as Chairman, the CTC mandate is to work with Member-States to fight “terrorist acts both within their borders and across region.” In September 2005 the UNSC passed Resolution 1624 asking member-states to provide the much needed legal and constitutional structures to prohibit and prevent terrorism including financing and provision of safe haven for terrorists because  many member-states, including Nigeria,  lacked specific laws on terrorism. In November 2012, the then Inspector General of Police had publicly bemoaned the absence of anti-terrorism laws which hindered the police in the investigation and prosecution of arrested suspects. Heeding to UNSC Res. 1624, the government decided to bring extant laws in tandem with international laws, i.e.  international humanitarian law, anti-money laundering law and the international human rights law. The Terrorism (Prevention) Act (TPA) of 2011 was promulgated by the National Assembly, later amended as the Terrorism Prevention (Amendment) Act, 2013. Howbeit, as an international crime, international laws and conventions, to which Nigeria is a signatory, provide further guidance. Here again, the Federal Government stands the risk of an international indictment. Res. 1624, specifically implores member-states (and this should interest Minister of Agriculture, Chief Edward Audu Ogbeh, and his quest for cattle colonies) to deny safe haven to anyone “with respect to whom there is credible and relevant information giving serious reasons for considering that they have been guilty of such conduct”). Chief Ogbeh is a brilliant linguist and needs no further paraphrasing of the quoted sentence. He should be worried about this proviso. Are the proposed “colonies” not veritable safe havens for the herdsmen accuses of terrorism in some parts of the country? Is President Buhari’s London statement that these killer herdsmen have links to Gaddafi trained terrorists not enough “credible and relevant information” about their conduct? What else does the UNSC need to charge Chief Ogbeh and his principals as accessories to the crime of terrorism? All it takes is a brilliant and committed lawyer. Since 2016 the International Criminal Court at The Hague has been investigating a number of “crimes against humanity” in Nigeria; two of eight cases deal with allegations against the conduct of the Federal Government while six pertains to the activities of Boko Haram. From an initial examination the cases have escalated to investigation which warranted the personal visit of the Chief Prosecutor, the newly elected Nigerian, Prof. Chile Osuji. During the visit of the Chief Prosecutor barely two weeks ago, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Nigeria, M. Abubakar Malami (SAN), decried the escalation of the investigations on the pretext that the Federal Government was addressing the issues. It made the same assurance two years ago but nothing has changed. On the contrary, a number of arrested Boko Haram fighters have been freed from detention without appearing in any court. In spite of the on-going activities of the killer herdsmen, no arrests have been made not to talk about prosecution. Now to compound matters Federal Government troops under the pretext of losing a member in a community went on rampage setting a village in the terrorist-beleaguered Benue State on fire. And the evidence of ethno-religious lingers on with the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) movement still on the terrorist list while confirmed Libyan trained killers left free with a Minister busy with the task of creating safe havens for them.  El Zak-zaky is still in detention.  As fellow victims of state injustice, we also demand he should be accorded his human dignity. Only God knows why the ICC Chief Prosecutor is from Nigeria. There is no hiding place for the Federal Government. It must account for its conduct; if not to us hapless citizens, certainly, to the international community. 0 comments