Here are the major headlines for today, 3rd of April, 2018 from Independent Newspapers, one of the leading Nigerian newspapers: 2019: It’s Foolish To Re-Elect Buhari, APC, OBJ Warns Again 28 Killed, 83 Wounded As Troops Clash With Boko Haram In Maiduguri Twenty-eight persons, including 13 Boko Haram terrorists, 14 civilians, and a soldier, were killed at an outskirt of Maiduguri metropolis when a group of insurgents and suicide bombers attempted to infiltrate the city on Easter Sunday evening… Read More » Ngige, Oloyede Cause Outrage Over N8bn Earned Academic Allowance The National Executive Council (NEC) of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) may decide on a fresh round of strike over roles allegedly played by the duo of Ishaq Oloyede, Registrar, Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), and Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Productivity… Read More » You Can’t Decide My Successor, Okorocha Tells Archbishop Obinna Rochas Okorocha, Imo State governor, has fired back at the Catholic Archbishop of Owerri Dioceses, Most Rev. A.J.V. Obinna, over the cleric’s recent criticism… Read More » Ambode Inaugurates 21 Roads, Two Bridges In Alimosho Council Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State, on Monday, commissioned a network of 21 roads and two bridges totalling 27.4 kilometres in Alimosho Local Government Area, with a pledge to further develop other communities within the axis… Read More » Former IGP Abba, DIG Ajao Vie For Okiro’s Job Suleiman Abba, former Inspector-General of Police (IGP), and Israel Ajao, retired Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) of Police, have been shortlisted for the position of Chairman, Police Service Commission (PSC), investigation by DAILY INDEPENDENT has revealed... Read More » GTBank Board Meets To Approve Q1 Financial Results... Read More » Petrolex Plans 250,000 Barrel Refinery In Ogun… Read More » Heritage Bank Partners WATIF On Sub-Regional Integration… Read More » Deltans Will Give Okowa Second Term –Ukah…  Read More » 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.