Maiduguri – ln less than two months from now, all the internally displaced persons ( IDPs) who have been staying in various camps in Maiduguri town for some years now due to the sudden outbreak of Boko Haram terrorists that rendered millions of them homeless, are now set to return to their ancestral communities. In this move, the residents of Ngwom community may be the first to return home.  It would be recalled that, before now, the State governor Kashim Shettima has repeatedly made it clear that, all the IDPs camping in Maiduguri town are expected to return to their liberated Communities latest by May 2018. For this reason therefore, investigations have shown that, the Ministry of Rebuilding, Reconstruction and Resettlement (MRRR) of IDPs is working tirelessly to ensure that, all the ongoing projects across the 27Local Government areas of the State are completed before the slated date. It is interesting to note that, Shettima’s Government’s efforts to address the state’s huge infrastructure deficit and restore security have undoubtedly begun to yield positive results in the state. His decision to rebuild most of the houses destroyed by the insurgents in the villages and towns of Borno is a significant step towards improving the lives of the people who went through so much hardship. Meanwhile, facts on ground revealed that, many of the IDPS in Borno are still scared of going back to their communities, even as it is clear that, the Military have successfully liberated almost all the Local Government areas of the state from Boko Haram captivity. Although,  in fairness to the Nigerian Military, they have gained ground in the fight against Boko Haram. But the worrisome aspect of it is that, the terrorists group has stepped up attacks on soft targets, including markets, worship places and sites sheltering displaced persons. Reacting on the Government’s plan to relocate the IDPS to their original homes, a senior citizen of Borno whose name was given as Alhaji Ahmed Tanko opined that, the unfortunate truth is that, pushing these people (IDPS) back now to their communities will definitely have harmful consequences. He quickly recalled what happened recently in Rann, the headquarters of Kala,-Baige Local Government area of the state where many UN humanitarian workers as well as some Military personnels were killed by Boko Haram. “ This is to tell you that, not all the local government areas especially at the remote villages from Northern Borno are totally safe for the IDPS to return now. But that does not mean that, the Military is performing below expectations. We really appreciate their efforts so far in this fight against insurgency and I know that the Military will surely wipe them out completely “ he stated. Apart from this, investigations have also revealed that, one of the reasons why the displaced persons at a point in time wanted to leave the camps on their own before now, was due to widespread reports of malnutrition, sexual abuse and other form of maltreatment usually meted on them in the camps. Even at a point, camp officials were directly accused severally of responsible for the perpetration of the evil acts against IDPS. However, the fact remains that, Borno state government has continue to demonstrate strong political commitment to ensure that, all the displaced persons return to their towns and villages as soon as possible so that they can pick up the pieces of their lives and forge ahead with life. Since the establishment of the Ministry  of rebuilding, reconstruction and resettlement of IDPS which Professor Babagana Umara is the head  as the commissioner, he has lived  up to the expectation. Due to a proactive leadership displayed by professor Umara and strong collaboration with other development partners, a lot have been achieved in the state through provision of basic needs of the people especially the displaced persons. As it is today, more than 70 percent of both public and private structures that were destroyed by insurgents across the 27 Local government areas of the state have reached completion stages, while some are already completed. Just few weeks ago,  the Ngwom village  in Mafia Local Government area of the state,  one of the localities worst hit by Boko Haram where many houses were destroyed and over 100 people killed is now looking like a new city as the entire village has been transformed into modern houses and the displaced persons from the area are eagerly to move in any moment from now. In building of that project, it was the Japanese and the Swiss Governments through UNDP had put resources together, a whopping sum of one million dollars to rebuild homes, hospitals, police station and market which were destroyed by insurgents. The Borno state Government paid 50% of the total amount. Receiving the 300 housing project on behalf of the Borno state government, Kashim Shettima commended the UNDP, Japanese and Swiss Governments for the gesture. According to the governor, “We are going to put on the certificate of ownership of the houses for both the names of the husband and wife. Doing it in this way, the man will not be able to sell out the house or chase the older woman away and bring in the younger wife”. He further assured that, adequate security measure would be put in place before the owners will be allowed to move in finally. However, Ngwom community happens to be the largest livestock market in Borno state before it was ravaged by Boko Haram. The place was attacked three consecutive times and everything there was levelled down. Speaking before handing over the houses to the Borno Governor, the UN Humanitarian Representative in Nigeria, Edward Kallon recalled how Boko Haram came in 2014 to kill and destroyed lives and property in Ngwom and also how the insurgents shattered the dreams of young boys and girls in the years of the crisis. “ Four years ago, no one would have imagined that, Ngwom community would be home for thousands of residents again “ Edward stated. On the side of the villagers, many of them were very happy, saying that, “no place like home and we are happy that, we are coming back home”. But some of them were not really happy because they were not captured in the distribution of the houses. One of those who did not benefit from the houses, Modu  Ali said, “ many of us lost everything including our houses to Boko Haram and yet government did not remember us when giving out these houses. May be they are doing selective justice against some of us because our names are not among the beneficiaries. Wallahi, we are not happy about that “ he said. Meanwhile, the Commissioner for rebuilding, reconstruction and resettlement, professor Babagana Umara who was the host of the event opined that, the state government in collaboration with other partners are working tirelessly with a view to make life more meaningful to the people of Borno. He said the Borno state government paid 50% of the total cost of the 300 housing project. The Commissioner however urged the people of the state to be patient and law  abiding citizens as the state government through his Ministry is doing everything humanly possible to make sure that, all those affected by the insurgents are resettled in their communities, adding that, government of Kashim is committed to the plight of the people of 0 comments