Yenagoa – Members of a suspected female occultist group in Bayelsa State have inflicted serious injury on the right eye of one Lilian Friday, a Senior Secondary I student of Community Secondary School, Otuoke, in Ogbia Local Government Area of the state. It was gathered that the female occults, comprising of secondary school students, reportedly attacked the victim on April 26, 2018, at Otuoke community. Lilian was said to have been accosted along the road on a fateful day by one of the female occultists simply identified as Josephine, also an SS I student of the same Otuoke school, who insisted that she (Lilian) must be initiated into the group. The victim, whose resistance of overtures to be part of the group infuriated Josephine who mobilized an attack on the person of Lillian and stabbed her in the right eye with a sharp object during the attack. According to sources, they were said to have taken to their heels as Lillian reeled in pains as blood gushed out from the injured eye. Mr. Benson Agiobu, the victim’s uncle, who confirmed the incident, said the victim was returning home from his house when her assailants attacked her and badly injured her eye. He said, “On her way, she (Lilian) met her classmate who insisted that she must belong to her occult group. When Lilian refused her (request) for the umpteenth time, she was vexed. “It was at this point she alerted members of her confraternity who were with her (the assailant). Members of the group held Lillian down while she was stabbed in the eye with a sharp object by Josephine and they took off”. Injured Lillian who was is receiving medical attention at an undisclosed hospital in the state capital hails from Emeyal community while her assailant is a native of a neighbouring Ogbia community in the same local council area. Meanwhile, the Patriotism Advancement and Community Orientation Network (PACON), a non-governmental organization, has condemned the cult attack on the girl. Mr. Augustine Aluzu, the convener of PACON, who reacted to the development in a statement on Saturday in Yenagoa, described the act as barbaric and demonic. He called for more support to the campaign against cultism, drug abuse and other social vices being carried out by the NGO and other well-meaning groups in the state. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer of the Bayelsa State Police Command, DSP Asinim Butswat, confirmed the attack on Lilian Friday, saying that details of the incident were still sketchy. comments