Hazrat Jabir bin Abdullah was a companion of the Holy Prophet (sa). He was the son of Hazrat Abdullah bin ‘Amr bin Haram. I narrated the incidence of martyrdom of Hazrat Abdullah bin ‘Amr bin Haram a Friday sermon a few weeks ago.  Hazrat Jabir bin Abdullah was the son of this great companion. He had performed Bai’at at the occasion of the Second Pledge at al-Aqabah while he was a child. At the time of his martyrdom, Hazrat Abdullah bin ‘Amr bin Haram, said to his son, “The debt, which I owe to one of the Jews, sell the fruits from the orchard and settle my loan after my martyrdom.” Either to settle this load, or at a later date, there is a narration by Hazrat Jabir bin Abdullah (ra). He borrowed some money from a Jew against his orchard; unfortunately, the yield of fruit was very low that year and Hazrat Jabir bin Abdullah (ra) was unable to settle the loan. The Jew refused to give Hazrat Jabir bin Abdullah (ra) any more time to settle the loan and it appeared that the orchard will be repossessed by the Jew. When, the Holy Prophet (sa) was informed about this incident, the Holy Prophet (sa), personally spoke to the Jew requesting some more time to settle the loan. However, the Jew said that ‘O Abu Qasim! I will not give him any respite’. (He addressed the Holy Prophet (sa) in this manner.) Observing this conduct of the Jew, the Holy Prophet (sa) walked around the date palms once. He returned and spoke to the Jew once again. However, he refused again.” He says that in the meantime, “I took some dates from the garden and presented them to the Holy Prophet (sa), which he ate. Following this, he said that Jabir, ‘where in this garden is the hut or place where you rest?’ I informed the Holy Prophet (sa) upon which he said that ‘spread for me a mat there so that I may rest there for a few moments’”. He says, “I acted in accordance with his guidance. The Holy Prophet (sa) fell asleep there. When he woke up, I once again brought to him a handful of dates. He ate some of them, stood up and spoke to the Jew once again. However, he again refused. The Holy Prophet (sa) once again walked around the garden and said to me that ‘Jabir, harvest the dates and pay off the loan taken from the Jew’. I started to harvest the fruit and, in the meantime, the Holy Prophet (sa) remained standing in the date palms.” He says, “I harvested the fruit, paid off the entire loan taken form the Jew and some dates were left over. I informed the Holy Prophet (sa) of this good news upon which he said that ‘I bear witness that I am the Messenger of Allah. This miracle, this extraordinary incident transpired as Allah the Almighty hears my prayers and blesses my endeavours.’” Thus, where we observe in this incident the blessings of the fruit as a result of the kindness and the acceptance of the prayers of the Holy Prophet (sa), we also witness the anxiousness of the companions in relation to paying off their debts. Thus, this is the spirit, which should be the distinctive characteristic of a true believer. Once, a companion passed away while he was in debt by two Dinar and the Holy Prophet (sa) refused to personally offer his funeral prayer. Upon this, another companion took the responsibility of paying off his debt as a result of which the Holy Prophet (sa) led his funeral prayer. The following day, the Holy Prophet (sa) questioned the person who took this responsibility saying that “the responsibility of two Dinar, which you took upon yourself, have you paid it or not?” Hence, this is the importance of paying off debts and this is the concern one should have. Then, another narration by Hazrat Jabir is found that the Holy Prophet (sa) said that if a believer leaves some wealth and property, it is received by his family and relatives. Furthermore, if he leaves a debt and his property and the wealth he leaves behind are not sufficient in order to pay off the debt, or in the case that he leaves behind children without any means of support, his orphaned children and the payment of the debt will be taken care of. In other words, the government and those in authority will take the responsibility for this. The upbringing of orphans and making arrangements for their expenditures have greatly been emphasised in the Holy Qur’an. For this very reason has the Holy Prophet (sa) said that this is the responsibility of the government. May Allah Almighty elevate the status of these companions. I often share various incidents such as these. May He enable us to continue in their virtues and apply them in our own lives. After this short sermon, I shall now speak about two sincere individuals. First is respected Bilal Adalbi sahib from Syria. He got severely injured in a car accident which occurred a few days ago and passed away on 17 March 2018 at 1:30am during the night. The cause of death was heart failure. – ‘Surely, to Allah we belong and to Him shall we return’. Bilal sahib was born in 1978. When he was 17 years old, an Ahmadi brother found him some work in Doctor Musalim Mutrabi sahib’s company. There he was introduced to the Jama’at and Ahmadis and took the Oath of Allegiance a short while thereafter. Doctor Sahib says: “This year after returning from Qadian, I began to offer prayers with the group that would go to Bilal sahib’s house for prayers. Bilal sahib welcomed me with immense enthusiasm due to the fact that he had accepted Ahmadiyyat through me.” The local president writes about him: “Bilal sahib owned a sports garment store and would assist those brothers in need by offering them clothes. He would do so even to the extent if his store did not have any clothes, he would purchase from somewhere else in order to provide for others. He was a very honorable person. He would take great care of his children. He admitted them in the best schools.” He further says: “We were offering prayers at his home two days prior to his demise. The finance secretary informed us that Bilal sahib had paid all due payments towards Wassiyat, Tehrik-e-Jadid and Waqfe-Jadid. In fact, he had purchased a new piece of land which he also included in his Wassiyat.  He served others, took great care in his observance of prayers and worship and had a deep attachment with Khilafat. He would listen to every sermon.” He leaves behind an eleven-year-old son and a twelve-year-old daughter. His elder brother is an Ahmadi and lives in Germany, but his other two brothers and a sister are not Ahmadis and therefore he faced a lot of opposition from them. However, God Almighty influenced them in such a way that at the time of the funeral prayer, his brother said that, “you Ahmadis can offer the funeral prayer and you can offer it inside our mosque – there is no restriction.” He (local president) states. “Thus, by the grace of God Almighty many people offered his funeral prayer behind us.” The second person who I shall mention about is Salima Mir Sahiba, the former president of Lajna Imaillah Karachi. She was the wife of Abdul Qadir Dar Sahib. She also passed away on 17th March, 2018 at the age of 90. Her father was a companion (of the Promised Messiah (as)), Mir Ilahi Bakhsh Sahib from Sheikhupura, Gujrat. Salima Mir Sahiba got married in 1946 and after the partition of the sub-continent, she moved to Karachi. In 1961 they moved to Iran where there were a few Ahmadi household and they made arrangements for the Friday prayer and other gatherings. Her husband passed away in 1964 and she returned to Karachi and stayed with her brother, Mir Imanullah Sahib. While bringing up eight children, she also continued to pursue her studies and completed her studies up to bachelor level. Along with this she started to work in the Lajna office. In 1981 when the Muntizima Committee was formed, Hazrat Khalifatul Masih III (rh) appointed her as the president of the committee. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.