Lagos – A major fall-out of the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) last Monday April 9, 2018 was the declaration by President Muhammadu Buhari of his intention to seek re-election under the party’s platform come 2019. In making the declaration, President Buhari, now 76,  said he was taking another shot at the Presidency in defiance of old-age and health challenges, due to pressure from stakeholders in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Buhari, who said he had consulted widely among Nigerians on his chances, hence his decision to re-contest the number one seat in the country, added that he decided to declare at the APC NEC meeting as a mark of honour for the party officials. To many, his declaration did not come as a surprise as his body language and those of his associates had stated as much. But, to many Nigerians, especially those of the opposition, the President should finish his first term of four years and leave the scene. Such people believe that his administration is yet to fulfill most of the promises made during the campaigns for the 2015 election, especially in the areas of the economy, security, and the war against corruption. However, a good number of Nigerians maintain that as a sitting President, Buhari has the right to seek re-election if his party fields him, while Nigerians will decide his fate at the ballot box. Buhari’s Declaration Was Expected – Tanko Dr Yunusa Tanko, the National Chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP), said that Buhari’s declaration was not news and did not take anybody by surprise and wondered the reasons for the hullabaloo among Nigerians since the announcement. He said: “His announcement is not news. It would have been news if he had said he would not contest. He has the right to contest. “But, people should look at his scorecard. As far as we are concerned, he has not performed. That is why we are positioning ourselves to give Nigerians better leadership. “Nigeria has better qualified and intelligent people. Age is not on his side, which he has admitted. It is a big mistake for Nigerians to be making noise about President Buhari’s second term ambition. Nigeria has better options.” Nigeria Needs A Younger President  – Udeze Barrister Kenneth Udeze, the National Chairman of the Action Alliance (AA), said that by his declaration, President Buhari refused to the voice of reason not to go for second term. Hear him: “Buhari has refused to hearken to voice of reason like Pharaoh by playing god. In as much as he has the constitutional right to contest for second term, he has forgotten in a hurry that he promised to fix Nigeria under a single tenure. “How can an old man like Buhari go back to his vomit? He should have towed the path of a statesman like Nelson Mandela, and write his name on gold. I challenge Nigerian youth to rise and send the rotational old leadership of this country back to compulsory retirement by introducing and voting a (youth) new order. “Nigerian youth must hide their face in shame if they allow these greedy Pharaohs to remain or come into power come 2019.” Time Will Decide His Fate – Ode Chief Ochi Emmanuel Ode, Chairman, Middle Belt Traditional Council (MBTC), said that President Buhari has the fundamental right to make the declaration and seek re-election. He, however, added: “But, Nigerians have the right to accept him or otherwise, based on his performance. Nigerians are in the right position to decide if he will return or not. “Every Nigerian has the right to aspire to any position of leadership. He has only expressed his fundamental right. Time will tell whether Nigerians will retain him or not.” Buhari Declaration Good For Democracy – Falade Hon. Oludare Falade, National Chairman, Mega Progressive Peoples Party (MPPP), maintained that by making his declaration when he did, President Buhari has officially kick-started the events leading to the 2019 general elections. He said that the development is good for Nigerian democracy and that now, every Nigerian can now go ahead and openly make their declarations and canvass for support across the country. Hon. Falade said that when President Buhari earlier said he would not go for second term, he had not tasted power and did not know what he would meet. “But, having seen what governance entails, he has changed his mind, in politics, there are a lot of things to contend with. He has the right to contest the election. But, the electorate has the right to accept or reject him, Falade stressed: Buhari’s Performance Will Determine His Fate – Ogunremi Comrade Francis Niyi Ogunremi, Chairman, Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), Lagos State Council, maintained that President Buhari has the right for re-election. He however stressed that it is left to the electorate to choose him or not depending on his performance in his first term, adding, “He has the right, except if he does not meet his party’s requirement.” His Second Term Will Set Nigeria Back – Adikwuru Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Imo State, said that President Buhari has the constitutional right to second term in office and saw his declaration as constitutional. Adikwuru added: “However, the president’s right to second term comes to the crucial question of determining whether it is in his personal interest or general interest. “Considering the age of the president and his state of mental, psychological and physical imbalance, it appears to me that national interest should override his desire to enforce his constitutional right. “During the period of his current tenure, his performance has been greatly impaired by his poor health, mental and physical imbalances. I therefore will advise the President to exhibit statesmanship and patriotism by dropping his second term bid. “Should he continue to push his second term ambition, our democracy will suffer a serious setback and the polity will be further underdeveloped.” Don’t Shut Out Other Presidential Aspirants – APC Chieftain Hon. Austin Febo, an APC chieftain and former governorship aspirant in 2015 in Bayelsa, said President Buhari’s declaration to seek re-election should not stop presidential primaries of the party. He, however, said the announcement good and a welcome development, which had put paid to speculations on the President’s candidacy. Febo said: “It is expected that the president will like to complete the projects before him. However, his declaration should not close the door for some people who will like to contest the position of the president on APC platform in 2019.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.