Patrick Reed fought off furious back-nine challenges from Jordan Spieth and Rickie Fowler to record a one-shot victory at the U.S. Masters on Sunday, trading in his ‘Captain America’ cap for a Green Jacket. The final round began with Reed holding a three-shot advantage over Rory McIlroy, but while the Northern Irishman’s challenge faded Reed had to hold off his hard-charging U.S. Ryder Cup team mates to claim his first major championship. Needing a two-putt par from 26 feet at the 18th to clinch the title, Reed ran his first putt four feet past the hole. He took a deep breath and held his nerve rolling a knee-knocker into the cup for a one-under 71 that ended Fowler’s hopes of a playoff. The fiery leader of recent U.S. Ryder and Presidents Cup efforts, Reed displayed plenty of the same brash spirit that earned him the ‘Captain America’ moniker while adding his name to the list of Masters Champions. “Today was definitely probably the hardest mentally a round of golf could possibly be,” said Reed, who posted a 15-under 273 total. “It was going to be tough, anytime trying to close off a golf tournament is really tough.” Fowler, had put the pressure on with a back nine charge that featured six birdies over his final 11 holes including one at the last, but his 67 and 14-under total would not be enough. Before Fowler took up the challenge of overhauling Reed, it was Spieth leading the chase with a sizzling eight-under 64, that matched the lowest final round at a Masters to finish two shots back. Sitting nine shots off the pace at the start of the day, Spieth was an afterthought as spectators filed into Augusta National but was once again in the Masters spotlight when the Green Jacket was up for grabs. In four Masters appearances, Spieth also has two runner-up finishes and a tie for 11th last year. “With eight people ahead of me starting the day, to get that much help and shoot a fantastic round was nearly impossible,” said Spieth. “But I almost pulled off the impossible.” While Reed had established his championship credentials with five PGA Tour wins and runner-up finish, Reed, who had never had round under 70 at Augusta National, was not rated among the hot favorites. But after opening the tournament with three straight rounds in the 60s Reed had everyone’s attention. Only is final round 71 kept Reed from writing his name in the Masters record books as the first golfer to post four sub-70 rounds. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.