There are four key and interesting features of the President Mohammadu Buhari’s presidency. One, there is a lot of hunger and inflation in the land. Two, there is a lot of excuses – an excuse for every occasion – and we now have licensed and chartered excuse merchants. Three, there is killing (pogroms and genocides) on a scale never before witnessed in our country – except during the civil war. Four, whenever President Buhari makes a statement, Mallam Garba Shehu or Femi Adeshina or Lai Mohammaed, would weigh in with curious explanations, which would raise more questions than provide answers. Every presidential statement would put in motion a chain of concentric tales and explanations like the waves of a sea. Shehu, Mohammed and Adeshina pretend to have the uncanny ability to see into the president’s mind, read his lips and see his heart. In fact if the president says “All Nigerians are fools,” someone would explain that what he actually meant was that all “Nigerians are full.” This someone would have some hard knocks for those who criticised the president. Full of what? He may answer you, if you are considered important, that nature abhors a vacuum and a man must be full of something. It would be a safe gambit because if the president were to query him for trying to embellish his words, he would retort that what he meant was that Nigerians were full of foolishness – like the president initially said. Why the president’s words cannot stand alone, and must need props in the public space, is one of the million wonders of this administration. Following this pattern of propping up the president’s speech, one was not surprised when Adeshina, a distinguished gentleman, jumped with quixotic zeal to Buhari’s defence in the case of the president stating that Muammar Al Gaddafi’s trained men were on the rampage and masquerading as Fulani herdsmen. He blamed them for the genocides in Nigeria – the genocides the powers that be have chosen to refer to with the mild euphemism of  “herdsmen/farmers crises.” Adeshina, a good man at heart and a defender par excellence, was unsparing in pouring invectives on those who criticised the president. He lambasted them for having a “sickening display of poisonous heart” and accused them of intellectual laziness and vacuousness. My dear Adeshina, Nigerians are hungry and a hungry man is an angry man and an angry man displays a poisonous heart (poisoned by hunger and hope betrayed). Lecturers are owed salaries running into double digits in months, and hungry lecturers are bound to be intellectually lazy. There is no hunger in Aso Rock, that is why you may be “intellectually well-fed” and have a full heart supported by a full stomach (not a poisoned one).. Anyhow, this is what Adeshina said; “Here’s what Mr President told Archbishop Justin Welby: ‘The problem is even older than us. It has always been there but now made worse by the influx of armed gunmen from the Sahel region into different parts of the West African sub-region. These gunmen were trained and armed by Muammar Gaddafi of Libya. When he was killed, the gunmen escaped with their arms. ‘We encountered some of them fighting with Boko Haram. Herdsmen that we used to know carried only sticks and maybe a cutlass to clear the way, but these ones now carry sophisticated weapons. The problem is not religious, but sociological and economic. But we are working on solutions. The problem is even older than us.’ There is some confusion about Buhari’s age. But even if we stick to the date in his declaration of age and forget about the one in his birth certificate, we will still be left with 74. Now how is the problem older than a 74-year old man? On second thoughts, he he is right! The problem began in the Bible when the herdsmen of Abraham quarrelled with the herdsmen of his nephew, Lot. Though no blood was shed and the matter was quickly resolved without the establishment of a cattle colony, it took place before Buhari was born. Lot and Abraham went their ways and lived happily ever thereafter. This is the approach some want us to take in Nigeria with the restructuring. They believe that sitting around a common table like Abraham and Lot did, we could find the solution to the wanton destruction of lives and properties in the country. But while they are thinking about this, Buhari pops us with the idea that the problem is not within but without. “So if the problem is not within, why should we establish cattle colonies within for Ghaddafi-trained gunmen,” Jumbo, my veteran soldier pal queried. “This comment alone nullifies the idea of the cattle colonies.” Interestingly, the president admitted for the first time “herdsmen that we used to know carried only sticks and maybe a cutlass to clear the way, but these ones now carry sophisticated weapons.” A most interesting admission! One had thought that he never knew that herdsmen carry sophisticated weapons and this accounted for the police not arresting them – even when they brandish arms openly. Good, old Buhari, as you know, seldom knows what is happening in the world outside. He never knew that the Inspector General of Police did not obey his order to relocate to Benue State until he went to Benue state. He went to “West Germany” a couple of years ago. So one should be greatly encouraged that he knows about herdsmen carrying sophisticated weapons. He may even get to know that a minister in his cabinet was indicted in a State Government Panel of Inquiry and a white paper issued. He may even get to know that the herdsmen are using the said sophisticated weapons to kill and maim Nigerians. When a man wakes up from sleep, you can never tell in which direction he would go. It is an interesting argument. If Ghaddafi trained men and they have come into our borders, who is to blame? If the Federal Government is lamenting because it failed to keep murderers from the borders, then what should we do? Bring out bread and pastries and persuade the armed men to leave town and stop killing? Whichever way the statement did not give Nigerians hope. It was an exercise in self-indictment. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.