Hon. Ibrahim Olayinka Majekodunmi, an economist, is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and an aspirant to the Lagos State House of Assembly, Ikorodu Consistency 1 seat. In this interview with GBENGA AGUNBIADE, he spoke on the state of the APC and his plans for the people of his constituency, among other issues. Excerpts: What informed your interest in the Ikorodu Consistency 1 seat at Lagos State House of Assembly? I perceive politics as an important avenue to gain power to cater for the interest and wellbeing of the people. Therefore, the interest and general wellbeing of the public informed my wish to represent my people at Lagos House of Assembly through a redefined legislative agenda. Long before I ventured into politics, I had served my people in different capacities with my personal resources. I have passion for making a better positive change. I believe one of doing this is through active political participation. Our old mothers, widows, artisans and the less privileged are crying for help because most of their dependents stay outside their domain. This makes it difficult for people to access them. I am born and bred in Ikorodu. What is your political antecedent? I started as a grassroots politician, from my university days when I was an activist. Then, there was no any umbrella body protecting the interest of Ikorodu indigenes in tertiary institutions. I am among the few Ikorodu indigenes that revived the Ikorodu Student Association. In 2007, I led the struggle to Ikorodu Local Government for the payment of bursary to all Ikorodu indigenes in tertiary institutions. My efforts, alongside other members of the executive council of Ikorodu Student Association, resulted in the payment of bursary to indigenes of Ikorodu in all tertiary institutions. I have been a consistent member of a Progressive board, from AD, ACN, AC now APC. I see my aspiration as a divine call to service. Why did your constituents want you to run for Lagos House of Assembly seat? The people of Ikorodu Constituency 1 needs good representation at the House of Assembly. They need someone who they can access at all time and express their challenges to. They need someone who has listening ears and resides with them; one who knows their predicament. Who am I to say ‘no’ if my people want me to represent them? Having travelled far and wide for years, there is need for me to use my wealth of experience to redefine legislative agenda in the state. Also, my people need quality representation at the House of Assembly.  And I have therefore accepted and offered myself for service. I also wish to compliment the monumental developmental efforts in our communities through Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. I wish to support him in the parliament to ensure continues developments in the communities. We learnt that for a long time you have always been in touch with the less privileged within your community and have been organising life changing programmes for the youth. What is your motivation for doing all these? Our aged ones need to be looked after, especially the widows, who do not have access to political office holders. I saw this as a challenge and took it upon myself to always render my services to them. Also, there are a lot of youths who have potentials, skills, but lack the means to develop them. The only thing I can do is to assist them to identify who they are and develop their potentials. I also believe the younger generation, especially the less privileged, should be encouraged to grow. That is why I started Majek Computer Training School, which was established in year 2000 after my National Youth Service. Through it, our youth are trained on various aspects of computer programmes free of charge. Majority of them have successfully utilised this opportunity to be self-reliant. I also have in plans to expand the empowerment programmes in terms of trainings, manpower development and equipping them with the working tools. As a community leader, I have served as the Secretary of Odogunyan Estate Community Development Association. I have contributed in many development projects in the community like, electrification projects, assisted in streetlight projects within the locality, grading of roads and drainages within the community. My aspiring for the Assembly seat is to make a mark for my people, so that they willenjoy more dividends of democracy. APC seems to be engulfed in leadership crisis and war of words over tenure extension for the National Working Committee (NWC). What is your view on this? The APC is one family, a big one indeed. There is no way you can have a party as big, which is a ruling party, governing a population of over 180 million people, that you will not have some differences. But, our differences are our strength. We are a collection of the best that God has put together to improve the nation. So, whatever crises we have, it is work in progress. There is no way you will have people with high level of understanding of politics that there will not be issues. But, we always manage our issues prudently. The people at the helm of affairs of our party will always find a way of resolving issues at any level. What is your assessment of the Governor Ambode administration? From the inception of the administration, Governor Akinwunmi Oladapo Ambode has been very remarkable and outstanding. In the year past, Ikorodu Local Government enjoyed less government attention, but during this administration, the people are happy and Lagosians in general. Governor Ambode administration has performed excellently well within three years beyond expectations. This in terms of Education, Security, Sports, Health, Infrastructural Development and renewal and so on. How do you see the current state of the nation? There is no country without ups and downs. We have some challenges, especially in the area of security. But the Federal Government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari has started recording appreciable improvement in the area in the last 12 months. It is our hope that things will improve greatly by the third quarter of this year. We hope that very soon, Nigeria will be insurgency-free. But, it is a collective responsibility. What are your chances of your party in the 2019 general elections? Our chances are bright, both at the state and federal level. In Lagos State here, there is no opposition strong enough to knock us off the chart. The number of new developmental projects and human-friendly policies to be implemented will also increase our chances. You can see the great numbers of new member of people from other political parties defecting to our great party, the APC. That is a strong indication that we are better placed, especially as the people believe in our party’s manifestoes. A cross section of Nigerians has been advising President Muhammadu Buhari not to run for second term in the next election. What is your take on this issue? That kind of advice from that category of Nigerians sounds so hilarious and it is indeed a laughable advice. The constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) allows him to contest without any intimidation from any quarter. Therefore, going for second term is a personal decision of Mr. President. What is your advice to Nigerians, especially the people of your constituency? As another general election is around the corner, my candid advice to every eligible Nigerian is that they should make sure they have their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). It is their powerful tool to decide and choose their representatives. To the youths, they are to comport themselves peacefully and not allow themselves to be used as instruments of destruction or electoral violence. 0 comments