Hon. Oludare Falade is the National Chairman of the Mega Progressive Peoples Party (MPPP). With political parties getting ready for the 2019 general elections, he spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on his party’s plans and other crucial issues in the polity. Excerpt. As the nation moves towards the 2019 general elections, what is the state of the Mega Progressive Peoples Party (MPPP)? The MPPP is working and making sure we parade candidates according to the objectives of the Mega Party. As a platform, we know our strength in terms of finance and ideology. We are looking at the All Progressives Congress (APC), the party in government, to shed its ego by entering into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the MPPP for the coming elections. As things stand now, if the APC does not want o go the way of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), it has to partner with other parties. Most of my members have over the years served in several capacities of governance. If the APC carries out a research and work out a way it can collaborate with other parties, it can see a formal way to work with the smaller parties like the MPPP. The APC should reach out to elements in the parties without swallowing the other parties. The issue of loyalty to parties is paramount. For the 2019 elections, we are looking forward to working with the APC if there is an understanding so that we can contribute our quota to the development of Nigeria. One of the issues dominating the political space presently is that of mergers and coalitions. Is your party going into any of these? If so, which one? We are moving away from merger and coalition to collaboration. We have tried them in the past. They did not work. We want to move up to collaboration and partnership. You need to spend to be able to produce members who can be in the Assemblies. That is why we want to collaborate with the APC. Right now, local governments are not given pride of place in the country. We have to collaborate with other parties like the APC. If we collaborate with the APC, we will change the status quo. In the United Kingdom (UK), other patties collaborated to produce the Prime Minister from Labour Party. Through collaborations, several parties can take part in governance without the big ones collapsing the small parties. Parties have to modify their constitutions and manifestoes to give room for collaborations. If parties collaborate under free and fair primaries and all other stages of the elections, there will be a change in Nigerian political system. Everyone will be free to contest elections to serve our fatherland. It does not have to be a winner-takes-all. With the number of political parties hitting 68, why are the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) still dominating discussions in the polity? I commend you newspaper group, the Independent Newspapers, for their efforts to dig out political personalities, both in major and smaller parties. If you do not have past political exposure and social visibility, you will be running after the APC and PDP because they are ready made platforms for political power. Most of the people with political exposure and social visibility are seen to be corrupt. Yet, people rush after PDP and APC which people believe are made up of corrupt politicians. So, people who lack exposure and social visibility run to APC and PDP, or they are corrupt. Politics is expensive in Nigeria. You need to pay for offices and agents. Now INEC is registering more parties to help break the old parties. When people lose primaries, they run to the smaller parties for tickets. It is the same people with past exposure and social visibility that will use these smaller parties. We do not want APC to fail and later turn around to start begging Nigerians. APC needs to consolidate so that we can have a replica of the Labour Party in UK and the ANC of South Africa. APC should outlive its major players. What will take Nigeria to the next level should be a priority. A lot has been spent in building both APC and PDP. Our commonwealth is used to build these two parties. If the two parties fail, it is going to be a major loss to the nation.  Most of the new parties cannot even win elections. They do not have offices even in Abuja. So, Nigeria should be praying for APC and PDP so that the emerging young politicians will thrive to take over from those controlling the parties now. The APC and PDP are government parties. Quote me. We pray that the two parties should sanitise themselves for the betterment of Nigeria. Would you say that the performance of President Muhammadu Buhari administration so far is enough to win the hearts of Nigerians for his second term victory? Why there is so much attack on President Buhari is because of the way the government is presenting itself. Most of the supporters are the reason for the criticisms. We do not have a saint anywhere. But, Nigerians still have a stake on Mr. Integrity. It is not unexpected. I had a working relationship with him before he emerged the candidate of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC)/All Congress of Nigeria (ACN) before the merger that brought APC. People expect too much from President Buhari. There is a lot of contending forces. There are checks and balances. His promises before and after election are affecting him, putting pressure on the administration. Nigerians expected too much from President Buhari. Now, there are checks and balances. His political managers are not working on a four-year tenure, which President Buhari had earlier given, but on an eighth-year tenure. Ordinarily, Buhari would have loved to go and rest at the expiration of his first term. Look at the time he took before he declared at the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC). The party needs to consolidate using him. They want him to consolidate the party and the APC administration. Governance is a serious business. As at today, Nigerians do not have an alternative to Buhari in terms of piety and cult figure. I pray that the country will stabilise under APC and Buhari. Do you think a coalition of political parties as being arranged now can stop President Buhari’s APC and the PDP in 2019? They are just trying. We have done it in the past. The merit about it is that they will check the excesses of this administration. If not all, many of them are products the poisonous juice. Many of the parties that are going into coalition are not different from APC and PDP. That is why I pray that the two parties will consolidate in the interest of the country. Which coalition or Third Force can run a successful campaign to win election in 2019? They are exercise in futility. Why has it been difficult for President Buhari administration to check the Boko Haram terrorists till date? It is a very complicated issue. In a country that has porous border, security is always problem. People perpetrate a lot of atrocities under instability. If people are making it through selling arms, bargaining and collection, ransom, the government still needs to do much. To me, it is saddening. What is the job of the Minister of Interior and the Inspector General of Police? Are we saying that none of their strategies has worked? I pray that the government will find a solution to the issue of insecurity. Do you buy the idea that there may be a hidden agenda behind the Fulani herdsmen’s attacks in parts of the country? Even if there is a hidden agenda, what will it profit President Muhammadu Buhari to be the President of the Fulani people when he has the opportunity of being a Nigerian President? President Buhari is better being a Nigerian President than a Fulani President. There is nothing bad in being attached to where you are born and where you come from. But, when it is becoming harmful to your personality and unborn generation, will you like to associate with such a notion? Let all tribes and ethnic groups come out with their bests and brightest. Ideas rule the world. It is not by shedding blood. From my recent research and findings, in the past, the land owners had so much land and were not much attached to the land. So, they allowed grazing. Now, they have a lot of offspring who use the land for farming. For a solution, Mr. President should put a halt to anything that can lead to shedding of blood. He is in a position to do that. Government should look at the cost benefits of the crisis and come up with options to end the killing of people because of cows. There is a lot of exaggerations about this crisis. For example, what is the statistics of the cattle and the herdsmen? Are they enough to wipe out communities? Let us take the best option. Government should not take an option that will be a source for looting of government funds. There should be sophisticated way of resolving the issues rather than the government spending money to fund cow colonies or ranches. How can the running of National Assembly in particular and the nation’s Presidential system of government be made less expensive? We have ego problem in Nigeria. If you want a presidential system that is not as expensive as this, you need to elect less extravagant, elegant and beautiful people. You look for leaders who are selfless. If you keep on producing this kind of leaders, what they are earning is not enough for their status. When you have ex-governors, ex-Generals, ex-Managing Directors in the Assembly and the cabinet, they are expensive to maintain. We need leaders who are selfless, who can bury their ego. That is when you can have less expensive Executive and Legislature. The Judges have to compliment the Executive and Legislature so that they cannot be intimidated. It is not about having pat time legislators. It does not reduce your ego. Do you think the Independent National Electoral Elections (INEC) is capable of delivering free and fair elections in 2019? What can INEC do? It has been promising free and fair elections from time immemorial. You hear what Senator Ibrahim Mantu recently said about the way they rig elections. INEC staff are all Nigerians. They have not been changed. Let INEC walk the talk. It is not just talking about elections being free and fair. All stakeholders should live up to expectation. INEC staff have friends contesting elections. Information is key to everything. Conducting free and fair election is more than ordinary talks. INEC gets funds from the Executive on the First Line Charge. It has committees in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. INEC has said they over stretched and wants the commission broken into three or four other agencies so that it can concentrate on just conducting of elections. It also wants special courts to be handling election matters. Yet, it is the same INEC that promised to conduct free and fair elections come 2019 when none of the things they want has been done. It means that INEC has to be broken into three or four other agencies before they can give us free and fair elections. You do not get good results from a commission that complains a lot. All INEC requested for have not been met. How then do we expect it to conduct free and fair elections in 2019? I doubt if this INEC is capable of doing that. 0 comments