Engineer Ayoade Afolabi Lawal is a governorship aspirant on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State, In this interview with GBENGA FATUROTI, Lawal speaks on the planned impeachment of President Buhari by National Assembly, the recent invasion of the Senate by thugs and insecurity among other crucial issues. Excerpts: Most political parties are being affected by various internal wrangling mostly bothering on indiscipline. What is your view on the issue of party discipline? How best do you think indiscipline could be reduced so that parties could stand upright to play its roles effectively and efficiently? If you look at the structure of the parties, there is a hierarchy that needs to be followed. We have the leadership which takes decisions at the highest level and other categories like that. Basically, I think we have lowered our standard on discipline in the party. Some people would engage in anti-party and at the end of the day, they get away with it and simply become untouchable. This only allows for indiscipline and when another person does the same thing, they insist on instilling disciplinary actions. You now begin to ask the question like the one in the ‘Animal Farm’. This begins to create tension within the party. There is need for us to have the right approach to instill discipline in parties in tune with the appropriate sections of the party’s constitution. We also must not be draconian in our approach to instill discipline in parties. In a situation where you bring a draconian approach, you will have people leaving the party for another. Nobody is perfect. There are activities that will not be grievous, but some people would take it as such, which is part of politicking, where you insist that someone has committed an offence and you decree that he or she should go on suspension for six months, whereas he should have been warned. These are things that can lead people to leave the party. Using draconian measures to check indiscipline only drives people away and the defect to other parties. Politics in Nigeria has been monetised as politicians spend huge sums of money during political activities. How do you think this trend could be checked? Money politics is not actually good for the system because mediocrity will always be promoted. The moment you allow money bags to come in, they will hijack the party. The moment he spends as much as what the party wants, they know what the people wanted, stomach infrastructure, which at the end of the day, will create more poverty for the people. Initially, party members would think they are gaining something. But, at the end, they would have sold their birth right to him. Personally, I am not in support of money politics because it is not something that is positive, it is negative to the entire polity. What you really need is intellectualism. Let us hear what this candidate can do. Let us see where he is coming from. Is he going to be a good leader? These are the things we need to look at. But, from pragmatic point of view, we will get to a situation where we will start to educate our people against money politics, especially the consequences of mortgaging their future. Is it the N2,000 they give on the election day, which has not added any value to you? At the end, you cannot be of value to the society. You only collect that money temporarily and at the end of the day, you will go back to square one. We can only start to reduce it through conscious education of the electorate. To be honest, it cannot be totally eradicated from the society. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) recently raised an alarm over the large number of registered political parties, insisting that the number of parties would pose some difficulties to it in the forthcoming 2019 general elections. What is your take on this? We seem to have large number of political parties that the INEC does not have facility for. I personally feel that it is just a way to say that we have increased our budget. Even on election day, when we look at the normal ballot paper, you will see that we have a lot of parties that have no candidates. In some, may be, they have intention to fill their candidates and are stocked. So, INEC should be able to accommodate them. I don’t see it as a big deal. It is the same INEC that registered them in the first place. There is nothing anyone can do now. It is going to pose a big challenge. But it is going to take longer paper and probably more budget. That is the way I see it. Parties must find a way of educating their members and voters on what to look after on the ballot papers, like the way we used to say that that people should look out for the broom. The logos of parties are not the same and it will not pose serious problem as claimed. President Buhari has declared his intention to go for second term, an action which has generated controversies. What is your view on his second term dream? Firstly, we need to recognise the fact that the President has the right to declare his intention as a citizen of this country and as a sitting President. In my view, we cannot really say what the second term would look like, if will have the opportunity to be elected. If he wins the second term, definitely he is going to change some members of the current cabinet. The moment he changes the current team, we are going to have different kinds of players. We will know how effective and efficient he has been in sourcing for highly talented Nigerians that would man those different positions for him. We cannot know this now. However, this will be a critical factor because the President cannot see everything. He would depend on those that are running the government affairs for him. So, those who he (President) is going to deploy to oversee various ministries will determine how successful his second term will be. Do you think the argument that Osun West should produce the next governor in Osun State is justifiable? Yes, it is excellently justifiable. It is all in the spirit of fairness, self belonging and equity. A situation whereby we have three zones in Osun and one of them feels marginalised, is not good enough for the state. Have we tried them and we discovered that they are not competent? It is unacceptable. In fact, if you do a good investigation and listen to the mind of the people, a lot of the people from Osun East and Central are pointing that it is the turn of the Osun West. So, it is like a kind of unseen sentimental feelings that it is the turn of the people. Let us allow them to go for the governorship in the spirit of fairness, togetherness and justice. Let us try them to see what they can contribute for the development of the state. What is your take on the invasion of National Assembly by people suspected to be political thugs and allegation that hey were sponsored by Senator Ovie Omo-Agege? How could suction action be checked? The invasion of the Senate chamber by thugs is an indication that there is tension in the National Assembly. It indicates that within themselves there are a number of aggrieved parties and basically this is unruly behaviour that is not in line with the tenets of democracy. It also shows that we have some security issues even within the National Assembly. A situation where somebody walks into the chamber, pick the mace and walk out of that building is not good enough. It means that if such people want to halt anybody there, they can easily enter into the chamber. They dammed the consequences. To forestall this, we need to have security beef up within the National Assembly so that such things do not occur again. Also, the senators need to come together to sort things out among themselves and investigate thoroughly if any of them is actually involved in this. If so, proper disciplinary action must be taken. However, proper investigation must be carried out to forestall future occurrences in the chamber. There is a rumour that Presidency is involved. But, I don’t like to listen to rumours because it is easy to tell a lie and I would not want to listen to that. I would want to allow for proper and neutral investigation by the police. Some members of National Assembly are touting the impeachment of President Muhammadu Buhari over the purchase of some 12 jets to assist in addressing insecurity issues in the country. What is your reaction to this? Honestly, I want to say that this is not the appropriate time that we would calling for the impeachment of President Buhari over purchase of jets to tackle insecurity in the country. We are in a critical time that some states of the federation like Osun have their election coming up, and next year, there will be the general elections. Impeachment of the President will cause tension in the country and may lead to unimaginable divisions and crisis in the polity. The President, in his letter to lawmakers, has told them that he gave approval for the purchase of the jets because of the time limit to apply for purchase of the jets. It is meant to tackle insecurity as hundreds of Nigerians have lost their lives and many villages and towns destroyed, especially in the food producing areas of the country, which if not address on time, it is dangerous for the country. I want to say that the lawmakers need to work harmoniously with the executive arm of government to put an end to various insecurity challenges facing the country. 0 comments