Those who understand the importance of ascertaining a country’s population figure would agree that it is essential, among other things, for effective and impactful national planning. Keen followers of the precarious posture of the Nigerian population were taken aback recently when, while delivering Nigeria’s statement on sustainable cities, Human Mobility and international Migration at the 51st Session of Commission on Population and Development, in New York, USA, the Chairman of the National Population Commission, NPC, Mr Eze Duruiheoma, noted that “Nigeria remains the most populous in Africa; the seventh globally with an estimated population of over 198 million”. Analysts recall that at the last census conducted in 2006, the population estimated figure was put at 170 million. Following the constitutional provision that census should be conducted every ten years, the next census should have been conducted in 2016. Two years after, there is no sign that such important national exercise will be done. Therefore, on an international stage, the Chairman of NPC had to rely on hypothetical and imagined population figure. Most respondents find this embarrassing as much as it portrays Nigeria as an unserious country. For observers, that Nigeria’s population is exploding is not in doubt, but there is need to be factual when bandying figures, hence the importance of census, or other forms of determining population like a credible data base of Nigerians. So, they believe that Mr Duruiheoma’s figure is more speculative than authoritative. For analysts, the regularity of census exercises, to determine how fast the population is growing or declining, depicts the efficacy of planning over guess work. Serious nations of the world consider their population as a veritable resource. They therefore work conscientiously to plan with the aim of improving the welfare of their citizens and creating an environment that would enable them to explore their potentials within the country. As the population of Nigeria seems to be hitting the roof, even as the World Population Prospects predicts that by 2050, Nigeria would have been the third most populated country in the world, experts believe that it has become absolutely important for the federal government, through the NPC, and against all odds, to monitor the population growth in the country. They also argue that the time has come to put measures in place to control this exponential growth in population which is at variance with the level of development. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.