Lagos – The over $700 million generated from ticket sales by foreign airlines trapped in Nigeria since October 2015 due to inadequate foreign exchange has finally been cleared. Most of the foreign carriers were unable to repatriate their ticket sales for over two years due to the paucity of foreign exchange within the period in the country and this led to suspension of operations by some of the airlines on the Nigerian routes while others reduced their frequencies to the country. A source close to the Ministry of Transport, Aviation Unit, told DAILY INDEPENDENT on Sunday that the trapped funds were cleared early in the year. None of the foreign airlines flying into Nigeria today still has its funds trapped in the country, he said, stressing that this was an indication of an improved economy. At the peak of the crisis, no fewer than four foreign airlines either suspended operations into Nigeria or reduced frequencies. United States’ United Airlines and Spain’s Iberia stopped operations in Nigeria in April and May 2016, respectively, while Emirates and a few others reduced their weekly frequencies to Nigeria. No fewer than 250 Nigerian employees of the foreign carriers lost their jobs within the period. Most hit by the trapped funds were Emirates, British Airways, Delta Air Lines, Air France-KLM, and Ethiopian Airlines. Some of the foreign airlines’ personnel in the country have, however, confirmed the development. Bobby Bryan, Commercial Director, West and East Africa, Delta Airlines, in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Lagos, said the airline had cleared all its trapped funds in Nigeria. He, however, declined to comment on the amount of money cleared by the airline, but noted that this indicated that the nation’s economy was strong and had rebounded. He explained that this was the reason Delta added another route to its operations in Nigeria with the recent commencement of Lagos-New York service. He said: “As at today, we no longer have trapped funds in Nigeria. All the backlogs have been cleared. The clearance of the funds is an indication that Nigerian economy is strengthened. “As you are aware, we recently commenced second flight to Nigeria with Lagos-New York route. We hope to improve our operations in the country by 33 percent with the flight.” Kola Olayinka, the Regional Commercial Manager for West Africa, British Airways, also confirmed the clearance of the trapped funds. He said the airline had been paid the January bill while the February bill was awaiting clearance. “We have cleared all blocked funds in Nigeria. There are no more blocked funds for British Airways. I don’t know of any other airline. “This is March and nearing April and we have collected January money, then, it is not blocked. “We have been paid January bill and maybe we have even sent February bill, and we don’t pray for that era again. I just hope everything continues like this,” he said. Like Bryan, he declined to be specific on the actual amount of money cleared by the airline or the total amount of the funds trapped in the country at the peak of the crisis. He said: “I can only tell you that we no longer have blocked funds in Nigeria and money is easily made available. I really follow the economy, but I am not an economist. “The indicators are all looking good. Technically, the economy is out of recession just as we have been told and it is on the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) website. “So, things can only be good indicators. Our prayer is that it remains so.” Also commenting on the issue, Ikechi Uko, an aviation analyst, explained that the clearance of the trapped funds showed a healthy economy for Nigeria. He said: “For me, it shows the Nigerian economy is rebounding because – as you know – there were a lot of people who were pulling out of the economy. “Nigerian airlines were having issues because of the absence of dollars, but if the dollar is now available, it will be good for the airlines. “You can see that Emirates Airline has resumed their second flight to Lagos and returned daily flight to Abuja; Delta has started a new flight to New York. “That means the economy can pay its bills, which is good because an economy that can’t pay its bill is a danger for everybody.” On how to increase the tempo, Ikechi called for the sustenance of the economy, adding that the issue of the trapped funds affected all the spheres of the economy. Samson Fatokun, the Regional Manager, South West Africa, International Air Transport Association (IATA) in Africa said he was out of the country and could not comment on the matter for now. As at first quarter in 2016, the total blocked funds of foreign airlines in Nigeria had grown to $700 million, according to IATA. The former Director-General of IATA, Tony Tyler, had – in the statistics reeled to the media – called on the Federal Government to allow foreign airlines have access to their ticket sales funds trapped in the country. Tyler also called on the affected governments to respect international agreements obliging them to ensure airlines were able to repatriate their revenues. The global airline industry had $1.2 billion blocked in nine dollar-strapped African countries as at last quarter of 2017 while the total trapped funds in the world was $3.5 billion. According to Adefunke Adeyemi, another IATA official, of the total of $1.2 billion, Angola had about $500 million, while Sudan had held up $200 million. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.