UYO – Following the low level of minerals exploration in the country, Mr. Emmanuel Udom, the Akwa Ibom State Governor, has called on the Federal Government to hand over the development of mineral resources to states.
Governor Emmanuel handed down the call on Thursday during a mining stakeholders forum in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital
The event which had the theme, “Repositioning mining activities in Akwa Ibom State,” was organised by the Mineral Resources and Environmental Management Committee (MIMRECO), Akwa Ibom State chapter, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel Development and the Akwa Ibom State Ministry for Environment and Mineral Resources.
Represented by Dr. Emmauel Ekuwem, the Secretary to the State Government, Governor Emmanuel emphasised the importance of mineral development towards the diversification of the economy, while supporting the need for states to take over the control of mineral resources.
He said, “Akwa Ibom State is blessed with numerous mineral resources and my administration is dedicated to exploring this sector as part of our strategic plans to diversifying our economy from almost dependence on oil.
“Let me use this opportunity to join others who have asked that this development of minerals be removed from the exclusive list. The state government should have total control,” he said.
He disclosed that the state is endowed with mineral resources as he urged the Federal Government to include Akwa Ibom in minerals map of Nigeria.
“Our state should be included in the mineral map. It is blessed with economically viable solid minerals such as limestone and clay and we are investing huge resource in this sector of the economy,” he stated.
Earlier in his opening remarks, Dr. Iniobong Essien, the Commissioner for Environment and Mineral Resources, commended the organisers of the event, as he enthused that it was in consonance with the mineral development policy of the state government.
“This forum is very apt as it is in pursuance of the Governor’s policy for the full maximisation of all the minerals available in the state.
“Since the establishment of MIMRECO, great steps have been taken to enhance mineral development in Akwa Ibom State.
“The sector would have been in a moribund situation, if not for the zeal and sincerity of purpose of Governor Emmanuel Udom,” he stated.
Essien while encouraging investors to take advantage of the opportunities that were abound in the mining sector, stressed that the industry could be a major revenue earner for the government, if duly utilised.
Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Minister of Mines and Steel Development, who was represented by the Director of Mines, Engr. Salim Salah, in his remark, outlined the objectives of MIMRECO and the efforts being taken towards addressing the issue of illegal mining.
“The essence of Mineral Resources and Environmental Committee is to create synergy between the three tiers of government.
“According to the roadmap, it is in all states to accelerate the development of mineral resources in a sustainable manner,” stressing that the initiative has already yielding some desired results.”
The Honourable Minister also underscored the need for a harmonious relationship between host communities and mining operators, pointing out that the sector could only thrive in a conducive and peaceful atmosphere.
He commended the Akwa Ibom State government for its support towards MIMRECO and for taking necessary steps towards checkmating the activities of illegal miners. comments