Cardi B hid her baby bump for months by wearing specially tailored clothes that didn’t hug her stomach. The 25-year-old rapper revealed she was expecting her first child with her fiancé and Migos rapper Offset when she appeared on ‘Saturday Night Live’ wearing a tight fitting dress that showcased her already burgeoning bump. However, it has now been revealed by her stylist Kollin Carter that teams worked tirelessly to conceal her bump with various clothing items and accessories for months before her big reveal. Kollin said: ”They weren’t dependent on hair or makeup, they were dependent on wardrobe to hide this big secret. It was a lot of pressure, but I went into it with confidence knowing that it was something that I could do. I knew I wasn’t going to be the one to let the cat out of the bag.” The stylist admits he was under pressure last month when the ‘Bodak Yellow’ hitmaker attended and performed at the iHeartRadio Music Awards, and whilst both her outfits – a Moschino number for the performance, and a minidress during the show – hid her bump, speculation still started to grow. Kollin added: ”I feel like we got through it. Toward the end there was a ton of speculation, but I don’t think she wore anything that was like, ‘Oh, my God, that’s her baby bump right there!”’ And whilst both Kollin and Cardi were ”stressed” when it came to picking out suitable outfits, the stylist is pleased he was able to be a part of her big secret. He told Vogue magazine: ”The process leading up to it was stressful, but afterward, I was like, this is kind of fun. I have one of the biggest secrets in fashion and music, and in culture more generally, and we’re getting away with this every time. How cool is that?” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.