Lagos – The Balogun of Epe , Lanre Razak, has  advocated the need for the government to promote culture through the people’s shared values. Razak,who spoke in Lagos recent said the development was necessary because  societal values were fast declining at the expense of imported  values. He said  with over 250 ethnic nationalities in the country, culture and tourism would not only be of social benefits but of economic value. He  added that government must  be alive  to its duty by preserving the rich cultural heritage for the benefit of posterity. “The Ministry of Information and Culture should lead the pact and other stakeholders have to support. The heritages are well spelt out in marriages, festivals and folklores. They should promote Nigeria’s culture. “With over 250 ethnic nationalities, the ministry has lots in its hand to keep it busy. We should have new cultural festivals detailing the background of Nigeria. It should harp on our strength, unity and social values.” According to him, parents should place their wards above other pecuniary gains, stressing that children well guided by parents would ensure they don’t soil their parents’ names. “The most valuable thing any parent should be proud of is to teach the children the virtue of good life. We must give them the training they deserve in life to make them relevant in the society. “We must let them have what we call self-reliance and the core value of the society. By the core value they must know how to respond to the senior or elders in the society. This should be part of their lives anywhere they found themselves. “We must let them understand that you don’t suddenly become rich when you don’t do you job or work hard for it. At every point or whatever you try to do ensure that you keep a good name, considering where you are coming from. They must be encouraged to work hard, deploy their resources in a useful way and keep good companies.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.