After reciting the Tashahhud, Ta’wwuz, and Surah Al-Fatihah, Hazrat Khalifatul Masih V (aba) recited verse 34 of Surah Ha Mim Al-Sajdah.  “And who is better in speech than he who invites men to Allah and does good works and says, ‘I am surely of those who submit?’” This verse points out three attributes of a believer. These three attributes are: calling towards Allah, performing righteous deeds and, having demonstrated obedience, announcing that ‘I am one who acts upon or endeavours to the best of their abilities to act upon all the instructions of Allah the Exalted and His Prophet (sa).’ These things are such that the first of them leads a believer to acquire religious knowledge and to teach it to the world. One can only be driven to teach others, if one entertains an anguish in one’s heart for others and is fully focused on freeing them from the beleaguerment and clutches of Satan. At the same time, he is anxious about increasing the servants of the Gracious God. The second characteristic is that, God enjoins us to perform righteous deeds. In other words, pay attention to fulfilling the rights of Allah, the Exalted and in addition to this one should set such an example that it serves as a model for others. Then, the third characteristic which has been expounded is that a true believer should proclaim that, ‘I am of those who submit fully, that is, I fully believe is in the commandments of Allah the Exalted and His Prophet (sa). Obedience also includes the obedience to the System of the Jamaat [Nizam-e-Jama’at] as well as to the Khalifa of that time. Allah the Exalted has proclaimed that even though calling towards Allah is a good deed, it is also necessary to proclaim [Arabic] [I am from among the believers] in other words that I proclaim to be obedient, whilst observing and maintaining the highest standards of obedience. Furthermore, for us Ahmadis, these standards of absolute obedience will only be established, and our Tabligh [preaching the true message of Islam] will only be successful and our virtues will be deemed as virtuous deeds only when we demonstrate complete obedience to Khilafat after the Promised Messiah (as) and when we cooperate with the system that is under the supervision of Khilafat. There is no doubt in the fact that Allah the Exalted has sent the Promised Messiah (as) according to His promise and in accordance to the prophecy of the Holy Prophet (sa). The promises with which he was sent, in other words the tasks that he was going to complete and fulfill, will be fulfilled, Insha’Allah [God Willing]. Allah the Exalted states in the Holy Qur’an that [Arabic] (Al-Mujaadilah: 23) Allah has decreed: ‘Most surely I will prevail, I and My Messengers.’ Allah the Exalted also disclosed this revelation to the Promised Messiah (as) several times. He clearly explained to us the message of Islam, in light of the Holy Quran. This is being propagated to every corner of the globe and the world is being attracted to this beautiful teaching of Islam. Hence, there is no doubt that the beautiful message of Islam is to spread by means of the Promised Messiah (as), and indeed is doing so. There is absolutely no doubt that his message shall reach the whole world and the world will come to know of him as the true champion and the ardent devotee of the Holy Prophet (sa) and is doing so. So, this is the work and promises of God Almighty which shall continue to be fulfilled, Insha’Allah [God-willing]. This is not down to any of our efforts; rather God Almighty has stated that the best quality of a believer is that he calls others to God. Hence, God Almighty desires for us to partake in this work which He is actually doing Himself and has already decided to do. Thus, He wishes for us to partake of the blessings. Therefore, each and every Ahmadi must give importance to this. Therefore, all of you who live here in Spain should take time out and dedicate at least two days of the month to Tabligh (preaching the message). While our Central Tabligh Secretary, the Tabligh Secretaries of each Jama’at and other office bearers should be devising plans according to the circumstances, at the same time it is also the duty of every Ahmadi to give time to this, whether they are part of Khuddam, Lajna or Ansar. Here [in Spain], 700 to 800 years ago, Muslims were forced to convert to Christianity by the sword. When it comes to distributing Spanish literature based on introducing Islam and Ahmadiyyat, for the last few years I have been sending Shahid graduates from [Jamia] UK and Germany before they enter the field of work to distribute literature in the cities. Apart from this there is Spanish lady who converted to Ahmadiyyat and lives in London. She is the wife of the New Ahmadi Secretary there. Her family is here in Spain that is her parents. She visits different schools, universities and colleges here and conveys the message. She searches for opportunities to come from London and introduce the Jama’at here and spread the message of Islam. So why is it that the residents and missionaries here are not able to find such opportunities? Hence, the Ahmadi residents, office-bearers and missionaries here must make a resolute and concrete plan. The National Tabligh Secretary expresses his keen desire with regards to doing Tabligh. He did not openly say this to me but it seems that there is always an issue with the budget and with the co-operation of members of the Community. Hence it is also the duty of the Ameer Jama’at [National President] that if there is an issue with budget then it should be resolved. It is also the responsibility of the Secretary Tabligh, Missionaries and members of the Jama’at to fully cooperate with Ameer Jama’at. This is the way by which we can establish the lost grandeur of Islam once again. This was the objective of the Promised Messiah’s (as) advent. We are all witnesses to the fact that God Almighty continues to demonstrate this greatness today. A lot of attention of the media and other people has been directed towards this and this is being expressed openly in some countries worldwide. Therefore, this is a testimony to the words of the Promised Messiah (as) and despite our weaknesses, one should take part in this as it is God Almighty Himself who is doing this work. So, take part in this work and fully immerse yourself in it. In another place whilst stating that if one desires to increase their age, they should do Tabligh, the Promised Messiah (as) says: “If one wishes to live a long life and extend their age, then as much as he possibly can he should sincerely dedicate his life for the service of faith. Remember, God Almighty cannot be deceived by any means. The one who attempts to deceive God should understand that he deceives none but himself alone and eventually he will perish in this pursuit.” 0 comments