The cautious approach adopted by President Muhammadu Buhari in resolving the tenure elongation issues at last week’s National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may have further plunged the party into crisis, thereby threatening its chances of overwhelming victory in 2019, Sunday INDEPENDENT interactions with stakeholders have shown. This is in spite of the chest beating and open camaraderie by leaders of APC over the perceived resolution of the tenure of John Oyegun-led National Working Committee (NWC) recently granted elongation, but was reversed last week after the intervention by President Buhari. Rather than cooling nerves, the said neutral approach by the president, who, according to some members, wanted to eat his cake and still have it, has further polarised the members as it has set both the pro and anti tenure elongation further apart and caused further disaffection, following clandestine moves by them to outsmart each other. Also Buhari’s declaration of his re-election bid is not going down well with some members nursing the same ambition, calling on Buhari to a debate on how best to administer the country. For instance, SKC Ogbonnia, United States based First Texas Energy Corporation, was the first former supporter of Buhari to declare for the APC presidential ticket last November. Ogbonnia, who invites Buhari to a debate on their respective vision for the country, said in a statement last week that the declaration and accompanying internal challenges in APC could help deepen country’s democracy, adding however that meaningful debate would provide answers to whether Nigeria wants to move backward or forward. According to him, the world would like to know whether Nigeria has the wisdom to emulate progressive nations and commit her future to a new generation of leaders including the youth, who have the zeal and competencies to cope with the demands of the 21st century or whether the country must rely on recycled politicians who have been part and parcel of national problems. However, Buhari was said to have exhibited extreme care at last week’s NEC meeting of the party not to be seen toeing the path of any group which accounted for his decision to pander to the whims of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu group which wanted Oyegun out and also supporting the waiver for party officials, as a way out for Oyegun to retain his seat if elected by the party members, insisting that the party’s constitution and the federal constitution must be complied with. The waiver option, according to some members, coupled with the fact that the current executive would remain in office and possibly contest in the elections that would hold in May, may be the Achilles heels for the party, as some members are alleging that it has provided opportunity for the Oyegun-led executive to manipulate the elections to its favour. It was gathered at the weekend that some gladiators are still uncomfortable with the waivers granted the present officials at all levels, and particularly the clause in the Governor Simon Lalong committee’s report which provides avenue for the party to resort to tenure elongation if the ongoing attempts to hold the congresses for the election of officers fail. It was also gathered that a major force behind Oyegun-must-go in the party, believes that the waiver was actually inserted in the report to pave way for Oyegun who is being presented to the president as someone that could be trusted to protect the interest of the president. Though the cabal in the presidency is divided on the matter, a group within the cabal, including Govenor Nasir el-Rufai believes that Oyegun still remains the best option for the president while the other group is undecided and would support anyone Buhari is interested in. Specifically, sources revealed that a time table drawn up by some NWC members for the ward, council, state and national convention to be completed in May, and which has been submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has raised suspicion of some party members, who allege that it was done in such a way that elections would not be possible, thereby leaving the party with no option than to go for affirmation and extension of the tenure of those in office. Alleging grand plan to make the timetable uunworkable due to logistics, the anti tenure elongation group say this may have provided an alibi to Oyegun to perfect his plan for continuation of their tenure. “The entire process has been hijacked by a few NWC members to ensure the “process does not succeed, so they can come back,” says a source. The implication, according to some members is that these issues have prompted some groups within the party to have commenced moves to ensure success of their candidates, a development believed to further causing crisis of confidence within the party. But the Tinubu faction is said to have been reaching out to major stakeholders, even as it has become cautious in pitching its tent with any of the three aspirants believed to be in the race for the chairmanship position. Sources close to the presidency disclosed that the president would only support any candidate that could bring about cohesion in the party, even as he tries to maintain neutrality in the race for the chairmanship position. Already, Buhari’s declaration for the second term in office has become a rallying point for all the gladiators to showcase their loyalty to the party and president. The declaration, despite widespread criticisms, has continued to draw commendations from party members who have continued to shout at the top of their voices to demonstrate their loyalty. But outside the party, it has been condemnation from far and near. For instance, Dr. Babtunde Taiwo, Methodist Bishop of Umuahia, Chief Chibuzor Okogbue, All Progressive grand Alliance (APGA) National Vice Chairman for South East, Malitus Okafor, public affairs analyst, Prince Jenarius Ezeru, Imo State Chairman of Host Communities Producing Oil and Gas in Nigeria (HOSTCON), in separate interviews with Sunday INDEPENDENT, said the president has shown that he is unmoved by the daunting challenges confronting his administration. Also, Morakinyo Ogele, Akure based legal practitioner and human rights activist, Prof Ayo Adesopo, university don, Hon.Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, member of Osun House of Assembly also believe that they are enough challenges both in the party and the polity that should warrant the president taking the back seat, particularly, considering his age. Taiwo said though President Buhari has the right to run in 2019 but advised him to rescind his decision and heed the advise of some notable Nigerians. Bishop Taiwo disclosed that at 76 years and in view of his health status, the President would not be able to actively carry out some of his official functions. “The president should sit down and listen to the words of wisdom; he should take the advice of former President Olusegun Obasanjo not to run for the office of the President in 2019 based on his health and age,” he said. Chief Okogbue said if President Buhari’s party finds him worthy to represent them, he can contest but he is not going to be the only to contest in 2019 because other parties will present their own candidates. Okafor observed that President Buhari has the right to indicate interest to run in 2019, but noted that the performance of his administration was nothing to write home about. He said, “One would have expected President Buhari to have given Nigerians account of his stewardship in the last three years before coming out to publicly announce his intention to run. Under the present administration, Nigeria has witnessed killings across many states. Even, the Boko Haram insurgents have continued to kill Nigerians. Despite all the promises of defeating Boko Haram insurgents, they have continued to intensify their operations”. Prince Ezeru welcomed his declaration of interest in second term, while expressing hope that “Buhari’s reelection in 2019 will pave way for Igbo Presidency in 2023.” He urged Igbos to support his second term bid with the hope that the president will support and see to the realisation of Igbo presidency in 2023. Ogele said, “I think Buhari has the right to a second term in office as guaranteed by our constitution, but fears the level of achievements. Corruption that he promised to eradicate is flourishing under him. His government is spreading poverty on a daily basis. “Buhari may have the constitutional right to say he wants to come back but he has no moral justification to earn the mandate of the people of this country again.” Professor Adesopo of the Department of Public Administration, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, said that Buhari government has instilled fear in the minds of Nigerians about corruption. He admonished President Buhari to consolidate on the achievements of his administration since 2015 if he emerges as President of Nigeria. Adesopo, said there is nothing big or new in his declaration adding that it is constitutional and has the right to seek for votes and be voted for. He added that negative criticism against his declaration is even making him more popular because those that are making noise out of it appeared to be his opponent and he cannot be loved by everyone. Buhari and APC government must also ensure completion of some of its reforms in some major economic sectors, especially energy and accept the proposed restructuring of the country. Adesopo warned that “the proposed restructuring should not be allowed to be handled by the APC government, but should draft some experts to sit down and make proposal on how to go about it and implement it.” He said further that Buhari’s declaration will not negatively impact on the polity and governance, urging government to draw up its political timetable so that governance and polity will not be affected. “In his second term, President Buhari should endeavor to make use of younger people to drive his government, policies and programmes, adding that this will make more difference and impactful,” he suggested. He said that younger people should be brought on board to achieve its programmes, stressing that Nigeria still needs Buhari to stabilise the course of corrupt tendencies and ensure that things are well in place. He said governance must not be put in the hands of those that will loot the treasury again, saying that the economy is not yet stable and flourish. Oyintiloye described President Buhari’s  decision as a good omen to anti-corruption fight. Oyintiloye, who is the House Committee Chairman on Information and Strategy said the President should be commended for his determination to take the anti-corruption fight beyond 2019, adding that it is the constitutional right of Buhari as a first term President to seek re-election in 2019. He maintained that re-electing the president for second term, will give him the needed opportunity to continue his anti-corruption fight and also finish the good work he has started. Oyintiloye(APC-Obokun) said that another four years for  President  Buhari in office would be  great years of achievements for the country in the area of security,  infrastructural development and improved economy. “There is no doubt that the President is good enough to be considered for a second term. “Although things are not really working the way we expected but with the foundation the president has put in place in the last 3 years,  his reelection will consolidate the gains,” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.