Lagos / Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari Tuesday night met with state governors elected on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The meeting was held behind closed doors inside the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to a presidency official who spoke with reporters on condition of anonymity, the sole item on the agenda of the meeting was on how the state governors will work towards the emergence of a former Edo State governor, Adams Oshiomhole, as the party’s next national chairman. The party’s national convention where new members of the party’s National Working Committee will emerge has been slated for May 14 in Abuja. “The president called this meeting with the progressive governors to ask them to back Oshiomhole’s candidature. That’s the purpose of the meeting, that is the president’s position,” the presidency source said. The APC had decided to retain the current zoning formula for its national offices. In another development, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), may retain his seat for another four years if plans of his loyalists within the party work according to design. However, they have an uphill task ahead of them as the anti-Odigie-Oyegun forces led by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a national leader of the party and head of the party’s reconciliation team, are also working round the clock to ensure that he is not returned for another term. The Tinubu camp is rooting for Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, a former governor of Edo State who has been with them since the days of Action Congress (AC). With less than a month to the conduct of the party’s national convention, there are already sharp divisions among the party’s governors under the aegis of the Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF) and other critical stakeholders on the control for the soul of the party. However, from DAILY INDEPENDENT findings, based on numerical strength, those plotting Odigie-Oyegun’s return are more than those from the camp of Tinubu. Tinubu is currently leading eight serving governors pushing to install Oshiomhole as the party’s national chairman while 16 other serving governors are bent on returning John Odigie-Oyegun to office. On Tinubu’s side are Governors Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State, Rochas Okorocha of Imo, Akinwumi Ambode of Lagos, Rauf Aregbesola of Osun, Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo, Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano, Godwin Obaseki of Edo and Kashim Shettima of Borno. The pro-Odigie-Oyegun governors include: Governors Bindo Jibrilla of Adamawa; Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar of Bauchi; Samuel Ortom, Benue; Badaru Abubakar, Jigawa; Nasir Ahmad el-Rufai, Kaduna; Aminu Bello Masari, Katsina; Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, Kebbi; Yahaya Bello, Kogi; Abdulfatah Ahmed, Kwara; Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, Nasarawa; Abubakar Sani Bello, Niger; Ibikunle Oyelaja Amosun, Ogun; Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu, Ondo; Simon Lalong, Plateau; Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Sokoto, and Ibrahim Geidam of Yobe. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT on Monday, a member of the party’s NWC said President Buhari initially wanted Odigie-Oyegun for the prime job, he was advised against supporting him based on the affinity the former Edo governor enjoys with Tinubu. He also added that many of the governors believe Oshiomhole, a labour leader of repute, will be too powerful for them to control, hence their support for Odigie-Oyegun who is seen to be more mature and malleable. Oshiomhole is already having a bumpy ride in his zone as four out of the six state chairmen of the party have distanced themselves from the purported endorsement of the former governor of Edo State. They are the Rivers State APC Chairman, Chief Davies Ikanya; Bayelsa State APC Chairman, Deacon Joseph Fafi; Cross River State APC Chairman, Etim John and the Akwa Ibom State APC Chairman, Amadu Attai as well as the APC Deputy National Secretary, Victor Giadom. They had stormed out of the South-South zonal caucus meeting at the Edo State Government House in protest at what they said were plans by the Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, and the zonal vice chairman of the party, Hilliard Eta, to bar the incumbent National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, from standing for reelection in favour of Oshiomhole. “We were here for a meeting only to be ambushed by the national vice chairman of the party to adopt a preconceived candidate. Somebody that he had already made up his mind on. Whatever was his arrangement with the person….we do not know”, said Ikanya. “Yesterday, we held a meeting and we were all in that meeting, only for him to come and manipulate, sort out every suggestion and he is trying to say he has come out with a resolution. “First, I want us to know that the zonal executive committee does not have the power to elect or to nominate or to adopt candidates for national offices. It is the national convention that can do that. Secondly, there are very senior members in the zone that were shut out of this meeting purposely. “Number one, the national chairman of the party, is from this zone and the national vice chairman of the party ought to seek the permission of the national chairman of the party even to convene this meeting because the constitution states that the national vice chairman shall assist the national chairman. “So, in this zone where we have a sitting chairman and he is not invited to a meeting, you have six ministers, you have former governors, you have very senior citizens of this zone and they were shut out of the meeting only for the national vice chairman to ambush everybody, ignore every motion that was moved, even when somebody moved a motion that he should disqualify himself having shown bias from the beginning in this meeting, he still sat there and he is saying to the public that there was a resolution. “We want you to know that out of the states of the zone, four states are saying that this was an ambush, it was not acceptable. There was no resolution. We have said that every person is free to run in the election. We stand by the resolution of the NEC that there is waiver. “The national chairman can recontest if he wants to recontest, any other person from the zone can recontest if they want to recontest. What has happened in this meeting is a farce, is not binding on anybody, is null and void because four of us, four states are saying no, whereas just two states, in fact one and a half, maybe Edo and some parts of Delta are the people that are saying that they have a resolution. This is not how democracy should be practised. Arising from this meeting today, the majority view is that there is no consensus on any candidate”. Also speaking on whether President Buhari does not want Odigie-Oyegun to continue in office, our source said that it is not true, adding that all the president did was to prevent any legal hurdles for the party in the future and to appease party members who are opposed to the extension. “President Buhari has no issue with Odigie-Oyegun as party chairman. If he has any problem with him, he wouldn’t have supported the extension when it was first approved by NEC. You know how it happens under former President Olusegun Obasanjo in PDP, especially with any chairman he sees as not being on the same page with him. “If you listen to the president during the second NEC meeting, he said he decided to oppose the extension after seeking legal advice. We also believe he also did that to pacify some party members who are not happy with the move, especially those in Lagos APC led by Tinubu. “President Buhari is not opposed to Odigie-Oyegun seeking reelection. If you also remember, he said four years is better than one year. If Odigie-Oyegun and his loyalists do their homework very well and he is reelected, I believe the president will be the first to congratulate him. “I also believe that Tinubu will back Odigie-Oyegun if he wins. All Tinubu said is that the extension is unconstitutional. If there is a free and fair election at the convention and Odigie-Oyegun wins, it means the majority has won and Tinubu as a statesman will accept the outcome”. When DAILY INDEPENDENT contacted Tinubu’s media aide to know whether his principal will accept the outcome of the convention even if his preferred candidate loses, he declined comment. In a related development, as the APC convention committee commences sale of forms for various elective positions in the party today, chairman of the party Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, has described the purported endorsement of Adams Oshiomhole by stakeholders of the party from the South-South geopolitical zone as childish and a foolish charade. Odigie-Oyegun spoke Tuesday night at the party’s headquarters in Abuja, pointing out that the said endorsement of Oshiomhole by the stakeholders is clear indication that the trumpeters do not understand the rule of the game, stating that Oshiomhole cannot be elected in Edo State Government House. “The endorsement is childish, absolutely childish. The voting is done at the convention and not in State Houses, not in Government Houses”, he stressed. Odigie-Oyegun, however, hinted that he will make his intention to renew his mandate as chairman of the party known in matter of days, stating that he has concluded all consultations. Asked why he is facing rejection from the party in his home state, Odigie-Oyegun said it should be expected, adding, however, that he is not bothered at all by the apparent hostility. Odigie-Oyegun said, “They have their reason for what they did and you have to respect their own reasons, however, wrong it is. Don’t bother about this teaser, I will give a comprehensive interview, I will speak with you people when the time comes. “It doesn’t bother me because one of those who wants my job is from Edo and he was the immediate past governor and he was very instrumental in installing the present governor, so I think it is a case of rub my back, I rub your back. That is what is playing out”, he stated. – President Muhammadu Buhari Tuesday night met with state governors elected on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The meeting was held behind closed doors inside the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to a presidency official who spoke with reporters on condition of anonymity, the sole item on the agenda of the meeting was on how the state governors will work towards the emergence of a former Edo State governor, Adams Oshiomhole, as the party’s next national chairman. The party’s national convention where new members of the party’s National Working Committee will emerge has been slated for May 14 in Abuja. “The president called this meeting with the progressive governors to ask them to back Oshiomhole’s candidature. That’s the purpose of the meeting, that is the president’s position,” the presidency source said. The APC had decided to retain the current zoning formula for its national offices. In another development, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), may retain his seat for another four years if plans of his loyalists within the party work according to design. However, they have an uphill task ahead of them as the anti-Odigie-Oyegun forces led by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a national leader of the party and head of the party’s reconciliation team, are also working round the clock to ensure that he is not returned for another term. The Tinubu camp is rooting for Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, a former governor of Edo State who has been with them since the days of Action Congress (AC). With less than a month to the conduct of the party’s national convention, there are already sharp divisions among the party’s governors under the aegis of the Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF) and other critical stakeholders on the control for the soul of the party. However, from DAILY INDEPENDENT findings, based on numerical strength, those plotting Odigie-Oyegun’s return are more than those from the camp of Tinubu. Tinubu is currently leading eight serving governors pushing to install Oshiomhole as the party’s national chairman while 16 other serving governors are bent on returning John Odigie-Oyegun to office. On Tinubu’s side are Governors Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State, Rochas Okorocha of Imo, Akinwumi Ambode of Lagos, Rauf Aregbesola of Osun, Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo, Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano, Godwin Obaseki of Edo and Kashim Shettima of Borno. The pro-Odigie-Oyegun governors include: Governors Bindo Jibrilla of Adamawa; Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar of Bauchi; Samuel Ortom, Benue; Badaru Abubakar, Jigawa; Nasir Ahmad el-Rufai, Kaduna; Aminu Bello Masari, Katsina; Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, Kebbi; Yahaya Bello, Kogi; Abdulfatah Ahmed, Kwara; Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, Nasarawa; Abubakar Sani Bello, Niger; Ibikunle Oyelaja Amosun, Ogun; Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu, Ondo; Simon Lalong, Plateau; Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Sokoto, and Ibrahim Geidam of Yobe. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT on Monday, a member of the party’s NWC said President Buhari initially wanted Odigie-Oyegun for the prime job, he was advised against supporting him based on the affinity the former Edo governor enjoys with Tinubu. He also added that many of the governors believe Oshiomhole, a labour leader of repute, will be too powerful for them to control, hence their support for Odigie-Oyegun who is seen to be more mature and malleable. Oshiomhole is already having a bumpy ride in his zone as four out of the six state chairmen of the party have distanced themselves from the purported endorsement of the former governor of Edo State. They are the Rivers State APC Chairman, Chief Davies Ikanya; Bayelsa State APC Chairman, Deacon Joseph Fafi; Cross River State APC Chairman, Etim John and the Akwa Ibom State APC Chairman, Amadu Attai as well as the APC Deputy National Secretary, Victor Giadom. They had stormed out of the South-South zonal caucus meeting at the Edo State Government House in protest at what they said were plans by the Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, and the zonal vice chairman of the party, Hilliard Eta, to bar the incumbent National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, from standing for reelection in favour of Oshiomhole. “We were here for a meeting only to be ambushed by the national vice chairman of the party to adopt a preconceived candidate. Somebody that he had already made up his mind on. Whatever was his arrangement with the person….we do not know”, said Ikanya. “Yesterday, we held a meeting and we were all in that meeting, only for him to come and manipulate, sort out every suggestion and he is trying to say he has come out with a resolution. “First, I want us to know that the zonal executive committee does not have the power to elect or to nominate or to adopt candidates for national offices. It is the national convention that can do that. Secondly, there are very senior members in the zone that were shut out of this meeting purposely. “Number one, the national chairman of the party, is from this zone and the national vice chairman of the party ought to seek the permission of the national chairman of the party even to convene this meeting because the constitution states that the national vice chairman shall assist the national chairman. “So, in this zone where we have a sitting chairman and he is not invited to a meeting, you have six ministers, you have former governors, you have very senior citizens of this zone and they were shut out of the meeting only for the national vice chairman to ambush everybody, ignore every motion that was moved, even when somebody moved a motion that he should disqualify himself having shown bias from the beginning in this meeting, he still sat there and he is saying to the public that there was a resolution. “We want you to know that out of the states of the zone, four states are saying that this was an ambush, it was not acceptable. There was no resolution. We have said that every person is free to run in the election. We stand by the resolution of the NEC that there is waiver. “The national chairman can recontest if he wants to recontest, any other person from the zone can recontest if they want to recontest. What has happened in this meeting is a farce, is not binding on anybody, is null and void because four of us, four states are saying no, whereas just two states, in fact one and a half, maybe Edo and some parts of Delta are the people that are saying that they have a resolution. This is not how democracy should be practised. Arising from this meeting today, the majority view is that there is no consensus on any candidate”. Also speaking on whether President Buhari does not want Odigie-Oyegun to continue in office, our source said that it is not true, adding that all the president did was to prevent any legal hurdles for the party in the future and to appease party members who are opposed to the extension. “President Buhari has no issue with Odigie-Oyegun as party chairman. If he has any problem with him, he wouldn’t have supported the extension when it was first approved by NEC. You know how it happens under former President Olusegun Obasanjo in PDP, especially with any chairman he sees as not being on the same page with him. “If you listen to the president during the second NEC meeting, he said he decided to oppose the extension after seeking legal advice. We also believe he also did that to pacify some party members who are not happy with the move, especially those in Lagos APC led by Tinubu. “President Buhari is not opposed to Odigie-Oyegun seeking reelection. If you also remember, he said four years is better than one year. If Odigie-Oyegun and his loyalists do their homework very well and he is reelected, I believe the president will be the first to congratulate him. “I also believe that Tinubu will back Odigie-Oyegun if he wins. All Tinubu said is that the extension is unconstitutional. If there is a free and fair election at the convention and Odigie-Oyegun wins, it means the majority has won and Tinubu as a statesman will accept the outcome”. When DAILY INDEPENDENT contacted Tinubu’s media aide to know whether his principal will accept the outcome of the convention even if his preferred candidate loses, he declined comment. In a related development, as the APC convention committee commences sale of forms for various elective positions in the party today, chairman of the party Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, has described the purported endorsement of Adams Oshiomhole by stakeholders of the party from the South-South geopolitical zone as childish and a foolish charade. Odigie-Oyegun spoke Tuesday night at the party’s headquarters in Abuja, pointing out that the said endorsement of Oshiomhole by the stakeholders is clear indication that the trumpeters do not understand the rule of the game, stating that Oshiomhole cannot be elected in Edo State Government House. “The endorsement is childish, absolutely childish. The voting is done at the convention and not in State Houses, not in Government Houses”, he stressed. Odigie-Oyegun, however, hinted that he will make his intention to renew his mandate as chairman of the party known in matter of days, stating that he has concluded all consultations. Asked why he is facing rejection from the party in his home state, Odigie-Oyegun said it should be expected, adding, however, that he is not bothered at all by the apparent hostility. Odigie-Oyegun said, “They have their reason for what they did and you have to respect their own reasons, however, wrong it is. Don’t bother about this teaser, I will give a comprehensive interview, I will speak with you people when the time comes. “It doesn’t bother me because one of those who wants my job is from Edo and he was the immediate past governor and he was very instrumental in installing the present governor, so I think it is a case of rub my back, I rub your back. That is what is playing out”, he stated. 1 comments