Lagos – For the fourteenth consecutive month, Nigeria’s headline inflation declined to 13.34 percent, a development last seen 23 months ago which also bellow Monetary Policy Rate (MPC) of 14 percent which analysts believe may influence rates cut in due course. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) published this on Thursday in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) data for March 2018. Inflation dipped from 14.33 percent in February. A separate food price index showed inflation was trimmed to 16.08 percent in March, from 17.59 percent the preceding month. On a month-on-month basis, the NBS said the headline index increased by 0.84 percent in March 2018, up by 0.05 percent points from the rate recorded in February. However, the percentage change in the average composite Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the twelve-month period ending March 2018 over the average of the CPI for the previous twelve-month period was 15.60 percent, showing 0.33 percent point lower from 15.93 percent recorded in February 2018. Food inflation has been in double digits for almost three years but has slowed for the past six months. It fell by 172 basis points to 16.1 percent Y-o-Y from 17.8 percent in February 2018, also reflecting high base effect from 2017 which offset the marginal increase in m-o-m food inflation to 0.90 percent from 0.85 percent in February. Core inflation (all items less farm produce) measured year-on-year fell 53 basis points to 11.2 percent, its lowest level since February 2016. This, according to NBS, is mainly attributable to high base effect and a decline in energy prices in the month which partly offset pressures in other divisions (petrol, diesel, kerosene and gas prices moderated 5.3%, 1.7%, 6.8% and 3.0%, respectively). Despite the moderation in energy prices in March, core index month-on-month growth surprisingly inched higher to 0.84 percent from 0.75 percent in the prior month. Analysts at Afrinvest believe that “despite the marginal increase in m-o-m price growth across indices, inflation pressures remain benign on a seasonally adjusted basis as post-harvest food price development in 2018 is substantially more favourable relative to 2017, thanks to above-average harvest recorded in Q4:2017. “With strong base effect still in play, we expect headline inflation to continue to descend in the near term, printing at 12.6 percent in April and 10.7 percent by year end. The impact of the consistent disinflation trend and benign near-term outlook is not lost on monetary policy. The CBN governor has consistently guided monetary policy will be anchored by inflation development, although empirical analysis suggests external account variables are more potent leading variables”. Afrinvest analysts added that “with near term outlook for external account indicators positive (rising oil prices and current account surplus, stable FX rate and 5-year high external reserves) and real interest rate forecast to widen to 1.4% in April, the case for easing monetary policy can be argued from both exchange rate and price stability standpoints”. They added that: “As we mentioned in our post-MPC reaction last week, policy rate cut in 2018 is a matter of when, not if”. Based on our revised Inflation forecasts, we are convinced that all indicators point to a May/July MPR rate cut of between 100bps – 200bps. Our expectation notwithstanding, the impact on fixed income yields will not be substantial as the CBN has already set in motion the easing cycle by deliberately guiding market rates downwards in the past six months, in addition to knock-on effect of the FGN fiscal strategy to reduce domestic debt issuance. “Hence, rate cut in our view will only align monetary policy with market realities. Our outlook continues to favour gradual yield compression, with short to intermediate bonds falling faster than longer term bonds as the yield curve gradually normalizes. In their reaction, analysts at United Capital said: “While we are of the view that high base effect from elevated food prices in the prior year accounted for the sustained moderation in headline inflation, the major items responsible in the food index included bread & cereals, oil & fats, fruits & vegetables, coffee tea & cocoa, milk cheese & eggs and fish according to the NBS. “Moderation in prices of Fuel & lubricants maintenance and repair, vehicle spare parts, and passenger transport by air also supported the core index. For the headline index, the highest increases were observed in the prices of bread & cereals, oil & fats, fruits & vegetables, coffee tea & cocoa, milk cheese & eggs and fish. “Looking ahead, we project Apr-18 inflation rate to decelerate faster to 12.5 per cent as m/m inflation is anticipated to remain around 0.8 per cent, underpinned by a sustained pullback in food inflation in light of base effects from 2017 and continued stability in the FX market. “Accordingly, we reiterate our view that inflation rate should come below the CBN’s target of 12 per cent by Jun-18, while core inflation should decline even lower, further supporting the argument for a near-term rate cut amid the continued accretion to external reserves which is fast approaching $50bn. Overall, we expect yields to ease further going forward”. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.