Small and medium Enterprises (SMEs) play critical roles in the development of any nation, especially in a developing economy like Nigeria where opportunities in public sector are severely limited. Electricity is the driver of any meaningful economic activities. However Nigeria has over the years suffered inadequate supply of power and this has hampered the growth potential of businesses in the country. In this piece, IKECHI NZEAKO and BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI examine inadequate supply of power and its impact on enterprises in the country. Excerpts: Access to power expands the number and variety of business and job opportunities available. Electricity means that small businesses, such as hair salons, laundromats and welders, all of which rely on energy, can function. Energy also leads to the creation of new markets, businesses and job openings, which provide more opportunities for individuals to earn an income and lift themselves, their families and their communities out of poverty. A lack of a consistent access to reliable power costs businesses and the economy as a whole. Even with access to energy, unreliable power makes operating a business even more challenging than usual. Nigerian business and manufacturing enterprises experience power outages. As a result, firms lose sales revenues in the informal sector. Where back-up generators are limited, losses can be as higher. These losses have severe consequences for the health and growth of the wider economy, not to mention the dramatic impact in achieving other development objectives outlined by the Millennium Development Goals. Power allows small business owners and employees to increase working hours. This not only means that they can open their shop earlier and stay open later, but that business owners can complete other work related to owning and operating a business before and after daylight hours. Electricity provides business owners with access to online information and resources, while power provides business owners with information that is critical to operating their business successfully, whether that information is about local or national markets, new economic policies or tax regulations. This allows small business owners in rural areas to engage with the wider business community and learn best practices from other individuals working in the same industry. It is clear that by investing in energy infrastructure, governments can help both small and large firms simultaneously, while also helping to alleviate poverty. SMEs play an important role in the economic development of a country. Their role in terms of production, employment generation, contribution to exports and facilitating equitable distribution of income is very critical. Small businesses contribute substantially to two fundamentals of poverty reduction – job creation and economic growth. Epileptic Power Supply And Nigerian Industries Owners of small businesses in Nigeria seem to have adapted to the poor power and epileptic power supply in the country as owners of business have resorted to alternative forms of getting electricity to power their businesses. However, the Federal Government seems to have finally come to terms with the reality in the power sector as President Muhammad Buhari at an economic retreat admitted the state of power supply is worrisome. He was quoted as saying that the poor power situation in the country was no longer a laughing matter. The local manufacturers painted the scenario thus: About 70 per cent rise in cost of operations was recorded as power generation, which rose to above 4.500megawatts, suddenly dropped to less than 1,200megawatts, resulting in load shedding by the power distribution companies. For Eke Ubiji, the executive secretary of Nigeria Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME), poor power supply is the biggest challenge facing SMEs in Nigeria. He said that the power situation has raised the production cost of members of the association, adding that some members were no longer in business because they could no longer afford to afford to pay for the cost of alternative energy. According to a report from the Manufacturers Association, of Nigeria (MAN), members companies in the past three years spent N20.8 billion monthly on power generation to run produc­tion process. Also speaking on the situation, Mr Akin George, the Lagos State chairman of the Nigerian Association of Small –scale Industrialists (NASSI), said that inadequate power supply was hampering the growth and development of the businesses of his members. MAN President, Frank Jacobs, said the ripple effects of the power shortages and constant outages were numerous, ranging from cut down in production, job loss to outright closure or relocation to other countries by industries. He added that companies had to bear so much loss as the outage often occurs when goods are in the middle of production. He said: “when you are pro­ducing and power is taken unan­nounced, goods in line of produc­tion would be destroyed.” As a result of this, Jacobs said many members of MAN have resorted to generating power privately and completely cut off their operations from the national grid. “Most companies, like Coca-Cola, Wempco, Nigeria Flour Mills and especially the multi nationals self-generate their power. They don’t rely on the national grid. And for the last three years, our study showed that our members spent averagely in a month N20.8 billion,” he said. On his part, Mr Muda Yusuf, the Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), said members of the chambers, be it multi nation­als or Medium, Small or Micro Entrepreneurs (MSMEs) have all resorted to alternative source of energy, ranging from gas, diesel or PMS, which he said is affect­ing their cost of operation and overall effectiveness. “Some of the big companies have completely cut off from national grid to private gas sup­ply as means of providing power for their operation. This is because some of their operations and productions cannot work with the epileptic power we are experiencing in the country. All the multinationals are generat­ing their power themselves right now.” NOIPolls Reveals How 61% Of SMEs Rely On Generators For Power Supply A recent survey conducted by NOIPolls revealed that 61% of SMEs in Nigeria spend between ₦500 – ₦1000 per day on fuel, and an ODI survey has indicated that as many as 85% of micro and small businesses rely on generators for supply of electricity. With the Mobile Electricity service, costs are as low as ₦150 per day, or just ₦4,500 per month. However, Yusuf, the Director General of LCCI in his comments, said though some of the companies still manage to operate on public electricity, but noted that they have to revert to diesel to power their generators anytime there is an outage, which he said is more expensive. “Those that suffer most now are the SMEs and the micro operators that rely on generators, more so now that the fuel is not even available, their problems have been compounded”, he said. With a remarkable increase in operational cost and poor purchasing power of consumers, the manufacturing companies have had to lay off thousands in the last six months, with about three million still to go. A 2015 report of the Good Governance Initiative (GGI), a non-governmental organisation advocating uninterrupted power supply in the country, says Nigerians spend N3.5 trillion on fuelling their gen­erators annually. Mr. Festus Mbisiogu, its President, said an intensive research conducted by the body to ascertain the nega­tive multiplier effects of un­steady power supply last year showed that the manu­facturing sector spends over N800billion yearly on genera­tors. He added that this is apart from about N2 trillion spent on running generators by over 17 million Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs), banks, other corporate entities and traders across the country. He explained: “In the banking sector, each branch spends over N4million on diesel in a month. When you multiply that figure by the number of bank branches in Nigeria, it could be colossal. An average family man spends between 60,000 and N100,000 in a month on fuel, apart from the maintenance. “With over 6,133 bank branches and each expending N4million on diesel a month, N48 million will go down the drain in a year, and this will amount to N294.4billion per annum across all the branches. This means that not less than N1.5 trillion must have gone into diesel purchase in the past five years. This is outside the amount spent on powering ATM points located outside banking premises and main­taining the generators, among other critical banking infra­structure”, he stated. Financial experts say the amount spent on fuel and gen­erators by manufacturers and SMEs will increase remark­ably this year as 2016 is clearly the harshest since the 2008 global economic meltdown. The rough business climate has forced many companies to close shops, while the sur­viving ones are retrenching workers daily. Recently, the Organised Labour raised an alarm that the food, beverage and tobacco sector of the nation was on the verge of shutting down and that over three million jobs were at risk due to the inability of companies to meet the crip­pling cost of production. Already, leading compa­nies in the sector such as Ni­gerian Flour Mills, Nigerian Breweries, Guinness, Nige­rian Bottling Company, 7-UP Bottling Company, Friesland Campina Wamco, among oth­ers, have written to labour for discussions on planned sack of workers. The companies listed their challenges to include acute forex shortage, poor power supply from the generation and distribution companies, scarce and costly fuel to run their generators, among oth­ers. Checks reveal that in the last three months, no fewer than 1,500 workers had been sacked in the food and beverage sector as em­ployers seek ways of coping with strangulating operational costs. Looking at his own sector, the Chairman of Toiletries and Cosmetics Manufactur­ers Group, Mr. Ikpong Umoh, said ‘ hopes were dashed fol­lowing the inability of the power generation companies (Gencos) and Distribution Companies (Discos) to pro­vide the power supply needs of the citizens two years af­ter the privatisation exercise. He observed that the role of manufacturing in a develop­ing country like Nigeria cannot be trivialised. He called on the President Muhammadu Buhari led government to urgently save the manufacturing sector from total collapse by providing constant power supply. In his view, Yusuf, the LCCI Director General, said industries in Nigeria are going through hard time. “I think something has to done if this country is move forward. We cannot continue this way as a nation. Where on earth have you see manufacturers running generators as major source of energy supply? Government should see to the plight of the manu­facturers in the country before all the industries relocate to Ghana as we are experiencing today,” he warned. Chief Eric Umeofia, the President/CEO of Erisco Foods Limited, said that the high cost of running manufacturing plants on gen­erators was one of the reasons most local industries had re­mained uncompetitive and profitable as going concerns. “Imports of substandard goods, smuggling and high cost of electricity have all combined to wreak havoc on the Nigerian manufacturers,” he said. In the aviation sector, many businesses are going through very hard times. It is estimated that the industry is incurring an additional cost of about N100 million, having to power its facilities on generators. A senior airport officials who handles the operations aspects of Nigerian airports and does not want to be named said “running the vari­ous government airports on private power generators had doubled cost of maintaining the airports and also stifled re­cent attempts to earn reason­able revenue as a business.” How Businesses Recount Losses Small businesses operating in various sectors of the economy have been badly hit by the latest drop in power supply nationwide and the concurrent fuel scarcity. This gloomy electricity condition was further exacerbated by poor supply of gas to power plants. It was reported that a partial system collapse that occurred on March 8 due to vandalism of pipelines that supply gas to the power plants led to a continuous drop in electricity generation making power generation to drop to 1,580.6 megawatts. A day after, the operation of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation was shut down by Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers  (NUPENG) and the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), in objection to the alleged unbundling of the corporation into 30 firms. Owners and operators of small businesses and large corporations in various sectors of the economy who spoke with our correspondent reported that the worsened power supply and scarcity of fuel had further exacerbated the ease of doing business. They lamented that the cost of doing business had further increased and their profit margin had shrunk drastically. The Chief Imaginative Officer, Tradersball, an online marketing firm, Mr. Daniel Malik, said that his line of business required him to have access to regular supply of electricity and the Internet for 24 hours daily. Though the epileptic electricity had been on for years, he said that his experience in the past one week till now had not been palatable. According to him, the simultaneous power outage and the fuel scarcity cost him about N500,000 in two days. Due to man hours lost in long queues at fuel stations, he resorted to buying from the black market, which had low price margins with the prices at filling stations in Lagos environment. Malik said: “The electricity for us is a major issue; this is part of what is destroying businesses in Nigeria, especially the online business. For example, the poor results of the students who wrote the last JAMB could partly be caused by power shortage at the centres, which must have affected the Internet. There is no way we can access the Internet without power. “It has affected us such that dollar rates have gone up; the services we render at $1000 for N250 before is now $1000 for N300, 000. That actually affected us and the high cost of generating electricity added to these expenses.” “We have to run around for fuel. Last week, there was a particular 48 hours shut down in electricity and we did not work at all because there was no electricity and no fuel to power our Internet at all. It is a huge loss for us because we have jobs to handle on behalf of our clients and the e-commerce site. At that point, there is no way we can see demands online for our e-commerce sites. If you have issues with the Internet and power at the same time, you will lose money. In the two days, I lost close to N500,000.” The Personnel Manager, UMZA International Farms Limited, an indigenous rice mill, Mr. Ali Aliyu, said that insufficient power supply had made their product non-competitive with the imported brands. Aliyu said: “There is unavailable power supply that is key as far as all manufacturing companies are concerned.  For example, our company spends not less than N4.5m on electricity every month on diesel because we do not have sufficient supply of power. It means that the cost of production is high and the price will be high as well; and we have to make profit.” On his part, Mr. Ayodele Akagun, the Managing Director, Corporate Business Services, said that the place of a generating set in business had changed from a back-up to a necessity. Akagun, who runs a business centre and offers consultancy services, noted that electricity was now the backup rather than the power generating set being the backup. He said the cost of rendering services had soared. Expressing his grief at the situation, he said, “Looking at the effect, the fuel is not there and we have been going to the black market. The cost of services has become outrageous and even the customers are refusing to pay such costs. We have been forced to sell services at prices lower than normal. The result is that my profit margin has been reduced. If the cost has risen and the customers are not willing to pay, it means that profits have shrunk.” Akagun said: “I use about five generating sets in my office, three utilising petrol and two using diesel from 8am to 5pm every day. Like today, we have not had electricity at all. Yesterday, we had only two hours supply.” The Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr. Yusuf, expressed concern over the outcomes of the reforms in the power sector. He suggested an extensive audit of the privatisation processes, the capacity of the players in order to identify the existing gaps. He called on the government not to neglect the sector because it was an indispensable determinant of economic development. He said: “I am not sure we got the reform in the power sector right. The principle of having the private sector come into it is fine. But from what we are seeing, I think there is a lot of fine-tuning that needs to be done. Not necessarily to jettison the reform there should be a proper audit of the process, capacity of the players and identify the gaps that exist there. “The government cannot afford to leave the power sector the way it is. It is not just a business, it is a developmental issue. If we don’t get it right with power, a lot will suffer economically and socially. The government cannot regard it as just purely business issue for the investors in the sector; government needs to step into it. They need to review the entire model of power delivery.” The LCCI DG opposed the notion that every consumer must receive electricity supply from the national grid and gas supply from the Niger Delta to generating firms. To diversify the sector, he suggested other sources that the government and investors could explore. He said: “This idea of concentrating everything on the national grid and the gas piped from Niger Delta to Egbin and other firms, should be reviewed. We need to look at diversifying the sources of power generation. We need to look at the embedded power approach where people can generate power and supply directly to the grid. “We need to look at captive power model where we can identify estates and get someone to supply them with power. We need to look at the model called the Island mode, where we can identify a place like Lagos, Ibadan or other big companies and let them have a standalone apparatus for power generation. We need to decentralise it. The current model is too centralised and I don’t think it can work.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.