While I concede that one billion US dollars is a huge amount of money in any economy, it still remains my candid take that whenever it comes to national security, no price is too much to pay because all other things depend on it. However, the question before Nigerians today is: Why can’t we produce such everyday weapons for our armed forces like the rest of the world is doing? Where is our national security and national sovereignty if others produce everything that we need for our own protection? It is quite understandable why Nigerians are today alarmed about the timing and even the necessity for the $1 billion US dollars extra-budgetary request that the government is making, considering the fact that the Jonathan government, knowing how relaxed the citizens were about security expenditure, used the ploy of “security” fortuitously occasioned by the then raging Boko Haram insurgency to withdraw about $3 billion from the nation’s coffer and simply shared it out amongst themselves leaving nothing for security. With that recent sad history, people are bound to be obviously concerned whenever another such withdrawal is being proposed because, once bitten, twice shy.  But what has really been ironic so far is that it is the same criminals who allegedly stole that money under the Jonathan’s PDP government, at the eve of 2015 elections that are now crying loudest, knowing full well that the two situations are not exactly the same. What is more, the esoteric conditions under which the PDP government stole that humongous amount cannot be compared to what we are openly discussing today. There is however no doubt that people are feeding fat on the ongoing war against the insurgents and that is probably one of the reasons why it may never end. It is another industry by itself and those involved are smiling away to their banks even as defenceless citizens are being terrorised, killed, maimed and abducted daily. Of course, the military industrial complex world-wide, is also feeding fat on our governing short-sightedness and that is what pains me the most; that is why it also constitutes my critical point of departure from the ongoing acrimony over whether or not money supposedly meant for fighting insecurity would again end up in private pockets. It is very sad that Nigeria, with all her enormous material resources and haven exercised sovereign independence for more than half a century, still does not have a viable defence industry. That, to me, is the real matter arising when it comes to security expenditure. Constitutionally speaking, one of the fundamental attributes of sovereign statehood is the ability to provide for the security needs of citizens; and this ability is tied directly to the effectiveness of the defensive apparati and related resources available within. It is remarkable that as early as 1963, the immediate post-colonial Parliament of Nigeria deemed it necessary to enact the Defence Industry Corporation of Nigeria Act, DICON. The statutory mandate of the Corporation is to produce various weapons for the nation’s armed forces and possibly export the excess. That was about the same time that the Brazilian Defence Industry Corporation was established. Same was for India, Pakistan and many other newly independent countries then. Unfortunately, Nigeria is today the ONLY country amongst them that is not only enjoying a boom in military equipment exports but have  also become nuclear powers, an exclusive club regulated by mutual respect and deterrence. Given the complexity and specialties in the armed industry, it is permissible to occasionally buy selected items that are beyond local know-hows; but you should never buy anything that you can conveniently produce. On this count, DICON has not been allowed to deliver on its statutory mandate. Mr. President is fully aware of this problem and that is probably why one of the first few Directives he issued upon assuming power in 2015 was to call on the Corporation to wake up and give the nation a viable military industrial complex. Unfortunately, we are still wasting valuable dollars on arms importation. It is common knowledge that the country’s defence industry is a microcosm of Nigeria in terms of corruption as it is more or less institutionalised therein as no questions are ever asked about how funds allocated are spent. It is a policy taboo, they say. There is the story reportedly contained in the biographical account of a former defence minister which discloses that as early as in the First Republic, a naval war ship originally acquired for just $3 million was subsequently corruptly refitted with hefty $18 million! So, corruption in that sector is as old as Nigeria and it may also facilitate her eventual demise. After a bloody civil war, several other military engagements, both within and outside the country, recent and continuing domestic anti-insurgencies wars, we ought to have realised by now the importance of a functioning defence industry. South Africa, for example, after the apartheid war, embarked on an aggressive development of a commercialised weapons industry. Today, Pretoria is making billions of dollars from arms sales and, shameful enough, Nigeria is one of her major buyers. There is no reason under the sun why Nigeria should still be importing rifles and everyday weaponry after funding a defence industry corporation for 55 years. It is criminal. The only reason why Nigerian leaders did not find it desirable or compelling policy-wise to develop a viable local defence industry, even for the adequate production of light arms, is because by importing, they are able to corruptly inflate the costs and thereby enrich themselves all at the expense of our national security and economy. Producing them locally would have saved the $1 billion that is now being sought after and the other billions that have previously been expended for the same purpose of equipping our military. We deceive ourselves when we claim to be “Great people, Great nation” when we lack one of the most fundamental assets of true greatness, namely, military capabilities. To claim that we are an independent sovereign nation while we cannot produce the most elementary of defence equipment is simply delusional – just a giant Paper Tiger. The ongoing campaign against corruption must be extended to examining what exactly happened to our defence industry. We cannot run away from it because Nigeria needs a viable and accountable defence industry.  The corrective posture of this administration will get a moral boost if it seizes the bull by the horns and decisively dismantle the corruption demons that have held our defence industry down. Apart from the national pride of producing what we need for our security, there are also several profitable by-products allied to it. For example, the ubiquitous GSM phone that we are all now addicted to came straight out of military research and development. We shall also, in the process, keep many Nigerians technologically enlightened and gainfully employed and restore our pride as a nation that is able to provide for her own defence and security which is the practical definition of national sovereignty. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.