Asaba – Anwai River and Amilimocha Stream in Asaba, Delta State capital, are up for full dredging, Governor Ifeanyi has assured. This is to check the effect of the storm that will empty into those water bodies from the drainages being constructed in Asaba. Okowa made the disclosure while inspecting on-going drainage projects in the state capital, maintaining that his interest was to ensure effective channelling of water in the capital city and other parts of the state. According to the governor, who fielded questions from newsmen after the exercise, “I am glad that the projects have gone far. The contractors are reputable companies that require little or no supervision. We are happy with the pace and quality of work being done. “We are conscious of the volume of water that will pass through the storm drainages and we have asked the Ministry of Environment to dredge the Anwai River and the Amilimocha Stream.” He observed that during his recent town hall meeting in Warri, the issue of constructing drainage in that area was raised, stating that work was ongoing in the area and that the contractor handling the drainage by Effurun Roundabout promised to complete the project by July. “Two days ago, we inspected the drainage at the Warri/Sapele Road; that drainage is essentially to drain that particular road, which is being done into three lanes on both sides – that is, from Enerhen to Effurun junction. But at the town hall meeting, the people of Warri South asked for a proper drainage in the whole of Warri. Unfortunately, in the past, we have been doing a kind of make-shift drainage without having any study, and I promised them that we will, first of all, carry out a proper study of the area by setting up a team with a consulting firm along with some selected elders from that area who understand the topography, so that a proper design could be created.” Governor Okowa urged the contractors handling the drainage projects to increase their pace, to ensure that most of the excavations are covered to avoid untoward incidents during the rainy season. Okowa, who also inspected the Stephen Keshi Stadium where he asserted that with the completion of work in May at the 23,000-capacity stadium, sporting activities of international magnitude will take place in the state. Addressing newsmen after the inspection visit to the stadium in Asaba, Governor Okowa said “I am told by the contractors that, looking onto the month of May, they should be completing this project. I believe that once the stadium is completed, some of these national assignments and competitions will also take place here. The president of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has already spoken towards that because once something is good, it cannot be hidden.” He assured that the completion of the stadium would enhance the state government’s plans for youth sports development, emphasising that the state would benefit from such activities. “We are in the plan to grow a lot of sporting activities, as we are actually concerned with youth sports development. I am sure that a lot of activities will be taking place here. Recently, we have been using the Ozoro stadium; we will not stop using it but this obviously will be a higher quality stadium,” the governor said. He commended the contracting firm handling the project for keeping to time schedule and specifications, emphasising the state’s readiness to host the world in August. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.