Lagos – Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar on Wednesday said there is need to challenge the country’s leadership to create wealth in every layer of government and make it work, adding that Nigeria currently lacks the leadership with the required capacity and vision to manage her wealth. Atiku, who is a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), stated this while delivering a keynote speech at London’s Royal Institute of International Affairs otherwise known as Chatham House on the theme, ‘The Importance of Strengthening State Economic Management Systems’. Speaking on how to unlock the immeasurable potentials of Nigeria to the benefits of its people to deliver jobs, prosperity and security to all component units, Atiku who insisted that Nigerian states are not poor added that every part of the country has enough wealth to sustain it. “It is time for serious minded people to get involved and take the lead in making our country work. It is time for citizens to demand as a matter of right, from people aspiring to lead them, a plan on not just how to manage their wealth but most fundamentally how the wealth is going to be created. Slogans cannot take the place of plans and propaganda is a poor substitute for proper agenda. “For long, our leadership has been pampered. We work into managing a wealth we have little input into how it is created. And because we are not involved in the creation, we rarely appreciate it. Hence, we turn out as either bad managers or killers of the greater Nigerian dream. “Anybody who cannot tell Nigerians at the state level how, he/she is going to generate the required resources to run the state he/she is aspiring to govern is not worthy of the electorate votes. “Nigeria needs a leadership that can create wealth for the country and make it work. Every part of Nigeria has enough wealth to sustain it. What is lacking is the leadership with the required capacity and vision to tap and manage the wealth on behalf of all.” Atiku, who has been on the vanguard of a restructured Nigeria, argued that restructuring Nigeria’s economy and polity is a necessity, not an option. He said it will foster a spirit of freedom in a diverse nation and nurture strong and democratic government. The former vice president said Nigerian states are poor not because they are not receiving a fair share of oil money but because they are not receiving a fair shot at true federalism. Only restructuring can correct that, he noted. “Let me use this opportunity to once again emphasise why everyone of us must be involved in the discourse on re-structuring. When I carry the gospel of restructuring Nigeria around, I don’t carry it for mere political convenience, I am in this crusade for the purpose of making Nigeria work. Africa and indeed the world needs a Nigeria that is working. “While maintaining all the other niceties inherent in promoting the restructuring discourse in Nigeria, today, I want to add that beyond the healthy competition among the federating units which a restructured Nigeria would engender, is the unique opportunity for the retooling of the leadership recruitment process in the country. “Governance would be elevated to a serious business manned by equally serious-minded people. The attraction to power would no longer be a chance to stumble upon privileges not worked for. But a carefully calibrated move to demonstrate ingenuity and quality in creating wealth for the country. “The restructured Nigeria that I talk about, is a Nigeria that not only provides opportunities for everyone to work but even more specifically challenges the leadership to demonstrate capacity to create wealth for every layer of governance.” Atiku, who used the opportunity to harp on some of his economic programmes and policies as a presidential candidate, said his government will streamline the operations of the Sovereign Wealth Fund, the Excess Crude Account and the Stabilisation Account which is currently embedded in the Revenue Allocation Formula for more effective stabilisation outcome. He said Nigeria’s Federal Government will need to have intervention programmes for those states that rank low on the Human Development Index while subnational economies must be assisted in reforming their economic management systems and improving taxpayer compliance. “If we want Nigeria to succeed, we must break with the misguided notion that the Federal Government, or the president, knows best, and that no one else can be trusted. When I talk about restructuring, I am not talking about just constitutional tweaks, I am talking about a cultural revolution. It is not about re-shuffling a few responsibilities or resources, but about disrupting the authoritarian politics our democracy has inherited from its military and colonial rulers. “And there is nothing abstract about it: just think about the open skies agreement [Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM)], which African governments agreed on in January, and which the Nigerian government underwrote without consulting our airline industry. “You do not have to convince me that we must integrate African markets, that we need arrangements like the open skies agreement. I am a believer. But you will never convince me that a government can build an open market economy or transform trade relations if it refuses to cooperate with the private sector. “We, as a nation, must rekindle the spirit of enterprise we experienced two decades ago, when we prepared our return to democracy. We must rediscover the pragmatism that guided us through the difficult transition we were facing at the time. And we, as leaders, must recognise that this time, we cannot do it alone: we must encourage cooperation, we must embrace openness, and we must rebuild trust – with our people, but also with our international partners. “These are some of the ways I believe Nigeria’s states can improve their capacity, increase their revenues and better manage their local economies which are critical to the safety, prosperity, and welfare of all Nigerians and will allow my homeland to realise its true potential”, he said. 1 comments