Clement Onwuenwunor comes across as a busy professional; and as a litigator, as fearless as a lion. In this interview with STEPHEN UBIMAGO, he enters a narrative of how long pupilage under the legendary legal icon, late Chief Gani Fawehinmi, prepared him for life and practices so much so that even as new wig he was part of the legal team that appeared in Election Petition matter for former Delta State Governor, Chief James Ibori. Excerpts… When we saw you introduce yourself as Onwuenwunor before Justice Okunnu of the Lagos State High Court during the trial of Francis Atuche, not a few concluded that you’re an indigene of Anioma in Delta State.  Is that conclusion correct? Well I hail from Anambra State. But I imagine you’d thought Delta is my state of origin because my surname sounds very much Anioma. In any case, my grandmother is from Delta, precisely Illah in Oshimili North. We are from the other side of the River Niger that falls into Anambra State; it is directly opposite Illah. My place is called Odekpe in Ogbaru Local Government Area of Anambra State. When and how did your odyssey in the legal profession take off? I studied Law at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State and was called to the Bar on the 13th of October, 2000. Following my call to Bar I was called by Festus Keyamo, who is now a senior advocate, to attend an interview that same 2000. I think it was about the third day after my call to Bar. He interviewed me and employed one Ifeanyi and I. So I worked with him from October, 2000 to sometime in April, 2001, just when we were mobilized for National Youth Service. At the time I was mobilized for Youth Service I attended an interview called by late Chief Gani Fawehinmi in his chambers. That was in April, 2001. Chief Gani Fawehinmi hired me to serve in his Chambers and I served from July 2nd, 2001 to April 26th, 2009. That means I worked in Gani’s chambers for eight straight years. It was there essentially that I cut my legal teeth. Therefore everything I know about work and practice as a lawyer are things I learnt in Chief’s chambers. I had the best of legal training in his chambers. Chief is the greatest teacher I ever came across. It is indeed a privilege to be mentored by such a brilliant mind. He was very forthright and versed in legal knowledge. He had experienced so much in life which guided his decisions and actions. And for us who were young lawyers under him, it was very easy for us to find answers to practically every legal problem. I also had the privilege to start as a reporter on the Nigerian Weekly Law Report (NWLR) platform – which was and is still being published by Chief and his inheritors – and I became an associate editor there. So, if you go through the editions of the NWLR published during that period, you will find my name on them. I am talking about the period from 2001 till I left the chambers in 2009. During this period, were you also appearing in court as counsel; or were you solely into law reporting? No, I was fully into litigation right from day one – that is from the day I started working with Chief. Normally the practice in chambers then was that every new lawyer must read through the NWLR. You must report, and you must be able to defend what you’ve reported. And if you are lucky then to be given a file, you must appear before the lawyers in chambers to defend your file before you can go to court. We were three lawyers then that were admitted to do our service in Gani’s Chambers. But I was the only one that was opportune after about three months to start going to court. What happened then was that there was this practice by chief to always give assignments to new lawyers, corps members particularly.  On one such occasion, chief sent me to go and defend some students of Delta State University, Abraka that were in police detention. They had demonstrations in Abraka. So I had the privilege, even as a young lawyer then to meet with the Commissioner of Police in the state, explaining things to him as to why the students should be released. And chief was quite please when I came back to report about my effort. I wouldn’t know what he subsequently discussed with the deputy head of chambers then, Edwin Aniekwem, but I only discovered they started giving me assignments to do like conducting research on one matter or the other. And at that level too they were pleased with my effort. That was just after two months of working in the chambers. On one occasion they gave me a court file. To be given a court file in chambers then was a very serious business. You are expected to defend the file before chief. As a young lawyer, I was very convinced about the research I’d done on that file. Chief would ask me what the case was all about and I explained to him. He asked me what I was going to do when asked so and so question in court. I explained. He asked about the authorities I was relying on. I supplied them there and then, and he was amazed and asked me, ‘How old are you in the Bar?’ I told him I was called in October and I had worked for so, so number of months. He didn’t say anything again. I think two weeks following that encounter there was another file that was given to me to handle in court. It was on a Friday. On that Friday I again defended the research I had done on the file. When he looked at my reasoning and analysis, he told Aniekwem to be allowing me to go to court. That, in a nutshell, is how the journey started for me. How did your background in law reporting impact your litigation skills, if it at all did? I discovered that I was opened up so much by the Nigerian Weekly Law Report. I had the materials with which to confront even any senior advocate in court. My preparedness to work was assisted very substantially by the legal principles I came across in judgments and the court’s attitude or position on any issue. So law reporting guided me and gave me early courage to the effect that if you go with this authority and argue your matter this way, you are most likely going to get so and so outcome. Absolutely, law reporting from that early stage, I can assure you, developed me beyond what I can explain. I remember that as a corps member I used to close at about nine, 10 o’clock at night, while some of my colleagues would have gone home. Having watched your advocacy closely for quite a while, one can notice that even when counsel for the other party is a senior advocate you hardly appear brow-beaten. What gives you so much confidence? My early introduction to law reporting and the fact that chief trained us properly assisted me a great deal. Again, I had that early advantage of doing cases against the first senior advocate in Nigeria, the late Chief FRA Williams. I had even gotten a court order against Chief Sofola, a senior advocate, and done cases against the likes of Alex Iziyon, SAN. Indeed I did quite a substantial part of Ibori’s election petition with my other colleagues against Alex Iziyon. Chief Agofure, SAN, also appeared in the matter. Prof. Amos Utuama came in briefly. With the type of practice we have done, and having the Law Report around for research, we have gone beyond being intimidated by any SAN. The point is that I make sure I have an abundance of legal materials to work with. You spent quite a long time working with Chief Fawehinmi. What could have been the key factor that kept you glued to him for such a while? I wanted to build a career in legal practice. And I had the rare opportunity of doing that with the best you could find around then. Our chambers (Gani Chambers) then had the largest law library you could find anywhere in the country. We had everything that could assist one build a legal career. I was young; I was committed and I wanted to work. I wanted to learn legal practice, and so my passion and drive was that innermost drive to learn the practice of law. My income in Chief’s chambers also helped me to stabilize. Chief was generous to me. He bought my first car; he bought several shares for me. He gave me opportunities. He didn’t limit me. I was prepared to work and he gave me the platform. With chief I started appearing at the Supreme Court rather early. I am not sure I was up to two years in the Bar when I started appearing at the Supreme Court. I also started appearing at the Court of Appeal like nearly everyday. So that gave me the confidence. To what extent would you say that your academic training in the University as well as the Law School prepared you for practice? I am not so sure. Apart from that basic education, I would link the type of legal practice I have done thus far to my work experience in Gani Fawehinmi’s Chambers. The basic education was just to prepare me for the training I got from Chief. As for the practice and as for the extent we have gone in doing it, I attribute it majorly to Chief. 0 comments