Katsina – Katsina State government says it will include ex-servicemen into the Federal Government’s Rice Anchor Borrowers programme to contribute to the development of economic diversification project of President Muhammadu Buhari. The state government also directed its works ministry to assess the requirements for the renovation of the legion’s headquarters in Katsina for immediate intervention. Governor Aminu Masari disclosed this on Wednesday when Captain Hashim Haruna (rtd.), chairman of the state chapter of Nigerian Legion, paid him a courtesy visit at Government House Council chamber. He said children of ex-servicemen that secured admission would be granted scholarship in government universities, polytechnics and federal and state colleges of education across the country. Governor Masari said his government would continue to care for ex-servicemen that gave their lives to serve the nation. He said: “I am surprised that for two years now, there is no appeal (fund) launch for the armed forces remembrance day in Katsina State.” Accordingly, I am directing that the occasion should be organised by the relevant government agency in the state. My government would donate generously during the occasion.” In his address, the legion chairman told the governor that he was recently elected to run the affairs of the legion in the state. He called on the state government to renovate the legion’s secretariat, provide agricultural aids, institute empowerment programmes for ex-servicemen and secure admission for children of ex-servicemen. He, however, lamented that ignorance of the armed forces remembrance day in the state forced the account of the legion to dry up. The legion boss assured the governor of their unflinching support before, during and after the 2019 general elections, saying the governor’s second term bid had been accomplished. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.