Ado-Ekiti –  Professor Abdulganiy Raji, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for Ekiti State, has expressed concern over threat messages being sent to him by unknown persons over the Ekiti governorship election scheduled for July 14, 2018. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) official, at a stakeholders’ meeting, said those involved in the alleged act usually call him to conduct credible poll or face the consequences. Raji explained that the commission had received correspondences affirming existence of 42 parties in the state, stating that only 21 of them met the requirements to contest. The parley was led by Abdullahi Chafe, the police commissioner; chairmen of political parties, journalists and other stakeholders. Raji assured that the commission was relying on heavy deployment of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) gadgets for the conduct of the election, saying this would make it difficult for any staff to manipulate the outcome. “We were made to believe that there were 24 parties in Ekiti; but when I went round, I realised only 21 had full complements of structures that met the requirements of the laws. Some were even located in a corner shop where they sell biscuits. We even got another 10 letters from other political parties of recent, but we advised them to do the needful. “We have got 33 notifications for party congresses. But let me tell our parties to always route their correspondences to us through the office of our national chairman, these are letters will recognise. “Most of these threats were from elders alleging that we were one-sided. But they have forgotten that there are two sides to a coin; if you don’t want INEC to do some things, you too must be cautious. How could a party go and induce INEC staff? This is unacceptable. “We will use over 10,000 youth corps members for this election. Can all of them be saints? Some will misbehave but we have to deal with them in the appropriate way. “Let me assure you this; I have told you that I will abide by the rules and I know my staff will comply with my stand,” he assured. 0 comments