Comptroller Mohammed Uba Garba, the Area Controller of the unit recently disclosed that insider threat contributes to porous borders.
According to him, an intensive onslaught on dare-devil smugglers where the unit deployed tactical operational modalities resulted in “interception of various contraband with a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N2.5bn from March 1 to 19, 2018.”
The seized items according to him, included 16 exotic vehicles mostly 2017 models, 7,201 bags of foreign parboiled rice, which is equivalent to 12 trailer-load; 1,172 cartons of frozen poultry products, 1,352 jerry cans of vegetable oil, 72 bales of used clothing, 464 pieces of used tyres, 407 sacks of Pangolin scales, and 629 pieces of textile Ankara material among others.
The Customs boss explained that one of the remarkable seizures was the interception of 8trucks laden with 3,351 bags of rice and 669 jerry cans of vegetable oil along Iseyin, Oyo-Osun axis as well as the evacuation of 1,253x50kg bags of rice from a warehouse in Ogbomosho which was carried out based on credible intelligence despite resistance.
Another seizure was that of 163 bags of rice concealed in a trailer carrying empty crates of bottles belonging to Nigerian Breweries PLC. He said five suspects were arrested in connection with these 89 seizures. Why Nigeria’s Borders Are Porous
Comptroller-General of Customs Col. Hameed Alit (Rtr) in 2016 attributed the presence of banned items in Nigeria to porous borders.
He said that the nation’s borders were porous because of their interconnectivity with the adjoining nations, adding that there was no line demarcating Nigeria from its neighbouring countries to specifically show the end of the country.
The customs boss also said Nigerians’ kinsmen living across the borders that are those in the neighbouring countries speak the same language with their neighbours in Nigeria. This situation, said the Customs boss, made it difficult to claim that a particular border is well-secured in Nigeria.
He said: “As it regards to porous borders like Mark Shaw said, it, it is across the nation, everywhere is porous and you can’t say this is a border that is well secured. Ours is porous because we have borders that are virtually interconnected.
”Our brothers and kins are living across the borders. If you take Benin Republic for instance, some of us speak the same language, we live within the same boarder; there is no line where there is Nigeria.”
Ali who then spoke in the meeting was appraised with the fact that it was convened in to find ways of developing a framework for the Director Generals to consider. It was also convened to develop a roadmap and a concept on the way forward in terms of security issues.
Still in the same vein, and on a different forum, security consultant and former British Police Officer, Vince Onyekwelu in 2017 said a high level of incompetence is responsible for the porous nature of the Nigerian borders.
He made his view in reaction to the seizure of 440 assorted firearms by operatives of the Nigerian Customs at the Tin Can Island Port in Lagos at the time.
He explained that Nigeria did not have border protection security and that a country without national security borders or proper Identification systems cannot claim or prove that they are on top of their game. He, however, noted that Nigeria has the capacity to handle an I.D system.
“We have what it takes to have an I.D system because the BVN, permanent and temporary voters card, national passport, driver’s license are all biometric data based, we have about six biometric databases but we don’t have a national I.D card”.
“In Nigeria, there should be a demarcation, in some parts you may use manual border policing and in some parts, you have to apply technology”.
Mr Vincent added that the Nigerian Police has the capacity to handle terrorism in the country if given the necessary resources and training.
He, however, noted that only people who have the, passion and skill set to manage public relations should be employed into the system.
The Nigerian aviation industry is supposed to be the gateway to the country and security is expected to be its stronghold, but recent happenings in the sector have proved otherwise.
Apart from the recent poaching of aircraft on the airsides of some major airports, there are indications that the airports are still porous with some of the contraband goods finding their ways into and outside the country with the active connivance of security personnel and the customs agents.
Apart from this, human trafficking is another menace that is on the rise at the airports, which further points to porous borders.
For instance recently, the Nigeria Customs Service (NSC) ordered the closure of the export warehouses belonging of Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (nahco aviance) and the Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCOL) over allegations of stolen donkey skins, which were to be illegally exported out of the country.
The Federal Operations Unit of NCS decided to shut down the Lagos export units of both ground handling firms following a tip-off that there were some compromises between their officials and some Chinese citizens to allow the export of the stolen items through Emirates Air out of Nigeria at a later date.
“The donkey skin listed as prohibited items that should not be traded anywhere in the world, believed to have been stolen from Kenya and warehoused by the two handling companies,” said a source at the Lagos airport.
The Chinese, it was gathered, had brought the items into Nigeria from Kenya, but needed some Nigerian freight forwarders to finally help them ship them to their country.
It was also learnt that NCS discovered the Chinese were using some Nigerian Customs agents to export the contraband to their home country through either the seaport or airports.
This was one of the many detections and arrests made by Customs and other security agents at the airport.
Also, about two weeks ago, two men from the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) working at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos were arrested for human trafficking at the airport.
The arrested officers, who were simply identified as O. Arayinbo and Awosanmi G were off duty when they committed the crime.
The arrested officers had attempted to traffic six underage girls to Omar and Kuwait aboard Ethiopian Airlines before they were arrested.
Some personnel of Aviation Security (AVSEC), a department under the Federal Airports Authority (FAAN) apprehended the two immigration officers at the departure hall of the airport when they attempted to escort the six girls to board the aircraft.
Commenting on the porous airport border, Mr. Akin Onasanyo, a security expert, said that various illegal operations happen at the nation’s airports almost on a daily basis especially at the two warehouses of NAHCO and SAHCOL.
According to him, the clearing agents in most times connive with Customs officials to either import or export banned products most especially drugs without intervention from security agents who most times get involved in such dastardly acts.
He explained that for such menace to be checked, security officials at some critical points at the nation’s airports should be periodically changed to avoid familiarity.
He said: “Almost on a daily basis, unapproved activities happen at our airports. The sad aspect of it is that those who are paid to maintain tight security are actually the ones perpetuating this fraud. They are deeply involved in trans-border crimes.
“We need to periodically change our security personnel at the airport to avoid unnecessary familiarity, which gives rise to such criminal acts.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.