Nigeria Customs Service derives its power to seize offending goods from the Customs and Excise Management Act, (CEMA): Section 8 – confers powers of the Police to the Customs officer in the discharge of Customs functions.
Section 147 – gives powers to enter and search premises without warrant for smuggled goods.
Section 149 – gives powers to stop and search any ship or vehicle for smuggled goods and for its own duty too.
Section 150 – gives powers to search persons, on suspicion of carrying goods on which duty has not been paid, or for prohibition. Section 158 – gives powers to patrol freely, enter any place in Nigeria at any time to enforce Customs laws and regulations. Section 3 – (Special Panel and other Provision Act), Cap 47 LFN 2004 prescribes one year imprisonment without option or fine for any person found in possession of smuggled goods.
According to Attah, the reinvigorated anti-smuggling operations in 2017 raked in a total of 4,492 assorted seizures with Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N12,777,321,405.74.
He said that in 2017, a total of 207 suspected smugglers were arrested in connection with these seizures.
Apart from the difficulty, according to the Customs High Command, officers and men of the service faced a lot of challenges in enforcing these laws, even when seizures were made; managing them become even more challenging.
Initial management of seizures includes the followings among others:
Cordoning and restricting unauthorized access; transporting the goods from point of interception to Customs station; mechanical and/or terrain that makes movement difficult; crowd control/crisis management – injuries/death; on and off loading.
He said that when such seizures eventually arrive at the station, they are properly documented and kept at the government warehouse or constructively warehoused (in the case of inflammable items).
Thorough investigation and compilation of the case file(s) for possible prosecution determines the waiting period.
While perishable items, such as frozen poultry products and other dangerous items are immediately destroyed, others have to wait for judicial process of court condemnation before they can be disposed off in line with the law.
Smuggling across the Nigerian borders, according to Anefi Mohammed could be attributed to many factors. Among them, he said is youth unemployment in the country and the borders areas, which he maintained accounts to a large extent to smuggling.
He noted, sadly, that most people who live along the border towns do not see anything wrong in smuggling goods in and out of the country.
Secondly, Mohammed, who is also the Vice Chairman of International Freight Forwarders Association (IFFA), Ports and Terminal Multipurpose Services Limited (PTML), Apapa, Lagos, believed that the welfare of most of the government agencies manning the borders were not adequately taken into consideration by the government, as a result, this leads to compromise and conniving with smugglers to carry out economic sabotage in the course of their duty.
“Come to think of the hardship in the society, take away the hardship, bring in proper planning in the system that will create job opportunities, revamp the economy in such a way that everybody will have something doing, nobody will want to sabotage government effort,” he said.
He said that the system in the country lacked accountability, adding that it was responsible for the myriads of challenges facing the country.
“The Nigeria Customs Service is doing its best. Mind you, we have porous borders all around us in this country, and most of these goods are smuggled through most of these porous and unapproved routes not necessary that the NCS is being compromised. A lot of these smuggling are being perpetrated through the land borders. Most of the ones coming through the sea ports and airports are intercepted.
“That is why you saw the seizure of large quantity of arms in Tincan Island Port last year. So the custom officers are doing their best. They need to be motivated. Government need to provide modern equipment to them so they can perform effectively. The modern scanners should be provided to enable them detect hidden prohibited items in the containers and trucks. We appreciate them.
“They have been doing 100 per cent examination of cargo. This is tedious and time consuming. I think they should be encourage. The agencies in charge of the border stations should be encouraged so that they will put in their best in the war against smuggling. Smuggling is anti economy and every hand must be on deck to fight it and bring it to the barest minimum.
“The government on its own should also look into some of these articles being smuggled into the country. Are they manufacturing them here. Are they cheaper when smuggled than when we manufacture, those are not manufacturing locally, the government should think of how to lift ban on their import pending when we are due to produce them locally,” Mohammed said.
Lucky Eyis Amiwero is a maritime industry activist and the National President of the National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents (NCMDLCA) said the land borders are legal entry points.
He, however, decried a situation where criminals negate legitimate transactions at the borders and engaged in smuggling.
Dr. Boniface Anioebonam, Founder, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) noted that the law on smuggling was clear.
Bolaji Akinola, a maritime expert has identified two major reasons why importers and their agents shun Nigerian Ports and prefers taking their cargoes to neighbouring countries of Togo and Republic of Benin saying they were either avoiding high costs of clearance or have intent to smuggle.
Akinola, Chief Executive Officer of Ships and Ports Limited said: “Those who don’t care about the nation’s fiscal policies, they bring in whatever they want into the country. Take a look at the kind of goods that are dominant at the border that come into Nigeria through the land borders. The dominant goods are textiles, frozen poultry products, rice and vehicles.
“Those are the four dominant products that mostly come in through the land borders. Lets look at it one by one. Number one, textiles, they are banned in Nigeria.
So, nobody will like to bring textiles through our ports because they will be confiscated, because they are contraband. So what they do, the importers of textiles first land them in Benin Republic, and then through all the illegal routes, bring them into the country.”
In an interview with Simeon Nwonu, Deputy President, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), noted that corruption was the bane of the maritime sector and the country as a whole.
He charged those at the helms of affairs in various government agencies to take a critical look into the operations of their subordinates.
“Corruption is a problem. Until we begin to tackle it headlong, the same thing will continue to manifest. A situation where containers lined up for 10 to 15 days on the road to the port and not accessing the ports and when you ask those at the gates to the port, they tell you they are working based on instructions given to them. Who gave the order? He queried.
A visit to most of the car markets and shops in the city of Lagos revealed that many of the cars in stock came in through Benin Republic.
Car dealers and importers have listed high level corruption and wanton extortion as well as avoidable delays and high charges as reasons for their preference of foreign ports.
Due to increasing charges and extortion at the ports, a used salon car that takes just about four hours to be cleared with duty equivalent of about N120,000 at Cotonou and another duty at the border before entering Nigeria.
Investigation further revealed that excuses for delays at Nigerian ports range from epileptic server, lack of willingness to inspect, too many government agencies that show interest in cargo examinations and several other bureaucratic bottle necks.
Recently the Federal Operations Unit (FOU), Zone ‘A’, of the Nigeria Customs Service(NCS) said it had laid siege to smugglers in the South-West zone of the country, seizing goods with a Duty Paid Value(DPV) of N2.55billion in less than three weeks in the Month of March, 2018.
The feat, according to the unit was one of the greatest onslaught against the economic saboteurs in South-West zone. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.