Following continued killings of farmers and destruction of communities in the North Central by the Fulani herdsmen, the Boko Haram’s unending attacks and abductions in the North East, as well as kidnapping of citizens and other crimes across the country, the Senate recently called on President Muhammadu Buhari to sack all the Service Chiefs. Making the call on the floor of the Senate, the senators lampooned the Federal Government over the spate of killings across the country, saying there was total leadership failure in the handling of security challenges in Nigeria. The senators expressed anger, frustration and disillusionment, maintaining that the Security Chiefs had lost ideas. They expressed the need for the Security Chiefs to be replaced to inject fresh blood, ideas and vigour in the fight against the killing of citizens in the land. The senators said because Nigerians were increasingly becoming disappointed and frustrated over government’s failings and inactions on the part of the Security Chiefs over insecurity in the land, democracy had become endangered. They stressed that as lawmakers, they were tired of observing a minute silence almost every day in honour of slain individuals. The Senate position followed a motion through a Point of Order by Senator Suleiman Adokwe, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Nasarawa South, on the killings in his senatorial district. The Senate, after adopting Senator Adokwe’s motion, also asked the President to seek immediate help from the international community to curb the security problems in Nigeria, just as the lawmakers observed a minute silence in honour of 32 people killed in Nasarawa. They also urged President Buhari to direct the Armed Forces and other security operatives to come to the aid of the citizens and restore normalcy all over the country. It also mandated the Senate Ad-Hoc Committee on the review of the security infrastructure in the country to investigate the matter. Following the Senator’s call, Nigerians had been wondering if indeed President Buhari should sack the Security Chiefs due to the lingering insecurity in the land Security Chiefs Have Failed In Their Duties – Don Prince Thomas Ahonfoh Adoakhai, a university lecturer and Benin-based human rights activist, said: “I will say ‘yes’ and long overdue. This is because they have failed in their duties to secure the lives and properties of Nigerians, especially in the last fifteen months. “I join the Senate in its resolution to call for the relieving of the current Security Chiefs of their duties. They have not been able to handle the security challenges facing the nation, especially the marauding and killer herdsmen, who have continued to kill innocent Nigerians without any challenge from the security agencies. “The issue of kidnapping, armed robbery and rape, as well as the false claim of the decimation of the Boko Haram is a pointer to their inefficiency and ineffectiveness. I believe this is the time the President should effect a change and appoint those with fresh ideas to handle the security challenges of the country.” Buhari Not Fully In Charge Of Security Chiefs – CLO The Civil Liberty Organisation (CLO), Akwa Ibom State chapter, has attributed the security woes in Nigeria on President Buhari’s inability to take full charge of Security Chiefs in the country. The human right group, therefore, joined the Senate in the call on the president to sack the current Service Chiefs to give a chance to those with proven record of integrity, who would respect President Buhari’s authority as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. The CLO chapter, which spoke through its chairman, Barrister Clifford Thomas, howeve, warned against appointment of Service Chiefs based on ethnic and religious considerations and sentiment, as such may deepen the nation’s woes. He therefore called for appointment of Service Chiefs with careful adherence to the federal character principles, to ensure that only those with tract record of integrity are made to be in charge of the nation’s security. Citing an instance of lack of control over the security apparatus by President Buhari, he said: “Recall when the President asked the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, to visit Benue State, he failed to do so, hence deepening the security crisis in that state. “What did the President do thereafter to serve as disciplinary measure to such negligence of duty and superior command? He is not in charge. “Even if he should sack them now and appoint another team, same situation may still prevail, if such appointments were based on ethnic and religious sentiment. That is why the President must pay attention to the federal character principles if he wants to get it right.” Thomas, who decried the security crisis in Nigeria despite the campaign promises of President Buhari, further challenge him to commit the Security Chiefs with targets and time frame to achieve such targets, even with pronounced sanctions for failure to meet set targets. ‘Service Chiefs Should Not Wait To Be Sacked’ Okorafor Osita, an entrepreneur, maintained that the Service Chiefs should resign or be compelled to do so, without necessarily waiting to be sacked by President Buhari. He however stated that this can only happen in an ideal situation in an ideal situation where there is rule of law and where government knows its responsibilities and acts accordingly and where the electorates or the governed do their part. “But again, I hope the Service Chiefs are well equipped to do the job as expected, all things being equal, the magnitude of their shortcomings, inability to end killings by the suspected Fulani herdsmen and other sectarian crisis, do not speak well of Nigeria to the world. “It is only in Nigeria that you see government appointees not living up to expectations and yet refuse to vacate their offices and more competent hands engaged to do their job as being done in other developed countries of the world.” The Service Chiefs Are Not Infallible – MPPP Chieftain Chief Chukwumere AfodinkpaIbeji, former House of Representatives aspirant for the Owerri Federal Constituency seat and a chieftain of the Mega Progressive Peoples Party (MPPP), said: “I do not think that it is proper to sack the Security Chiefs because of the disturbing security situation in the country. Are they responsible for the problem? “The Security Chiefs are human beings like you and me. They are neither omniscience, nor omnipresent and as such, cannot perform miracles to tackle the lingering insecurity in this country. The Service Chiefs are not infallible and as human beings, they have their limitations and imperfections. “I do not mean to hold brief for them, after all, none of them knows me. But, the truth is that they are dealing with people who are daringly dangerous, who do not value their lives and those of others and whose method of operations is beyond our comprehension. “If the President goes ahead to relieve them of their appointments, that to me, amounts to giving a dog a bad name to hang it. I do not support this.” Service Chief’s Sack Is Long Overdue – YPP Stalwart Nzeh Victor Obijuru Durun, an Owerri, Imo State-based businessman and member of the Young Progressive Party (YPP), stated: “The sack of the Security Chiefs is long overdue. They have failed the nation abysmally. That is why we are still battling with security challenges in the land. “Since the Boko Haram people are still holding us to ransom, it means that the Security Chiefs have outlived their usefulness and should be shown the way out. “As the saying goes, ‘there is nothing permanent in this life except change’. You do not underrate the capacity and capability of one to handle any assignment until you give the person the opportunity to prove his mettle. Let the Service Chiefs go and let us try fresh hands.” 0 comments