Lebanese President Michel Aoun has underlined “Lebanon’s rejection of several expressions included in the statement issued jointly by the United Nations and the European Union following the Brussels Conference.” “Those expressions are ambiguous and they contradict the directions of the Lebanese State, which holds onto the safe return of the displaced Syrians to their country, especially to the war-free and secure zones,” Aoun said on Friday. A joint statement by the UN and the EU during the international conference held in Brussels under the title, “Support for the Future of Syria and the Region”, sparked a wave of protests in Lebanon, as it included expressions such as “voluntary return”, “temporary return”, “the will to stay” and “the engagement in the labor market”. The Lebanese president said that such statements were contrary to the country’s sovereignty and laws. “Lebanon, as it highly values the UN and EU efforts in helping the country in many fields, was taken aback by their statement in terms of providing job opportunities for the displaced,” Aoun said, during his meeting with British Ambassador Hugo Shorter. According to Aawsat.com, the UN and EU local missions in Lebanon said in a joint statement Friday that there has been no change in their position on Syrian refugees in Lebanon. The missions stressed that the European Union and the United Nations “consider the presence of Syrian refugees in Lebanon as temporary,” pointing out that the “solutions sought for refugees are outside Lebanon,” and that participation in the labor market “can be done exclusively in accordance with the Lebanese law.” In remarks to Asharq Al-Awsat, Lebanese Minister of State for the Displaced Moeen al-Merehbi said that there has been a misunderstanding on Article 16 of the statement, which “is only related to the Syrian internal situation and not to Lebanon.” Article 16 of the Declaration of the Co-Chairmen of the Conference stated that the conference noted particular concerns over the escalation of the fighting and the tragic humanitarian situation facing civilians in many areas of Syria. With regards to the controversial article, the EU mission in Lebanon stated that this clause concerns the situation of the population affected by the conflict inside Syria and was not linked to Lebanon and the refugees. Foreign Minister Jebran Bassil said on Thursday that what happened at the Brussels conference could not be tolerated, and called on the international community “to stop encouraging the Syrians to stay in Lebanon and not to return to Syria.” Merehbi responded to Bassil’s remarks, stressing that the foreign minister “tried to promote fallacies.” “Two documents were presented in Brussels, one of which has nothing to do with Lebanon, and the second is linked to the partnership between the Lebanese government, the European Union and the United Nations,” Merehbi said. comments