Lagos – The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has backtracked on the semifinal target set for the Super Eagles at the summer World Cup in Russia. The football house has said several times that a semi-final placing was what they expect Super Eagles to attain at the World Cup. But the NFF First Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi, has backtracted saying that the football house did not set such a target for the team. Akinwunmi in a monitored radio interview described the Super Eagles players as young and talented lads who will surprise many at the World Cup. “They are young, talented, disciplined and with some luck they will do wonders in Russia and surprise skeptical Nigerians. “Though, we’ve (NFF) not set a target for the team at the World Cup but we are sure they will not disappoint. “There will be 200 million Nigerians rooting for them to victory. As a true Nigerian, there is no fear,” he said. Prior to Akinwunmi’s disclosure, NFF President, Amaju Pinnick has said that the team has been given a semifinal target at the Mundial. Nigeria have thrice reached the knockout rounds of the World Cup and are drawn in a tough first round group that has Argentina, Croatia and Iceland. Last month when the FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour arrived Nigeria, Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr said his dream was to return to the country from Russia with the World Cup trophy.  He therefore said his team was working hard to realize their dream. “Every team going to the World Cup in Russia has a dream of winning it.  But to be realistic, we believe in our dream and we are working so hard to achieve it,” he said. Pinnick then promised that the federation would do everything within its limit to give the Super Eagles the best preparation they need to excel at the World Cup. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.