Katsina – No fewer than 876,000 Pupils in Katsina State are to benefit from the Federal Government Home-Grown School Feeding Programme. This is even as the state government employed 11,000 food vendors to cook for the pupils in the state. Flagging off the programme for primary one to three pupils in Katsina, on Tuesday, Hajiya Binta Abba Umar, the state Coordinator of the programme, said the programme would go a long way in reducing the sufferings of primary school pupils in the state. She said the programme is designed to enhance the academic performance of pupils across the state, stressing that the state government under the watch of Governor Aminu Bello Masari has put the needed apparatus on the ground to ensure the sustainability of the programme. Hajiya Umar who is also the Special Adviser to Governor Aminu Marari on Girl-child Education, however, applauded federal and state governments for alleviating the plights of vulnerable pupils via the creation of the platform to feed primary school pupils in the state. In her words, “The benefit of this programme is to improve on the enrolment and retention of the pupils across primary schools in the state. The state government would not hesitate to sanction any cook that fail to provide the free meal for the pupils because the initiative is for them”. Earlier, Governor Aminu Masari, said that his government is desirous of ensuring that pupils focus their attention on learning, pointing out that there is a relationship between well-fed pupils and the capacity to learn while hungry pupils find it difficult to concentrate. The governor said it is imperative to mainstream school feeding as a policy of his government, just as he said the programme is very important particularly that the primary education is fundamental as it is the foundation of the education sector. “The programme has multiplier effects as it will create jobs for about 10,000 women, the school children will feed and the farmers will have their farm produce patronised by the state. “It will enhance enrolment and retention in our primary schools which is very crucial particularly that it is fundamental and foundation of education. We will also have healthy children and women”, Governor Masari said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.