Jos – The Plateau State Government has been called upon to revisit the naming of the state university in Bokkos by the past administration to Solomon Daushep Lar University, the late first executive governor of the state. The Jonah Jang administration had in December 2013 renamed the university after Lar at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, where his remains was formally received on arrival from London. However, until date it has remained a mere declaration as nothing has changed in the university to that effect. At an event commemorating the posthumous birthday of the great elder statesman and politician in Lantang Mini Stadium of Plateau State, the issue (renaming of the university after Lar), which was never brought to fruition, was rejuvenated. Speaking at the event, Hon Samuel Mafuyai, Chairman of the occasion and Chairman S.D. Lar Foundation, said the renaming of the institution after all applauded Lar and sundry and that it should reconsider any decision to renege on it. Mafuyai said, “I wish to call on the Plateau State government under the able leadership of Rt. Hon. Simon Bako Lalong to kindly revisit the issues surrounding the naming of Plateau State University, Bokkos, as Solomon Daushep Lar University. We feel that the naming of this citadel of learning to immortalise Lar was a step in the right direction that was applauded by many. “We are, therefore, appealing to the state government to reconsider its decision of naming of the university after the late icon. The Plateau State government should take a cue from Kano State which named their state university after their renowned orator, Alhaji Maitama Sule, by enacting an enabling law to that effect,” he said. The chairman added that proactive steps should be taken towards supporting Lar’s Foundation to enable it sustain his legacies, and that the government, non-governmental organisations, philanthropists and the public should key in, particularly in the areas of health, education and economic empowerment. In his goodwill message, the chairmanship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Lantang North Local Government Area, Comrade Laven Ubandoma Joshua, said Lar took transformational politics with great seriousness and that he was people-centered as well as a symbol of unity to the entire country. Joshua, who acknowledged that he was mentored by Lar, said his foundation has already built goodwill and advancement in several areas in many communities since his demise. In her remarks, Pauline Tallen, the former Plateau State Deputy Governor and now Chairman of the Board of the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA), said apart from being father to all, the late Lar had the fear of God and always enjoined them to do everything with the fear of God, including politics. She described him as a destabilised Nigerian and one who is friendly to all irrespective of gender, class, tribe or religion, adding that all hands must be on deck to ensure that his foundation is boosted. Highlights of the event, which was well attended included march past by women and different groups, music and entertainment, lectures/goodwill messages, play let and launching of Chief SD Lar magazine. 0 comments