Ado-Ekiti – No fewer than 2500 senior citizens were captured in the Social Security programme instituted by a chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC), Makinde Araoye in Ekiti. The elderly spread across the three Senatorial District have benefitted from the initiative. Speaking at the 2018 edition  of the programme, ,Araoye explained that it was part of his efforts to assist the vulnerable in the society. The programme was graced by leaders of the party in Ekit including Mines and Steel Minister, Dr Kayode Fayemi i and members of artisan group.s. The beneficiaries also got cash, food items, and other palliatives to cushion the effect of economic hardship in the state. Araoye who thanked Fayemi  for honoring his invitation, described the programme as part of the measures to banish poverty in Ekiti and  make the people live a normal life. The Fayemi’s close ally said the poor performance of the present government is an eye opener to Ekiti electorate and the need to vote wisely in the coming governorship election. “ I am not doing this for politics,  but I always get disturbed when I see our people wallowing in poverty.  The present government has abandoned the people. He has stopped all the policies initiated by past governments that touched directly on the lives of the poor. “I started this programme nine years ago and I have promised to continue to do as long as I live.  It is not good for you to do good to people only when you want to contest election. “What we are doing is God’s works. Whatever you do for humanity,  you shall be greatly blessed for it,  so I appeal to our rich people to invest in human capital for Ekiti to become a  place of pride”, Araoye admonished. However, Fayemi said many people he lifted politically and financially were behind the on-going campaign of calumny against him. “All those we lifted while in government are now behind the ongoing campaign of calumny.Though,I have forgiven them, because as a human being I must have offended a lot of people too. “ Fayemi expressed joy that Araoye restored one of his legacies  in Ekiti by capturing over 2,500 elders,from across the six local governments in the state. Fayemi said ; “After losing, many of them started spreading rumour against me that I didn’t allow them to operate freely in my government.There was no one that held office in my government that I teleguided. I allowed them to be free and enjoyed their positions contrary to what hey said. “I have forgiven those that betrayed me just like I apologize to whoever I must have offended as a governor, because I am a human being and I can’t claim to be infallible”, he said. He stated that he would continue to initiate programmes that will impact positively on the wellbeing of the poor masses whether he seek elective positions or not. 0 comments