This week has been a remarkable one for football. The reason is because of the second leg quarterfinal matches of the UEFA Champions League that held during the week. The results of the four matches produced nothing but shocks and surprises.  It was a week of upsets and dramatic comebacks; a week coaches designed tactics that ensured victory. It was a week of master class of attacking football. If not, how does one explain AS Roma beating Barcelona 3-0 with Lionel Messi failing to hit target in 90 minutes.  What of Juventus taking a three goals lead against the mighty Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernabéu? What of Bayern Munich surviving Sevilla onslaught at the Allianz Arena, qualifying for the semis courtesy of their 2-1 first leg away victory. The only game that did not defy logic was the Manchester City tie against Liverpool. Liverpool scaling through was expected, if otherwise then it would have been another surprise. As thrilling, exhilarating and highly technical the games were, the referees were kill joy in the Manchester City tie against Liverpool and the Real Madrid home game against Juventus. If not for the referee, who knows, Juventus might have qualified for the semis. But this is an issue for another day. The standard, the quality of football displayed by the teams was something to behold.  There was no dull moment in any of the quarterfinal matches. They were a pointer to what would be witnessed in Russia when the World Cup kicks off in June. The reason is that majority of the players will be in Russia not as fans but as actors. The shocks, surprises and all that were experienced in those matches were down to the ingenuity of coaches who designed tactics that gave their teams victory. The quality of football explains why the streets of Lagos were deserted during the games. Nigerians love good things. They will stop at nothing once they are convinced that what they will be satisfied with what would be offered. And the UEFA Champions League did not disappoint at all. The social media were also not left out. They were abuzz with comments. Friends suddenly became ‘foes’ on facebook or twitter. I truly had a great fun going through what was posted by Nigerians. But the tragedy is that Nigerians do not exhibit this sort of love when the Nigeria Professional Football League matches are played in the country. And it’s not because they hate these clubs, but the clubs have failed to satisfy Nigerians’ yearning for quality football.  What the clubs offer are nothing but amateurish. For you to believe that Nigerians penchant for quality football knows no barrier, the stadiums were always filled in the 70s and 80s when the league was truly a league to behold. Also when the Super Eagles are ‘super’ on the field of play, look around the stands, they are filled to the brim. The reason why the stands are empty today is because they don’t get value for their time. Nigerians can’t afford to waste their precious time watching amateurish display. It is this poor form that the four clubs representing the country in the CAF Confederation Cup exhibited during the week. Mountain of Fire and Miracle Ministries lost 1-0 at home, Plateau United won 2-1 at home, Akwa United were beaten 2-0 away while only Enyimba played 1-1 away, giving a glimmer of hope of reaching the money spinning group stage. That MFM and Plateau United crashed out of the elite CAF League is heartrending but that three of the four clubs, MFM, Plateau and Akwa United are at the verge of existing the lesser CAF Cup at the last stage is mind-boggling. Gone were the days when Nigerian clubs instil fear into clubs across the continent. Today, Nigerian clubs are the preferred ones. What went wrong? We’ve failed to develop our football. We’ve only depended on talents. There is a limit to which talent will take you. We need to develop our players. Our players must know the how, when, where and what in football. For our clubs to be competitive at the continental stage, we can’t depend on talents alone. Football is changing and we must adapt to the change or we will be left behind.  Administration of football clubs have changed. But administration of Nigerian football clubs is not only colonial, but archaic.  In modern football, clubs are no longer a property of the state, but that is the situation in Nigeria. The ownership structure has to a great extent under-developed the game. Imagine Plateau United playing their home games outside Jos because Plateau State government failed to upgrade facilities at the Jos stadium to meet CAF standard. What of MFM failing to recruit quality players when some of the players that qualified them for the continent have left? The truth is that owners of these clubs seem not to appreciate the enormity of the continental championship. Honestly, there is need for the Nigeria Football Federation to declare state of emergency in Nigerian football. The NFF must insist that only clubs willing to do needful are registered for continental assignment. This embarrassment is getting too much. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.