Abuja – In what appears to be the first in the history of movie and video regulation in the country, the Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB), is rallying a coalition of corporate giants, Media top players and other regulatory bodies in the fight to bring sanity and more investment into the industry. DAILY INDEPENDENT, Google and other agencies are part of the new strategic partnership put together by the NFVCB. This agreement was reached during a visit by the management team of the NFVCB led by the Executive Director, Thomas Adedayo to the Abuja office of DAILY INDEPENDENT recently. He said that DAILY INDEPENDENT has been of help in dissemination of the news and activities of the board, adding that this has exposed the board from the deadwood to a living tree that is still growing. “You have watered our growth within the last one year and you have been part of the success and that is the one of the reason we have come to say thank you and look further into other areas of collaboration “ Adedayo noted. The Executive Director also said that the board is collaborating with world’s giant search engine ‘Google’ to fight the menace. He disclosed this during a visit to the Abuja office of DAILY INDEPENDENT at the weekend. Adedayo said that the deployment of technology to fight the scourge of uncensored and unlicensed music video became necessary considering its negative impact on the youths. He explained that the board is working with google and Nigerian Broadcasting Commission (NBC) to put a halt to the ugly trend. He  also stated that it is not only Google that can flag such video clip, saying that there are other platforms capable of doing it but Google is ahead of them. According to him “It was a fact that musicals has been left alone . For any single half minute of musicals that roll they are supposed to be classified, but that has not been.  Unfortunately when I came in, there is problem of distrust from stakeholders and the market was terribly bad, so it is the challenge of the films and videos works that i am battling with as it is but then i have taken enough measure” Adedayo, while enunciating on the efforts made by the board toward having a decent content in the music videos production, stressed that the censors board have drafted an awareness messages which is in the process of being put together and would be released to all television stations that you must not play a particular musicals without a license from National Film and Video Censors Board. The Executive Director pointed out that there is need for government to provide an enabling environment for business to flourish adding that it is not for government to be in the business. “In term of acquiring technology in such like private investors will always be ahead of government   but we are meeting up and where we cannot meet up since we have the confidence of the stakeholders then they give us the platform to use their new technology. So, that solve the problem”, he noted. He stressed the need to increase the tempo of collaboration between Government and Private sectors with the view to achieving prosperity. On the arrest and prosecution of defaulters, the censor’s board boss, said that they have made a lot of breakthrough with the recent arrest of five kingpins from Calabar who are presently in court. He revealed that many defaulters are made to pay administrative charges to the Treasury Single Account (TSA) and educate them on how to get license and the kind of film they have to buy before they can retail at that level. The Executive Director solicited for support and collaboration to enlighten the public on classification symbols of the board. According to him “ Our rating includes; 12 , PG ( Parental Guide ), 15 , 18, General View and RE . Any film without these rating that does not pass through censor’s board it illegal. We need to regulate what goes out for public consumption especially now that the hate speeches is growing at a very dangerous rate” Adedayo explained further that the board has arrested and prosecuted the defaulters of films and video works that are not licensed for distribution in Nigeria and persons that are not licensed to distribute those films. His words: “We will be glad if you can help us in the fight against the distribution of unwholesome and uncensored films and video works in Nigeria. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.