ABUJA – Against the backdrop of reactions trailing the appointment of Evangelist Victor Uwajeh by the Federal Government to recover stolen funds, the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property has said that the private investigator was under investigation. The investigation of Uwajeh, it was learnt, was in connection with allegations that he was yet to appear before Justice John Tsoho of the Federal High Court Abuja to answer a four-count criminal charge filed against him by the Federal Government.
A source close to the panel who preferred anonymity told DAILY INDEPENDENT on Thursday that Uwajeh was being investigated to ascertain the truth.
“We are investigating the allegations against Mr. Uwajeh; soon, we will make our position known on the issue,” the source said.
A legal practitioner, Anayo Adibe had condemned the said appointment while questioning the credibility of Uwajeh.
In a press statement in Abuja, Adibe said Uwajeh’s character as at present remained in doubt to hold public office until he presents himself bona fide to clear his name, and establish that his character remained in good stead.
Adibe had wondered the rationale behind the appointment in view of a four-count criminal charge pending against Uwajeh at the court.
“It presents a great obstacle to the intellect to fathom the reasons for and ramifications of Victor Osita Uwajeh’s proposed appointment to a Federal Government office as a ‘consultant on asset recovery.’
“The gentleman – l use the label merely in respect of formal convention – in question is, until he presents himself bona fide to clear his name, and establish that his character remains in good stead.”
“This is public business and we as honest members of the Nigerian public retain the right to scrutinise those who are mandated to act on our collective behalf,” the lawyer stated.
Frowning at the appointment, Adibe stated that Uwajeh has so egregiously refused to stand trial and provide himself the opportunity to clear himself of his charges. 1 comments