The Nigeria Football Federation has, in line with the implementation of its National Integrity Initiative Guidelines, requested that each of the Football Associations of the 36 States and Federal Capital Territory nominate two individuals as State Integrity Officer and Assistant State Integrity Officer respectively. In a statement signed by the General Secretary of Nigeria Football Federation, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi on Thursday, the State Football Associations are expected to nominate persons of good character and exemplary behaviour for these positions. It is advised that one of these two persons should be a female, and names of the individuals should reach the Nigeria Football Federation on or before Monday, 16th April 2018. The statement read, inter alia: “The individuals must also possess other qualifications which include being a graduate; they must not currently hold any office in the State FA; they must be computer –literate; they must be able to conduct trainings using Microsoft Power Point Application; they must be able to write very good reports; they must be resident in the State; they must also produce verifiable source of living; they must be of good character and integrity; they must produce a security report from the State Police Command clearing him/her of any criminal indictment and; must not be more than 45 years old. “The Nigeria Football Federation will do due diligence on recommended applicants and approve if convinced all criteria have been met,” the statement read, while also warning that the names of the preferred candidates should be sent on the letter –headed paper of the State FA to the National Integrity Officer, Dr. Christian Emeruwa. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.