Ankara has either killed or captured 43 militants in counterterrorism operations across Turkey over the past week, local media reported on Monday, citing the country’s Interior Ministry. “Four senior members of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), listed as a terrorist organisation in Turkey, were among the neutralised militants,’’ it reported. The Turkish security forces carried out 1,502 counter-terrorism raids recently. According to the media outlet, almost 250 people were arrested for their alleged support to the PKK, while 28 others were detained for suspected links to the Islamic State terrorist group, outlawed in Russia and Turkey. Another 561 people were arrested over the links to the movement of Islamic cleric Fethullah Gulen, referred to by Ankara as the Fethullah Terrorist Organisation (FETO) and accused of organising a failed coup attempt in 2016. Tensions between Ankara and the Kurds escalated in July 2015 when a ceasefire between Turkey and the PKK collapsed over a series of terror attacks allegedly committed by PKK members. Turkish forces are currently involved in anti-PKK raids across their own country as well as in Iraq and Syria. A military coup attempt took place in Turkey in July 2016. It was quickly suppressed by government forces but over 240 people were killed and an estimated 2,000 were wounded. Ankara has accused Gulen, who has lives in the U.S. since 1999 and his followers of playing a key role in the coup. Gulen and his supporters have strongly denied having played any role in the incident and called for an international investigation. Since then, Ankara has arrested thousands of public servants, military personnel, education workers, activists and journalists over suspected links to the Gulen movement. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.