P/Harcourt – The National Association of Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI), Rivers State chapter, has stated its resolve to create an enabling environment for small-scale business to thrive in the South-South region of the country, especially Rivers State. Captain Opunabo Briggs, the new chairman of the Association disclosed this during a chat in his office in Port Harcourt. According to Briggs, NASSI, Rivers State chapter has re-positioned, re-invigorated and re-focused to greatly assist small scale industrialists in the state. Continuing, Briggs enjoined those that left the association in the past, citing loss of focus and bearing on the part of the association to have a re-think and come back to the association, noting that the association under his leadership would certainly create an enabling environment for businessmen and industrialists in State to succeed. “Our main thrust is to create the platform for small-scale industries to thrive in the state”, he said. On the Association’s relationship with some financial institutions, Mr. Briggs stated that the Association had established a good working relationship with all the notable financial institutions in the state especially Bank of Industry (BOI). This, he said, was to enable small-scale industries to access funds and loans to do business with ease. “We are also in synergy with the state Ministry of Commerce and Industries, Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Youths and Empowerment to ensure that our members have comfortable access to government”, he said. Furthermore, Briggs maintained that the Association has a good working relationship with both the federal and state governments; hence in the area of double taxation which has hitherto been the bone of contention and misunderstanding between the businessmen, Industrialists and Governments had been amicably settled for good. “For instance, in Rivers State, Governor Wike led administration has come up with harmonised tax formula which is acceptable to us. Rivers State government is responsive, responsible and industry-friendly”. On the issue of security, Briggs noted that the security challenges in the state were not only peculiar to Rivers State. According to him, Rivers State has its own security challenges, yet business thrived there. “The security challenges in Rivers State are blown out of proportion for political reasons. The governor is trying to ensure the state is safe for investors. So, Rivers people should help him. The media should also assist to tell people outside that Rivers State is safe for business to attract investors, Government cannot do it alone,” Briggs opined. On why the supporters in the south-south region are not functioning optimally, the chairman alleged that it was a deliberate policy by the authorities and Lagos State government. Maintaining that Lagos State Government decided to create a deliberate comfortable and enabling environment for importers by ensuring that the tariffs, taxes and levies being charged at the Lagos ports especially at Apapa port was very low, competitive and affordable by the maritime operators, according to him, an average importer, even those from the south-East region, who normally would have preferred to use Onne, Rivers, Calabar or Warri Ports preferred to use the Lagos Port. He then challenged the Rivers State government to partner with the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA) in this regard and subsequently create an enabling environment in the maritime industry as being done by Lagos State government with the aim of making the job of the operators easier. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.