Osogbo – Yoruba Youth Council (YYC) has passionately appealed to the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi; Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi; Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona; and other prominent Yoruba monarchs to call the Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi Telu l, to order over his decision to be addressed as Emir.
The Yoruba socio-cultural group, in a statement signed by Wahab Olarewaju, its Osun State coordinator, said the action of Oba Akanbi was alien to Yoruba culture.
Oba Akanbi had at the weekend reportedly said he was dropping the title of Oba in preference to Emir, which is used in the North.
In the face of criticisms, the monarch said he did not drop the title of Oba but just preferred to be called and addressed as Emir.
Olarewaju, while reacting to the development in Ikirun, posited: “The Emir title is unknown to Yoruba culture and tradition and must be thwarted in its entirety. Oba Akanbi might have been wrongly informed or acted based on unverified assertions. But whatever the case, we want him called to order.
“It is on this note that we call on the Ooni of Ife, the Alaafin of Oyo, the Awujale of Ijebuland and other top monarchs in Yoruba land to call Oba Akanbi to order before it is too late.
“It is obvious that his pronouncement has generated heated controversy, but we believe it can still be reversed by him, as we do not want to lose any aspect of Yoruba heritage again.”
Olanrewaju used the avenue to dissociate YYC from the press statement earlier released by a section of Yoruba youths, saying the only authentic association of all Yoruba youths worldwide is Yoruba Youth Council under the leadership of Eric Oluwole as the president. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.