Prof. Owan Enoh, Vice Chancellor of the Cross River University of Technology (CRUTECH) has advised students of the institution to shun negative vices, including cultism, rioting and examination malpractice. Prof. Enoh spoke during the institution’s matriculation Calabar on Monday, which featured 5,500 students for the 2017/18 academic session. Enoh said the authorities of the institution would not hesitate to sanction any erring student in line with its law and statute. “All negative vices such as cultism, rioting, exam malpractice among others, should be shunned at all times, as erring students shall be sanctioned as provided in the law and statute of the university. “I therefore, charge you to be good ambassadors of your faculties and of those who have made various sacrifices to make it possible for you to be part of this noble institution,” he said. He said the institution was known for exemplary character and learning, and urged the students to always behave responsibly by engaging in only activities that would promote conducive learning. He added that following the increase in the students’ admission for the 2017/18 session, the university management had embarked on a number of measures to creating conducive atmosphere for the students. “In response to this, management had upgraded the 640 room hostel for use by students beginning from this academic session. “This would to a large extent drastically reduce the accommodation challenges being faced by students,” he said. He said the institution’s management was renovating its cafeteria, while new lecture halls were being built, white boards and public address systems had also been provided for easy teaching and learning. Enoh advised students to always seek proper channel of communication and to shun baseless rumours, adding that the new students should consider themselves lucky to have been admitted out of the numerous applicants. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.