Hon. Micheal Opeyemi Bamidele is a two-time former commissioner in Lagos State and also a former member of the House of Representatives representing Irepodun/Ifelodun/Ado Federal Constituency of Ekiti State. In this interview with SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE, Bamidele, an aspirant on the platform of APC for the Ekiti State in the July 14 governorship election, spoke on the recent declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s ambition for second term and his priority if elected as the next governor of the state. President Buhari recently declared his intention to seek re-election, but many Nigerians have criticised him for the timing and many failures of his government. What is your take on this? Whichever way the president make his intention known, people will always have things to say. There is a Latin word, quot homines tot sententiae, which means, as there are many people, there are many opinions. Nigerians are not robots; people should not be expected to see things in the same perspective. They are people who think it is too early for the president to declare his intention to run, and there are other people that think it is not too early. Yet, there are some Nigeria who think differently. I am one of those who believe, to be sincere with you, that it is not too early to declare, and I say this because INEC has released timetable for the 2019 elections. The presidential primary, according to the INEC timetable, will hold in 2018. So, for an election that will hold 2019, and the primary holding in September or October of 2018, I don’t think it is too early for the president to make his intention known. People have been asking him in the last two years whether he will run for the second term and I want to believe it is not too early for him to sincerely declare himself that he will be running for the second term in office. As a governorship aspirant in the APC, why do you think you are the best man for the job? I believe I am better equipped to provide leadership as governor at this crucial time for a number of reason. I want to say I am bringing on board a huge experience, to the glory of God, as a former public official.  I have been privileged to serve in government at all levels at different times. I was a privileged to serve the people of Lagos State as Senior Special Assistant, as Commissioner for eight years. I have been a commissioner in different ministries under two different governors, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Babatunde Raji Fashola. Under Asiwaju Tinubu, I was a commissioner in Ministry of Youth and Social Development, where I was able to influence a lot of things for the good of the people, including producing a Youth Development Policy of a government in a population of 20 million people, out of which you have over 60% of them as youths. My achievements in term of community development are written in gold. I was also in charge of Sport Development under the administration of Bola Ahmed Tinubu, during which we renovated Onikan Stadium and Agege Stadium. To the glory of God, it is also on record that it was when I was a commissioner that we completed Teslim Balogun Stadium, which has been abandoned for almost 18 years since the tenure of Mike Akhigbe, the then Military Administrator of Lagos State. All these areas I have made my marks and the records are there. As Commissioner for Information and Strategy under Babatunde Fashola, it is on record that Lagos became the owner of the first radio station that was launched on the Internet in the country. Wherever you are in the world, you can listen to Radio Lagos. Radio Lagos was also the first radio station to be on DSTV. As Commissioner for Information, I encouraged Lagos State government to give account of stewardship every 100 days to Lagosiasa, and that is the tradition that has been followed till today. At every point, Lagosians can tell what administration is all about. I also obtained the licence and started what today is known as Lagos State traffic radio to enable Lagosians monitor the traffic situation in Lagos State 24/7, and it has become part of our legacy. Let us talk about Ekiti State. If elected what will be your priority? Well by the grace of God, my number one priority will be agriculture. The earlier we face the reality that agriculture is the way out of poverty, the better for all of us in Ekiti, and also the better for us as a nation. Ekiti can also be the food basket of the nation. We have a large market that is less than four hours away from Ekiti, and that is Lagos market. I can tell as a former commissioner of Lagos State that over N12 billion is spent on foodstuff every day in Lagos. Assuming the people living in Lagos can afford N200 a day, multiply that by 20 million of people, it will be N4 billion. That can only tell you how much we spend on purchase of yams, rice, gari, plantain and others foodstuff. What this means to us as an agrarian community, if we have the government that is capable or people that are capable in developing agriculture, you would have put Ekiti State farmers into a position where they can secure a brighter future. Just imagine a market of 20 million people; they would have to work hard to meet the target. If you stand at Mile 2 in the morning, you will see a good number of trailers that are coming in daily, bringing tubers of yam from Kogi and Benue states, and many others bringing fowl and local chicken from Northern part of the country. They also bring in tomato and onion and cow. Our farmers have no reason to be poor and Ekiti community has no reason to be poor. If we have a government that is able to understand that Lagos has the money to fund and capacity to partner in the area of food production, then the state can become the food basket of the nation. Lagos cannot do farming, but can do some level of fishing and that is why we need to enter into partnership with them for the good of our people. Before now, no state has the vision of partnership until Kebbi State took it upon itself to enter into agreement with Lagos State. This has yielded great fruits by providing thousands of jobs for the people of Kebbi State. There are too many aspirants in the race in APC and there is the fear that the primary may breed acrimony within the party that could affect its chances in the July election. What is your take on this? Let me begin by saying that whenever anybody offers himself for service in any capacity, either you want to be president, governor, state Assembly or National Assembly member or local government chairman, he deserves to be commended, especially if the intention is pure, having in him the vision to change or to serve. To that extent, I won’t hold it against anyone who is aspiring to be governor. What is important is for each aspirant to be able to search his mind as to why he is running to be governor in Ekiti. Is it because I want to make a change or I have got what is take, the capacity to provide a leadership or just because I am looking for the Job? I believe anyone looking for job does not need to be governor. I feel you don’t even need the trouble. If you are looking for the job, the money you will spend to run can be invested to start a business. If you can’t manage the business, use it to partner with others that can manage the business. If truly you are serving the people and you are driven by a vision, for me it is a welcome development. My own take is that I believe the buck stops at the leadership. Are the delegates allowed to choose the candidate of the party?  If the answer is ‘yes’, then, if there are 100 aspirants, all will be well. The only time there will be problem is when there is manipulation, when the process of conducting the primary is messed up in a way that the credibility of the party is dented. Some of us have been with the party and have been contributing to its development in Ekiti, from AD, AC, ACN to APC. I think we in this category are not up to five. I personally pay annual rent for the party secretariat for seven years, and every December, I send 650 bags of rice to the party secretariat in Ekiti to be distributed to the 16 local governments. I was not even a part of government in Ekiti then and as you know, our party was not in government in Ekiti between 2013 and 2010. So, when it comes to choosing who will be the flag bearer of the party, the delegate has to understand some fundamentals. In the first instance, what is the credibility of these people who are running, and who among them is capable of winning the election for the party?  At the end of the day, if we win the election, who among this people will become a governor, will understand the role of the party as partner in government? Who among the aspirants will carry the party along? A lot of the people think that the party is just for campaign and to win an election. When a governor is sworn in, that is when the job of the party begins. The party is supposed to engage in the process of monitoring. You have to monitor the person you elected into office to ensure the manifestos of the party is being followed, ensure that the philosophy of the party is not discarded, and also provide support to the person you elected into office. I wish we have the governor that will understand all these as a concept of good governance and I believe these are issues that matter. I want the delegates to relate to the aspirants in such a way that if an aspirant gives money, it should be seen that it was out of generosity. I don’t have problem with delegates collecting money from aspirants as long as it is not the determining factor in voting at the primary. But, when a delegate collects money to vote, then there is problem, and that is why after election, some people see themselves as having paid their way into office and become uncontrollable. I pray our delegates will understand the delicate situation and the opportunity they have to contribute to good governance. Some people have criticised former governors in the race, saying they should be the conscience of the party by guiding the process to ensure justice, rather than contesting. Do you agree with them? I agree. Former governors should play the roles of elders. Not only former governors, but also those who have served in leadership positions, including those who have distinguished themselves as leaders of the party. I am one of those who tried to influence former Governor Adeniyi Adebayo to recontest for the governorship in 2006, but he refused. But, not everybody can behave like Otunba Adebayo. At this time, former governors who are in the race should not be crucified. People should not stop anyone from running, as long as you are not constitutionally disqualified, not socially disqualified. As a lawyer, you are expected to always distinguish between what is and what ought to be. What is; is what the law says if you are qualified. Many want us to only exist in the realm of morality. Those who say or think that former governors should not run, are operating within the realm of what they believe and want us to be in the situation. We are running a democracy that is too far, almost 300 years behind the United States. We are trying to copy things that will be happening. Whatever is happening now is an impact of the process of stretching the democracy and if anybody feels so strongly about running, all we need is free and fear primary election. Being a former governor will not give you an unduly advantage, the only problem is when you begin to manipulate the process as former governor. Hopefully, I don’t see that happening because lessons have been learnt. We have gone through the process before and I believe everyone has learnt his or her lesson. I don’t see anyone consciously making a mistake of manipulating the primary. We have to come to the realisation of the fact that it is no longer about the individual or political platform. Now, it is about our people. I believe all of us should work together to take over. Whoever is going to be governor in Ekiti, we all have to work together. People can have their own differences in political philosophy. There must be a meeting point. This meeting point is to realise that it is not about an individual. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.