Asaba – Saturday April 21 2018, Anioma Nation organized a grand reception in honour of their own, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in Asaba. Tagged, ‘’Celebrating A True Son Of Anioma’’, Leaders of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Uche Secondus, National Chairman of the party, Governor Nyesom Wike, Governor of Rivers State and Ike Ekweremadu, Deputy President of the Senate, former Governors of Delta State, Chief James Ibori and Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan were all there. Also, former Deputy Governor of Delta State, Chief Benjamin Elue, the Ide of Ahaba, Chief Sunny Odogwu, traditional rulers, President-Generals of different ethnic nationalities, renowned nationalist, Chief Newton Jibunor, prominent sons and daughters of Anioma nation from all walks of life, senators, traditional rulers and other party bigwigs as well as business tycoon among others spoke at the event which transcends political sentiments in Asaba. A renowned nationalist, Chief Newton Jibunor moved motion for the adoption of Governor Okowa as the sole candidate of Anioma Nation for the 2019 gubernatorial elections in Delta State which was unanimously endorsed by the President General of Isoko, Urhobo nation and the Ijaws on behalf of their people. Former Minister of Information,  Prof. Sam Oyovbaire, Alaowei Broderick Bozimo spoke on behalf of the Ijaws, Chief Iduh Amadhe spoke for the Isoko nation, Chairman of the Delta State Traditional Rulers Council, HRM Obi Efeizomor whose address was read by the Obi of Ubulu-Uku, HRM Kikachukwu, the Itsekiri nation who spoke through Chief Solomon Areyenka, the Anioma Congress whose speech was delivered by former Deputy Governor of Delta State,  Chief Benjamin Elue,  Ndokwa Neku Union through its National President, Chief Johnson Opone, Mr Kester Ifeadi and others who spoke at the occasion gave reasons why Governor Okowa should re-emerge as the Governor of Delta State in 2019. While also endorsing Governor Okowa for second term, Secondus warned that no amount of threat, victimization, propaganda from the All Progressive Congress, APC, will save it from losing the 2019 general election, promising that the new rebranded PDP would regain the lost ground despite the lies, arrest of the party leaders, announcement of looters list every day. He threatened that APC will not get through in 2019 unlike in 2015, adding that APC is a sinking party which thrive on propaganda, intimidation, and has failed the Anioma people and the youths with killings in all parts of the country but apportioning blames to those who are better leaders of tomorrow for being lazy. Corroborating, Wike said the only party that can rescue Nigerians is PDP. While thanking Anioma people for supporting Governor Okowa, he revealed that Rivers people have told him Okowa should be prepared for the next swearing in since he has not seen any party that can stop him. The Governor said Okowa is somebody Deltans can rely on and sleep with their two eyes closed, ‘’everybody should keep their PVC ready. Okowa is good man, gentle man; he shall continue to be my friend. I used to be a gentle man but when l saw the mad people coming, I change my style. They cannot do anything, I am waiting for them’’ Wike stated. Ekweremadu in his speech thanked Deltans for resolving to return Governor Okowa and for bringing the task of electing the Governor to fruition, insisting that the country will continue to have problem unless there is justice just as he recommended the Delta example to the whole country. While saying Governor Okowa is a good man, hardworking and a man of destiny who is able to bring the whole state together under good justice, fairness and able to address their concerns, assured that he would continue in office with the support and assurance he people have given him. Former Governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori revealed that leaders in Delta Central and South Senatorial Districts have resolved not to take Delta North Senatorial District for granted in 2019 Governorship election. He said they have resolved that equity and fairness brings peace and it is only when they take the people for granted that there will be trouble. Ibori assured that leaders in the state are really preparing for the election knowing fully the Governor is busy, have directed Governor Okowa not to be distracted, concentrate on developing the state and administrative duties while he should leave the politicking for them with assurance that they know the politics of the state and how to play it to his favour. He said that since Anioma people have agreed to return Governor Okowa to come back and represent them till 2023, he promised to mobilize the Ijaws, Isokos, Itshekiris, Urhobos and others in the state to support the Governor by voting for him in 2019. ‘’I have one vote, my family shall vote for you, I am from Oghara, majority of the people in Oghara shall vote for you. It is impossible in a democratic setting for everybody to vote one way. We all have our PVC to vote for the Governor’’ While saying Governor Okowa has done well and that the people of Delta North has chosen well, he assured that he would convince them to support Governor Okowa when the other leaders consult him on who to support during the election knowing fully that he has been in the election business for a long time and has transverse the length and breadth of the state. ‘’My mother is an Itshekiri, I am part of Itshekiri, former Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan is the highest political office holder from there has spoken to support him, Ijaws have spoken, I am a title holder there too, Isoko leaders have spoken in support of the Governor, I am an Urhobo man, a title holder there. We shall all join them to actualize the mandate’’ Ibori assured. Ibori said on that note it would be difficult for Governor Okowa to be threatened by opposition parties who are desperate to unseat him over 2019 election, maintaining that those in the opposition parties have right to be ambitious, get some votes and that everybody must not be in PDP. A front line senatorial aspirant in Delta North, Prince Ned Nwoko, described Governor Okowa as a jinx breaker, having emerged as first Anioma son to be elected Governor of Delta State in 2015, saying with the giant strides of Governor Okowa, he deserves a second tenure and called for the support of all Deltans towards his reelection in 2019. Chairman, Media and Publicity Committee, Ogbueshi Patrick Ukah, said that the Anioma Nation has come together to show support for Governor Okowa who has distinguished himself as a true son of Anioma. Ukah, said that though the reception is long overdue, it is coming at most appropriate time now that Governor Okowa has stamped his feet in the governance of the state, adding that the celebration is worthy because the Anioma people have long desired to have its fair share in the governance of the state and such prayers have been made manifest in the person of Senator Ifeanyi Okowa. Earlier, former Chief Economic Adviser to former Nigerian President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, Chief Philip Asiodu, said the decision to receive the Governor three years into office is really deliberate as the office comes with a lot responsibilities and no one should be given a reception barely for attaining the exalted office for a Governor who not only attained the position but have made remarkable achievements within the shortest possible time in office. The Chairman Organizing Committee thanked the Governor for yielding to their persistent request to be hosted by the people of Anioma Nation. He has proceeded to consolidate on the achievements of his predecessors in office, especially following on the excellent foundation laid by Chief James Ibori, the father of the modern Delta State. 0 comments