Chief Dare Adekola is the Chairman of Mega Party of Nigeria in Ekiti State. In this interview with FELIX IGBEKOYI, the former President of Ekiti State Association of Rice Processors, Millers and Traders talked about governance in Ekiti State, Governorship election, the state’s economy and others. Excerpts: May we meet you? My name is Chief Dare Adekola. I am the Chairman of Mega Party of Nigeria, Ekiti State. I am an industrialist who is into rice processing and production. As a matter of fact I was once the President of Ekiti State Association of Rice Processors, Millers and Traders. Your National Convention is coming up very soon, how prepared is Mega Party for the convention? We are prepared for the convention; the convention comes up on the 7th of April 2018. The essence of that is to adopt the newly approved name. The party used to be Mega Progressive Party, we made applications to INEC for a change of name of the party to Mega Party of Nigeria and it has been approved by INEC in February as the utmost essence of the convention is to ratify that. The Governorship election in the state is coming up soon, aspirants in other parties have declared their intentions but the case is not so for the Mega Party. What is the party doing to arrest the situation? Many aspirants have been coming in. Surveyor Abiodun Aluko from Ikere, who happens to be the former Deputy Governor of the state, as well as Senator Bode Olowoporoku from Ilawe, Ekiti South West who happens to be a Senator representing Ekiti South and former Minister of the Federal Republic Nigeria, we have the likes of Ambassador Ayodele Ayodeji from Irepodun/Ifelodun Iyin, Seyi Bade Gboyega from Isan, Dr. Sunday Tokunbo Balogun from Omuo, we have the likes of Ogunsakin Olowoselu from Odo-Oro. These names are familiar names and are big shots, what strategy are you adopting to take over power from the incumbent PDP government? It is very simple, we want to see what individual aspirants have for the state as you can see the economic position of our state right now calls for caution and any serious body or party that wants to come on board to rescue the situation must be adequately prepared. The party has its manifesto but we would like to see what each aspirant has to offer on individual merits. We want to look at the capacity, the capability, the experience and we want to look at the integrity that is an integrity test as we must present someone that would be acceptable by all. When we say governorship election, if we say it is a general election as far as a state is concerned we are not mincing words because it is an election that cut across wards and all the polling units which are about 2000.  So we have to pick someone we know would be sellable. You made mention of several big names that are aspiring in your party, how do you plan to come up with an acceptable primary to bring out the best candidate to represent the party? Our constitution is there to for us to follow; we have the screening committee that would screen the potential aspirants. Thereafter the delegates are there who reside in Ekiti, they know where the shoe pinches. Going by the screening committee’s recommendation, an average delegate would be sensible enough since we have a collective mission to rescue the state, are going to choose wisely. Now you want to take over governance in Ekiti state, does that mean you are not satisfied with the performance of the Governor Ayodele Fayose administration? Well, it is not about me it is about the people, if you go to the town and ask from the people you will get the same response because in a state that solely depends on government allocation despite the human potentials, natural resources including mineral resources and others our state solely depends on federal allocation on monthly basis. So that calls for a serious caution. The truth is that when you have the youths all over the place and are not gainfully employed, graduates from polytechnics and Universities have become Okada rider professionals, some of them have taken to cyber fraud just to survive. There was a party in power before this current regime in power were given 16-0 because they perform below expectation and those that gave them 16-0 their performance is even worse. They are not paying salaries, pensioners are not getting anything, industries are not working but they are increasing school fees when they are not paying their parents their salary. Are you planning to merge with other political parties in order to take over government at the state and federal levels? The party is not merging but planning a mega coalition and joining forces with other political parties to take over government at both the state and federal levels. People of like minds who are desirous to contribute to the national growth are already talking with the leaders of the party in Ekiti state and national levels. The party is doing fine and mobilising the people across the nooks and crannies of the state. We know election is about the people which informed why the party is wooing people into the party through its manifestos. MEGA party is the best one and best option to rescue Ekiti state and Nigeria at large from the economic wastage the country is witnessing as a result of the uncap able hands that abound in the ruling parties. With the professionals that abound in MEGA Party now, it shows that it is not the present that maters but what will happen tomorrow. How do think your party can displace the ruling party in the state and federal levels? Knowing fully that party politics in the state is about the interest of the people, people move from one party to the other. Some Governors move from Peoples Democratic Party, PDP to All Progressive Congress, APC, while some still went back to PDP before they become what they are today. We are working assiduously to take over governance at the state and national levels. If you look at the condition of the nation, that former President Olusegun Obasanjo said President Buhari and APC are not fit to be re elected in 2019 is not far from the truth. When you have teeming youths that are not gainfully employed and the economy is collapsing, how is President Buhari and APC going to come back into power in 2019? If you look at the allocation coming to the states now it is deteriorating. The economy can only survive now if the present governments at the national and state levels are sacked in 2018 and 2019 and fresh bloods from MEGA party are allowed to take over. The system itself is not accommodating the functions of the present government because things are not going on well. Our strategy is to start with Ekiti State election coming up July 14 2018, mobilize those at the grass roots with our ward, Local Governments, states executives. We are touching everywhere in the state and once we get it right in Ekiti state sky will be our limit at the national level. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.