The court in this suit gives judgment in favour of the defendant. Swayed by arguments of Defendant’s counsel, it held that once a court lacks jurisdiction to entertain a suit, it cannot confer same on itself not even by its Rules. It also lacks the power to order the transfer of the suit to another court. Left to it is to dismiss the suit or strike it out for lack of jurisdiction… In the High Court of Justice of The FCT Holden at the Abuja Judicial Division On February 21st , 2013 Suit No: FCT/HC/CV/2705/2012 Between: Dr. Femi Obatomi – Plaintiff And Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja Education Board and & 2 Ors.         – Defendants Case reviewed by: STEPHEN UBIMAGO Facts of the case: This is a notice of preliminary objection questioning the jurisdiction of the court on the following grounds: 1. The Plaintiff’s action arose from a master-servant relationship and same relates to employment dispute. 2. The Plaintiff’s claim and reliefs are basically for salary arrears/allowances and reinstatement 3. Section 254 C (1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) vests the National Industrial Court with exclusive jurisdiction over matters relating to or connected with employment and/or dealing with claims for payment or non-payment of salaries, emoluments, wages, pensions, gratuities, allowances and any other entitlement of any employee, worker, political or public office holder, judicial officer or any civil or public servant in any part of the Federation and matters incidental thereto. The Defendants/Applicants therefore prayed the court for the following orders: 1. An order that this Hon. court lacks jurisdiction to entertain this suit. 2. An order striking out this suit for want of jurisdiction to entertain same. In support of the objection, the learned counsel filed a written address and a reply on points of law. The plaintiff’s counsel also filed a written address. When the matter came up, the learned defendants’ counsel took his objection and adopted his written address. He urged the court to decline jurisdiction and strike out the suit for lack of jurisdiction. The learned plaintiff’s counsel did not contest the objection but urged the court to exercise its discretion to transfer the case to the National Industrial Court instead of striking it out. The learned counsel formulated a lone issue for the determination of the court and that is: whether this honorable court has the powers to transfer this matter to the National Industrial Court instead of striking same out as posited by the defendants. The learned counsel first of all conceded that section 254 C (1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) has now vested on the National Industrial Court exclusive jurisdiction as argued by the defendants in matters concerning their claim. Arguments: The counsel for the claimant argued however that this court has the powers to transfer the case instead of striking out same as prayed by the defendants. She drew the court’s attention to Order 32 Rule 1 of the Rules of this court. She submitted that by that provision, this court has the unfettered power to transfer any cause or matter pending before the court. The learned counsel went on to contend that the use of the word “shall” contained in the said Rule makes it a mandatory provision, that Rules of court are meant to be obeyed though it is entirely at the discretion of the court to exercise it or not. She gave the case of Mokelu v. Federal Commissioner for Works & Housing (1999)3 SC 35. In their reply address, the learned defendants’ counsel submitted that a court derives its jurisdiction from the statute creating it and or the constitution; that a court has no power to confer jurisdiction on itself. He contended therefore, that once a court lacks jurisdiction, it cannot confer same on itself not even by its Rules. He argued that the law is settled that once a court lacks jurisdiction to entertain a suit, it equally lacks the power to transfer same to any other court and that the only thing the court is competent to do is to strike out the suit. He placed reliance on the case of Udo v. Akpan (2010)8 NWLR (pt.1195) 196 at p.205. Where Mika’ilu JCA held: “It is trite that if a court had no jurisdiction to hear or determine a matter then it could not have power to order a transfer of the matter to any other court. It would only strike out the matter or suit.” He again gave the cases of B.F.D. Nig. Ltd v. U.T.B. Trustees Ltd (2010)6 NWLR (pt.1189) 185 at 199; Obi v. I.N.E.C. (2007)11 NWLR (pt.1046) 565 at 629. In the case of Obi v. INEC (supra) the Supreme Court, per Aderemi JSC had this to say: “Let me quickly say here that once a court declines jurisdiction to entertain a suit, the only other step it could take in the matter is to make an order striking out the suit. Any other order or pronouncement made by the court after declaring that it lacks jurisdiction to entertain a suit, is null and void and of no effect.” The learned counsel based on the authorities he cited urged the court to vacate the order of injunction earlier granted and strike out the suit. Judgment: By the provisions of the Constitution I reproduced above, read along with the nature of the claim for which the jurisdiction of this court is invited, there is no hiding place for this court to gather the necessary jurisdiction to entertain the claim. The Plaintiff’s counsel has acknowledged and conceded to that irresistible fact. The question now is the application of the learned Plaintiff’s counsel to order for a transfer of the suit to the National Industrial Court instead of striking it out as prayed for by the learned defendants’ counsel. She placed reliance on section 24 (3) of the National Industrial Court Act, 2006 and Order 32 Rule 1 of the Rules of this court. She argued that by both the provision of the Rules of this court and the National Industrial Court Act, mandatory flavour is injected in the exercise of the discretionary power of the court. Clearly, the learned counsel missed the wording of the two provisions. The use of the word “shall” which she placed a heavy reliance is not intended to extend to the exercise of the discretion rather, it only goes to confirm that the court has the power to transfer subject to any limitation that may exist due to provisions of any enactment. That explains the use of the word “may” even in section 24 (3) of the National Industrial Court Act which is not applicable to this court, when the judge before whom the application is brought may cause such cause or matter to be transferred to the appropriate court. Even at that, I find myself persuaded by the argument of the learned defendants’ counsel that a court derives its jurisdiction from the statute creating it and or the constitution. In the case of this court, the jurisdiction is conferred by the constitution under section 257 (1). It is this section that section 254 C (1) seeks to limit in dealing with causes or matters it enumerated particularly in sub paragraph (a) and (k). Rules of court cannot therefore, be employed to cloth this court with some semblance power to make any form of judicial decision. I am strengthened in this view by the Supreme Court decision in the case of Obi v. INEC (supra) which I reproduced somewhere in this ruling. It is for all the reasons advanced that I hold that this court has no jurisdiction to entertain this suit and by so holding, I must decline the invitation by the learned Plaintiff’s counsel to order for a transfer as making of such an order, amounts to exercise of a judicial power which this court doesn’t have. By this holding, the invitation to again formally vacate an interlocutory order earlier made, is to say the least, an adventure totally unnecessary. The case is hereby struck out. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.