Ado-Ekiti – For robbing a woman of Bible and other valuables, an Ekiti State High Court has sentenced two men, Ariyo Ayodeji (22) and Ayodele Oluwakayode (20) to death. The accused persons were found guilty on a four-count charge of conspiracy and armed robbery contrary to Section 516 of the Criminal Code Cap C16 Laws of Ekiti State and Section 402(2) of the same law. Justice Lekan Ogunmoye of High Court 6 sentenced the two accused persons to five years imprisonment on each count of conspiracy and death by hanging on the charge of armed robbery. According to the charge sheet, the convicts at about 5.00 am on 1st March 2016 at Plot 18 in Oke Osun area of Ikere-Ekiti, while armed with guns and other dangerous weapons robbed one Mrs. Stella Faniyi of her handbag. The bag contained one Nokia Lumia handset, one Airtel registered handset, an ATM card, a copy of Holy Bible, a hymn book and money. The court heard that the convicts pointed their guns at the victim while she was returning from the church and ran away on their bike. The incident was reported at Ikere Police Station. The two convicts on 18th March 2016 also robbed one Mrs. Bunmi Arije at 11 Avenue Federal Housing Estate along Afao Road, Ado-Ekiti at about 8.00 pm while armed with guns and other dangerous weapons. They dispossessed Mrs. Arije of one Blackberry phone, one Samsung phone, one ATM card, a bunch of keys, a driver’s licence and N9,000 cash. They were first arraigned at the High Court on 16th February 2017 with the charges read to them. They pleaded not guilty. Prosecution counsel, Mrs. Olukemi Daniel-Ojo, called four witnesses and tendered exhibits including the statement of the accused, weapons and stolen items recovered from the accused persons. In the judgment, Justice Ogunmoye ruled: “On conspiracy, the two accused persons are sentenced to five years imprisonment on each count of conspiracy each. “On the charge of armed robbery, the two defendants are hereby sentenced to death by hanging. May God have mercy on your souls.” 0 comments