Prince Uche Secondus was elected National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party at its National Convention held in December 2017. He granted his first interview since assuming office exclusively to DAILY INDEPENDENT in Abuja last week where he spoke on current developments in the party, President Muhammadu Buhari’s declaration for second term, youth presidency, Third Force and other issues of national interests. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: President Buhari last week declared his intention to seek reelection despite an earlier promise he made in 2011 that he will only do a single term if he becomes president.  Were you surprised about his change of mind? Nigerians can now see for themselves the nature of the deceit and the character of the president they voted for, a president who is fighting corruption in a crude manner and not in a civilised way. Nigerians can now see the military style of this administration and they can as well see the honesty and integrity of the president. A man who said he will only do a single term like (Nelson) Mandela. Suddenly, he changes his mind and despite all the challenges he is facing, he still believes that he can steer the affairs of the Nigerian ship in the next four years. It is for Nigerians to decide but I believe President Buhari is not honest. You already said you are running for one term but you suddenly turned around and said you are going to run again. He said it clearly that he will run for one term in 2011. I believe that is betrayal of trust Are you convinced that whoever emerges as your presidential candidate will be able to defeat the APC flagbearer in 2019? I am convinced beyond reasonable doubt that we will present a credible presidential candidate that will be acceptable to all Nigerians. Such candidate will emerge through a free, fair and credible democratic process. I am confident that whoever flies the flag of our party will defeat the presidential candidate of APC, including President Buhari because I don’t see Nigerians voting the APC back to power again. They have failed in all their promises. In fact, it was a colossal failure and they themselves know that they have disappointed Nigerians. They promised one Naira to a Dollar, today it is N362 to a Dollar.  They said if Buhari becomes president, fuel will be sold at N40 per litre. Today, fuel is being sold at N145 per litre and above N200 in some places. They visited hunger and untold hardship on the masses. The economy today is in shambles. People are losing jobs on a daily basis. Unemployment rate is on the highest level and killer herdsmen are on rampage. They have failed virtually on all that they promised. So, why will any sane person ask them to continue in another four years? Nigerians have experienced both APC and PDP and they can see that the difference is very clear. Of course, we made some mistakes but we were humble enough to admit it and promised to right the wrongs in the future. So, i am optimistic that our candidate will beat the APC candidate, even if it is Buhari by a wide margin but we are appealing that the election should be free and fair”. They are adopting all kinds of technology and we have nothing against that because technology can be used to do a lot of positive things but it can also be used for rigging.   We have seen how technology can be used to rig elections, the latest happened in the United States.  We don’t want a situation where when you cast your vote for PDP, your votes automatically switches to APC. So, we ask INEC to come clean and play by the rules of the game and guarantee us that the various technology they are deploying will not be used to rig elections in favour of APC. The litmus test is the forthcoming election in Ekiti state. Recently, there is clamour for youth presidency in 2019. Is the PDP also looking towards that direction? Our platform is free. We want everybody, both young and old to contest freely. Let it be the people’s choice. It is not going to be our choice.  That is our focus. You apologised to Nigerians for the misdeeds of the PDP in the last 16 years but  Asiwaju Bola  Tinubu while speaking at the colloquium said Nigerians should not accept the apology. What is your take on that? That is Tinubu’s opinion.  Tinubu is not God and he speaks for himself, and not Nigerians.  I believe a lot of Nigerians have accepted our apology. It is a good thing when you take wrong steps and you realise it and make amends.  Within our party, there was impunity and imposition of candidates. Many people were not happy about it.  People will win at the local level but their names are changed at headquarter of the party here.  So, we decided to start afresh and that means apologising to our teeming supporters in order to restore confidence that this brand new leadership of our party will come out very transparent and conduct credible, free and fair primaries so, that our people can have trust once again. at a time, they lost confidence in us, but we are doing now is to build confidence.  We are humans, not spirits and as such, we are bound to make mistakes. If anybody says that we should not apologise, it means the person is claiming to be God that is perfect. We stand by our apology to Nigerians and we have no regret about it. Are you worried about the decision of the federal government to withdraw $1b Insurgency fund from the Excess Crude Account? I believe it is the responsibility of the national assembly to appropriate. I am glad that it has been sent to the national assembly. It is left for the national assembly to decide whether it is appropriate to spend the money now or whether the budgets of all the security agencies are not enough.  Since  Nigerians have given their mandates to the national assembly, I believe the national assembly is in the best position to address this issue. On the concern of some  Nigerians as to why the money should be approved now that we are close to election year, the same federal government told us that they have defeated Boko Haram technically, then despite all the budget of all the security agencies, they still need $1b, so it calls for suspicion.  I don’t want to categorically say that we don’t need the money because we have to be careful not to politicise security matters but to me, the timing of this money is horrible. Former President, Olusegun Obasanjo recently said both the APC and PDP are not good for the country in 2019 and he is recommending a Third Force. Do you see the emergence of the Third Force as a threat to your party? Again,  Obasanjo is a very vocal voice and a very important personality.  He has right of expression within the ambit of the law.  We have nothing against him or the Third Force.  The space is huge and we are quite sure that they are friendly. But when the time comes, the Nigerian people  will decide whether they want a Third Force or not. But on our part, we are back to ensuring that power is given to the people and that is why we were in Jigawa, Katsina and other states of the federation. Will your party merge with any willing political party in order to dislodge the APC? I believe the space is wide enough and huge. Politicians can come together, parties can also come together.  Nothing is impossible but we are not there yet. Are you optimistic INEC under its current leadership is ready to conduct a free, fair and credible election in 2019? INEC, since the current leadership came on board has given Nigerians a cause for concern and worry because of several cases of inconclusive elections and rerun. In a particular case in Rivers, a police result was admitted in Tribunal rather than INEC result. So, I am worried as to whether the present INEC leadership can conduct a free, fair and credible election in 2019. Of course, Ekiti and Osun is going to be a litmus test. If both states go well, it means they will build on the success ahead of 2019. If it doesn’t go well, it means they are going to breed crisis. Majority of what causes problems in Africa is as a result of rigging, inconclusive elections and results that are targeted at making the ruling party win at all cost. PDP is law abiding and we are watching. We believe the federal government should allow INEC to perform its duties without interference. They should not put INEC under undue pressure to perform any illegality. INEC on its part should know that they are serving Nigerians and not APC government.  History is there and Nigerians are watching. If you think you are powerful today, you cannot be powerful forever. We have seen government come and go.  We have seen Abacha government. He came against the people and arrogated all the powers to himself. At the end of the day, what happened, the bubble burst.  If you feel you are in government, you are the head of security and you will frame people up and coerce them to make sure that APC remains in power, just know that you can’t be there forever.  So, rather than serve the interest of a few in government, why not obey the constitution and serve the interest of the majority? That is the only way we can make progress and develop our democracy.  You cannot strengthen the institution of democracy by intimidating people. We are not in the military era where we do media trials, where leaders are being witch-hunted and intimidated. You can see what is happening in the National Assembly.  A senator who is member of APC spoke against the government. The next week, the federal government framed him up. So, this is not a good sign at all. It never happened when Obasanjo,  Yar’Adua and  Jonathan were presidents. So, we believe that the APC will take necessary advice and know that no condition is permanent. No one will be in government forever. Your actions today will be what you will be judged for tomorrow and you can’t run away from it. The federal government released the names of alleged looters and you are number one on the list.  What was your reaction when you saw the list? The propaganda machinery of APC and the federal government is to clampdown on the opposition.  I never held any ministerial position or full-time employment with the federal government.  I was not even the governor of a state throughout PDP’s 16 years reign and so it is surprising why my name is the number one on their phantom list. Obviously, you can see that we have taken some steps. We have gone to court. Let the federal government come and prove that the former National Security Adviser gave me money. I don’t want to comment on matters that are pending in court but all I can say is that we have taken very serious legal steps because the allegation that I am a looter was false, propaganda and is aimed at intimidation, harassment, destabilising and dehumanising the leaders of PDP, including my humble self. But I can’t be intimidated. Apparently, they have realised that for three years, they have realised that for three years, they have not delivered on their promises so they resorted to blackmail., the cheapest of them all is the issue of corruption which the PDP government laid its foundation and institution to fight. The only thing APC government knows is to do media trial and propaganda to fool the Nigerian populace.  But I know Nigerians cannot be fooled twice.  You can fool the people some of the time but not all the times.  Nigerians fell to their propaganda in 2015 but on this same issue in 2019, Nigerians can never be fooled again anymore. As the PDP national chairman, will you able to look at the Governors of your party in the face and tell them the truth especially given the roles they play in your emergence? You need the governors. 11 of them supported me and we are working with them. We are also working with our national assembly members and other critical stakeholders of our party, the BoT, former governors, former ministers and others. So, it is all-embracing. We are working with the youths.  We have established a platform for the youths called Generation Next where they can express themselves freely and participate in the party and also prepare themselves for the future to take over the leadership of our country. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.