Lagos – The elation expressed by the South East Chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) over President Muhammadu Buhari’s declaration to seek re-election in 2019 may not have come as a surprise to political pundits. Such jubilation is not unconnected with the feeling that the quest for the President of Nigeria of Igbo extraction will only take four years to be actualized rather than eight years if Buhari did not seek second term in office. In view of the possibility of Igbo Presidency in 2023, the leadership of the South East Zone of the APC issued a statement immediately the president’s intention to seek re-election was made public on Monday. Applauding Buhari’s decision as a blessing to the people of the zone, APC’s National Vice Chairman, South East, Hon. Emma Eneukwu and the zonal Publicity Secretary, Hon. Hyacinth Ngwu urged Ndigbo to work with Buhari to actualize the Igbo Presidency. The duo said “We happily thank God and President Buhari for this kind gesture. We believe that the actualization of the Igbo’s Presidency in 2023 has just begun with Buhari’s declaration. We urge the good people of South East to avail themselves of this golden opportunity of playing into the Nigerian political mainstream by voting massively for APC and ensuring the re-election of President Buhari in 2019, we must not let go this opportunity.” Nevertheless, analysts have warned that the South East leaders will be disappointed at the end of the day, if they fail to deliver the majority of the votes to the APC in the presidential contest. One of the experts said, “Since number holds the ace in politics, it amounts to one fooling oneself to conclude that the presidential ticket will be given to the zone on a platter. In view of the fact that in politics, power is not given but taken, the leaders of the zone rather than celebrate Buhari’s declaration should roll their sleeve and settle down to work hard for the possibility of delivering the zone to the APC in the forthcoming election.” Although APC has some notable politicians from the zone in its fold, such as former Senate President, Chief Ken Nnamani, former Imo governor, Chief Achike Udenwa; former Enugu governor, Chief Sullivan Chime; the incumbent Imo governor; Owelle Rochas Okorocha; Senator Ifeanyi Araraume; Chief Jim Nwobodo; the Minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr Chris Ngige and his Science and Technology counterpart, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, the battle for the soul of the South East is going to be tough for the ruling party, considering the strong footing of both Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the zone. APC’s victory in the South East can give the zone the necessary leverage to negotiate for Buhari’s successor. Investigations however revealed that many factors will make the task of South East takeover a complicated project for the party. With less than 11 months to the main election, the party is still grappling with crises from different fronts within the zone. Firstly, the battle for Okoroacha’s successor has pitched the governor and Ararume in a battle of wits. A party’s source told INDEPENDENT that the successor battle is far from being over, since the governor’s body language suggests that his in-law, Sir Uche Nwosu will be given the party’s gubernatorial ticket. That apart, the number game is another huddle before the party, those who know, contend that the South East will be outsmarted when the chips are down since the number game will work against the zone. Our findings revealed that the South East has the least number of registered voters among the country’s six geopolitical zones. From the electoral umpire’s statistics, so far, the South South geopolitical zone has nine million registered voters, North Central, 12 million registered voters, North East, 15 million registered voters, South West, 14 million registered voters, North West, 18 million registered voters and the South East, eight million registered voters. With the PDP in control of three states; APGA and APC in control of one state each, it will amount to riding Apollo’s Chariot to Mount Olympus for the APC to garner all the votes from the zone. According to political watchers, Buhari’s perceived lopsidedness in his appointments which excluded the zone from juicy offices may work against the success of the party in the zone. On other side of the coin is the conflict between the Imo Government and the Catholic Church. The crack became more pronounced when the Catholic Archbishop of Owerri, Rt. Rev. Anthony Obinna was almost manhandled during a funeral mass by suspected governor’s aides. Perceived as a formidable force in Imo politics, the Catholic Church boast of the numerical strength and ability to determine the outcome of any political contest in the state and unless the misunderstanding is laid to rest, the church may be waiting for the election time to teach Okorocha’s party some political lessons. But the Imo governor is not leaving anything to chance and being aware of the fact that the church may prevail against his party during the poll, the governor recently embarked on peace move to appease the church. His first point of call was the Catholic Diocese of Okigwe where he donated the sum of one hundred million naira for the ongoing cathedral project. Sources argued that the donation was a tactical move to appease the Church hierarchy to bury the hatchet and support the APC at both state and national levels As the party’s leader in the South East, Okorocha had kicked off the sensitization of the people of the zone on the need to identify with the ruling party and Buhari’s aspiration long before the president made known his intention to stand for re-election. For instance, a few days to Buhari’s declaration, Okorocha had urged the people of the South East to join the APC to guarantee Igbo presidency. Recall that Okorocha had earlier advised the people of his zone not to vie for the nation’s topmost office until 2023 when Buhari must have completed his second term in office. He charged the people to queue behind Buhari and the APC like other zones in order to guarantee their stake in Nigeria’s political mainstream. “Ndigbo should talk about presidency after President Buhari’s second term. I think we should support this government. President Buhari has tenure to work for four or eight years according to the zoning arrangement, and everybody should follow the zoning, although I am not an advocate of zoning.” “If Yoruba people can jettison tribal politics in 2015 to ensure that the APC won, Igbo people can do the same in 2019. Today, the Yoruba people are occupying sensitive positions in the Federal Government,” he said. However, a former governor of Anambra State, Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife has dismissed the insinuations that Buhari’s second term will facilitate the Igbo Presidency and called on Ndigbo to put their faith in God. The elder statesman said that those that are expressing joy over Buhari’s declaration to seek re-election are dishonest people. “Igbo Presidency is a matter of courage and faith in God. This politics of lies and bribing people with words have gone too far. It is not an act of love for anybody to encourage Buhari to go for another term. The love for Buhari is hatred for Nigeria. We can ask him to contest but let God touch the heart of Buhari, let him consider the Nigeria he met and the Nigeria of today. Those who are rejoicing are the ones who hate him but still encourage him to contest. “It is not in his interest and the interest of Ndigbo or the nation, but in the interest of those that are benefitting from the system. But God is mysterious and works in a mysterious way. We can’t go further down from where we are now. I am not thinking about Buhari’s second term. Igbo Presidency is in the hand of God. God wants to transform this country and he wants to use the right people, it could be anytime. We have suffered enough, so we should unite. And we shouldn’t see anyone that is supporting Buhari as anti Igbo,” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.