Lagos – The Ministry of Youth and Sports on Wednesday redeemed its pledge to athletes that won medals at the ongoing Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast. In a brief presentation ceremony held in Gold Coast, the FG paid medal winners $67,000 and their coaches. Athletes who won Gold medals including Para Powerlifters Ibrahim Abdulazeez, Rowland Ezurike, Ndidi Nwosu and Esther Oyema each received $5,000, while Silver medalists Lucy Ejike, Kehinde Paul and Shot put thrower Chukwuebuka Enekwechi each got $3,000. Bronze medalists were each paid $2,000 while Coaches of Gold Medalists each got $5,000 and coaches of Silver medalists got $3,000. The Table Tennis team comprising of Segun Toriola, Bode Abiodun, Azeez Jamiu and Omotayo Olajide received $9,000. Presenting the cash, the Minister of Youth and Sports Barrister Solomon Dalung said the cash were in fulfillment of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to reward hard work and excellence. “I want to thank you for your commitment, hard work and dedication that produced some of the results that we are celebrating today. I also want to let you know that in sports, losing does not mean that you did not work hard. Experience is also part of victory, therefore, those who competed and did not make it; I celebrate you as heroes because upon your performances, the future lies. For those who made it, we are proud of you. We are happy that you have been able to make the country proud. “We want to deliver on our promises that whosoever delivers in his or her competition, as a country, we will appreciate him or her. We will demonstrate that commitment so that others who are still competing will know that we deliver on our promises.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.