Abuja – Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria(SMEDAN) and National Bureau of Statistics have begun a nationwide survey to determine the number of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises(MSMEs) in Nigeria. Dikko Umaru Radda, Director General of SMEDAN, who stated this yesterday in Abuja, said the survey was last, carried out about three years ago. He explained that the survey was expected to be done every three years to ascertain the number of MSMES in the country as well as identifying challenges confronting them. He recalled that in the last survey conducted by the two agencies of government, the number of SMEs was 37millon, adding that the number might have increased. Radda underscored the need to formalise the operations of MSMEs in the country, noting that their formalisation would enable them to access finance and other incentives provided by the government. He stated that in 2017, the Agency assisted about 14,000 MSME operators to formalise their businesses through registration with Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and opening of bank accounts, assuring that efforts would be intensified to build the capacities of SME operators for optimal performance and national development. The Director Generator of SMEDAN further identified lack of requisite skills, lack of access to finance and business network as some of the challenges facing SME operators in the country, calling for partnerships with other institutions to provide entrepreneurial skills and trainings for MSMEs operators. According to him, “building of the capacity of SMEs is a very big issue. It really needs to be addressed. And SMEDAN has been doing that. “But what we have been doing alone cannot be sustained because the nation is very wide.  A lot of agencies are coming into it and are providing entrepreneurship support and training needed. “Most of these businesses are in the rural areas. Their owners have not been to formal classrooms, so they don’t have formal education. They need to be trained.” 0 comments