When the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in a note to all banks in the country in February 2013, released the guideline for the industry on the requirements and conditions for agent banking in Nigeria, not many people believed that agent banking will change the face of the industry, but this initiative has in the last five years of introduction spread banking service to the remote areas and created employments for some Nigerians. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI and CHRIS EBONG Write: The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN,) while unveiling the guidelines for agent banking, described the scheme as a catalyst for growth, citing its potential to provide jobs. Some experts at the time, in fact, projected that at least 200,000 jobs would be created under the agent banking scheme. They based their forecast on the fact that the scheme had helped to improve access to financial services, as well as created thousands of jobs in countries with nation’s economies smaller than Nigeria’s such as Kenya and Rwanda. The idea of agent banking was muted as part of ways to bring banking services to the unbanked Nigerians, especially in the remote areas. It has since then been a veritable avenue of financial inclusion. Agent Banking is a simple user friendly and cost effective way of providing secured light banking services such as Cash deposit, Cash withdrawal, Fund transfer, Bills payment, Airtime Recharge to groups of people in a community, employing known and trusted existing retail business outlets in the same community. It is a cost effective solution designed to provide financial access to the unbanked and under-banked population. The national financial inclusion strategy is aimed at reducing financial exclusion to 20% by the year 2020 and Agent banking is part of the process to help achieve this target. Agent banking ‘outlets’ act as locations where the un-banked transact banking services and these outlets are owned by an individual or entity who will offer payment services to the customer and by doing so earn transactional income for the services they offer. The CBN while unveiling the guidelines d in February 2013, described agent banking as the provision of financial services to customers by a third party (agent) on behalf of a licensed deposit-taking financial institution and/or mobile money operator (principal). The financial services are typically delivered outside conventional bank branches, often using non-bank retail agents and relying on technology, such as card readers, Point-of–Sale (POS) terminal or mobile phones for real time transaction processing. It further stated that the objective of the scheme was to enhance financial inclusion and provide delivery channels for offering banking services in a cost effective manner. The guidelines further stated that a financial institution may engage super agents- agent networks that will establish a collection of outlets or franchise within its wide network of outlets to be under its supervision and control, adding that the bank can also engage a sole agent, that is an agent who does not delegate power to other agents, but assumes the agent banking relationship by itself. In a circular to all Deposit Money Banks, Mobile Money Operators, Microfinance Banks and Primary Mortgage Banks, the CBN said: “In addition to the provisions, as part of the approval process for financial institutions wishing to deploy agent banking services, Deposit Money Banks (DMBs), Microfinance Banks (MFBs) and Primary Mortgage Banks (PMBs) are hereby requested to note the following: • Applicants should write to the CBN requesting for a one-off ‘Approval’ to offer agent banking services. The application should be submitted to the respective departments of the Central Bank of Nigeria, mentioned in the attached requirements. • The CBN will only review and process applications from DMBs, MFBs and PMBs. Agents are not required to apply directly to CBN for approval but shall be appointed and monitored by their Principals (i.e. DMBs, MFBs and PMBs), based on the requirements for agents recruitment as contained in the Guideline. • The Principal shall be held responsible for the activities of the agents that they have appointed to offer services on their behalf. The eligibility criteria for Agents, as contained in Section 4.1.i to 4.1.vi of the Guidelines for the Requirement of Agent Banking’, apply to Super-Agents and Sole-Agents only. Super-Agents are to determine the eligibility criteria for their Sub-Agents, in line with best practice. • Licensed Mobile Money Operators need not seek any approval from the CBN to appoint agents. The regulatory framework under which they are licensed already permits them to appoint agents, in line with the existing provisions. They only need to include the details of such appointed agents in their regular reports to the CBN. • All other clauses in the Guidelines for Agent Banking and Agent Banking Relationships remain valid. Emmanuel Okoegwale, Principal Associate, Mobilemoney Africa, at a forum had said: “Be it mobile money banking, microfinance banking, or agent banking system, there is no limit to their employment generation capacity. Research has shown that each concept has the ability to improve banking penetration, and generate employment opportunities. Given the size of the Nigerian population, the system is going to provide a lot of jobs for people.” Indeed, investigations show that with the tough business environment and increased competition forcing banks to embark on intensive cost cutting measures including scaling back their branch networks, most of the lenders have stepped up efforts to drive their agent banking schemes. A financial sector development organisation that promotes financial inclusion in Nigeria,  Enhancing Financial Innovation and Access (EFinA), in report said in a report titled: “Agent banking in Nigeria: Factors that would motivate merchants to engage”, disclosed that many believe that there is a potential opportunity for deposit taking financial institutions and mobile money operators to build on existing relationships that retailers already have with their customers as most retailers, particularly in the North assist their customers to save their money. It also added that retailers already provide credit facilities to their customers as most retailers had a positive disposition towards agent banking. The key benefits perceive from providing this service include, according to the report,  include expected positive impact on other lines of business as a result of an increase in customer base and popularity of the retail outlet, increase in revenue due to reducing or eliminating coinage challenges and other risks like the provision of credit to customers as well as incentives that will motivate retailers to adopt agent banking include commission on transactions and occasional offers of branded items. It, however, added that there are concerns about security and are likely to be a major deterrent for both retailers and customers. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.