Abuja – There appears to be a major discord within the health sector as both striking members of the Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) and Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) are at loggerheads. While JOHESU mobilised its members to proceed on an indefinite strike on Wednesday, NMA a regulatory body for medical doctors have clearly distanced itself from the action. Their battle for supremacy heightened on Friday, just as the Federal Government through the Ministry of Labour and Employment has threatened to invoke ‘No work, No pay’ policy. But National Chairman of JOHESU, Biobelemoye Josiah has asked his members to disregard such threats as they were mere expression of bias, injustice and provocative antics of the Federal Ministry of Health. JOHESU’s latest strike were predicated on allegations that government was employing delay tactics and deliberate foot-dragging in approving the adjustment of Consolidated Health Salary Scale (CONHESS) similar to what was approved for medical doctors’ which is the Consolidated Medical Salary Scale (CONMESS) since January 2014. Their grievances also stems from poor access to healthcare in the country, lack of strategies to institutionalise public health reforms to counter the menace of clinical disease like Lassa fever, Ebola and monkey-pox in the country. While stakeholders had met to avert the strike earlier in the week, the Federal Government had threatened to invoke the no work no pay policy as a way of deterring them from proceeding on the strike. JOHESU’s chairman however said, “We call on our members nationwide to disregard all forms of threat or intimidation from government and ensure that services are withdrawn until our demands are met. “We also call on government to ensure equity and justice in the health sector instead of putting the health of Nigerians in jeopardy by resolving the issues on the table rather than churning out threatening circulars on “No work No pay” that have no universal application, but a diversionary tactics.” Josiah who doubles as the National President of Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria (MHWUN) also took on the NMA, describing their countered statement on the strike action as “egoistic and self serving” organization. He said it is sad that NMA will go with such fallacy when JOHESU, a conglomerate of five duly registered and recognised trade unions by law and has all right and privileges to negotiate for welfare of its members is being described as illegal. JOHESU described NMA and ARD as blind group of people who know nothing about trade unionism or industrial relations practices in the country. “We want the public to know that what is playing out appears to be a situation where NMA and ARD on one hand, and government on the other, have gone into an unholy alliance to fight against other health workers right, even in a situation where doctors and other health workers remain the employees of the same government,” he stated. 0 comments