The Managing Director/CEO, AIICO Insurance Plc, Mr. Edwin Igbiti is also a Council member of the Nigerian Insurers Association, NIA. In this interview with CHRIS EBONG, he spoke on industry-wide issues cum the economy. Excerpt: The World Bank earlier forecast a one percent growth of the Nigerian economy, but the IMF in the contrary predicated 0.8percent growth, in all sir, is there any hope of recovery in a short run? Given what has happened to the Nigerian economy over the last two and a half years, recovery is always going to be slow especially since the IMF and World Bank estimates are probably driven by increasing oil prices. That said, a return to economic growth in 2017 would be a positive sign in the short term. However, there are other things that can accelerate growth – for example, a liberalisation of the exchange rate would bring much-needed clarity into the system and in all likelihood eliminate speculative demand and arbitrage opportunities that currently exist in the market. It would also be a signal of the government’s commitment to transparency, one that would be generally well received by foreign and local investors. The Federal Government, in its recent media outing, said that the economy would bounce back in 2017 yet inflation is alarming … Nigeria’s consumer prices increased by 18.55% year-on-year in December 2016 following an18.48% price in the previous months. The inflation rate has accelerated for the 11-straight months to the highest since October 2005, as prices continue to rise for housing, electricity, and food while the recent forecast has it that the inflation rate will increase to about 18.34% by end of this quarter, March 2017, what is your take on this? Inflation in itself is not a bad thing – it can be a signal of increased demand for goods and services. In Nigeria however, this is not the case. As inflation increased in 2016, several macro-economic indicators worsened. One good example is the unemployment rate which increased from 12.1per cent in the first quarter to 13.9per cent in the third quarter of 2016. What this tells us is that this inflation rate isn’t driven by demand for goods and services. What Nigeria is currently experiencing is called stagflation and this realisation should drive government policies, both fiscal and monetary. It is important to note that our inflation rate is quite high at 18.55per cent – given stagnant wages, purchasing power for the average Nigerian has declined considerably. Investment opportunities very likely have negative real returns. It is an urgent situation that needs concrete solutions. The insurance industry is predicted to have enormous challenges in 2017 given the enormous policy regulations, market volatility, and the macroeconomic conditions; what is your take on this? Insurance performance closely tracks economic performance – it is no surprise that people predict challenges for the industry in 2017 given the state of the economy. At AIICO, we believe that a period such as this gives companies the opportunity to test the viability of their business models. As a result, we look forward to the coming year with great expectations – we view it as an opportunity to improve our operations and strategies. Government regulations should aid businesses and insurance is no different. We expect regulations to enable the industry rather than hinder it. The NAICOM’s verification of companies’ capital base this quarter might have commenced in earnest; how prepared is AIICO Insurance for this exercise? AIICO Insurance has current shareholders fund well above the minimum regulatory capital. AIICO will welcome the verification exercise from NAICOM. The NAICOM is advocating merger and acquisition to beef up companies’ financial strengths, is your company merging, acquiring or seeking foreign technical partnership in anyway? The company is not seeking a merger or acquisition, at least not in the short to medium term. However, things can change very quickly if an opportunity presents itself. We always leverage technical partnerships. Insurance is a global business and in this age of digitisation we seek  to have the right partners in technology and of course, in reinsurers also in product  design products, especially with new products that are in tandem and the needs of the emerging market. The regulator recently said that 5 companies are controlling 70% of the entire industry premium income, what is your take on this? This is perhaps more representative of the life segment than the whole industry. Still though, what is important to us is not the number of competitors in the market but the fact that they can keep their promises to their customers – any negative experience affects the industry as a whole. However, it is more likely that larger insurers will be able to meet their obligations to customers (economies of scale) but we believe that the path to any type of industry consolidation should be organic with guidance from the regulators. Again, they said that the industry grossed about a trillion naira in premium income but offered about N650billion as discount while only N350billion is retained as premium earned, what is responsible for this? I’m not sure that this is totally correct. We are in a market – demand and supply determine market prices and regulators are there to step in where there is a market failure. There is certainly the potential for us to reach one trillion but we are not there just yet and it will take a concerted effort between industry operators, regulators and even the government to get to that place. How would you assess insurance industry in the first quarter of 2018? We believe that things are looking good. The performance of the economy (GDP, Inflation and price levels) all look good at least in the short term. We have high expectations for the industry this year. Insurance industry is about 100 years old in Nigeria, what is your assessment of its growth within this period? Technically this is true – Royal Exchange Assurance started business here in 1918 but one insurer does not an industry make. The age of the industry in terms of its development, which should be the metric, is still quite young. We have made significant progress over the last 10 years led by NAICOM, but there is still a long way to go comparing our industry with contemporaries in South Africa and India, even Kenya. Investments in public goods and infrastructure, talent and improved communication between regulator and industry operators to have an industry that is fair and thriving is critical. We believe that we are all on the same page where those goals are concerned. The Federal Government recently suspended the code of corporate governance which the FRC had already commenced its implementation last October, do you consider the development a good omen for insurance industry given the challenges the implementation of the code would have thrown on the sector? AIICO has clearly defined its Corporate Governance structures which act as defense to protect all shareholders. We would gladly key into the new innovations in addition to our already established structures. The National Pension Commission (PenCom) in a circular to life insurance companies demanded that they should open an account with the PFCs of their choice and transfer all annuity funds in their custody therefrom as against the practice in the 12 years of implementation of the contributory pension scheme, what is your view on this? What is important here is for our regulator, NAICOM and PenCom to come to an agreement on how this should be handled. We are most concerned with the welfare of annuitants across the country and believe that this should be the focus of any discussions between both regulators. Secondly, while the National Insurance Commission is engaging the PenCom in a view to reversing the order, we are told that life insurers have gone behind to effect transfers of the said funds as directed, what is the implication of this action on the insurance industry? We are not aware of any insurance companies that have done this. We can’t speak for everyone but official word from NAICOM and PenCom will determine how we play in the market. We will not take a firm position on the potential consequences of this on the industry as it is still unclear for now. Insurance industry has proposed a rebranding project aimed at sensitising on the benefits of insurance products and create awareness on why insurance should form part of their first line charge, but analysts are saying that the rebranding project goes beyond mere advertisement in the media and that the industry should go back to the history, what is your take on this? It depends on the history you are talking about. It is no debate that the industry has come in leaps and bounds over the last decade. We believe that the rebranding effort should focus on how far we have come as an industry and more importantly, the role that insurance can play in making life easier for households and companies alike. We believe that while we must always remember where we are coming from, we must also look forward. Could you lead us into what the insurance market outlook will be like in 2017? It is tough to say. We are however optimistic about our prospects this year. Sir you have been on this hot seat for quite a while, what have been the challenges facing this office and what is your scorecard like? As you rightly said, I came on the seat late 2013. it has been challenging but however, one would say it’s been rewarding and encouraging too. I perceive insurance in another space at this position of a managing director and chief executive officer. That people normally say the buck stops at your table, it’s not that….result is what stops at your table, you have to produce the result. It has been awkward and at the same time encouraging. My scorecard, I may say, the result has been enormous.  When this set of management came on board, we had a target so we drew up a work plan called the Three Pillars and set out with it. The major keys of the Pillars are in three folds, one; we said we want to strengthen our balance sheets, number two, to strengthen our people and also to strengthen our Go-to-Market which is about our distribution channels. These three pillars have been our cardinal point and we have lived up to that expectation. It’s ongoing but we know, in rating the three pillars, we have achieved much in them. That is what we set out to do and I believe we have achieved our goal. When did the Three Pillar-frameworks commence and when is it going elapse? It’s going to elapse in 2018; it’s a five-year programme that we set out for ourselves. But we are within the framework and we are achieving the purpose for which it was set. What do you have to tell your esteemed clientele out there? AIICO Insurance exists for its clients – all our decisions are made with this in mind. Our improvements in customer service and operations over the last few years have been geared to making the customer experience a pleasurable one. We realize that our customers count on us to keep our promises – we will not fail them. Technically speaking, is INTEGRITY an insurable risk, especially in Nigerian context? If you’re asking whether we can insure a party based entirely on their promise, we must understand that reputations play a part. With AIICO, our track record means that our customers trust us to keep our promise – to them, we have integrity. This integrity was however built over 50+ years of service to our clients. To conclude, I would say yes, integrity is an insurable risk but only on a case by case basis. Integrity could be said to be an end product of reputation built on promises, is it an insurable risk? The example you gave in your explanation is speculative. Before we can enter a contract there should be a meeting of minds and that is why insurance principle is based on utmost good faith. That what you are telling me is the truth and that what you are disclosing to me is what I should rate. But if you are giving me instances that there will be a failure as regards integrity, as an insurer that is tantamount to moral hazard. And the rule is that when you smell a moral hazard run away because it is not, per se, an insurable risk. If a prospect is telling you something and you perceive that he is not straightforward the best bet is for you to run away, otherwise he will put you into trouble. Insurance does not want things that are not straightforward that is why that principle of utmost good faith comes into play pre, the condition of the cover and post, the condition of that cover. If we discover that what you have told us is not the truth and a claim occurs, we have the right to decline liability because you have misled us to believe your falsehood. That is a major principle. 0 comments