Since May 2017, a concerted effort was put together by stakeholders across board to address the lingering traffic debacle generated by the nation’s seaport in Apapa with spiraling effect on other major link roads and the suffocating toll on the economy. Among the various options suggested or pointed out to resolve the issue is the creation of trailer holding bays in designated places away from the port area. This will be a major step in removing oil and container laden tankers from the road which is believed to be major causative factor for the perennial traffic build ups. To effectively drive home this message, necessary stakeholder meeting was convened on March 7, 2018 by Flag Officer Commanding, FOC Western Naval Command of the Nigerian Navy, Rear Admiral Slvester Abbah to issue directives to organisations directly involved with this business. At that meeting a 48 hour ultimatum was given to members of the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, (NUPENG) and other bodies to move their trucks from bridges in the state. The Navy Naval officer gave this directive as the command was getting set for Nigerian Navy Day celebration. On his part, representative of NUPENG, Adekunle Adelaja, who expressed hope that the meeting would not turn out like others which did not yield the needed result, blamed the cause of the gridlock on failure of the Federal Government to build refineries. He assured that members would comply with the directives to vacate the bridges. Coming at the heels of this directive within the same week in March was the one also given by the Lagos state government that truck drivers were given 48 hours ultimatum to clear their trucks off Lagos bridges – They said the trucks’ presence on the bridges constituted a security risk and could be easy targets for terrorists – Lagos state government said it has built a holding bay that could accommodate 3,500 tankers, promising that work is ongoing on another that can take 2,700 containerised trucks. It is clear from all of these directives and the most recent one coming from the Minister of the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Raji Fashola, giving the same directive that the government and relevant stakeholders are in agreement that the best way to go is the relocation of truck drivers to available holding bays or any other suitable places other than the highways or bridges. Fashola actually pointed out the need at a one “Day Public Enlightenment on Developments in the Road Sector organised by the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing at the Nigeria Air Force Conference Centre, Abuja on Monday March 19, 2018” for all stakeholders to join hands to halt the abuse on Nigerian roads and agreement that tank farm owners and sea port operators should comply with the axle load limits by installing weighbridges at their depots/ports. It appears however, that the more these directives are coming the more defiant these drivers are, in agreement with the NPA Traffic Manager, Mr Ogini Victor who said the Apapa gridlock has become a barber’s chair that is rotating and not moving anywhere. The continuous use of the bridges as parking bays by these truck drivers ’posses’ grave dangers to the nation other than the massive traffic hold ups often associated with it. The Ijora, Eko and Carter Bridges are under great strains from these immobile articulated vehicles, other bridges affected by similar stress are those at Abati Barracks, Ojuelegba and Stadium. An empty 20-feet container weighs 2,000 kilogrammes. A 40-feet container doubles the kilogrammes. With an average truck weighing about 14,000 kilogrammes, the total weight of 30 stationary trucks on the Ijora Bridge could be around 520,000 kilogrammes. This is besides the weight of other vehicles. The implication is that the four bridges on the Western Avenue area of the city – Ijora, Stadium, Ojuelegba and Abati Barracks – pack a massive 1.75 million kilogrammes on an average day. The load on these bridges, not originally designed to host heavy static vehicles, and a lack of consistent and thorough maintenance could spell tragedy. The Federal Controller of Works in Lagos, Mr. Godwin Eke, however, said government is aware of the dangerous state of the bridges. He said talks are ongoing with Ogun State to provide a loading bay where vehicles, especially those along Western Avenue, could park. Structural Engineer and immediate past President of Nigeria Institute of Structural Engineers, Oreoluwa Fadayomi, said: “When these vehicles are stationary on the bridges for a long time, they have negative impacts. These include deterioration, bridge-fatigue, damage or even collapse. Bridges are made so that vehicles keep moving.” He also warned: “There is also the risk of a fire. If any of the articulated vehicles catch fire, there would be a chain reaction, which can cause severe damage to the bridge. We are sitting on a keg of gunpowder because the bridges are weakening daily, as tankers, trucks and articulated Vehicles Park on them due to traffic congestion.” He urged government to address the causes of vehicles parking on bridges and ensure proper and timely monitoring of the facilities. “Something should be done to stop it very fast because of the negative effect on the infrastructure and possible disaster in the event of a collapse,” Fadayomi added. Terrorists could also exploit the gridlock caused by these trucks on the bridges to cause maximum damage in Lagos. Many of the bridges are derelict due to wear and tear and age. The pillars holding the Ijora Bridge, especially, have suffered structural defects due to frequent fire incidents and erosion that have affected the concrete parts and exposed the iron rods. The truck drivers, however, complain that they are forced to park on bridges because there are no trailer parks in Lagos. They also point to the ongoing construction work on the Apapa- Wharf Road, urging the contractors in charge of the road to expedite action on the project. The primary duty of government is to secure lives and property of its citizens. The Lagos State Government should move to avert the looming disaster waiting to happen. The Federal Government should also assist the state government in tackling the menace. In the recent past, the Lagos state government had demonstrated enough responsibility in restraining these drivers from this senseless posture by towing their trucks and prosecuting offenders. But as soon as the exercise is over, or the law enforcement agents close from work, the trucks are back on the bridges. It is like the combined taskforce team in Lagos is overwhelmed by the deluge of trucks in the state. The Ijora, Eko, Carter and Third Mainland bridges are expensive projects that require huge capital to execute. So, it is urgent that we do whatever we need to do, to preserve these bridges, so as to make them last longer. Most of them were constructed during the 1970s oil boom. The nation would need billions of Naira to reconstruct the bridges in the case of any collapse not to talk of the possible destruction of lives and properties that could result from it. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.