Recent startling parade of weapons of diverse proportions in the country is giving one serious reason for concern. This is more so, given that the nation cannot be said to be at war nor are we just coming out of a war, in which case it can be argued that it could explain the proliferation of arms and ammunition across the country. The Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim K. Idris, had on February 21, 2018 directed the Commissioners of Police of all the state commands of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja and their supervising assistant inspectors general of police of the 12 zonal commands to immediately commence simultaneous disarmament and recovery of prohibited firearms, ammunition and weapons in the possession of all suspected militias, bandits, vigilante groups, neighbourhood watch and other groups or Individual(s) or bodies bearing prohibited firearms and ammunition, illegal weapons and lethal devices whether locally fabricated, modified or otherwise fashioned to kill or that can cause harm or injury to persons or that can cause panic, fear, apprehension, security breach, breach of peace or that can cause threat to law and order anywhere in the country. According to the statement signed by CSP Jimoh Moshood, Force Public Relations Officer, the Nigeria Police Force implored concerned citizens, general public, states and local government authorities to prevail on their vigilantes, neighbourhood watch, civil security outfits and watch night men and others attached to any organisation including public and private institutions in the country to surrender within the time limit of 21 days, all the prohibited firearms in their possession to the Police and be law abiding. “Anyone found with prohibited firearms after the expiration of the 21 days will be arrested, investigated and prosecuted. The Police will not hesitate to apply the full weight of the law on any individual or group under any guise whose conduct run contrary to the law of the land,” the statement further warned. When this directive was first issued, I had patiently gone through the list of those expected to return their prohibited firearms and ammunition and held my breath to see if the most murderous group that poses the greatest threat to the country, aside Boko Haram, the armed Fulani herdsmen would be specifically mentioned, but was disappointed. This is against the backdrop that some local youths and vigilante groups had accused police of moving in to arrest and disarm them when they gather to fend off attacks on their villages, but are nowhere in sight when their villages are being attacked and razed. In order not to risk being branded as bandying hate speech, let’s just say that the killer herdsmen have been categorised as armed militias, vigilantes, or perhaps neighbourhood watch; after all, they actually sack their victims from their places of abode and watch over the neighbourhood! Honestly, the essence of this piece is not really to expose the police error of omission or commission of not specifically mentioning killer herdsmen, even though doing that would have gone a long way to send the right message to all Nigerians,  but to express worry about the sheer number of weapons on display across the country. Now, do not be deceived, these certainly cannot be all there are. From Ogun, to Anambra, Abia, Ebonyi, Lagos, Niger, Kaduna, Sokoto, the list is endless.  In fact in some locations, not only were arms discovered the police actually uncovered factories where some of these weapons are made. The next logical question to ask after the parade by the police is what would happen after these seizures? Who are the patrons of the armed groups? Is it those frail looking herdsmen we see around that bought those weapons? Are their patrons above the law? What is the guarantee that these weapons would not find their way back into circulation? There have been calls for the police authorities to adopt the Kenyan model of setting the weapons ablaze publicly. In November 2016, Kenyan authorities burnt 5,250 firearms, with the Deputy President, William Ruto, supervising the operation. Apart, from public destruction of unwholesome food products I cannot recall any open destruction of arms and ammunition seized from gunmen or robbers in the country. Where are they? The danger in not doing this is that they could return to criminals and the consequences would be too costly to contemplate. On Thursday, armed robbers attacked Offa town, the second largest settlement in Kwara State. Unconfirmed reports had it that at least 16 people comprising nine police officers and seven civilians died. In a similar attack in the past about seven police officers were killed. According to reports, the robbers first attack the nearest police location near where they plan to operate so they can have enough time to rob their targeted banks. Among those who were killed in the Thursday attack was a pregnant business woman who was said to have gone to lodge a complaint about her transaction in one of the banks attacked by the robbers. The woman identified as Omilola Korede was said to have been shot dead alongside her toddler son she took along to the bank. There was also a pregnant police woman reportedly killed by the robbers who first attacked the Divisional Police station in the town, where they killed police officers to make their robbery operation at the banks easier. The IGP will do well to ensure that these arms are publicly destroyed for all to see and that the exercise should continue after the period of grace given for return of arms. The police should ensure that those caught are made to face the law. The danger in doing otherwise is that if these weapons get to the hands of criminals, both the police and the general public would all be the victims of these marauders as the case of Kwara has shown. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.