Makurdi – Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue has proclaimed a fresh rally cry for self-defence in Benue State amidst the rising death toll of recent attacks on Gwer West communities in the state. Death toll of recent attacks on some communities in Gwer West Local Government Area by suspected Fulani herdsmen has risen to twenty-four. Paramount ruler, Gwer West LGA, the Ter Nagi, Daniel Abomtse, disclosed this when Governor Samuel Ortom paid the people of the area a condolence visit over the recent attacks. The recent herdsmen attacks affected ten out of the fifteen council wards in the local government area. The herdsmen also killed one soldier in Guma Local Government Area on Monday. Governor Ortom, who was briefed during the visit, said he was not prepared to set up another IDP camp in the area. He told the people of the affected communities that the time to stop running was now; it was the time to defend themselves from every form of external aggression. According to him, “It is not enough to run away; you must stay and defend your land. “This land belongs to us; we will not go anywhere but stay here and protect it.” Ortom, who noted that lawlessness had begun to set in, argued that it may lead to anarchy and observed that no one was safe in a state of anarchy. The governor disclosed that security men were not spared by the herdsmen, pointing out that herdsmen killed another soldier in Guma Local Government Area of the state on Monday. He noted that since the New Year’s Day attacks on Logo and Guma local government areas, eleven policemen and three men of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have been killed by the herdsmen. Ortom, however, promised that he would continue to work, support, and strengthen security agencies in the state through logistics to tackle issues of insecurity in Benue. Ortom’s call is coming long after Prof. Itse Sagay, a constitutional lawyer, had asked the governor to stop mourning and defend his people against attacks. Most recently, Lt. General Theophilus Danjuma, former Chief of Army Staff and Defence Minister, at the maiden convocation and 10th anniversary of the Taraba State University, Jalingo, on Saturday, March 24, made the same call. He had said: “Taraba is a mini Nigeria with diverse ethnic groups living together peacefully, but the peace in this state is under assault. There is an attempt at ethnic cleansing in the state and of course, some rural states in Nigeria. “We must resist it. We must stop it. Every one of us must rise up. Our armed forces are not neutral. “They collude with the bandits to kill people, kill Nigerians. The armed forces guide their movements; they cover them. “If you are depending on the armed forces to stop the killings, you will all die one by one. “This ethnic cleansing must stop in Taraba State and other rural states of Nigeria otherwise Somalia will be a child’s play. “I ask every one of you to be alert and defend your country, defend your territory and defend your state. Defend yourselves because you have no other place to go. God bless our country.” Briefing the governor earlier, paramount ruler of Gwer West, HRH, the Ter Nagi, Chief Daniel Abomtse, who said the area had lost about two hundred and twelve persons to herdsmen attacks since 2011, noted that the recent attacks claimed twenty-four lives. He also said the herdsmen abducted one of their youths on Monday. Abomtse observed that the intention of the herdsmen who were in the habit of blocking the highway to carry out their activities was to wipe out the entire Tiv race. Speaking at the occasion, former member, House of Representatives, Simon Aondoana, explained that the strategy of the herdsmen was to use their cattle to block the highway to get road users to slow down and when the road users slowed down, the herdsmen would emerge from the surrounding bushes to attack them. In his address, the Council Chairman, Francis Ayagah, said apart from those that lost their lives, seven other persons were wounded and were being treated of various degrees of injury. He told the governor that he had identified some of the attackers; collated their phone numbers and handed it over to security agencies in the state. The chairman said he had also petitioned the Inspector General of Police over the suspects. “I have done a thorough job in this regard by identifying some of the attackers by name and phone numbers and have submitted same to security agencies in the state. “I call on security agencies to capitalise on the efforts I have made so far in bringing perpetrators of these heinous crimes to book,” he said. Protestors later blocked the Makurdi/Naka Road at Adaka village whilst the governor was returning from Naka and lamented the state of insecurity faced by commuters on the road. The spokesman of the community stated that, in the last one month, four of their relatives had been abducted by herdsmen on the said road. He also explained that on Tuesday afternoon, after the governor had passed the road to Naka, one of their relations was inflicted with machete cuts by the herdsmen while riding back home from getting coal from the bush. They said the victim had been rushed to an undisclosed hospital where he was receiving treatment. The state of his health was unknown as at the time of compiling this report on Tuesday. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.