The Nigeria Computer Society (NCS) is once again leading a national discourse centred on achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through digital inclusion. The SDGs, otherwise known as the Global Goals, are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. The Society led by Professor Adesola Aderunmu as President, came up with the theme ‘Digital Inclusion: Opportunities, Challenges and Strategies’ which is in recognition that as IT deployment and development in Nigeria continues to increase, experiences and benefits of IT and the Internet have largely not been widespread. “The most socially and economically excluded such as women, individuals living with disabilities, MSMEs, young people, the poor, the rural populace as a whole are largely digitally excluded. “In today’s 21st century world, access to the internet, digital devices, and technical skills is however essential for full participation in the society and economy”, the Society said. NCS’s Conferences Unit chaired by Jide Awe, decried that despite advances the fact that many are unable to realize their potential in the digital world is a big obstacle to development. “Digital activity has increased but digital impact lags behind. Irrespective of how impressive the goals and level of investment, IT initiatives in the absence of inclusion continue to reinforce inequalities and hinder overall tech enabled development. Improving inclusion is not an end in itself, but is required most critically at this time to ensure leverage on IT to significantly improve healthcare, poverty reduction, job creation, education, governance and food security. “With a focus on relevance and enabling valued driven impact, the conference will address practical realities and needs, best practices, emerging issues, innovation, stakeholder roles and future sustainability. Digital inclusion is particularly important as the urgent need to diversify the economy away from dependence on oil and improve economic performance becomes more important. Join NCS in developing and setting the national digital inclusion agenda as the 2018 National Conference of NCS holds at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Oyo State from Tuesday, July 17 to Thursday, July 19, 2018. 0 comments