Lagos – Police in Lagos have arrested four suspects, including two teenagers and a secondary school teacher for allegedly  “ hijacking “ question papers meant for the West African Examinations Council (WAEC). The suspects were picked up in Edo, Ondo, and Osun states respectively, while others have been tracked to Ghana. One of the suspects told SATURDAY INDEPENDENT that he was only getting recharge cards from some of those who subscribed to his WhatsApp group. The suspects, who were on Friday paraded before newsmen by the state commissioner of police CP Imohimi Edgal reportedly sold the question papers and prepared answers to members of the public. Imohimi also disclosed that 319 suspected cultists and criminals were arrested in various locations in the state. All the suspects said to have been arrested in black spots were also paraded by the CP. The police boss, while speaking with journalists on the arrest of the WAEC question syndicate said  “ The is a case of national interest where WAEC questions and answers had been hijacked by syndicates who sell it to members of the public and make a huge amount of money from it. “ The police boss added that “ they give examination candidates already prepared questions and answers ahead of examinations. “ “ Based on this intelligence report, I tasked the Decoy Team of the RRS to instigate and ensure the arrest of these saboteurs.” the police boss said. The police boss confirmed that “ four suspects were tracked and arrested in Edo, Osun and Ondo states in connection with the crime. They are:  Samuel Kayode, 28- year-old,  Adebayo Ifeoluwa who is 17- year-old,  Alayande Ahmed, 16 years old and Elusode Festus,  20 years. The police boss also added that “Samuel Kayode,  a physics and mathematics teacher in two of the private schools in Ondo State,  linked up with those who provided him prepared answers of leaked 2018 examination questions. “ “He created a Whatsapp group called ‘WAEC VIP’ where he shares and sells leaked (expo) questions and answers on request.” the police boss also added C P Edgal  also stated that “Adebayo Ifeoluwa, 17 years, a student of  Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State, also created a Whatsapp group of his own called ‘MCC’ where he shares leaked (EXPO) questions and answers.” “ Elusode Festus,  20 years, an iron-bender apprentice who resides in Ekpoma, Edo State, created two Whatsapp groups named ‘WAEC Home of Expo’ and WAEC VIP’ where he shares questions and answers to students.” the CP also added. Imohimi said: “ We discovered that the question papers given by these syndicates are a word for word with the ones provided by WAEC for the candidates.” The four suspects confessed and admitted to having committed the crime. evidence of this was established through their mobile phones. An effort is in progress to get the owners of the websites to find out how the question papers get out of WAEC office. The police authority wishes to advise parents, guardians, and tutors to guide and monitor their wards not to engage in examination malpractices, but rather, encourage them to face their studies since there is no short way to success. “Also, it is important for the concerned examination bodies to look into this devastating development and take necessary corrective measures to prevent such leakage in future.” Samuel Kayode told SATURDAY INDEPENDENT that he distributed the question papers and answers. The secondary school teacher stated that he was getting them from a certain Danlami at a cost of #500 recharge card for every question and answer that he received. He also said that he was also not collecting money from his subscribers and that he was only collecting the same recharge card from them in return for the question and answers that he shared on the WhatsApp group. Samuel also told the Saturday Tribune that some of the question and answers were fake and not the real WAEC questions. 0 comments