Universal access and affordable internet is part of the key priorities for the 193 member states of the United Nations who are working towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Most of these countries, including Nigeria have policies in place to ensure that internet access, and use is a reality for all. But several factors are militating against achieving this goal. For this reason, the Universal Service and Access Funds (USAFs) popularly referred to as USPFund in Nigeria was established. USAFs is a communal funds dedicated to expanding connectivity opportunities to unserved and underserved communities. Over 68% of countries in Africa have a USAF in place; 62% of these funds are active. These funds, known as, are typically financed through mandatory contributions by mobile network operators and other telecommunications providers. In a recent research by Web Foundation, the Alliance for Affordable Internet and UN Women, it was found that the funds being collected are, for the most part, sitting unused — an estimated US$408 million remains unspent across the 37 African countries with active USAFs. The report, Universal Service and Access Funds: An Untapped Resource to Close the Gender Digital Divide examines the existence and use of Universal Service and Access Funds (USAFs) across Africa, and the extent to which these funds are being put to use to improve internet access and use among women. The research finds that: The Web Foundation, the Alliance for Affordable Internet and UN Women are calling on governments to invest at least 50% of funds collected for expanding connectivity in projects targeting women’s internet access and use. This call to action is based on the new research — released at the 62nd UN Commission on the Status of Women. The Groups describe as unacceptable the failure to use these funds — enough to bring 6 million women online, or to provide digital skills training to 16 million women and girls — to expand connectivity to all risks widening global inequality and undermining global development. “Though nearly half the world is online today, close to four billion people remain unconnected. Universal Service and Access Funds (USAFs) are communal public funds dedicated to expanding internet connectivity and access opportunities for these populations and other underserved communities who are least likely to be connected through market forces alone”, the report reads in part. A4AI also stressed that putting these funds to good use throughout Africa is critical to closing the digital divide — just 22% of the continent is online, and the gap in internet use between men and women is widest (25%). “Putting USAF money toward closing the (worsening) digital gender gap is a critical — and untapped opportunities — for making progress toward closing the wider digital divide”. 1 comments