Ilorin – A young man has reportedly committed suicide in Ilorin after losing out in a bet over expected result of a European Champions League match. The incident was said to have occurred in Oko-Erin area of the town after the return leg match between FC Barcelona of Spain and AS Roma of Italy played in Italy. The deceased, an Igboman said to be 25 years old reportedly engaged in a bet with someone else staking a motorcycle in his possession. He was said to have betted that Barcelona who were leading by 4-1 in the first leg played at Nou Camp, Spain would maintain their lead at end of the return leg and go through to the semi-final of the championship. However, the match turned out to be 3-0 in favour of AS Roma making the aggregate result 4-4 with Roma qualifying for the semi-final at the expense of Barcelona by virtue of away goals rule. The result made the deceased to lose the motorcycle to his opponent in the bet as the opponent reportedly smiled home with the bike from the viewing centre at the night immediately after the match. The man was said to be downcast with the loss of the motorcycle as some said he used it for commercial purposes and that it was his main source of livelihood while some others said it was for someone else and not his and that he only held it in custody on behalf of the owner. It was learnt that not being able to recover from the trauma, the man resorted to committing suicide by hanging himself. An eyewitness who said not many people were aware of the incident disclosed that the development devastated the deceased’s kinsmen in the area who lamented the action of the man. Spokesman of Kwara State Police command, Ajayi Okasanmi who confirmed the suicide however said it was not in connection with Match betting. Okasanmi explained that report with him indicated that the man committed the suicide because of huge debt hanging on his neck saying “the man was said to have incurred debt here and there.” He said the deceased took his live by hanging himself on a ceiling fan in his apartment. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.