The Minister of Youth and Sports, Barrister Solomon Dalung has assured Nigerian athletes currently at the Commonwealth Games village in Gold Coast, that the federal government will not discriminate against athletes during payment of training grants. “I am here to make clarifications on certain developments that will portray us in bad light, disturb our unity of purpose and has a possibility of distracting our attention from success. “The issue of training grants is an exclusive reserve of the federal government presently handled by the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development and it is a decision that will always be taken in our national interest. “A statement suggesting discrimination is not at all in our interest. Grants are paid based on categorization and not based on the principle of where you are resident or where you train.” He also cautioned the athletes on intimidation of up and coming ones and urged them to guard against causing problems in camp through rumour mongering and false information capable of breaking the unity and peace of the camp. “The great athletes among you did not start as big athletes. You started somewhere before you attained greatness therefore you have to accord privileges and respect to upcoming ones. You’re not supposed to use your advantage to oppress others. “I dislike this unwarranted distraction going on in camp and fueled by whosoever. This is not the spirit we started with. We must retrace our steps to the spirit, which we started with. “Everybody’s right and privileges must be given to him or her before the team departs from the Commonwealth Games. “If per adventure, you decide not to participate or compete for Nigeria, that is not a problem but you must not use your decision of not serving Nigeria to influence other athletes. That is unacceptable. “I want to commend those athletes who have already competed but didn’t win. I’m happy you competed favorably with others although you didn’t win but those who do not want to compete for the country should remain peaceful in their decisions.” He however disclosed that rewards for new records will be at the discretion of the federal government. Meanwhile, there will be finals today, Monday in the men’s shot-put, 100m and Para Athletics where Goodness Duru will be representing Nigeria in the Women’s F46 Javelin throw at the Carrara Stadium. Seye Ogunlewe and Enoch Adegoke qualified on Sunday for the Men’s 100m final while Samson Nathaniel and Chidi Okezie will compete in the 400m men’s semifinal. Elsewhere at the Oxemford Studios, Nigeria’s Millicent Agboegbulem fights Elizabeth Andiego of Kenya in the quarterfinal of women’s 75kg boxing weight class while Lukmon Lawal faces Uganda’s Regarn Singwa in the men’s 81kg round of 16. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.