The Lagos State government has nearly N5 billion in the last three years through its policy of non-sponsorship of pilgrimages to the holy lands. The government also said that it has ensured promotion of prudence in public finance, improvement on the operations of Muslim and Christmas pilgrimages and strengthened the state’s policy of peaceful co-existence and religious harmony. These, the government stressed, had assisted it in achieving unprecedented level of religious co-operation, collaboration and participation in governance in Nigeria. Dr. Abdulhakeem AbdulLateef, the Commissioner for Home Affairs, disclosed these at Alausa, on Monday while rendering account of the activities and achievements of his ministry in the last one year. AbdulLateef, stated that Governor Akinwunmi Ambode had recorded feats never accomplished by any other state. He cited that the approval for the release the sum of N25 million to the Nigerian Legion, Lagos Chapter, to strengthen its operations and had the permission to engage 3, 000 Legionnaires for deployment to all the secondary and primary schools in Lagos to ensure their safety and security, and creating jobs. AbdulLateef said: “Ambode does not joke with the welfare of the Legionnaires, as well as the orphans and other relatives of our fallen heroes in the state,” adding that the governor had given lorry loads of rice to the widows, orphans and other dependants of the late-service men. He stressed that “no one suffers religious discrimination in Lagos, as citizens experience the best of religious freedom, practice and fraternisation.” Lagos, he asserted, “is the only state that gives effective operation to the tenets of the constitution on religious freedom, by fully implementing Section 42 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, adding that, “it is only in Lagos State that the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) is functioning.” He recalled that the governor had inaugurated 798 Christian and Muslim members NIREC, in a bid to continuously improve upon the current level of peace and religious harmony being enjoyed in the state, while sustaining and deepening the ongoing development, modernisation and infrastructural expansion. 2 comments