To say Nigeria is witnessing a turbulent time would amount to stating only the obvious. Indeed, President Muhammadu Buhari admitted as much on Monday while inaugurating the Presidential Food Security Council in Abuja. However, while the president noted that the worst case scenario is in the area of job creation, he also said the government’s effort at creating jobs was beginning to yield the desired results. True, it is dreadful to contemplate what the future of the country would be with a growing sea of unemployed youths across the country. Just as the president was admitting the reality before us all, the leading opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), was also seeking forgiveness from Nigerians for its many misdemeanours while in office at the centre. It is safe to say that last week was a period of sober-reflections and soul-searching. Whereas I agree completely with the President on the need to create jobs and raise the hope of our youths, I also think, irrespective of what the government is planning for the nation, that if the rising cases of insecurity in the land is not checked, then achieving food-sufficiency and job creation for Nigerians might as well remain a pipe dream. The recent advice by Theophillus Danjuma, a retired General of the Nigerian Army and former Minister of Defence to Nigerians to defend themselves before they are killed has again left us torn choosing between the message and the messenger. Recall that Danjuma, as a young officer of the Nigerian Army, is reputed to have supervised the killing of his commander in chief, Major-General Johnson Thomas Aguiyi-Ironsi and the military governor of the defunct Western Region, Col. Adekunle Fajuyi, in a military putsch on July 29, 1966. The aftermath of this act was that blood, especially those of the Igbo, was spilled freely everywhere in the land. Also, under his watch as defence minister in President Olusegun Obasanjo’s government, the military carried out two major massacres, Odi, an Ijaw town in Bayelsa and Zaki Biam, in Benue State. The soldiers in Zaki Biam had been deployed to the area to restore law and order following clashes between the Tiv and Jukun ethnic groups in Benue and neighbouring Taraba states, which unfortunately led to the death of 19 soldiers. As a result of the death of these unfortunate patriotic Nigerian soldiers, Danjuma and his soldiers ensured that over 100 lives were killed in retaliation. Similarly, the Odi massacre carried out on November 20, 1999, by the military came in the context of an ongoing conflict in the Niger Delta over calls for resource control rights and environmental protection. Prior to the massacre where over 2000 lives were allegedly lost, 12 members of the Nigeria police were murdered by a gang near Odi; seven on November 4 and the rest in the following days. So, obviously, the hands of Danjuma as well as those of his benefactor and famous letter writer, Olusegun Obasanjo, are also stained with the blood of innocent Nigerian citizens. But can we on the basis of the fact that these messengers are not saints themselves discountenance their recent comments on the spate of killings and insecurity pervading the nation today? I don’t think so. Speaking at the maiden convocation and 10th anniversary of the Taraba State University, Jalingo, on Saturday, March 24, Danjuma had told his audience, “When I arrived in this arena, I saw rich cultural display and I was amazed at the rich cultural heritage of our people. Taraba is a mini Nigeria with diverse ethnic groups living together peacefully, but the peace in this state is under assault. “There is an attempt at ethnic cleansing in the state and, of course, some rural states in Nigeria. We must resist it. We must stop it. Every one of us must rise up. “Our Armed Forces are not neutral. They collude with the bandits to kill people, kill Nigerians. The Armed Forces guide their movements; they cover them. If you are depending on the Armed Forces to stop the killings, you will all die one by one. “This ethnic cleansing must stop in Taraba State and other rural states of Nigeria; otherwise Somalia will be a child’s play. I ask every one of you to be alert and defend your country, defend your territory and defend your state. Defend yourselves because you have no other place to go. God bless our country.” There is no gainsaying that irrespective of Danjuma’s past, his admonition is nothing but a wake up call for the military and other security operatives to nip in the bud activities of armed militias across the land. Except during the sad civil war, the nation has not experienced the daily mayhem that is going on now. Only on Friday, over 30 persons killed by gunmen in Bawan Daji village of Anka Local Government Area of Zamfara State were buried. A crestfallen Governor Abdulaziz Yari had directed security agents to shoot and kill anyone caught carrying firearms in the state. According to him, “We cannot continue to watch criminals as a parallel government, doing what they want and carrying sophisticated firearms, maiming and killing innocent citizens in the state.” Abusing or dismissing Danjuma is certainly not the way out because whichever way one looks at it, Danjuma, as an elder statesman, is certainly not a pedestrian when it comes to some of those issues he raised. Apart from being a retired military officer, he also knows the implication of making statements that he cannot verify, especially against his own constituency, the military. Whether the military is complicit or not or whether the allegations of ethnic cleansing are true or not, the fact remains that Nigerians are dying and that life is becoming more brutish, nasty and short. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.