Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike last weekend flagged off the construction of the Ultra-Modern International Tanker Park in Eleme Local Government Area of the state. The Ultra-Modern International Tanker Park is being constructed by the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG). Flagging off the Project on Friday, Governor Wike thanked Comrade Igwe Achese, the immediate past President of NUPENG, for attracting the project to Rivers State. He said: “Igwe Achese remembered his state and has attracted a project of this magnitude to improve the condition of the people of the state. “This is a legacy for Achese and for the people of Rivers State.  Anywhere he goes after now, Igwe Achese will be remembered for this edifice that will improve the economy of this state “. The governor urged other Rivers leaders in different locations of authority to promote the interest of Rivers State, instead of de-marketing the state. “It doesn’t matter where you are, work for the benefit of Rivers State.  Attract projects that will create opportunities for the people “, he said. He assured that his administration will continue to create the enabling environment for businesses to thrive. The governor stated that he has signed 1000 certificate of occupancy aimed at helping businesses generate funds from banks. Governor Wike said that the Tanker Park will employ youths in the area and help the state generate revenue through taxes. “This park will reduce accidents, loss of lives and unnecessary inconvenience caused by the indiscriminate parking of tankers. We shall support this project”, he said. In his remarks, Comrade Igwe Achese said he is happy that the project initiated by him has come to fruition. He commended Governor Wike for granting the Certificate of Occupancy to NUPENG for the 700 plots of land where the international tanker park is being constructed. He said the Tanker Park which has in it, a fire station, bank, police station, hotel and banquet hall will be constructed at the cost of N4billion. Comrade Achese called on investors to partner with NUPENG to ensure the successful completion of the project. He maintained that the construction will start soon after the flag off. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.