If the plan by the Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA) is anything to go by, a new process to significantly reduce the nation’s housing deficit may soon be unveiled. This plan is coming on the heel of the federal government’s drive to engage in massive construction of affordable housing across many states in Nigeria. But, while government’s initiative is not considering using local materials for the project, the plan by the NIA, is considering unveiling an unconventional method that will make those houses, if eventually come alive, affordable to common man. Although, details of the NIA plan was still sketchy as at the time of this report, DAILY INDEPENDENT learnt, that talks were on top gear with relevant stakeholders to ensure successful delivery of the project. Indeed, the current leadership of NIA has been campaigning this method, urging its members and other professional bodies in the building industry to come up with alternative technologies in solving the nation’s housing challenge. President of the institute, Arc. Adibe Njoku during a chart with journalists recently in Abuja revealed that NIA was already exploring relevant alternative technologies that would positively impact on the quality and prices of the houses when built. Adibe, who hinted that, universities would pilot the project, disclosed that the building project would be launched next year. According to him, the project will make use of local materials in order to make it affordable for the people. He said: ‘‘we want to build a sample in Abuja. The walls might be made of muds and not blocks but when it plastered and painted, nobody will know that the difference. We want people to know that they can build a house with local materials without spending too much. ‘‘The materials will stand the test of time. We’ll solve the problem of high cost of building for the poor man. It is the best approach to solving housing deficit in Nigeria.’’ He also said the permanent solution to building collapse in Nigeria is for people to make sure they engage the right consultants for their building projects. According to him, his administration was committed to this initiative that will be affordable and accessible, adding that, the institute is also partnering, with local manufacturers to procure building materials at reasonable price that could bring down the cost of houses. “We are having an arrangement with people producing building materials locally, we have cement producers and a lot of other producers who are into quality local products such as door and tiles. Just as we have done with cement that will deliver at factory cost prices and this will help in bringing down the cost of houses, he said. Speaking on building collapse, the president, Njoku said the policy gap in the built environment regulatory framework and the disconnect between design and construction was an issue that should be addressed According to him, the architects remain the missing link between designs and construction for the enthronement of quality delivery of building projects, saying: “One of the solutions to the building collapse syndrome is to consciously bridge this yawning gap between design and construction and this requires the immediate situation of the appropriate legislation to redefine the regulatory framework to make the engagement of the builder mandatory both at the design stage and at the construction stage for any development. The NIA President also explained that the crisis between the association and the Architects Registration Council of Nigeria (ARCON) has been fully resolved. ‘‘ARCON is our regulatory body and there is nothing we can do without them. NIA is an association that looks into the welfare of architects, there is no way NIA can be fighting ARCON. Somehow, during the tenure of the last executives, there was a misunderstanding stemming from the issue of examination that NIA conducts, which ARCON said it wouldn’t recognise. We are working together now.’’ 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.