Osogbo – The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi; Ambassador Chief Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosumu and many dignitaries on Sunday stormed the ancient city of Ile Ife to celebrate Chief John Agboola Odeyemi, an industrialist, who turned 79. At the thanksgiving service held at Diocese of Ife, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion) Chapel of Saint John The Evangelist, Oke Oloyinbo, Majuro Road, Ile Ife, they described him as a good role model worthy of emulation. The Ooni of Ife who led other traditional rulers in the ancient town including Elerinmo of Erinmo-Ijesa, Asoya of Isoya, Ife, Eleyesi of Eyesi, Ife, among others lauded the role played by the celebrator in the development of the youth and community stressing that he has played his part very well. The monarch maintained that Chief Odeyemi has lived exemplary life worthy to emulate saying he has used his God given talents, knowledge and wealth to enhance the growth and development of the less-privileged. While calling on political class and well meaning Nigerians to assist the youths of the country to be able to play their future roles as leaders of tomorrow, Oba Adeyeye said that the bane of youths in the country was lack of mentorship initiative. He said, “We don’t have elders that our youths can look up to as role models. This is because they feel the present leaders have failed them.” He reiterated that he would continue to encourage the youths and encourage elders to continue to give youths opportunity to grow and develop. In his sermon, Venerable Folarin Gbekelelowa, the Bishop of the Diocese, thanked the celebrator for being good ambassador of the church and entire community of Ile Ife. He said every living soul needs to continue to give thanks in all things they are doing, adding that Chief Odeyemi at 79 had grace among the living. He charged the congregation to live a good life that worthy of emulation as he quote Psalm. 71 verse 15. While speaking, Chief Odeyemi who is also the Obasewa of Ile Ife said he felt honoured with the presence of Ooni and other dignitaries that graced the occasion appreciating God for sparing his life to witness the occasion. “I feel honoured and I give glory to God that people assembled here with Ooni and elites coming here to celebrate with me. It is like carnival occasion and I give God glory for that,” he said. He however charged the youth to continue to work hard saying that hard work and prayer is the key to success. He said, “You cannot succeed without working hard, I believe in hard work and God blessing will follows.” Among the dignitaries present, were Ambassador Adetokunbo Awolowo Dosunmu, Chairman of African Newspapers of Nigerian(ANN); Elder Ade Ogidan, Managing Director Independent Newspapers Limited; Rogers Makunjuola, former OAU Vice Chancellor; Mr. Gbenga Adefaye, Managing Director, Vanguard Newspapers; Justice Adedotun Onibokun, Dr. Ademola Ajayi, Elder Dosu Awoyemi and Pastor Titiloye. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.