Abuja / Abuja / Akure  – The House of Representatives wanted to begin an impeachment proceeding against President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday. The legislators were angered by the $496 million paid to the United States government for the purchase of aircraft without approval by the National Assembly. The threat of impeachment followed the president’s communication to the House Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, for a supplementary input to the 2018 Appropriation Bill for the purchase of ‘Supper Tucano’ aircraft from the United States government. The withdrawal of the said amount and the transaction, according to some lawmakers, was shrouded in secrecy and done without parliamentary approval. Public debate on the issue had necessitated a resolution from the House which, last week, asked its Ethics and Privileges Committee to investigate the claims which the speaker alleged would amount to theft if found to be true. However, the president, upon his return, swiftly reacted by writing the legislature, confessing to having carried out the act in anticipation of legislative approval. In the letter, read by the House Speaker after emerging from about two hours of executive session, the president said: “I wish to draw the attention of the House of Representatives to the ongoing security emergencies in the country. “These challenges were discussed with the state governors and subsequently at the meeting of National Economic Council on 14th December, 2017, where a resolution was passed, with the Council approving that up to $1 billion may be released and utilised from the Excess Crude Account to address the situation. “Consequent upon the approval, we are preparing a comprehensive schedule of all the requirements for each of the security services for presentation to the National Assembly for consideration. “It would be recalled that, for a number of years, Nigeria had been in discussions with the United States government for the purchase of Super Tucano sircraft under a direct government-to-government arrangement. “Recently, approval was finally granted by the United States government, but with a deadline within which part payment must be made otherwise the contract would lapse.” The president argued further: “In the expectation that the National Assembly would have no objection to the purchase of this highly specialised aircraft, which is critical to national security, I granted anticipatory approval for the release of U$496, 374, 470.00. “This was paid directly to the treasury of the United States government. “I am, therefore, writing, seeking approval of the House for the sum of $496, 374, 470.00 to be included in the 2018 Appropriation Bill which the National Assembly is currently finalising. “The balance of the requirements for the critical operational equipment is still being collated from the different security services and will be presented in the form of a supplementary appropriation bill in due course.” Raising a point of constitutional order, Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers) cited section 80 and 81 of the 1999 constitution as amended, saying that this had to do with issues of financial expenditure and control of the funds of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Chinda argued that the law was very clear in the foregoing sections, that “no money shall be withdrawn from the consolidated revenue account of the federation except it has been authorised from an appropriation act.” The lawmaker told his colleagues that the language, anticipatory approval, employed by the president to defend his act was not known to the constitution on this matter. Reminding the House that the committee which received a referral on this matter had not even sat. The lawmaker said the president had written to confirm that he took and spent the money without approval. Expressing his disappointment further, Chinda told the House that the president was planning to make them a rubber stamp, stressing that “this is a constitutional infraction and it is an impeachable offence.” He added: “No misconduct is so serious like this kind of infraction. It is only in an autocracy that this can be found. “Let us not continue to sit and allow things go in this way. Let us wake up from our slumber. “I propose that we commence an impeachment of Mr. President”, Chinda moved, with a loud shout of yes from other members. However, in a swift counter move to save the President, Emmanuel Orker-Jev (APC, Benue), who chairs the House Rules and Business Committee, told the speaker that it was not right to subject that letter to debate, according to the House rules. Oker-Jev argued that the presentation was taken for first reading and should only be debated at second reading since it was a bill. He urged the speaker to stand it down, but the speaker refused, granting more lawmakers the opportunity to speak on the letter. In his contribution, Ali Madaki, in a point of order, said that by section 1 of the 1999 constitution, the House rule was inferior, as the constitution was supreme. Several other lawmakers who contributed, frowned at the president’s action, saying that a strongly worded letter be transmitted to President Buhari, informing him of the infractions he had committed. However, Speaker Yakubu Dogara, rose to save the day, as he said that it was improper to breach procedure, saying that breaching procedures would be as bad as the breaches the president was alleged to have committed. He, therefore, ruled that Rules and Business committee slates the communication for debate at second reading. Afenifere Carpets Buhari Over $496m Payment For Fighter Jets Afenifere on Tuesday criticised President Muhammadu Buhari for authorising the purchase of fighter jets worth $496 million without appropriation by the National Assembly. The apex Yoruba socio-political group described the action of the president as an act of corruption and impunity. It called on the National Assembly to handle the issue with the seriousness it deserves in the interest of the country. Afenifere expressed its view in a communique read by Yinka Odumakin, the group’s spokesman, after its monthly meeting in Akure, Ondo State capital. “The meeting frowned at the anticipatory approval and payment of the sum of $496 million to the US government by President Buhari for the purchase of 12 A29 Super Tucano aircraft. “It is disturbing that this act of impunity was carried out by the president who is now asking the National Assembly to include the money he already spent in the 2018 Appropriation Bill under consideration.” “It is an act of corruption and misappropriation of public funds and we call on the National Assembly to ensure that the full wrath of the law is brought to bear on this issue because this act of impunity is getting too much. “The other day, it was one billion dollars for Boko Haram. Who else would know how much money has been taken out of the system in this way,” Afenifere said. The group said it was worried by the unabated terror of herdsmen in the country. Afenifere flayed the statement credited to Buhari in London that Nigerian youths were lazy, describing it as uncharitable and condemnable. 1 comments