Umuahia – Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has reminded his supporters that the political travails against his administration was not yet over with the pending Supreme Court judgment to be delivered on April 13, 2018 in a suit filed by one of his party members challenging his election in 2015. Governor Ikpeazu, who made the disclosure at a mega rally held in his honour by the people of Ummunnochi Local Government Area of the state at Chrisnak Multi-Purpose Event Centre, Amuda Isuochi, assured them that the God that saw him through in the past legal battle would still see him through.
He said that the legal battles against him, which have been on for three years, had not distracted him in building a sustainable economic growth, security and preparing the abundant human resources available in the state through the provision of basic infrastructure, especially in Aba, the commercial nerve centre of the state.
The governor said that 2019 is a period for people to give account of their stewardship, adding that he had the courage, support and grace of God to move the state forward.
The governor challenged those who want to govern the state in 2019 to point to projects they have executed in their communities while assuring that Nneato and Umuchieze communities would be linked to the national grid before the end of the year.
He called on Ummunnochi people to remain steadfast in their faith in the present administration, urging them not to be deceived by political failures.
Earlier on, Philip Okey Igwe, the chairman of Ummunnochi Council Area, commended Governor Ikpeazu for marching his promises to people of the area with actions.
“A little less than two year ago, you visited Ummunnochi on a thank you tour. At that time, we unanimously cried out to you for help on the most challenging matter of Ummunnochi electricity, which had been non-existent for over two decades.” “Today, Ummunnochi light is back. Although the project is huge and remains work in progress, we would be remiss if we didn’t extend a heavy dose of gratitude to you for staying the course and seeing the phase 1 of the project to completion such that Isuochi as whole and its surrounding communities are now enjoying electricity.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.