Abuja – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has challenged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to make public result of its findings on alleged underage voting that took place in some parts of the North. This comes some days after it had alleged that the presidency, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and INEC were working in concert to smuggle 30,000 fresh polling units into the electoral system to effect rigging in 2019 for the ruling party. Reports supported by disturbing pictures and footages were recently released to the public purporting underage voting in Kano and some other parts of the North. The release had sparked public outrage and international condemnation leading to public undertaking by INEC to investigate the matter. But PDP in fresh statement by Kola Ologbodiyan, its publicity secretary, aside urging INEC to make public its findings on the alleged underage voting, accused the electoral umpire of covering atrocities of the APC by not making public its findings on underage voters in various states, particularly Kano and Katsina. “We are aware that the investigation unearthed a multitude of underage voters, particularly in Kano and Katsina, but INEC has been instructed by the APC and the presidency cabal to conceal the atrocity, which they plan to use to rig the 2019 presidential election for President Muhammadu Buhari,” said Ologbodiyan. The party added that its investigation revealed that beyond underage voters, the INEC panel discovered other atrocities, which the APC and agents of the presidency had been suppressing. “We are also aware of the manipulations in INEC’s computer data centre, which has been handed over to a compromised official known to be related to President Buhari,” stated the party’s spokesman. The party expressed shock that Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC chairman, was allegedly allowing the APC and the presidency cabal to use him in a purported attempt to rig the 2019 election for Buhari. It added that APC and the president had been rejected by the citizens as a result of the failure of his administration. “Only last week, Nigerians were stunned by revelations that INEC under Prof. Yakubu was plotting to create 30,000 illegal polling centres in soft and compromised areas through which they plan to allocate free votes to President Buhari.” This is in addition to plots to compromise other voting processes, including the card readers, to favour the APC. “We invite Nigerians and the international community to note the various attempts by INEC to conceal the underage voters, particularly in Kano and President Buhari’s home state, Katsina. When the issue first came to the public domain, the APC issued a staunch defence, while INEC blamed the Kano State government. The commission had to back down to institute an inquest when confronted with facts showing that it registered the minors,” stated Ologbodiyan. 0 comments