Lagos – The  Nigeria Customs Service, Seme-Badagry Area Command have made seizures of contraband with a duty paid value (DPV) of N12,729,780.00. The command yesterday declared that the achievement was the result of operational dynamics it put in place in recent times, thereby making the axis a nightmare to smugglers, who have always devised new strategies to beat the operatives of the Command. “This is evident in the seizures made by the command despite the effort put in by the smugglers in reconstructing their means of conveyance for concealment and easy passage”, said Comptroller Mohammed Aliyu, the Area Controller, Seme-Badagry Command. He added that the current intelligent-driven operation of the command was not only in line with the operational ethics of the service, but also in line with the international best practices. “It is therefore, worthy of note that confrontation with the smugglers which hitherto used to be between officers and smugglers is a thing of the past. There are numerous seizures of frozen poultry products, imported rice and textile materials, made from smugglers. The seizures have a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N12,729,780.00.” Commenting on the intelligent driven seizures, the Customs Area Controller disclosed that the Command would continue to operate using the best strategies to suppress smuggling to the barest minimum. He stressed that the command shall continue the harvest of seizures from non-compliant stakeholders and smugglers who have refused to hid the call for patriotism in their trade transactions. He commended the operational officers and enjoined them to be ethical and professional in the discharge of their statutory functions. The CAC, however, restated his position that the command shall continue to sanitise the Seme international border and remain a nightmare to smugglers in line with the service statutory mandate of revenue generation, suppression of smuggling, facilitation of legitimate trade and protecting the territorial integrity of the Nation. 1 comments