Title: When Clerics Kill Author: Shehu Sani Reviewer: Yemi Adebisi Publisher: Kraft Books Limited No of Pages: 103 Over time, his gesture on building a futuristic nation through his priceless wealth of intellectual property has been described by a number of critics as awesomely amazing. Senator Shehu Sani, human rights activist, playwright and poet, representing Kaduna Central, has severally and severely confronted some Nigerian leaders on issues of corruption, injustice, brutality, nepotism among others, even before his election into the Senate. He has written several books to support his clarion call for justice in the past. Today, it appears he has little or no time to write again since he became a senator perhaps because of his countless political engagements. In 2013, when he churned out the book under review today, When Clerics Kill, it was like a prophetic glimpse of today’s world. A writer with muscles for proactive researches and practical orientation, he created a niche in African literature by carving out a viable record of freedom for the masses. Without prejudice, the play prerogatively addresses issues of intolerance, bigotry, violence and peace. The characters include a Christian couple, Martha and John; a Muslim couple, Tani and Sagir; jobless graduates, undegraduates; governor; policemen; commissioner; a pastor; an Imam; an Islamic extremist and a Christian extremist. The play, from the beginning to the end, gives a peep of the views and frustrations of young people and hateful perceptions of some clerics and the brigandage of law enforcement agents in such a given situation. From the inception of the story, the characters appear to have been tired of the domineering decrees and turbulent strokes from those neighbours they refer to as settlers. The play reviews the influence of religious leaders in the affairs of a given society. It gives both parties the opportunity to express themselves with the hope to navigate the route for peace and proper understanding. The setting of the play also reveals the role played by various elements of the society in shaping, destroying or rescuing societies in the grip of hate and extremism. It also x-rays to certain extent, the effect of societal doom on the women and youth in particular. The writer appears to be carried away and offended by various dimension of assaults, abuse of power and neglect as it affects the life of innocent citizens. He wonders on how the housewives and youth would be able to survive in a society that is torn apart physically and spiritually. In a nutshell, the writer cleverly uses the play to expose the spiritual, cultural and moral perception of religionists and theocrats in the society. The play lays emphasises on the rights of a common man on the street to a peaceful life. The exuberance of the youth and the vulnerability of their minds to go to the extreme especially when they are pushed to do otherwise is also given a thoughtful consideration. The young people are embattled with the thought of the security of their future. They imagine when the mortgage and embargo on their future will be lifted and what becomes their dreams and aspiration in the nearest future. They discuss politics, religion, and the failed duty of the state to insure their future. Different people of diverse belief and opinion engage each other on frivolous issues. For instance, the secularists confront religionists while religionists confront the state. The role of political leaders and the challenge of governance in crisis-ridden societies are given prominent attention in the play for possible reconciliation to avert future political decay. The play stages debates on balancing politics, human rights on the other hand and the imperative of restoring or maintaining law and order on the other. It also delves into the conduct of security personnel in crisis times, their arbitrariness and excessiveness. The writer presents an interrogative segment in the play probably to sensitise the people and educate them on the state of the nation. The writer’s aim for this publication appear to be for the singular reason of promoting peace in societies dislocated and paralysed by wanton religious or ethnic violence. The book is meant to inspire as well as to inculcate into the conscience of the society the spirit of love, tolerance and inter-religious harmony. The author’s approach extensively established a practical view, devoid of pretence especially in its outright denunciation of hate and human right violation committed in any guise and for any purpose. It also propagates opposition to extremism and encourages people to reject fear and silence and rise to the defence of freedom and fundamental rights. The writer’s ideas, as expressed in this potable book exposes the failure of governance and the causative factors of corruption, decadence, religious persecution and cruelty and criminality of the state apparatus that lead to desperate and virulent reactions from victims. The playwright deliberately designed the book not to entertain but rather as a literary contribution and intervention in the search for peace in a seemingly and perpetually troubled world. Clerics occupy special hierarchies within the spine of the society especially as moral and spiritual authorities.  They are believed to be the voice of God and hold so much in the hearts and minds of their ‘disciples.’ Therefore whatever they say and however they behave matters in the affairs of live. When they act otherwise, especially like the story of When Cleris Kill, where they choose not to conform to the principles of tolerance and coexistence, they loose their credibility before humanity and God. The play points out the role of the few courageous citizens who choose to speak out for peace and stand up to face out violence without fear or favour. The author, Sani, will remain in the Guinness book of record for his continuous effort to preach the sermon of peace in the city of violence. Impactful as it is, the world, especially the youth will not forget how he has used his talents to transform and liberate the oppressed in the society. The book is written with witty language; the cover design is inviting; the binding is a standard. While more is still expected of him despite all odds, Sani’s When Clerics Kill will stand a test of time. It is recommend for the religious leaders, students, parents, government and all peace lovers of the world. 0 comments