Abuja – The presidency is set to investigate Cambridge Analytica’s involvement in Nigeria’s last general elections. A source in the presidency informed State House correspondents on Sunday that the Federal Government had set up an in-house committee to investigate whether Cambridge Analytica’s work for the then ruling party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the election campaigns of 2007 and 2015 broke the laws of Nigeria or infringed on the rights of other parties and their candidates. Whichever way the investigation turns out, it may lead to the appointment of a special investigator and, possibly, criminal prosecutions by the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. Cambridge Analytica, the data mining firm, is alleged to have swiped the data of more than 50 million Facebook users to sway elections in many countries, including Nigeria. In Nigeria’s case, the firm was alleged to have influenced a campaign to perpetuate discord, and hacked into personal records of the then leading opposition candidate, Muhammadu Buhari. A whistleblower, Christopher Wylie, who worked with a Cambridge University academic to obtain the data, told the Observer, a UK newspaper, how the organisation operated. He said: “We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people’s profiles and built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons. That was the basis the entire company was built on.” Among those whose personal data were reportedly hacked into in 2015 was the then opposition candidate, Muhammadu Buhari. Cambridge Analytica, according to the reports, worked with Israeli hackers who were instructed to get dirt on Muhammadu Buhari during the presidential campaign. According to those reports, SCL Elections, a public relations firm that later became Cambridge Analytica, manipulated Nigeria’s 2007 election by organising campaigns to weaken the chances of opposition parties. As part of its engagement, the company organised “anti-election rallies” to demoralise opposition supporters from voting in the elections, which saw the emergence of Umar Yar’Adua as Nigeria’s president. The Cambridge Analytica team was said to have come up with a video to portray candidate Buhari as a leader who would enforce Sharia law in Nigeria. It was intended to sway the minds of millions of Nigerians and vote for the PDP candidate. Currently, the Cambridge Analytica and Facebook are the focus of an inquiry into data and politics by the British Information Commissioner’s Office, the United States Special Counsel, Robert Mueller and, separately, the UK Electoral Commission is also investigating what role Cambridge Analytica played in the EU referendum. When contacted over the issue, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said that although he had not been briefed on the issue, Nigerians deserved answers immediately from the PDP administration, Facebook, and Cambridge Analytica on how and why they improperly obtained and used data to interfere in Nigerian elections. He said an investigation should help to determine if there is a linkage between the various killings and maiming that have characterised our elections since 2007 and the misinformation activities of the Cambridge Analytica (CA) data flow. The outcome of the investigation may also help President Buhari achieve his wish to leave a legacy of improved elections, he said. APC Is Chasing Shadows, Says PDP Meanwhile, PDP said the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its Federal Government are chasing shadows in their desperate plot to implicate the opposition in the alleged hacking into the personal records of its presidential candidate, Muhammadu Buhari. The party said while it welcomes an open investigation into the Cambridge Analytica saga, it demands that such inquest be extended to cover the sources of the alleged looted funds used to prosecute President Buhari’s campaign in 2015. PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement, on Sunday, said the APC is merely seeking to divert public attention from its manifold failures and scandals, as it is already public knowledge that neither the PDP nor any of its officials or members were ever linked or indicted in any way, in the said saga. The party said it is also public knowledge that the document being relied upon by the APC clinically stated that “there is no suggestion that Jonathan knew of the covert operation.” “We are therefore aware that this new agenda is to divert public attention from the various scandalous allegations hanging on the neck of the Buhari presidency, including the use of looted funds to finance his 2015 presidential election, the Martin Luther King’s award saga, the damaging Bill Gates verdict on the Buhari’s economic policies as well as the numerous financial scandals in the NNPC under his watch. “This inquest should therefore be completely open and independent of government control, so that Nigerians will know the truth, not only on the Cambridge Analytica saga, but also on the source of funds for the president’s 2015 campaign and other sleazes under his watch”, he said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.