Abuja – Considered to be long overdue, the National Universities Commission (NUC) has finally approved upgrading of the architecture study from departmental to faculty level in all Nigerian universities. The new policy, would in few months become operational, as the commission has said it would soon hold a one-day retreat with all in academia and the professionals towards implementing the development. Prof. Abdulrasheed Abubakar, NUC Executive Secretary made this disclosure yesterday in Abuja at the on-going colloquium organised by the Architects Registration Council of Nigeria (ARCON). Rasheed, who was represented by Dr. Mariam Salle, Acting Director, Department of Students’ Support Services said having been satisfied, the NUC had approved in principle the request by ARCON to upgrade architecture study in Nigeria universities from the developmental to faculty level. Ahead of implementation of the new policy and ensure seamless execution, Salle said that very soon a day retreat would be held with the academics and the professionals to finalise the upgrading process. Describing the request by ARCON as a good development that warranted the approval of the NUC, she added that directives would be sent to the universities for immediate implementation, saying that it would no doubt lift the profession of architecture to the next level. “The graduate of that course will be better off.  The studies of architecture will definitely be better off with this.  It is a positive development for Nigerian students studying architecture.” The NUC representative urged leaders of the profession to embrace the approval and work towards improving the delivery of the curriculum. Reacting to the development, Arc. Umaru Aliyu, the President, Architects Registration Council of Nigeria, said the approval brought a great excitement because the council had been on it since 2012, saying that it was a dream come true. Apparently excited Umaru added: “Now that study of architecture study has been upgraded to faculty, it means that more prospective students would be admitted and that will clearly lead to increased number of architects in Nigeria.” Justifying why ARCON initiated the move, Umaru said the council realised that Nigeria was in a shortfall of architects, as the nation needs about 18,000 architects to serve the populace. He said to get it to this point, ARCON and NIA members both in public or private were sensitised and reached an accord to support the initiative. Adibe Njoku, President, Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA) said his members have been part of the initiative, saying it was a good development for the profession. 0 comments