Apparently in its resolve to rid Rivers State of streets trading, the Rivers state Executive Council has set up a Special Task Force chaired by the State Governor, Chief Nyesom Wike to clear illegal traders from major roads and streets in Port Harcourt. After the state executive meeting last week Barrister Emma Okah, Commissioner for Information and Communications, said that the decision to set up a high-powered task force was to demonstrate the irreversible determination of the state government to rid major roads in the state of the environmental hazards and sanitary embarrassment and nuisance which the activities of the illegal traders were inflicting on the state and her people. “The Government notes with sadness the recalcitrance of these street traders who have continuously dared the efforts of the government to keep our roads and environment clean. “Sadly, they mess up the environment, litter the roads, cause disorder and contribute nothing by way of tax or otherwise to clean their mess. “As a government, we owe a duty to those we serve to protect the environment, enhance sanitation and promote order in our state, “Okah said, noting that illegal traders in our major roads are on the wrong side of the law and we face the right music. “Consequently, from Thursday, April 12, 2018, the governor of river state will lead members of the special task force, in the first phase of the mandate, to flush illegal traders from the roads and affected street and restore normalcy. The exercise will be a continuing one until the ugly situation is reversed.” “However, it is necessary to warn that in the course of this exercise, any trader caught by the special task force may lose their goods, suffer arrest, and face prosecution and possible jail term upon conviction. “If this happens the consequences may be unpleasant and unattractive for anyone to test the will of the special task force. “Major roads and spots to be cleared by the task force in the first phase of this exercise include Bishop Okoye street in Diobu, Garrison, Nitel near Garrison, GRA 2 junction, other parts of GRA phase 2 where illegal trading is going on, Old GRA, Ikwerrre Road, Wimpey junction, Trans Amadi, etc”, he said. Meanwhile, some street traders in Port Harcourt last week appealed to the Rivers State Government to provide them affordable market stalls before enforcing it on street trading. The traders who spoke to newsmen in reaction to the government’s recent seven-day ultimatum banning trading activities along Port Harcourt said the ban would affect their livelihood adversely. According to them, it would be unfair for the government to drive them out of business without providing an alternative place for them. One of the traders, who simply identified himself as Emeka and sells wrist watch appealed to the government not to be hasty about banning trading along the major roads stating that ‘’we are aware that we trade along the road; but we have nowhere to go from here, we plead with the government to help us as we feed and pay our house rent from the business. Even some of us are family men and women” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.