Abuja – The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is to meet in matter of days to review dates of its ward and local government congresses as well as the national convention of the party earlier fixed for May 14, 2018. The decision was part of the resolution of a technical committee composed of members of the NWC and governors elected on the platform of the APC who met Wednesday at the party’s headquarters in Abuja. The development came on the heels of declaration by Kano State governor, Umar Ganduje, that the decision of President Muhammadu Buhari to back the candidacy of Adams Oshiomhole is not an imposition. He said the president has the right to support any candidate of his choice, adding that his position does not in any way foreclose the outcome of the coming APC national convention. The APC governors, it was gathered, had canvassed a strong opinion against fixing the congresses in the Muslim month of Ramadan which they said was insensitive to the religious obligation of members of the party. That aside, the governors observed that the closeness of the dates for both the ward and local government congresses fixed for May 2 and May 5 did not create room for errors and disputes that may arise from the congresses. DAILY INDEPENDENT learnt that the governors also pushed for retention of present zoning arrangement, allowing governors and stakeholders in each of zones to have final say. Briefing journalists after the meeting, Bolaji Abdullahi, National Publicity Secretary of the party, said the meeting was called to rub minds and reemphasise the party’s resolve to avoid rancour ahead of the coming congresses, among other issues. “It was opportunity to reemphasise to the governors to allow the congresses to be free, fair and transparent because if you recall one of the major concerns of the party at the beginning was that we should try as much as possible to avoid rancour that could be generated as a result of the congresses. “There were observations on the side of governors about the timetable of congresses and convention. The observation was that the timetable was closely packed. There are some possibilities that the timetable will be reviewed, it is not decided yet”, stated the spokesman. If the wishes of the governors prevail the convention is likely to hold sometime in June after the Sallah. Governor Umar Ganduje of Kano State corroborated this while fielding questions with journalists. He said the governors were also of the view that the present zoning arrangement should be retained. “Another issue is the function of Committee on National Convention vis-a-vis the function of the NWC and we all agree that the NWC will organise the congresses from the ward and local government and the state while the committee on national convention should organise the convention. “We also agreed that the zoning will be maintained for the party officers but the only clause is that they should go and discuss with those governors in charge of the zones where the officers should come from. “For example, the chairman of the party will have to come from the South-South, the secretary from the North-East and all other positions like that. We have resolved all issues amicably. The NWC will have to get back to us in a week’s time”. On Buhari’s position which has placed other candidates at odds ahead of the convention, Ganduje said that there is nothing wrong if the party aligns itself with the guided democracy which the president is championing. “There is no imposition at all. Everybody is free to contest just as everybody is free to hold an opinion on who should lead the party. I think that there is not a case of imposition because it is not a guideline and not part of the constitution. “Just like every other person, Mr. President has the right to air his opinion but that does not mean he should stop any person who will like to contest from contesting. Mr. President’s opinion is not constitutional and it is not a non-constitutional opinion as well. “He just voiced out his thought which will serve as a guideline to some and otherwise to some. The issue of being undemocratic does not even arise. “There is what we call guided democracy and we regard what Mr. President said as such. If that is what will make the party stable and avoid the fallout after the election like we saw in the PDP, it will be better for us”. 0 comments