The CBT The year 2015 heralded the full adoption of the board’s examination using the CBT. Nigerians from all walks of life commended the bold step taken by the JAMB, saying it would help to tackle problems about cost and delay experienced by candidates seeking admission through post JAMB tests. A look at JAMB’s operations of the CBT, since its introduction, would reveal that the Board has been adhering to the International Test Commission’s 2005 version of the International Guidelines on Computer-Based and Internet-Delivered Testing. In fact, the Board introduced a mechanism to aid candidates. Though not completely new on the continent, it was first developed in the 1970s in South Africa as it has now been perfected and deployed over the years and the country adopted the guidelines drawn up by the International Test Commission. Today, South Africa has gone miles ahead in conducting credible public examinations through CBT. Described as a blessing for the conduct of public examination and the education, unfortunately, many candidates that have not taken a shot in international examinations that are strictly CBT based had challenges in adapting to the new technology. Therefore, when JAMB introduced CBT, not a few people had thought it adequate as a testing ground for future examinations in the Computer-Based mode. The CBT mode became an all-comers affair as operators of cybercafés accredited by the board to register candidates soon became a stumbling block to the development of the initiative. Registration processes were characterised by different degrees of irregularities and a high level of incompetence on the part of the operators resulting in inconclusive registration of candidates. Part of the challenge also includes the low broadband width that slows down the registration processes like fingerprint capture in cybercafés thus inhibiting a seamless exercise. Consequently, this state of confusion in 2016 generated barrage of negative reactions from candidates, concerned parents and stakeholders that called for sanity at the board. Professor Ishaq Oloyede on assumption of office in 2016 as the new Registrar left no one in doubt as he immediately swung into action in a sector he described as a familiar terrain having experimented and perfected same as Vice Chancellor of the University of Ilorin, Kwara State. Oloyede, who hit the ground running, said the appointment came as a surprise to him President Muhammadu Buhari and described it as a divine intervention. Realising the enormity of the challenges at hand promised that JAMB would be taken to greater heights, saying that the assignment will be a daunting task and called for support of all stakeholders. According to him, the board would be structured to reflect the change mantra of the present administration. Prof. Oloyede assured that he would continue with the good policies embarked upon by his predecessor, Prof. Ojerinde, adding changes would be made where necessary. “Whether my period here is short, truncated or long, what is important is to do my bit and leave the stage better than we met it, just as my predecessors have done. Setting the stage is a collective responsibility and we all have to make this great Board even greater. “Part of my agenda is to key into the change mantra of the current government by continuing to build on the legacy left behind by my illustrious predecessors and change whatever deserves to be changed because the biggest room in the world is the room for improvement. “The change begins from individuals as we often realise that we can’t change anything except we change ourselves. “The point I am making is that I am inheriting a great JAMB but there is still sufficient room for improvement so that the Board can even be greater if we all change accordingly,” he said. Deepening ICT Nationwide One significant development that has been the hallmark of the new JAMB is the spread and encouragement of stakeholders to invest in the establishment of Computer-Based Centres across the nation. All the 36 states of the federation including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja had a good showing in the spread of CBT Centres for candidates. In all, JAMB gave approval to 650 centres supported with about 162, 500 computer system, routers, CCTV cameras, a web of cables to conduct the examination simultaneously even in far-flung places using the tested ICT platforms. However, one significant development for the 2017 cum 2018 CBT centres was the elimination of the cybercafés identified by the Registrar as the major culprits in the perpetration examination malpractice with the aid of parent in many instances. JAMB Requirements To CBT Centres The board mandated CBTs to download the JAMB Custom Browser website and installation on every system before accreditation. During the examination, communication signals from, into and around the examination centre shall be restricted through the use of electronic signal Jammer. Furthermore, to reduce instances of collaboration to perpetrate examination cheats, only three persons pre-registered from the CBT Centre are allowed under the stringent guidelines to enter the examination hall in the course of the examination To reduce the instances of a cash transaction, the board instructed that all transactions by CBT centres are to be cashless just as they are expected to open bank accounts with any of the participating banks. Death Knell To Cybercafés Make-shift CBT centres are not allowed and all centres must, therefore, be dedicated CBT centres that are used and maintained as such all year round. All centres must have MTN or AIRTEL network coverage. All Centre networks must be powered by Switches. No hubs allowed and are strongly advised to use static IP addresses rather than Dynamic IP Addressing. To further tighten the noose around examination cheats, JAMB in its new regulations put paid to scan of pictures by candidates by instructing that all pictures must be captured live through USB cameras installed with LED tabletop lights to provide improved picture capture at each registration point. It directed all registration points must have dual screens each facing the operator and candidate. This was with the view to enable candidates to review their registration and data before submission All centres will be required to capture a minimum sample of 20 candidates and create a sample 10 access points which will be monitored centrally. All registrations require biometric fingerprint authentication to print CBT centres are required to put in place 250 functional Desktop Computer systems or laptops with 25 backup systems. The examination hall must be provided with cubicle measuring should be 26 inches long, 18 inches broad and 18 inches high inches and appropriate seat for each system. It specified monitor’s screen should be at least 15 inches for the computer and 17 for the laptop. All the computer systems have to be connected to a server which is capable of carrying 250 systems simultaneously to save students from their hard work in the middle of the test due to a system crash. The sizes of computers to be 15” flat screen Computer monitor for desktop or 17” for Laptop with a minimum of 2GB RAM for all computers or thin clients. All Computers must be connected to a computer server with the capacity to carry a minimum of 250 systems concurrently. Care For Candidates For the comfort of students, there has to be functional air-conditioning and good lighting; the computer system, the Windows version should be up to date, meaning that there should be at least Windows 7 on the test computers. Also, it should be noted by the CBT centres that all the computers should have antivirus programmes installed, and the systems have to be cleared from the viruses. The room where the students will be passing their examination should be able to handle monitoring. There should be a prescribed CCTV network that includes IP cameras which serve for monitoring. 0 comments