Right   Revd. James Odedeji, Diocesan Bishop, Diocese of Lagos West (Church Of Nigeria, Anglican Communion) has advised leaders across spheres to make delivery of quality service their primary focus. Odedeji, called on leaders not to serve for material gains but to fulfill God’s mandate and impact lives. According to him, Nigeria is where it is today due to embezzlement and other forms of corruption. In an interaction with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT last Sunday at the 75th anniversary, dedication of church hall, and vicarage as well as presentation of awards service of Saint Peter’s Anglican Church, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, the Bishop who had earlier charged the congregation on the topic; ‘Serving The Lord With Gladness’ pointed out that: “We are looking for servant leaders, those who are ready to serve God with gladness that is the instruction from God.  Political leaders are called ministers which mean they are ministering. They look for commands and not for rewards or returns. “When you go to public service they call them public servants. In the church they call us servants of the most high God so we must be ready to serve others.   We should not be consumed with what the future holds. God holds the future. Asking for God’s intervention in Nigeria, Odedeji stressed that God sure knows how best to reward sincere service. He stated that: “The country is going through storms and let me say unpleasantness and that is why we asking God for divine intervention at this time. When I see people desiring leadership positions I ask if they are aware of what that position is all about. “I tell people everywhere that when you serve God, God will service you.  We are not saying they should be poor but let service be primary and when they might have served God, God is not unrighteous to forget their labour of love. Nobody ever served God and remained unrewarded. This is my message for this nation.” In addition, he condemned vehemently the leadership tussle prevalent even in Churches and the recent crisis in the Cathedral Church of Christ Marina, where Most Rev. Adebola Ademowo, The Bishop of Lagos Diocese and Dean Emeritus was opposed by some members and elders of the Church, over his alleged role in the election and translation of the Rt. Revd. Humphrey Olumakaye, as the new Bishop of the Lagos Diocese and Overseer of the Marina Church. According to him leadership tussle, is the result of the high level of carnality that has gained entrance into the Christian fold, which ideally should be abhorred. “The mentality of ‘if it is not me it must not be him. If my own person is not there, nobody else should be there’ is devilish. There is no monopoly of knowledge anywhere, we have seen so many offices that people resisted but God had to put his own person there. I do not want to cite my own denomination but a good example is the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG). When Pastor Adeboye came onboard he was resisted I do not know who else that could have taken RCCCG to where it is if it were not him,” the Bishop added. He however charged members of the host church to endeavour to know more of God worship Him in His holiness and be His true followers. Rev. Canon  Felix Atoki, Vicar of the Church who expressed joy for the doings of the Lord in the growth of the Church, also asked Christians to serve God without holding back, even as he tasked leaders to seek service over money. “…When you are serving God and expecting reward then you will not be able to get to where you are supposed to get to and that is what is happening in our country today. When people are in positions all what they will be looking for is how to serve their pockets whereas they are supposed to serve God and humanity. I pray God opens their eyes to see the right way of serving,” he stated. Members who were rewarded for their selfless service included Mrs. Elizabeth Alabi, Sir Obi Okafor, Mr. Ndubuisi Ejiofor, Ven. Sunday Mkainde, Chief Obiudoh Obumnaeme, Mrs. Okudoh Adenike, Sir Obaro Odeghe, Mr. Obi Augustine, Mr. Gaius Nnite and Mrs. Roberta Chukwuka. 0 comments