The 2018 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) conducted by the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) for admission of candidates into tertiary institutions in the country was adjudged good. The Board for the year gave approval to 650 Computer Based Centres (CBT) that involved the deployment of over 162, 500 computer hardware and other peripherals for the exam. OYENIRAN APATA writes on the worth of investment in the sector. Excerpts: The introduction of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) 41 years ago came at a time in Nigeria when there were only 12 full-fledged universities across the regions. University of Ibadan 1948; Obafemi Awolowo University, Ife; University of Lagos; University of Nigeria, Nnsuka and Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria were established in 1962 and categorised as the crop of first generation universities in the country. Others in the second generation categories of universities established before the coming of JAMB are: University of Benin, Bayero University; University of Calabar; University of Ilorin; University of Jos; University of Maiduguri and Uthman Danfodiyo. Thus, the establishment of JAMB was to review the existing tradition of admitting candidates into universities through concessional examination as it was the case with the first generation of universities in the country. Legal Instrument Establishing JAMB The legal instrument establishing the Board was promulgated by the Act (No. 2 of 1978) of the Federal Military Government on 13th February 1978. By August 1988, the Federal Executive Council amended Decree No. 2 of 1978. The amendments have since been codified into Decree No. 33 of 1989, which took effect from 7th December 1989. Decree No. 2 of 1978 (amended by Decree No. 33 of 1989) empowered the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board to conduct Matriculation Examination for entry into all Universities, Polytechnics and Colleges of Education (by whatever name called) in Nigeria Appoint Examiners, Moderators, Invigilators, members of the Subject Panels and committees and other persons with respect to matriculation examinations and any other matters incidental thereto or connected therewith. The mandate of the Board is also to place suitably qualified candidates in the tertiary institutions after having taken into account: the vacancies available in each tertiary institution; the guidelines approved for each tertiary institution by its proprietors or other competent authorities; the preference expressed or otherwise indicated by the candidates for certain tertiary institutions and courses. Other mandate of the board are: such other matters as the Board may be directed by the Honorable Minister to consider or the Board appropriate in the circumstances; collate and disseminate information on all matters relating to admissions into tertiary institutions or any other matter relevant to the discharge of functions of the board; carry out other activities as are necessary or expedient for the full discharge of all or any of the functions conferred on it under or pursuant to this Decree. Thus, the first UTME conducted by JAMB took place in 1978. As the number of candidates seeking for admission into universities in the nation’s universities, polytechnics and colleges of education keep increasing, so is the number of institutions that have multiplied in several folds thus exerting much pressure on JAMB’s mandate. From the maiden universities admission it moderated for the 12 first generation in 1978, existing institutions in the country in all levels have risen to Federal universities 41; State universities 47 and 74 private universities bringing the number to 162. At the polytechnic education sector, the number of existing institutions that subscribe to JAMB for admission of students stands at 113 for federal, state and private with varying carrying capacities. The Board continued with the conduct of the test for admission using the paper method until the year 2014 when it became obvious and inevitable to adopt the CBT model. Introduction of Paper-Pencil, Computer-Based Tests The Board led by the immediate past Registrar, Professor Dibu Ojerinde in 2014 began a move to eliminate the paper method of conducting the examination using pencil and paper. Thus, that move gave birth to a gradual phase-out of the paper mode and it was replaced with the Paper Pencil-based Test (PPT) and Computer-Based Test (CBT) that was put to test on April 12 through May 17, 2014, respectively across 2,000 centres for PPT and 300 centres for CBT. Apparently committed to ensuring the success of the CBT initiative, the erstwhile Registrar said: “We are ready for the examination even now. This is the last time we are going to do PPT. It will be all CBT next year. We want education to move forward. One of the ways of moving it forward is to eradicate examination malpractice. “That is our ambition and Nigeria will join the committee of nations in terms of technological development.” The registrar explained that the choice of the CBT was to help to curb examination malpractices, release results at the same time and encourage candidates to prepare adequately. Ojerinde added: “Our experience last year showed that the CBT candidates passed better than the PPT ones. There was no single examination malpractice. “The paper test that was usually characterised by missing results and answers scripts soon gave way for an adoption of the CBT mode for the conduct of the admission test into universities, polytechnics and colleges of education. “Initially, there were mixed reactions among students as many of them anticipated problems with the computer-assisted assessment based on studies that confirmed increased anxiety amongst those unfamiliar with the use of the computer”. 0 comments