Damaturu – Yobe State government has flagged off the 2018  African Vaccination Week (AVW) with the slogan  ‘Vaccinated Communities,  Healthy Communties.’ In Yobe State, the AVW that will be marked by a series of activities under the theme: “Vaccines Work, Be an Immunization Champion’. Dr.  Bello Muhammad Kawuwa,  the Commissioner for Health represented by Dr.  Hauwa Larai Goni, the Executive Secretary, Primary Health Care Management Board,  Yobe State in her address explained that the one-week event was adapted to be celebrated by the World Health Organisation (WHO) Regional Committee for Africa during her 60th session held in Molabo, Equatorial Guinea in 2010 and the last week of April every year was designated as African Vaccinations Week (AVW). According to her, since April 2011, Countries have commemorated the AVW annually with some flexibility in their choice of activities while focusing on goals of National Health strategies. He stated: “Depending on the resources available Countries can conduct AVW on large scale vaccination activities or information outreach and health promotion through integration immunization with other high impact child survival intervention”. She further explained that in Nigeria AVW is celebrated with the aim to accelerate action, increase awareness and demand for immunization by individuals and communities and also to improve vaccination and health service delivery. “Nigerian government has increased the number of vaccines given to Children from 11 to 15 different vaccines and this requires public awareness, especially for parents and caregivers on the importance of immunization to their children and the added advantage to fully immunize children within their first year of life.” Goni also stated that “vaccination remains the most effective way of ensuring disease prevention and eradication in any given society and as parents and caregivers it is mandatory for us to ensure that our children and all eligible persons are protected from Vaccine Preventable Diseases  (VPDs) such as tuberculosis,  polio disease,  whooping cough, diphtheria,  tetanus,  measles,  hepatitis,  pneumonia,  yellow fever and meanings”. Other activities for the commemoration of the AVW in Yobe State include; a press briefing,  flag-off African Vaccination week by State and Local Governments, one hour radio phone in programme on the importance of immunization,  community awareness through airing of radio jingles in three local languages,  Integrated outreach services in Fika,  Gujba and Karasuwa Local Government Areas respectively. She used the forum to thank NGOs and the media for the support given to Yobe State. 0 comments