Osogbo – The management of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has expressed its readiness to partner with Osun State Government on renewable energy development. The Corporation said the partnership was necessary to efficiently and productively explore the agricultural potential of the state in order to drive the corporation’s diversification dream from oil and gas to renewable energy development in Nigeria. The management of NNPC made the disclosure at a meeting with the Governor of the state, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola at Government House, Osogbo. Mrs. Clara Eminike, the General Manager Joint Venture of Renewable Energy Division of NNPC, who led the corporation’s team to Osun, said the corporation was ready to collaborate with the government on the mass production of cassava for industrial purpose of bio-fuel programme of the corporation. Eminike said the partnership was also aimed at linking the energy sector with the agriculture sector through the commercial production of bio-fuel from selected energy crops like cassava, sugar cane and oil palm. She assured that the collaboration would help to create wealth, diversifying energy source and also create jobs for the teeming citizens of the state. She said the visit of the NNPC team to the state had exposed them to the need to key into some major cash crops needed for the production of bio-fuel and industrial production for the benefit of the citizenry. Eminike said the corporation had found out that Osun was suitable for cassava production due to agro-climatic condition, hence the need to set up an ultra-modern cassava processing industry in the state. She said: “The bio-fuel programme was initiated by the management of NNPC in line with our policy of developing alternative sources of energy. Basically, the programme is aimed at linking the energy sector with the agriculture sector through the commercial production of bio-fuel from selected energy crops and the energy crops that we are presently looking at are cassava, sugar-cane and oil palm. “And usually when we go into any location, we use the cash crops that we know that are predominant in that area; that is why we are looking at cassava for this state. We are about to look at other cash crops and some other things like sugar-cane and oil palm and basically what we want to do for this programme is to be able to create wealth, diversifying energy source and also create jobs.” Eminike noted that the programme was mainly private sector driven with NNPC, the State Governments and co-investors who would take the majority equities and operate the venture as the state government provides land and the equities, hence the need for land requirement from the state government. In his remarks,Aregbesola commended the management of the corporation for displaying high sense of dexterity towards the diversification of the nation’s economy. He described the partnership as a necessity to attract investors, create wealth and generate employment opportunities for the citizenry. Aregbesola noted that the move would support the farmers, particularly the cassava outgrowers who hitherto faced challenges in marketing their agriculture produce. 0 comments