Hon. Dennis Adikwuru is a former Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to Gov. Rochas Okorocha. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the recent invasion of the Senate and President Muhammadu Buhari’s declaration for second term, among other issues. A cross section of the citizens has been speaking against President Muhammadu Buhari’s statement abroad that a lot of Nigerian youths are lazy, uneducated and always looking for free money. What is your reaction to this? The President’s assertion that Nigerian youths are lazy is most unfortunate and most regrettable thing to hear from a leader. Although the President and his aides are said to have denied it, which of course is a recycling phenomenon of this government, the President, by that statement, has degenerated himself and shown incapacitation to remain as a president. The youths of any nation are said to be that nation’s future.  If Nigerian youths are lazy, the President means that he has not prepared any future for the country. But, going through that statement, there could be some elements of truth bearing in mind the diversities in ethnicity in Nigeria. So, we can begin to look at Nigerian youths from state to state or political zone to the other or ethic point of view. One can therefore conclude that the herdsmen, who go on loose to kill innocent citizens are lazy. This is not the same with the industrious Igbo youth out there. Not the same with southern unemployed youths. Whatever may be the case, I want to believe that the President did not properly place his statement in describing his youths. How do you see the recent invasion of the Senate by thugs who took away the Mace, purportedly under the instruction of a suspended Senator? What does this portend to the nation’s democracy and security? The invasion of the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by hoodlums suspected to be hired by the leader of Pro-Buhari group, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, is nothing short of an affront on democracy, a coup de tat and treasonable crime under the laws of the land. It is a great threat to democracy and a signal that the military is on siege in Nigeria. It has also exposed the porosity of our security and the fact that Nigerian security is no more in the hands of security agencies. A situation where terrorism and gangsterism have taken over the nooks and crannies of the polity, a situation where people refer to the President as the Commander-in-Chief of the herdsmen and Boko Haram insurgents in an attempt to upturn civil authority and create anarchy in the land does not portend any good for the nation. It is only in Nigeria that this unwholesome act of criminality will happen unchallenged and with little or no hope of apprehension and prosecution of culprits. So, I feel for our country. I feel for our democracy. I feel it is time to purge the civil governance of any military mix if democracy must survive in Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari recently declared for his second term bid. What is your take on his declaration? President Buhari’s second term ambition is his constitutional right. As long as he is not encumbered by law, he has the right to second term tenure as guaranteed by the constitution. However, it is said that where your right stops, the rights of others begin, which means there is no absolute right. Also, in the exercise of constitutional rights, there may be a clash with equity and natural justice. In a situation where the President has not performed well in the face of many incapacitation, natural law, equity and justice will nullify his constitutional right to second term. I see much more havoc across the states of the federation and the centre if President Buhari emerges in 2019. The ruling party, the APC, knows this much that President Buhari has not adequately steered the ship of governance and this has led to degeneration in governance, otherwise known as mob democracy. APC should therefore take caution in presenting President Buhari for a second term. Some political stakeholders believe that the nation cannot do without the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) considering their structure, spread and financial power. What is your view on this assertion? The issue of APC and PDP being national parties with spread and financial capacities is an established fact. As far as national spread is critical in the assessment of a political party, we give it that for now, Nigeria cannot do without APC and PDP. The rest parties are neither here nor there, struggling as either one-state party like the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) or running survival race. Notwithstanding this, there is likelihood of the emergence of another national based party if the Social Democratic Party (SDP) can organise itself and come on board. What is your view on the recent unveiling of looters’ list by the Federal Government, following the PDP’s apology to Nigerians for its past mistakes? The Federal Government’s unveiled list of treasury looters, to me, is not a shock, but a manifestation of the crude politics being played to weigh down the opposition. You can see with me that since the advent of the present government, all its fight against corruption has been a fight against PDP. Whereas most APC echelons were hitherto in PDP and funded APC to power with looted funds, the government has not been able to critically address and confront corruption. This has also led to defection of PDP members with corruption cases to APC where they find safe heaven. I can say that the unveiled looters’ list is a continuous and orchestrated project by the APC government to distract PDP from its renewed efforts and approach at taking back governance. Do you think Chief Emeka Ihedioha of PDP stands a chance against APC’s Uche Nwosu, who has the backing of Gov Rochas Okorocha, his father in-law, in the Imo governorship race? Imo State is witnessing an unprecedented dehumanisation of citizenry by the state government. The government has unleashed terror and brutality, hardship and hunger, fear and insecurity such that life has become short, brutish, hopeless and now, everyone looks unto God. So, the issue of APC as a party or Uche Nwosu, as an aspirant of that party, does not arise anymore. I do not believe that the hungry, impoverished and battered people of the state can ever entrust their power on any lineage of the Okorochas and APC for that matter. Thus, the attention is outside of APC and we can be talking of PDP, APGA and, in fact, not looking down on other smaller parties, for they may spring surprises as recorded in the past. To this extent, we are expecting an exciting primary elections in these other parties and after the primaries, Imo people will examine the credibility and antecedents of the emerging candidates. comments