Lagos – Error rate in bills posted by the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) to its client has reduced to less than 2 per cent from the previous 30 per cent about nine years ago. The huge reduction in the error billing by the agency has however, received attention from the International Air Transport Association (IATA), which commended the agency for the improvement. A statement by Mr. Khalid Ebele, the General Manager, Public Affairs, NAMA, said that the international body made the commendation during the IATA/NAMA Service Review Meeting, which was held at the IATA corporate office in Geneva, Switzerland. The statement hinted that Manfred Blondeel, the Director of Airline Settlement Services made the statement on behalf of the body. He said: “NAMA has carved a niche for itself as the best out of 75 authorities and over 4000 airlines we deal with globally in terms of reduced error rate and disputes in bills posted by the agency to us. “Considering the myriad of disputes that we notice daily from errors by some authorities, some errors even exceeding 50 per cent, it is to our delight that the error rate of NAMA billing has consistently remained the lowest in the world with over 98 per cent accuracy.” In his remarks, Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, Managing Director, NAMA, attributed the progress so far made in the accuracy of airline billing to fallout of reforms being embarked upon by the agency towards ensuring transparency, accountability and efficiency in service delivery. He explained that the agency had automated rendition of billings at the international airports in the country where traffic is huge, while it’s also looking at doing same at other airports across the country. Akinkuotu also lauded staff of the commercial department of the agency for their dedication to duty and pledged to support the department in its quest to achieve service excellence. Mrs. Joy Umeh, General Manager, Commercial Department, NAMA in her speech recalled that IATA had visited NAMA some years back and had expressed dissatisfaction over its quality of bills. Umeh said this visit by IATA team acted as a catalyst for the department to devise more aggressive ways towards perfecting the agency’s billing system. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.