A Nollywood Yoruba epic, “Osun The Goddess”, would on Sunday, premiere at Newark, New Jersey, with Red Carpet at Cityplex-12 Cinema, site of the Newark premiere of the Black Panther. Paul Trautman, promoters of the movie, said the Sunday’s premiere would be the only U.S. showing of the ancient adventure of the heroic Osun goddess, until after the Nigerian premieres. “Osun The Goddess” (Osa Osun) narrates the deeds of the legendary figure as she fights against rape abuse and violence on women. The movie, which is in Yoruba with English Subtitles, stands for female empowerment and the upliftment of women. “Osun is the Yoruba Deity who champions women and women’s issues in what has increasingly become a patriarchal society. “Osun the Goddess is an allegory showing the power of Osun in the struggle against rape, abuse and violence against women. Osun stands for female empowerment and the upliftment of women. “This film gives a unique glimpse into the proverb-filled traditional Yoruba culture which has had profound influence throughout the diaspora,” Trautman said. The film features foremost Nigerian actors and actresses Murphy Afolabi, Fathia Balogun, Femi Branch, Ade Edetunde and Florence Trautman, among others. “With a good story, stellar cast, superb acting and excellent cinematography, the film is comfortably at the top of its genre,” Trautman said. The producer of the movie is the Nigerian singer Floxxy Bee, also known as the ‘Queen of Hikosso’ Music, who also acted, composed and performed the music in the film. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that more Nollywood movies have continued to be premiered in the U.S. in recent weeks. The premieres come at a time when Nigeria needs all the positive exposure it can get to positively respond to a spate of negative news in the international media. Promoters of Nollywood movies in the U.S said collaborations with the American movie industry could help to develop Nigeria’s cinema and get the filmmakers maximal exposure for their films. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.