Abuja – Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, the Minister of Science and Technology has assured that a deliberate implementation of the Science, Technology and Innovation Roadmap 2016-2030 would transform Nigeria from being a resource-based to a knowledge-based economy. Onu appealed to scientists in the ministry to change their orientation and embrace hard work for national development. The minister who addressed the staff of the ministry and its various agencies in the North-East region at the weekend in Bauchi urged them to utilise Science, Technology and Innovation Roadmap as a guide to leapfrog the development of the country. He stated that the Roadmap, which was written after intensive consultations, contains all the blueprints to transform the country from a resource-based to a knowledge-based economy driven by innovation According to him, Nigeria cannot continue to rely on commodities for its survival of the economy, adding that most developed countries attain greatness through a knowledge-based economy. Dr. Onu, therefore, appealed to the entire staff of the Ministry to study the Roadmap and share the knowledge with other staff and Nigerians that are inclined to scientific endeavours so as to move Nigeria to a new direction of growth and development. Pointing out that the present administration had recognised Science and Technology as the centre of economic growth in the current Economic Recovery and Growth Plan, (ERGP) the minister, therefore, challenged the staff to contribute their quota to ensure the success of the development plan. He argued that past development plans failed due to non-recognition of Science and Technology, adding that with its recognition now, the onus lies on the staff to prove their mettle and help Nigeria attain greatness. “We can no longer continue to export wood and import toothpicks; we cannot continue to export cocoa and import chocolate,” he said. Onu explained that the Roadmap was segmented into the short, medium and long term so as to enable proper assessment and sustainable achievement of its goals. He added that the Ministry is at the most glorious time since its creation and urged the staff to be up and doing and be ready to compete with other professionals anywhere in the world. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.