Today, dear readers, we are taking a break from the core political turf. We are part of a society where a viral video of a lecturer in one of the Nigerian Universities was caught on tape by a yet to be identified student allegedly negotiating sex for marks. The alleged suspect is a Professor in the department of Accounting at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife.
As I write, there are alleged reports that the University has set up a probe panel to investigate the alleged scandal. So hopefully, the public might be informed. But in the interim, the social media ‘fun’ is on. Expectedly, there is a seeming sense of outrage, criticisms, analysis, blames and counter blames…sex sells but justice, not so accessible when sexual predation is thrown into the mix.
Make no mistake about it; this most recent scandal cannot be written on a clean sheet in Nigeria’s academic history. Like in all sectors of the nation’s life, stories of sexual harassment, rape, paedophilic crimes, sexual gratifications and just any form of ethically reprehensible sexual impropriety happen without anyone batting an eyelid. More often than not, the society at large plays the Ostrich and, in most cases, the victims are blamed and in other extreme cases, bullied and stigmatised. This is Sad, but the absolute honest truth.
However, there are alleged reports that the female student who actually recorded the viral video has gone into hiding. If this is true, the reasons are not far-fetched.
However, the hypocrisy that fuels the sordid acts of sex-for-marks in Nigerian Universities has never fully been addressed by the system and it festers only for people to find their voices of condemnation and outrage when any single incident leaks out. The rot is much deeper than any social media can document. By the way, it is equally a double faced coin. There are cases of some female lecturers sexually harassing some male students. Justice can be done to both genders if we get a bit gender blind in this. But I digress…
Why do some teachers/lecturers that ought to educate students to be ‘Worthy in Character and Learning’ to be awarded degrees and certificates from our ivory towers diminish the whole system by demanding and receiving sexual or any other material gratification to award them marks without their deserving same?
The answer, dear readers, would need eternity to unbundle completely. But one can hazard a guess…we do not have functional systems. We have ‘powerful’ individuals running all our systems and great philosophers already told us that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely and so it is with most of our institutions.
When individuals have economic, social, political, religious powers to wield, abuse is a sure bet. Make no mistakes about it, sexual impropriety is a global problem. However, most societies have functional systems that put errant individuals in check.
A few years ago, a teacher in Cambridge UK lost his license to teach in any UK school for sending a sexually explicit text message to a student under his care. A Nigerian student who was caught cheating in a college exam was expelled and barred from being admitted to any school there. She had to go to the USA to complete her studies instead. This is a system that anticipates the human capacity to flout laws and do the unethical.
In Nigeria, every position of authority is subject to abuse because there are no functional systems to compel compliance with laws. Beyond this, the system is not built to guide educational development. The demand and pursuit of certificates takes precedence over the desire to really learn and be skilled. Skills are not developed in ways that the academically poor can find fulfilment in learning and acquiring skills.
The bottom line is that the teachers in schools understand the desperation for mere certificates and exploit the ill-prepared and even the brilliant students. The system often makes it impossible for students to be admitted to study the courses they have competences for. A student applies for Law and is ultimately forced by circumstances beyond his or her control to study a course he or she is psychologically and academically unprepared for. In a bid to get a certificate, desperation sets in and all manner of perverts arm-twist the student either through sexual or material demands.
The Nigerian society is one that has never treated sexual offences as real crimes that they are. Rapes and other sexual crimes are often treated with levity or as ‘family affairs’ and victims, majority of whom are females are often turned to suspects themselves. More often than not, victims of sexual harassments/exploitation are blamed for the crimes against them either being blamed for their dressing or for being in an environment.
Given the number of reported cases of sexual crimes, the conviction rates across the country is purely negligible and very often those convicted are the powerless poor. So, why would sex-for-marks not be rife in Universities?
Sadly, Nigeria is populated by a majority of Muslims and Christians, two of the religions that have very stringent codes of conduct for sexual relations but the system lacks the moral and legal gravitas to decisively deal with those who sexually abuse others no matter the gender. And so, individuals with financial power and authority do not have any fears of facing justice.
We must begin to ask certain questions; does a morally debased teacher stand on high moral ground to build character and impart knowledge? What kind of student is ready to pass based on offering sex or material gifts to a teacher? Why should a student be evaluated on anything other than good performance in examinations? Is there a good justice system to give justice to the oppressed? How many perverts have been prosecuted and punished accordingly etc.?
Sex-for-marks in universities is a mere tip of the messy iceberg from a society that refuses to build strong institutions for total growth. Today, the viral video is the topic, in a few days, our chronic selective amnesia would be oiled by another sordid aberration in one sector, and we oscillate to another rot.
By the way, some ‘saints’ from the nation’s Ivory Towers consistently sit over our often flawed elections as ‘Returning Officers’ because in INEC’s myopic sense, they are like Caesar’s wife,… above reproach. But are they?
A delusional nation might never access development. Build strong institutions and sanitise a broken system and join a global pursuit of development! 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.