Abuja – The Federal Ministry of Transportation, Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) and the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA), have all been accused of manipulating a procurement process of a marine-related contract. The contract, according to a petition addressed to both chambers of the National Assembly is for remedial Works at Escravos Channel worth $44million. The petitioning firm, Dredging Atlantic Limited and its partners, Westmintser Dredging and Marine (DAW), in the document submitted for consideration at the National Assembly listed the jobs to include: replacement of navigational aids and minor dredging at the Delta Port in Warri. It therefore asked the legislature to help it enforce the provisions of Section 31 (5) of the Public Procurement Act 2007, which has allegedly been violated by the three MDAs. In the petition, the firm claimed that it won the bid, but was short-change by the aforementioned government agencies who awarded the contract to another firm, Dredging International Services Limited (DISL), one of lowest ranking bidders, which bided for the job. The petition signed by the company’s legal adviser, Mr. Liborous Oshoma, also accused the BPP of ignoring an official complaint made by DAW, while hurriedly concluding the administrative review of the bid process. In the petition, the NPA is also being accused of manipulating the publicly announced tender figures of DISL for the contract bid. The firm wondered “how come the lowest bidder as publicly announced (DAW) had “errors” and or additional figures (increase) of N11,709,932.84 ($38,393.23) to arrive at $44,918,741.22 as against $44,880,348.21, while the highest bidder (DISL) had “errors” and or subtracted figures (a reduction) of $136,456.95 (N41,619,369.75) to arrive at $44,861,596.81, as against $44,998,053.73, from their announced figures”? The firm is also raising questions as to why the BPP failed to comply with the provisions of Section 31 (5) of the Public Procurement Act 2007, and notify it of any arithmetic corrections, or invite it to either adopt or defend/deny the figures. DAW said its technical partner, Nigerian Westminsters Dredging and Marine Ltd, have already worked on the said Escravos channel in the past, and is therefore conversant with the project as a versatile actor in the field. While lamenting that its efforts to get the government bodies to remedy the situation have failed to yield any result, the petitioner has appealed to the National Assembly to prevail on the agencies to award the contract to DAW, or disqualify DISL. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.