Asaba – Ahead the 2019 general elections, the people of Isoko North Local Government Area, under the auspices of Isoko for Development, has urged Hon. Tim Owhefere, the Majority Leader of the Delta State House of Assembly (DSHA), not to contemplate running for a fourth term in office. In doing so, the people are alleging that Owhefere has not given them good representation since he has been occupying that seat over the years. The people, which cut across all the 13 wards in the LGA, cited 13 reasons why Owhefere should not seek re-election, saying he should seek alternative employment in Lagos State. The group, in a statement issued by Comrade Iruoghene Ufi, its president, listed the 13 reasons as: “Failed campaign promises: For three consecutive tenures that Hon. Tim Owhefere has been elected into the House, he has not fulfilled any campaign promise to any constituent that laboured for him and the party during the election. “Zero consultation: While other members consult their constituents from time to time, Hon. Tim Owhefere is the direct opposite. He does not need the input of anybody and the result of this is the recently approved 2018 Delta State budget where our political fate was sealed in while he was politically fast asleep. “Accountability: One of the ways through which a politically elected leader can render account to his constituents is by periodic briefing. And for 12 years running, our representative has not considered it necessary to call for a meeting to address us on how well he has managed our collective destiny in the state capital. We can no longer accept this.” Other reasons the people gave include lack of mega projects in the constituency, lack of empowerment, poor representation, project abandonment, lack of constituency projects, not having the peoples interest at heart, not being proactive, blame game and highhandedness. “All we are asking for is a man who has the milk of human kindness flowing through his veins to represent us. And this we believe, is not too much to ask,” they added. But,  Owhefere, has however responded by describing the group as ‘faceless’, stressing that those behind it  are bent on heating up the polity in Isoko North, and would be disgraced, addingthat their inflammatory statements were capable of pitching the people against one another. While reacting to the group’s publication, he stated that no group known as ‘Isoko for Development’ exists in Isoko land and that the allegations against him could elicit negative reactions from his teaming supporters and the people of Isoko North Constituency, who he had been representing. He said: “I view the outburst of the non-existent ‘Isoko for Development’ group as unfortunate and worrisome. Even the name, Iruoghene Ufi, that signed as president of the group, is fake. This campaign of calumny is being taken too far and I know that my supporters will get to the root of the matter, at least to know those sponsoring the publications. How can you sit down and put together falsehood against a serving member of the state legislature and push them out for public consumption all in the name of politics.” The lawmaker explained that he had provided quality representation to the people of Isoko North, stressing, “my achievements, both at the floor of the House and physical development attracted to my constituency, are verifiable. I am in constant touch with my people. I am always in my constituency, virtually every week. “I love them and they love me. They have remained unequivocal in their support. So, anyone sponsoring lies against me, because, he wants to contest in 2019, is wasting his time because the Isokos are too intelligent and discerning to be deceived for selfish reasons.” Owhefere stated that the issues of lack of mega projects in Isoko North, poor representation and projects abandonment raised in the publication were laughable, maintaining that when the time comes to once more present his score cards to his constituents, he would do so with all sense of responsibility as there were a lot to showcase. He thanked the people of Isoko North for their support for the state government, even as he charged them never to lose faith in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration, saying he would remain committed to the growth and development of the constituency. Lending its support, the Isoko Political Mandate (IPM), condemned in a very strong terms the attempt by ‘Isoko for Development’ to cast aspersions on the person of Owhefere, describing the group as faceless. The Isoko Political Mandate, in a statement issued by Comrade Ezekiel Ugbo, its co-ordinator, in response to the earlier publication by Iruoghene Ufi on behalf of ‘Isoko for Development’, said “Isoko Political Mandate is a group of politicians and non-politicians, whose focus is ensuring that Isoko is at par with other ethnic nationalities in Delta State’ “We have observed with keen interest the activities of politicians of Isoko extraction and can rightly conclude that most of the politicians parading themselves as millionaires today do so with wrongly appropriated resources of Isoko people. The Isokos still remember very clearly their entry point into politics and the sources of the sudden found wealth. Aligning with the fact that truth is sacred, Hon Tim Owhefere ventured into politics as a successful businessman operating one of the most vibrant businesses located in Ughelli. “His philanthropic gesture echoed across Isoko land and eventually got him this far. As a representative of the people of Isoko North in the Delta State House of Assembly he has distinguished himself and use his position as the Majority Leader to attract various projects to Isoko North notable among them is the ongoing construction and redesign of the Owhelogbo/Abbi road, a road which for many years was used to siphon tax payers’ money by notable politicians from the axis.” While stressing that the people are now more informed and wiser, it concluded: “The Isoko Political Mandate can gladly refer anyone to the 2018 budget of Delta State and see how it was exceedingly well, the people of Isoko North are prepared to vote him again come 2018. The Isokos have not forgotten in a hurry those who ruled us with the iron fist, but now parading themselves as born again progressives.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.