Awka – Despite calls by Nnia Nwodo, President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, that the Nigerian army probe the killing of innocent people during Operation Python Dance in the South-East in 2017, the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has said it would not forgive him and the governors of the zone for their role in the controversial military exercise. In a statement by Emma Powerful, IPOB Media and Publicity Secretary, the group said Nwodo could not be trusted.
The group also accused the elder statesman of lying. IPOB said it would “continue to hold Chief John Nnia Nwodo, South East governors, Nigerian army, and some Lagos-based political errand boys responsible for the murder of dozens of agitators during ‘Operation Python Dance II’ which they initiated. It maintained that there was no justification for Nwodo and South East governors to have betrayed or sabotaged the efforts of IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, and IPOB who were merely trying to rescue their nation, Biafra, from the hell Nigeria had become. It added, “The damage of Operation Python Dance has already been done. Those that perished as a result of the actions of Nnia Nwodo and South-East governors will never again rise from the grave. “Therefore, it will be foolhardy for Ohanaeze Ndigbo and South-East governors to act as though we have all of sudden forgotten the events of September 14, 2017, that occasioned the killing of our vibrant youths in cold blood and possible murder of our leader and his parents.” In its view, any probe of the military invasion of Igboland and killing of IPOB members at Afaraukwu Umuahia, Isiala Ngwa, Aba and Obigbo Igweocha must start with the role played by the people already mentioned.
It asked the people to scrutinise Nwodo’s postures which came clear eight months after the exercise. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.