The national leadership of The Muslim Congress (TMC) recently held its quarterly State of the Nation press conference where it addressed the myriad of challenges facing Nigeria as a nation and proffered workable solutions. The Amir (President) of the Society, Alhaji (Dr) Lukman AbdurRaheem spoke on the following issues: The Improving Economy And The Rising Foreign Reserves The Federal Government needs to be commended for the rising foreign reserves, which are expected to hit the $50 billion mark by the end of the year despite the fact that the price of crude oil has fallen from an average of $70 per barrel to $68 in March this year. The reserves, as at the beginning of January 2018, were $39.3 billion, before rising to $42.8 billion in February and then reaching a new high of $46 billion in March. The CBN should be commended for its policies as shown by the rising supply of local substitutes for imported goods, creation of jobs and enhanced incomes for farmers and local manufacturers. However, the government needs to devise means that will make the improvements in the economy impact positively on the living conditions and the quality of life of the people. The Recurring Lassa Fever Problem It is indeed surprising that Lassa fever deaths have continued to increase across the nation. The Centre for Disease Control (CDC) in its latest report puts the deaths at 72 people for just January and February this year alone. The government must do more in its quest to rapidly detect cases of infection in the community and refer them early for treatment, as this is the critical step in improving the patients’ chances of survival. Since many states have been affected, the government must ensure adequate enlightenment so that infected people do not seek treatment in hospitals that are not appropriately prepared to care for Lassa fever patients. If we were able to defeat the more dreaded Ebola virus, the government can win the battle against Lassa fever. The National Assembly’s Bogus Allowances And The Recurring Budget Delay It is unthinkable to note that the senators are being uncharitable to the hungry masses who voted them into office. They have shown that the welfare and protection of the citizens are not their priorities, as they collect running costs of N13.5 million per month in a nation where the minimum monthly salary is a paltry N18, 000. Aside this running cost, the members of the Senate also have access to constituency project funds of N200 million per year. However, it is common knowledge that the money is sometimes collected without any project being executed, all at the expense of the suffering masses. This sheer waste of scarce resources must stop. Despite the fact that the president presented the 2018 budget to the National Assembly on November 7, 2017, the budget is yet to be processed by the National Assembly. The embarrassing late passage has continued for three years in a row. We are always inundated with buck-passing excuses between the National Assembly and the executive arm of government. The Senate should find a workable template which will deliver the budget at the right time. The issues of delay in budget defence with the heads of the MDAs and the slow pace of work of Senate sub-committees are no longer tenable. Let the two parties sort out the problems to ensure that the budget is passed every January as it should be. Mop-Up Of Illegal Arms, Criminality And The 2019 Elections The police must redouble efforts in ensuring that the recovery of illegal arms is a monumental success. This is because of the inherent danger in allowing armed groups, gangs and criminals walk freely in the society. A case in point is the deadly bank robbery in Offa, Kwara State, with the attendant loss of at least 17 lives. When criminals have arms and ammunitions with nothing to do, they will simply make use of the weapons for criminal activities. Though the police need to be commended for the recovery of large caches of arms in Imo, Rivers and other states, a lot still needs to be done considering that there is likely to be more bloodshed as the 2019 elections get nearer. Deadly competition amongst political heavyweights, especially in states that are hotly contested, should not be underestimated. The police should therefore be proactive in its security strategy so as to nip the spiralling violence in the bud. The Customs Service should also step up its efforts towards ensuring that the smuggling of arms and ammunitions through the ports and the porous borders are stopped. This will check the violence we usually witness before and after the elections due to the illegal use of criminals by desperate politicians plotting to win elections at all costs. Stopping Killings By Boko Haram Group: Security Forces Must Rethink Their Strategy The Boko Haram group must not be allowed to regain its strength, even though there are factions within it. The activities to contain the dreaded group should be stepped up because the two factions would mean that the war is being fought on two different fronts. They should be pushed back to the remote fringes near the Niger, Chad and Cameroon borders. Let the security groups synergise their efforts in order to weaken them such that they are not able to constitute serious threats to lives and properties. The Easter Day multiple attacks that killed 29 people and injured 84 and the killing of another set of 10 people in separate attacks in Borno State in March this year are condemnable. It is time we put the nine-year insurgency to an end, especially now that the president has consented to a plan to spend $1 billion to equip the armed forces once the National Assembly gives its approval. This money should be judiciously spent, especially in the area of procuring equipment for quality intelligence gathering, which seems to be the bane of the security forces at this time. Let The Nation Prepare For Ramadan Ramadan is a special event that occurs in the life of the Muslim faithful once a year. We beseech Allah to keep us alive till the month in good health and sound mind and to enable us to diligently observe the fast for His sake. Every Muslim needs to make spiritual, moral, financial and social preparations in order to welcome the blessed month. We can do this by strengthening our relationship with the Qur’an, engaging much in the remembrance of Allah and re-connecting ourselves properly with the beneficial act of fasting. We should learn about the correct laws of fasting as well as consult our physicians to take care of any health challenge so that we do not fall sick during the period. We must awaken the spirit of charitable and compassionate deeds by extending help to those in need. We wish all Muslims a highly rewarding and beneficial Ramadan fast that is acceptable to Allah, and we pray for peace and prosperity in our nation. 0 comments