The Association of Senior Staff of Banks Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI) yesterday stated that Child labour is a violation of fundamental human rights, and has been shown to hinder children’s development, potentially leading to lifelong physical or psychological damage. Comrade Oyinkansola Olasanoye, the association’s president, in a media parley with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the association had at different occasions, in line with its philosophy of protecting the Nigerian workers, demonstrated its concern and condemnation on child labour, which it says portends great threat to national peace and a greater challenge to national development in developing nations like Nigeria. In the bid to eliminate the scourge of child labour, and at the same time mitigate its effects, through its activities, the labour leader said: “Child labour presents a serious challenge at global and national levels and requires concerted efforts by all stakeholders to overcome. She said it is for that reason that the association has over the years been working assiduously in partnership with Developmental Partners and other Stakeholders to develop robust National Policies on Child Labour with a view to combating the menace.” Olasanoye , emphasised that a well-designed feedback mechanism would not only help in tackling the incidences of child labour across the country but will also serve as a valuation mechanism to facilitating the identification of gaps in the implementation of multi-sectoral strategies and processes as well as provide basis for proactive and remedial actions aimed at reducing or eliminating child labour in Nigeria. She expressed optimism that the National Reporting Template for combating child labour remains one of the most pragmatic ways of harnessing the potentials, and comparative advantages of the various stakeholders in order to make meaningful progress. She re-affirmed the association’s readiness to intensify labour inspections to eliminate child labour in banks, insurances and other financial institutions affiliated to the association across the 36 states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory. She added that the association is determined to ensure that all its affiliates are well sensitised towards making them to be aware on the danger of engaging in child labour in their organisations. Reeling out statistics from findings by ILO, she said: “Worldwide, 218 million children between 5 and 17 years are in employment. Among them, 152 million are victims of child labour; almost half of them, 73 million, work in hazardous child labour. In absolute terms, almost half of child labour (72.1 million) is to be found in Africa; 62.1 million in the Asia and the Pacific; 10.7 million in the Americas; 1.2 million in the Arab States and 5.5 million in Europe and Central Asia. In terms of prevalence, 1 in 5 children in Africa (19.6%) are in child labour, whilst prevalence in other regions is between 3% and 7%: 2.9% in the Arab States (1 in 35 children); 4.1% in Europe and Central Asia (1 in 25); 5.3% in the Americas (1 in 19) and 7.4% in Asia and the Pacific region (1 in 14). “It was in the light of the above statistics, that the association is in partnership with Development Partners and other Stakeholders developed and formulated a robust National Policy on Child Labour and National Action Plan on the Elimination of Child Labour in Nigeria.” Olasanoye emphasised. She added that the ILO has categorised Child labour to be any work that deprives a child of childhood, potential and dignity, including education, it is work performed by persons below the age of 18 years, which deprives them of basic human rights, interferes in the education of the child, is abusive, hazardous, exploitative and is harmful to the health, safety, morals as well as the total development of the child. She said the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child 1989 protects children from economic exploitation and any work that is likely to be hazardous; to interfere with the child’s education; or to be harmful to the child’s health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral, or social development. Towards meeting this objectives, the association in line with the ILO standards designed strategies in the elimination of child labour which includes; development of the National Action Plan, strengthening of institutional mechanism to monitor implementation of the National Action Plan, development of Hazardous child labour list and establishment of a child labour unit in all relevant departments of the national government, which would be focal points for all the activities related to child labour in States. She called for the constitution of a national steering committee, including relevant government departments, social partners and civil society organisations active on child protection, at the apex for monitoring and policy-making on child labour issues within States. This steering committee should also be replicated at the sub-national and community levels to build the capacity of institutions and actors responsible for the enforcement of national legislation and implementation of the National Action Plan. Premised on the objectives above, and in line with the target set under Goal 8 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SGDs) target 8.7. 0 comments