Dr. Bukar Usman Foundation has donated bags of books to Maryam Abacha American University, Maradi, Niger Republic, as part of its goals towards educational development in Africa. Such publications included copies of A History of Biu; Leadership, Security and National Development; Voices in A Choir; Folklore and History; Public Policy Formulation In Nigeria; Language, Technology and Democratic Culture; Issues and Challenges of National Security; The Bride Without Scars; Taskar Tatsuniyoyi (Ajami translation) among others. Receiving the donation, Adamu Abubakar Gwarzo, president/founder of the university, in a letter to the foundation, said, the gesture will enhance their research and academic development in diverse fields of study. “We as an academic institution have indeed placed our esteemed value to this gesture, as it will go a long way in enhancing our research and academic development in diverse fields of study, giving the quality content of these books.” Also, Opara Nnamdi Cletus, a 24 year-old 600 level, Medicine and Surgery student of the Imo State University, Owerri has received for the second time, Educational Support, from Dr. Bukar Usman Foundation to complete his studies. Admitted into the university in 2012/2013 academic session, Cletus got in touch with the Foundation online in early 2015, soliciting for financial support towards his education. Having scrutinised his application and found to be of merit, the foundation obliged his request in the first instance in 2015. When he reapplied the following year, the foundation extended further support to him. Expressing his appreciation for the rare gesture, Cletus said the assistance rendered has made him fulfill his dream: “I wish to thank you for caring for me secretly this few years I came in contact with you. You gave me so much inspiration and hope to continue with my academics as an outstanding student. I was able to feed, pay my fees and got books necessary. I called it ‘The Dream Saver.’ Sir, it might mean little to you but it is everything to me. When I successfully graduate in two years to come, expect an invitation to my induction. I just felt like appreciating you once more. Thank you and your foundation.” Earlier in his application letter, Cletus, with a CGPA of 4.73 said he needed the educational support desperately to complete his programme as his mother could no longer cope because the father is critically ill. “I am reapplying for this support because, the fees surrounding my course is still and presently a burden to me and my parents, which includes my accommodation, medical books and journals and other fees. My father was a trader of many years and sojourn through my tender school years, and presently still very ill and it gets critical daily. My mother is a tailor of which her handwork is not flourishing well and neither of my parents had opportunity to attend secondary school or university. They faced many struggles in their personal and professional lives because of it. I have six other siblings, and the burden gets heavy on my mother as the day goes by,” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.