Akure – Scores of pregnant women on Thursday protested the hike in the cost of services at the Ondo State Specialist Hospital, Akure, the state capital. The women blocked the main entrance to the hospital and prevented people including patients and workers from gaining access to the health facility. The protest disrupted operations at the hospital and hindered vehicular movement at the popular hospital Road for about three hours. The protesting women, who sat at the entrance of the hospital, rendered anti-government songs and urged Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to reverse the increase. The protesters said they used to pay N1,000 as registration fee for antenatal while delivery was free. They added that the registration fee had now been increased to N4,000 and they were required to pay N500 for every antenatal appointment as well as N25,000 for normal delivery. Sharon Arise, one of the protesters, said it was the state government that directed officials of the hospital to collect the new fees from them. Sharon said most pregnant women in the state had been patronizing traditional midwives and private hospitals since outrageous bills were introduced in the hospital in December last year. “This morning, when we got to the hospital, we were asked to pay N500 each before they could attend to us. Initially, we were registered with N2,500 which is to cover the whole antenatal period. “But now, they asked us to pay every time we need to see the doctor and that we should prepare to pay N25,000 ahead of our delivery. Those who were registered today had to pay N4,000 as against N1,000 we used to pay before for antenatal. “We made a formal complaint at the office of the CMD, but he failed to attend to us or address us. We now decided to protest against the obnoxious policies of the hospital board and the state government. “We were asked to be paying N500 per consultancy session but we suddenly discovered that we are to pay N25,000 for delivery. They collected N4,000 for registration with no drugs for us,” she said. The Chief Medical Director of the General Hospital, Moses Adewole, while addressing the women, said there was no increase in the cost of delivery in the hospital. Adewole, who appealed to the pregnant women to cooperate with the management of the hospital, said the N500 for every antenatal appointment was introduced to subsidise the hospital’s running cost. The Commissioner of Health, Wahab Adegbenro, later reversed the decision to introduce N500 for every antenatal appointment. Adegbenro, however, said there was no plan to introduce N25,000 delivery fee in the hospital. “We have resolved the issue and I think there was communication gap. That was what caused the protest. The people were not properly briefed about what is going on. But we have cancelled the N500 for the antenal appointment and reverted to the old system.” “There is nothing like N25,000 for delivery. It is a false piece of information. The normal delivery fee remains N5,000. The service charge for antenatal patients should be lower than what other patients pay,” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.