Yenagoa – Bandits on Wednesday attacked two villages in Anka Local Government Area of Zamfara State killing more than 43 people, according to residents. In Bayelsa, suspected cultists attacked and killed a commercial tricycle (Keke NAPEP) operator, while another died in reprisal attack. This is as death toll in Benue fresh attack has risen to 41. The Zamfara bandits attacked a mining site at Kuru-kuru village and also ambushed some people from the neighbouring Jarkuka village as they mobilised to bring help to Kuru-kuru. A witness, Sadi Musa, said scores of people were killed at the mining site on Wednesday evening which forced the miners to flee for safety. Musa said when residents from the nearby Jarkuka came later to join the Kuru-kuru survivors in burying the dead, the gunmen attacked again, and killed more people. A resident said he counted more than 43 lifeless bodies. Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, DSP Mohammed Shehu said, “We are aware of the attack but I cannot give you details now until my commissioner is fully briefed”. The bandits had attacked Bawan Daji village in the same Anka Local Government Area two weeks ago and killed over 30 people. They returned the following day and killed mourners at a grave yard. This led to the deployment of Air Force and Army personnel to the area to contain the situation. The soldiers had since swung into action and killed several bandits. Two Die In Bayelsa Bandits Attack Armed bandits suspected to be cultists have attacked and killed a commercial tricycle (Keke NAPEP) operator in Bayelsa State. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the incident happened on Wednesday at the Tombia roundabout area of Yenagoa, the state capital. The deceased Keke NAPEP driver was said to have been stabbed several times by the hoodlums because he refused to give them money. He reportedly died at an undisclosed hospital later on Wednesday. Sources said the attack and his subsequent demise sparked off a reprisal move by his friends who mobilised to the Tombia junction and unleashed violence that claimed another life. The incident, which occurred in broad daylight, caused pandemonium as traders and buyers at the Tombia Market and residents of the area fled in different directions. A team of policemen deployed to the scene of the incident prevented the situation from degenerating further. The Police Public Relations Officer of the Bayelsa State Police Command, DSP Asinim Butswat, confirmed the killing of the commercial tricycle operator by the suspected cultists. He said no arrests had been made “but eight suspects have been identified”, adding that besides the Keke NAPEP driver, another unidentified corpse was seen in the area. Death Toll Rises To 41 In Fresh Benue Attack Meanwhile, death toll arising from Tuesday’s night attack on Ukum and Logo local government areas of Benue State on Thursday increased to 41, according to residents and officials. The residents also said the death toll may rise sharply in the coming days as more bodies are still being removed from nearby bushes. The attacks come a day after 10 people were killed by gunmen said to be wearing military uniform. “The first attack happened in Tse Hwer in Ukemberyge/Tsweray council ward in Logo Local Government Area around 6:30p.m. to this morning,” said a senior state government official who did not want to be named, saying he had been warned by federal authorities for talking to the media in the past. “Some people are saying their families are missing, but we haven’t been able to confirm how many exactly.” When they arrived at about 6:00 p.m. in Jande-Ikyura in Ukum Local Government Area, the gunmen appeared determined to wipe out the entire community, said a resident of the area who said he had been to the village Thursday morning to witness the aftermath. Jande-Ikyura is a border community between Ukum LGA in Benue and Wukari Local Government Area in Taraba State.
“It was like they wanted to be sure that all the villagers were killed before they would run back to their hideouts,” said 48-year-old Isaac Ihiev. “They killed 22 people who were living there.” Ihiev said three of the attackers who were killed when some youth responded to the assault were found in military uniform. “Three of them were killed and they dressed like soldiers when their bodies were moved out from the bush,” Ihiev said, adding that he lives in a nearby village that falls under Wukari LGA in Taraba State. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.