Lagos – NPFL current top scorer, Kano Pillars’ Junior Lokosa’s goal, alongside others from Umar Zango of Lobi Stars, Sunday Emmanuel from Sunshine Stars, Emeka Ogbugh of Rivers United and Ajani Ibrahim of Rangers, have been shortlisted for VAT Wonder Goal Award for week 15. Ajani’s left footed curl and his second goal for Rangers in their 3-0 defeat of Yobe Desert Stars left Enugu fans at the Cathedral singing his praises. In Umuahia, quick thinking by Zango saw him lift a free kick from over 30 meters above a badly positioned Abia Warriors goalkeeper to earn the league leaders a valuable point in Umuahia. Sunday Emmanuel struck twice from dead ball situations to bring added pressure on a resurgent Kwara United, which let go their head coach, John Obuh, for Abubakar Bala after unimpressive results. The Ilorin side had scored first in Akure but Emmanuel stepped forward to hit the ball hard past the defensive wall and beyond the reach of Kwara United goalkeeper for his second goal, which was to be cancelled out late in the game by Sunday Chinedu’s frantic header for the 2-2 draw. In Port Harcourt, while his goal roused the stands at the Yakubu Gowon Stadium, Emeka Ogbugh did not partake in the celebration. Ogbugh had joined Rivers United from Heartland after the Owerri club was relegated at the end of the 2015/16 season. Five minutes into the second half, Ogbugh received a pass from half way into the opponent’s side, and in a deft move, swerved away from two defenders to unleash a rasping shot that beat goalkeeper, Japhet Opubo. He refused to celebrate as his team mates crowded him and offered back slaps. The fifth goal on the shortlist came off the boots of NPFL’s new hit man, Lokossa, who netted a brace in Kano Pillars 4-0 thrashing of FC IfeanyiUbah. Receiving a pass inside the penalty box, Lokossa sent his marker the wrong way, steadied himself before picking the far side of the post to beat the goalkeeper. Voting will end by 12 midnight of Thursday, April 12 and the player whose goal receives the highest number of goals from the three platforms wins the N150, 000 cash prize half of which will be donated to a charity to be nominated by the player. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.