Just to elaborate a bit more on the authenticity of Mr. Gates’ presentation, perhaps sceptics need to be reminded that Bill and Melinda Gates foundation-a leading philanthropic organisation with focus on health care and education globally, is not a mean organisation that its report should be discountenanced.
The chairman of the foundation, Mr. Gates himself is an institution and a colossus with proven track record in productive entrepreneurship and humanitarian services worldwide. In my estimation, there is no chance that he would have any personal interest, agenda or bias that could have been embedded in his report. What’s more, he is not a politician. Even if he was, would he not rather be interested in USA presidency where he is a citizen and a country where celebrities with enough cash and street savvy like the current president Donald Trump could easily attain the position of president?
For those who may have the erroneous impression that Mr. Gates might have a subterranean agenda for pecuniary benefits , it should be noted that he has long been retired from Microsoft to serve humanity through his philanthropic organisation. So there is no way his activity in Nigeria could enhance the sale of Microsoft products which are, in any case already ubiquitous. In fact, Microsoft products are so embedded in the high tech industry that any organisation or entity that ignores it does so at its peril.
That’s not all.
With a market valuation in excess of $700 billion, Microsoft is at least two folds the size of Nigeria’s economy. So an avenue for quick money is ruled out. Therefore, what could have been the ulterior motive of Bill Gates in his report that prompted El Rufai to antagonise him? My guess is that owing to the fact that the diminutive Kaduna state governor whose Friends fondly refer to as “Giant” is a die-in-the-wool nationalist; he could not resist defending the ERGP, even if there was no substance in his defence. Are there any benefits to his push back? No real value to Nigeria or Nigerians, but there is political capital for El Rufai who most Nigerians believe courts controversy.
If nothing else, at least, he got noticed, hence he is the subject of this article. However, upon his departure, Mr. Gates twitted the following thank you message: “I was excited to visit Nigeria and meet with @MBuhari and @ProfOsinbajo to discuss the country’s development goals. We agreed that Nigeria’s bright future will benefit from further investment in the country’s greatest resource: its people”.
Remarkably, he did not acknowledge El Rufai in his tweet.
Apparently, Mr. Gates was unperturbed by the Kaduna governor’s attempt to ruffle him, as his tweet confirms that his goal in Nigeria is on course.
That’s quite the opposite of the unpalatable experience which Virgin Atlantic airways owner, Mr. Richard Branson, took away when he partnered Nigeria airways a few years back.
The soured business relationship left a bitter taste in the mouth of the maverick entrepreneur and, thereafter, Mr. Branson has used every opportunity to reference the awry experience in most of his public speaking events. In the process, Nigeria’s already unwholesome image continues to get more sullied by such bellicosity.
To the best of my knowledge, the only other countries that Bill Gates took similar interest in the development and prosperity of the people would be China, India, Malaysia and Brazil. This is why, in my reckoning, thanks to Mr. Gates’ warm relationship with Aliko Dangote, Africa’s richest man, Nigeria is privileged to attract the attention of a high calibre entrepreneur such as the founder of Microsoft, who has devoted his precious time to researching Nigeria’s potentials before taking time out to share his findings with lawmakers and technocrats.
No matter the prism from which Bill Gates is assessed, his motive in Nigeria is humanitarian and his message and work are altruistic. That’s why, despite the filibustering by a few, most Nigerians welcome Bill Gates’ interest in our country and urge the National Economic Council to take his counsel seriously to enable Nigeria unleash its full potentials.
The people to lead the Bill Gates’ change initiative should be the National Assembly, NASS, which must consider giving up some of their huge monthly take home pay which senator Shehu Sani revealed is a princely N13.5b. It can help improve the depressing maternal mortality rate which, according to Mr. Gates report, Nigeria is ranked fourth on the button rung of the ladder.
Similarly, governors whom ex governor Peter Obi also revealed allocates to themselves jaw dropping amount as Security Votes (money spent without being accounted for) monthly, should also consider deploying some of the huge sums of money into the education sector where WAEC has been recording woeful results.
Such sea changes, if the aforementioned groups would be gracious enough to make the sacrifices, could have changed Nigeria’s development narrative and thus become a positive reference point.
But typically, such lofty and monumental or epochal events don’t happen in Nigeria.
Rather school girls kidnapping as reflected by the sad ordeal of Chibok and Dapchi girls either still in captivity or in trauma, and mass illegal migration of young men and women who end up being enslaved in Libya or dead in the Mediterranean Sea, now define our country and that is heart wrenching. Onyibe, a Development Strategist, Alumnus of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and former commissioner in Delta state govt, wrote in from Accra, Ghana. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.