Ibadan – Dr. Olapade Agoro, the National Chairman of the National Action Council (NAC) on Tuesday came down hard on President Muhammodu Buhari describing his declaration to seek re-election in 2019 as morally wrong in the face of the myriad of the problem confronting Nigeria under his watch. In a statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT in Ibadan, Agoro wondered why Buhari still wants to contest the election in 2019 considering the tail of woes facing the country on a daily basis. The NAC’s National chairman declared that “If truly the business of governance is for the good of the peoples’ lot and productive maximization of the nation’s resources like Muhammadu Buhari must be told in plain and direct language have no business to seek the mandate of managing the country already thrown into disarray”. Listing the problems confronting the country under Buhari’s presidency, the NAC Chairman noted: “Nigeria’s poverty level is becoming worrisome, according to Ben Akabueze, Director General Budget Office. Agoro said: “Nigeria’s highly embarrassing financial fiscal deficit budgets, with the 2017 year, in particular, a reference point, when the nation spent N2.14 trillion more than N2.12 trillion she earned it means Nigeria is borrowing 50 percent of her earnings. “As at December 31, 2017, Nigeria’s debts to foreign creditors stood at US$ 18.91 billion with the Federal government accounting for 78.27 per cent. Power generation roving constantly around 4000 MW the same stage it was when Olusegun Obasanjo ‘ administration left the office year 2007. “Rampageous killings without let of the innocents by A.K 47 assault rifles carrying Fulani herdsmen. Boko Haram is better armed with US$ 2 billion payment to unleash terrors that led to the kidnapping and the arranged freeing of Dapchi innocent school girls but sadistically still holding in captivity of Leah Sharibu the young Christian girl. “The killing in Offa Kwara State of 30 unfortunate citizens with reckless abandon as if the law enforcement went on holidays’ al.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.