Rt. Hon. Gideon Sammani is the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to President Muhammadu Buhari on Political Matters. In this interview with ONCHE ODEH, he speaks on democracy in Nigeria, how far governance has changed and the evolving political culture under President Buhari: How would you describe Nigeria’s democratic strides so far? So far, so good, Democracy has come to stay. Judging from the historical antecedents of this country called Nigeria. At one time in history, Democracy was interrupted by the military Juntas where Nigeria’s constitution was suspended. And since the return of democracy in 1999 till date, I think we are not doing badly looking at where we are right no. Even in some of the developed countries, some of them could not get it right until they spend from 100 years to 200 years of democracy. And for us in Nigeria, we are just a little over 17years in our democracy. With the benefit of hindsight, how would you describe the plethora of events of the past and how have they helped to shaped democracy as it is practiced in Nigeria? Well, there is no democracy in any part of the world that is not faced with challenges and Nigeria is not exceptional. We have had our challenges in our democracy. Apart from the Boko Haram menace, we have experienced recession; we have been under serious attack from the canker worm called corruption. It is unfortunate that looking back from the year 1990 to date, you will find out that a lot of impeachments were made at the local government, state and even at the National Assembly. Many of our leaders at the National Assembly were removed from office due to their involvement in corruption. We had situations where some presidents of the Nigeria Senate who were removed and even some members of the House of Representatives were also sent packing for corruption including a one-time speaker. Corruption does not only happen in the National Assembly, it also reared its ugly head in the Judiciary where many Judges who were found wanting had to be retired and others dismissed. We also saw situations where many of the Governors were found culpable for corruption, like money laundering financial impropriety, example is Chief Alamieyeseigha of Bayelsa State who had to flee to the United Kingdom and ended up for Justice in the London Court. Most recent is the Diezani Allison-Madueke corruption charges which is in the records as mother of all the embezzlements of funds in Nigeria. All these levels of corruption have no doubt slowed the pace of developments in the country. The issue of Boko Harm insurgency which has eaten deep into the economy of the North East of Nigeria is another challenge. But we thank God that all these are becoming history with the coming of His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari. Sanity has been restored in the country. Democracy cannot be enjoyed where there is no peace, which brings us to the motto of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) which is Peace & Unity. This is why in President Muhammadu Buhari’s political agenda, he had to ensure that security is paramount, followed by human capacity development and economic diversification. Looking back at the recession we can recall that when president Buhari took over as president, the price of oil had dwindled tremendously, there was mismanagement and so many wastages by the last Administration. The looking of the treasury depleted so much that it affected our foreign reserves but now the foreign reserves has greatly Jumped up to about or over 35 billion dollars. The Administration of president Buhari had to work hard in developing strategies on how to manage the damage and mismanagement of the past. Right now, we thank God we are out of it. The recession is gone and crude oil market is picking up. Things are getting better. The diversification is working, we have moved from a mono economy to sufficient economy. Agriculture is doing well for us now considering the success story from states like Kebbi, Kano, & Lagos the Rice production. And thanks must go to Mr. President who has succeeded in dousing the rage in the Nation in the East. Some world leaders and the European economies had seen Nigeria as a corrupt country but with the coming of President Muhammadu Buhari all that has changed, he has changed the perspective of leaders. He is a man known to be very reliable, to be focused, to be discipline. We cannot forget in a hurry how he championed the war against indiscipline as a military head of state and presently fighting corruption as a civilian president. He is seen as someone who is not partial in his fight against corruption, even his former contemporaries can attest to this point. Let us have a playback, 2015 marked a major turn around for Nigeria, the election of President Muhammadu Buhari. How much has he done to satisfy the aspirations of Nigerians who thought that he represent the face of revival for the country that has witness bad governance in the past? The answer is obvious, the learning millions of Nigerians that voted for Buhari believe in him. They still believe in him up till this moment. This can be seen with the kind of tumultuous welcome he got when he came back from his medical leave a mammoth crowd received him at the airport and of recent, during his state visit to Kano State where it is on record that he got the highest number of votes. He got a rousing reception from the people. The people still believe in him and their aspirations are very high. There is no government that can fully meet the aspiration of his people, be it in the West or North. Nigeria is not exceptional. So far I don’t think they will be disappointed. When President Buhari came in 2015, he changed the political culture of Nigeria where people have the believe that you cannot climb as a leader except you are a money bag, especially those people who looted the treasury. Mr. President is a replica of the late Sardauna, Sir Ahmadu Bello who lived a life of selfless service and end up with nothing. That is Mr. President for you. For those of you who knew what took place during the primaries, you see a confirmation when he announced that he had no pounds, dollars. He contested the election with Billionaires, like Atiku, Rochas, Kwankwanso and Sam Nda Isaiah. These men were given between 3000 dollars to 5000 dollars to give out and yet you can see the margin of his victory. His coming into foray has brought a lot of change. Change has been the philosophy of his administration. He has moved away from the old way of doing things in Nigeria to new approaches. He has injected sanity in the Civil Service, Banking industry, financial activities in the country with the coming of the TSA single Treasury Account to block the leakages where people were siphoning money from the treasury. Generally we can say that things are not the same and I can assure you that with the political agenda of Mr. President, he has been doing well, he has greatly empowered the youths and revived the nation. When you look at the diversification process, N-power project, his support to SME’s, creation of the enabling environment of the people to access small loans for development of their various vocations. We must not forget his administration’s programme on school feeding and the five thousand Naira disbursements for the unemployed which is seen as a social intervention. The economy, his watch is picking up; people are becoming self radiant and over coming of a parasitic lifestyle. The looters are afraid judging from efforts of the whistle blowers which has greatly brought in a lot of recoveries of looted funds. At the end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure, what do you think he will be remembered for? President Muhammadu Buhari will be remembered for so many things, His leadership style cannot be forgotten, his fight against corruption, security, his approach for Agriculture his efforts in trying to make people to be productive and become self sufficient. His injection of sanity in the Civil Service cannot be forgotten. For instance, we can recall how he handled the management; his stance to fight corruption has sent a lot of looters away with some of them going into exile. He has succeeded in bringing back the culture of hard work and excellence in the system. President Buhari has been able to uphold a high level of transparency and integrity. This also you can see in the attributes of his vice president who is upright and God-fearing. Service is the watchword in the Buhari led Administration. Most recently, precisely on the 18th November, 2017, the Anambra people decided to elect a new Governor, would you say the outcome of that election is a reflection of what lies ahead? That election is a confirmation that Mr. President is a changed person. He is not a dictator, and he has learnt the rope of democracy. He has followed the tenets of the principles of separation of powers. He does not interfere by giving INEC a free hand in conducting a free and fair election in Anambra State. People were giving their right to exercise their franchise and the right thing was done in Anambra State. This can be seen when the Governor elect came all the way to say thank you to Mr. President. It is worthy to note the good working relationship between the executive, legislature and the judiciary in the president Buhari led Administration. 0 comments