The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday said it was battle ready to confront the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the 2019 presidential election. Speaking in an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Abuja, Prince Uche Secondus, the party’s National Chairman, said any candidate presented by the PDP as its presidential flag bearer would roundly defeat APC’s candidate, including President Muhammadu Buhari. President Buhari had earlier declared his intention to seek re-election at his party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting in Abuja, on Monday. According to Secondus, having failed to deliver majority of the promises it made to Nigerians in the build-up to the 2015 election, there was no way Nigerians who had been subjected to untold hardship under the present government would give their mandate to the APC again. He listed economic recession, high rate of unemployment, insecurity, high cost of living, daily job losses, and lopsided anti-corruption war as some of the problems the APC government had foisted on the Nigerian populace. “I am convinced beyond reasonable doubt that we will present a credible presidential candidate that will be acceptable to all Nigerians. Such candidate will emerge through a free, fair and credible democratic process. “I am confident that whoever flies the flag of our party will defeat the presidential candidate of APC, including President Buhari, because I don’t see Nigerians voting the APC back to power. “They have failed in all their promises. In fact, it was a colossal failure and they themselves know that they have disappointed Nigerians. “They promised one naira to a dollar, today it is N362 to a dollar. “They said if Buhari becomes president, fuel will be sold at N40 per litre. Today, fuel is being sold at N145 per litre and above N200 in some places. They visited hunger and untold hardship on the masses. “The economy today is in a shambles. People are losing jobs on a daily basis. “Unemployment rate is on the highest level and killer herdsmen are on the rampage. “They have failed virtually on all that they promised. So, why will any sane person ask them to continue in another four years? “Nigerians have experienced both APC and PDP and they can see that the difference is very clear. “Of course, we made some mistakes but we were humble enough to admit it and promised to right the wrongs in the future. “So, I am optimistic that our candidate will beat the APC candidate, even if it is Buhari, by a wide margin, but we are appealing that the election should be free and fair.” While expressing worry over the ability of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct a credible election, Secondus said the activities of the Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu-led electoral body since the APC came into power had been doubtful, especially given the various inconclusive elections in several parts of the country. Secondus, who described the forthcoming governorship elections in Ekiti and Osun as a litmus test for INEC, further appealed to the Federal Government to allow INEC do its job without undue interference. “INEC, since the current leadership came on board, has given Nigerians a cause for concern and worry because of several cases of inconclusive elections and rerun. “In a particular case in Rivers, a police result was admitted in tribunal rather than INEC’s result. So, I am worried as to whether the present INEC leadership can conduct a free, fair, and credible election in 2019. “Of course, Ekiti and Osun are going to be a litmus test. If both states go well, it means they will build on the success ahead of 2019. If it doesn’t go well, it means they are going to breed crisis. “Majority of what causes problems in Africa is as a result of rigging, inconclusive elections, and results that are targeted at making the ruling party win at all cost. PDP is law-abiding and we are watching. “We believe the Federal Government should allow INEC to perform its duties without interference. “They should not put INEC under undue pressure to perform any illegality. “INEC, on its part, should know that they are serving Nigerians and not APC government,” he said. Commenting on President Buhari’s decision to seek re-election, having earlier promised to do a single term in 2011, Secondus said it showed the insincerity and dishonesty that was prevalent among APC leaders. “Nigerians can now see for themselves the nature of the deceit and the character of the president they voted for – a president who is fighting corruption in a crude manner and not in a civilised way. “Nigerians can now see the military style of this administration and they can as well see the honesty and integrity of the president”. “A man who said he will only do a single term like (Nelson) Mandela. Suddenly, he changes his mind and despite all the challenges he is facing, he still believes that he can steer the affairs of the Nigerian ship in the next four years.
“It is for Nigerians to decide, but I believe President Buhari is not honest. “You already said you are running for one term but you suddenly turned around and said you are going to run again. “He said it clearly that he will run for one term in 2011. I believe that is a betrayal of trust,” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.