Lagos – Heraclitus of Ephesus, the popular Greek philosopher, once said: “Day by day, your choices, your thoughts, your actions fashion the person you become. Your integrity determines your destiny and your deeds produce the results you get in the days, months and years ahead.” This scholar might have had Nigerian football managers in mind when he coined the above quotes to drive his Socratic agenda during his lifetime. Before Plateau United and MFM emerged as the nation’s representatives in the CAF Champions League in 2017, the country was dangling dangerously towards a reduction in its slots for the CAF Champions League and the CAF Confederation Cup based on CAF’s five-year coefficient rating for 2017 continental slots. Accordingly, the number of a country’s slots into CAF club competitions is dependent on their placement in CAF’s coefficient rating, which has been in existence since 2004. It spells out that the top 12 countries in the rating produce four clubs – two each for CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup. When the ranking started in 2004 based on the performance of clubs from CAF’s member-associations, Nigeria was placed 9th on the strength of Enyimba’s back-to back victories in the CAF Champions League. Then, Tunisia was ranked highest with 36 points. They were followed by Egypt (31 point), Cote d’Ivoire (27 point), Morocco (24 points), South Africa (17 points), Cameroon (14 points) Ghana (12 points), Angola (12 points) and then Nigeria (10 points), with Congo DR (8 points) and Senegal (6 points) completing the 12 countries eligible to produce two clubs each for the two competitions. Since then, Nigeria maintained the top 10 ranking on the list, but the poor performances of former champions, Rangers International, and Rivers United in the Champions League and Nasarawa United as well as FC IfeanyiUbah in the Confederation Cup in 2017 meant that Nigeria was ranked 12th in that year ahead of the 2018 CAF club competitions. But on the strength of that, Nigeria was still eligible to produce four clubs in the continental showpiece. Consequently, Plateau United and MFM, which both placed first and second respectively in the league last season, were put forward for the CAF Champions League, while third-placed Enyimba and Federation Cup winners, Akwa United, entered for the CAF Confederation Cup. But the abysmal performances of three of these clubs in their different categories meant that Nigeria slipped to 14th in the latest CAF coefficient rating released last week, which showed that Tunisia with 116 points and Egypt (106.5 points) are the first two power houses in inter-club business on the continent respectively. Based on the coefficient of the released five-year ranking, which take cognizance of a period between 2013 and 2017, it is only the NPFL winners and the Federation Cup winners that would go for next year’s CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup respectively. According to the ranking, Libya, Cameroon and Mozambique displaced Nigeria, Congo and Mali as among the countries that will produce four clubs on the continent next year. The three countries pooled 19, 15 and 15 points respectively while the trio of Nigeria, Congo and Mali pooled 10.5, 10 and 8 points respectively to drop from the top 12. Taking a five-year record of Nigerian club sides into consideration will reveal the sorry performance of NPFL representatives in both the CAF Champions League and the CAF Confederations Cup. But for 2016 when Enyimba made it to the group stage of the CAF Champions League, no Nigerian club had been able to qualify for that mini league stage of the foremost continental club competition in the last seven years. The last time a Nigerian club made it to the group stage of the Champions League was in 2011 and it was still Enyimba, which finished top of Group A that also had Al-Hilal of Sudan, Coton Sport Garoua of Cameroon and Raja Casablanca of Morocco. In the Confederation Cup, the story is similar. Rivers United made ill-fated advancement to the group stage last year, where they placed last in the group that also had Club Africain of Tunisia, FUS Rabat of Morocco and KCCA of Angola. But before then, the last time Nigeria so progressed in the second tier club competition was in 2011, a whooping seven years ago, when the now relegated Kaduna United finished last in Group A that also paraded Club Africain, Interclube of Angola and ASEC Mimosas of Cote d’Ivoire. Regrettably, after a fine run that saw them emerged winners and runners up last season respectively, Plateau United and MFM promised so much in the CAF Champions League this year but delivered nothing. Both clubs scaled the first preliminary round hurdle but at the second preliminary round, they failed to hold their own against formidable North African oppositions. Plateau United lost to Etoile du Sahel of Tunisia in Sousse, Tunisia, 4-2 but managed a 1-0 win over the former African champions in Kano, a result that saw the reigning Nigerian champions lost out on 4-3 aggregate. They were relegated to the Confederation Cup. Similarly, MFM piped MC Algers of Algeria 2-1 in Lagos but in the return leg in Algiers, MFM were decimated 6-0 by their hosts, and they also dropped to the lower tier of the continental engagements. Their awful displays continued in the Confederation Cup as Plateau United drew USM Algers while MFM drew Djoliba of Mali. In the first leg matches, the clubs recorded mixed fortunes. While Plateau, playing in Lagos, piped USM Algers 2-1, MFM suffered a shock 0-1 home defeat to Djoliba. In the return leg, the Peace Boys, who, all these while failed to show the form that made them fearsome last year, were pummeled 4-0 in Algiers and the result ended their sojourn on the continent, even as Nigerians had hoped that having dropped from the elite club competition, they would have shown resilience to progress to the group stage being the reigning Nigerian champions. MFM, on their own, held their hosts to a goalless draw and were also knocked out on 0-1 aggregate. Enyimba progressed to the group stage at the expense of South African Bidvest Wits after a goalless affair at the UJ Esuene Stadium in Calabar on Wednesday. Recall that in their first leg final preliminary round, the Peoples Elephants forced Wts to a 1-1 draw. The other entrants, Akwa United, were knocked out by Al-Hilal of Sudan on Wednesday. The Sudanese had beating the Nigerians penultimate Wednesday but a 3-1 win for Akwa United in Uyo on Wednesday meant that the result ended on a 3-3 aggregate but Al-Hilal moved into the group stage on away goal rule. It is obvious from the above that Nigerian clubs failed to rise above mediocre levels on the continent in the last 10 years. To Zachary Baraje, former coach of Plateau United, who was saddened by the situation, it all boils down to the best not always representing the country on the continent. “We have been shouting that we have arrived but we are not there yet; our teams are poorly prepared and the real champions do not actually represent Nigeria, tell me how they can perform? Baraje pointed accusing fingers on what he called the Nigerian factor and the managers of the game generally. “I will blame the failure on Nigerian factor. The Nigerian factor has robbed us of effective planning and those who are managing the game are limited in what they can do due to several inhibiting factors. Our organisation is very poor. Our league is poor and there is no academy to nurture young talents. Even if there are some, young players are quick to go abroad because the league promises nothing for them,” he said. Corroborating Baraje, a manager of one of the clubs in the domestic league, sometimes ago, confided that clubs at times lose matches away in order to save their players’ lives following threats from home fans. “We’ve played a match where in the north our chairman has to come from the VIP stand and asked us to lose the match if we must leave the stadium alive. Then, our players gave out a cheap penalty and the home team won,” he said. However, two former Nigerian league players, Henry Nwosu and Emmanuel Amuneke, in separate interviews, ascribed the quality of the league and poor administrators’ foresight for the failure. Amuneke said: “When you don’t plan well, how do you make it? The league does not have what it takes to compete with leagues in places like North Africa. We should stop living in denials and know that it has nothing to do with the players but the league itself, which has failed to provide for them.” Nwosu flayed the organizers for their nonchalance on the welfare of players and coaches. “It is very sad but if we must correct this situation, the organisers must put the players and coaches’ welfare top on their priority list. They must be paid regularly so that they will not abandon the league; otherwise we won’t match the rest of the continent,” he said. Etim Esin, former international, lent his voice, while speaking to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT. Esin called for the emergency declaration on the league, saying security lapses have accounted for why real champions do not emerge. “We need to declare state of emergency in the league because it has gone that bad. What are we doing with security issues? How can real champions emerge when home fans are posing for war against visiting teams,” he said. 0 comments