Only 15 of the yet to be released 113 Chibok schoolgirls are said to be alive, Ahmad Salkida, a journalist known to have access to the leadership of Boko Haram said on Saturday. In what appears as devastating news that could send some parents into their early graves last night, Salkida, who announced this on his Twitter handle and reported by some online newspapers, including The Cable, said many of the girls have died as a result of crossfire from security forces that were supposed to rescue them. But John Agim, defence spokesman said last night that the report is aimed at discouraging the government Responding to inquiries by TheCable, Agim said it is not the first time that the girls were said to have been killed or married off. He added that after such claims, the government went ahead to secure the release of some of them. “They are only trying to discourage the government,” Agim said. “In our operations, we have rescued hundreds of people in Boko Haram captivity, and when we profile them, most are not Chibok girls. But, look at when they first said the girls had been married off, we were able to secure the release of some of the girls. “Every time, they are always saying the girls have been killed, we continue to secure their release just like we did recently.” Four years ago, 276 girls were abducted from Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, in Borno state, with 163 of them released, leaving the remaining 113 of them believed to be in the custody of the sect. But Salkida said those of the girls still alive are no longer under the control of Abubakar Shekau, leader of Boko Haram, adding that they have been married off. He added that their fate could only be determined by their husbands. Similarly, Naj’atu Muhammad, a former senator from Kano has blamed the “irresponsibility of the political and military elite” in Nigeria as the root cause for the continued Boko Haram insurgency. Muhammad, at the 2nd annual Chibok girls lecture organised by the Bring Back Our Girls (BBOG) movement on Saturday in Abuja also alleged that one of the “root causes” of Boko Haram is Ali Modu Sheriff, a former governor of Borno state. But, President Muhammadu Buhari has continued to give hope to Nigerians that government would ensure that the girls would be released. In a statement commemorating the 4th anniversary of the abduction at Chibok Girls Secondary School, in Borno State, on 14 April 2014, Buhari however said talks with Boko Haram to free the girls have run into some hitches, because of the divisions in the terrorists ranks. “Unfortunately, the negotiations between the government and Boko Haram suffered some unexpected setbacks, owing mainly to a lack of agreement among their abductors, whose internal differences have led to a divergence of voices regarding the outcome of the talks”, Buhari said in a statement issued by Malam Garba Shehu, the senior special assistant on the media. “We know that this is not the news parents want to hear after four whole years of waiting, but we want to be as honest as possible with you. “However, this government is not relenting. We will continue to persist, and the parents should please not give up,” he said. President Buhari reassured the parents of the schoolgirls that “their daughters will never be forgotten or abandoned to their fate”. Buhari  said government would continue its efforts to ensure the safe return of the girls to their respective homes,  despite that it has been four long years since they were taken away by the terrorists. President Buhari joined the Borno government, parents of the children and Nigerians in commemorating the fourth anniversary of the sad incident. He  urged the parents to keep their hopes alive on the return of their daughters. President Buhari noted that the recovery of more than  100 of the girls  through the Federal Government’s determined effort should give confidence that all “hope is not lost’”. “We are concerned and aware that it is taking long to bring the rest of our daughters back home, but be assured that this administration is doing its very best to free the girls from their captors. ”Don’t give up hope of seeing our daughters back home again. Don’t lose faith in this government’s ability to fulfil our promise of reuniting you with our daughters. “Don’t imagine for a moment that we have forgotten about our daughters or that we consider their freedom a lost course,’’ the President said. According to him, as long as he remains the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, the Chibok schoolgirls will never be forgotten and all will be done to have them reunited with their families. But Muhammad, who said Nigeria does not seem to have a government at the moment in view of killings and apprehension in the country said, “the primary responsibility of any government is to secure the territorial integrity of the country and the lives of the citizens — something the government has failed to do.” Spealking further, he said,  “We all know what started Boko Haram. It was started in Borno by the then governor, Ali Sherrif. He armed them as his political thugs,” she said. “He even made one of them a commissioner but they become too powerful. The military came in and turned the northeast into cash cow; military jumbo budgets unaccounted for. I remember Jonathan was spending N2 billion every day on security but there was no security.” She said the army “more than anything else has contributed to this terrorism.” According to her, “terrorism has become a multi-billion dollar industry.” “I have been part of a committee that investigated the atrocities of Boko Haram and the committee more than anything has indicted the military,” she said. “There is no house in Borno that the military has not either killed or raped anyone in it. “As for our military, we are demanding a thorough overhaul of it. Anything short of this is to say our government are beneficiaries of the failure,” she added. But Buhari said  “However, this government is not relenting. We will continue to persist, and the parents should please not give up. President Buhari reassured the parents of the schoolgirls that “their daughters will never be forgotten or abandoned to their fate”. Buhari  said government would continue its efforts to ensure the safe return of the girls to their respective homes,  despite that it has been four long years since they were taken away by the terrorists. President Buhari joined the Borno government, parents of the children and Nigerians in commemorating the fourth anniversary of the sad incident. He  urged the parents to keep their hopes alive on the return of their daughters. President Buhari noted that the recovery of more than  100 of the girls  through the Federal Government’s determined effort should give confidence that all “hope is not lost’”. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.