The Mr Femi Gbajabiamila-led Committee of the House of Representatives, assigned to investigate allegations of renewed acquisition scandals rocking the multi-billion dollar Ajaokuta Steel Company Limited (ASCL) and which invariably, is affecting the $1.2 billion funding for the Turn-Around-Maintenance (TAM) of the decaying Ajaokuta Steel plant in Kogi State, commenced sitting last week. Sole Administrator of ASCL, Sumaila Abdul-Akaba reportedly claimed recently that prospective lenders for the project are apprehensive following fresh allegation by a lawyer, Natasha Akpoti, that “some individuals in the defunct government of Dr Goodluck Jonathan and the sitting administration of President Muhammadu Buhari are plotting to fraudulently acquire the steel company for themselves”. We implore the committee to handle its assignment without fear or favour. Also, whoever is found culpable should be penalised to serve as a deterrent to others. We recall that almost a year ago, the immediate past Sole Administrator of ASCL, Joseph Onobere, while conducting journalists round the company’s complex, lamented that the moribund industrial project which has consumed a whopping sum of $4.6 billion but abandoned since 1994, remains uncompleted due to gang-up between foreign and local interests. As at June 2017, Onobere had urged Federal Government to provide the $400 million needed to complete the plant which had over the years, suffered from neglect by successive administrations that placed personal interests above national interest.The current Sole Administrator has urged government to provide $1.2 billion for turn-around of the steel plant. Due to policy inconsistencies, frequent leadership changes, irreconcilable differences between government and foreign investors and high-wired graft, the plant has suffered setbacks that affected Nigeria’s age-long dream of becoming one of the leading industrialised and technologically-advanced nations. When completed, the Ajaokuta steel plant, designed to produce 1.3 million tonnes of liquid steel yearly in its first phase with capacity to expand production to 2.6 million tonnes for production of flat iron and steel products in its second phase, was also projected to produce 5.2 million tonnes of different types of steel products and heavy plates. On completion of the plant, the Nigerian government is expected to save over $10billion yearly. We therefore urge government to provide the $1.2 billion for rehabilitation, completion, balance of external infrastructure and commissioning of the plant which would eventually place Nigeria among the league of industrial giants in the world. However, application of new funds should be closely monitored to ensure transparency and accountability, as nothing should be done to further delay completion of the project. If government resorts to the option of concessioning the plant, it should follow due process to avert past mistakes. Government should end the controversies and scandals that rocked the Ajaokuta steel project for over 30 years. This is to disabuse minds of concerned Nigerians who are wondering if the project is jinxed. Economic saboteurs and their foreign collaborators frustrating efforts towards completion of the plant should not be allowed to achieve their selfish objectives. For over 30 years, the Ajaokuta steel project has been a shattered dream, especially judging by its history of protracted crises of cancelled concessions and revocations of assets by successive administrations over irreconcilable differences. All these occurred in 2003, 2004 and 2005 under former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration, as well as in 2008 when the late President Umaru Musa Yar’ Adua revoked a contractual agreement following an Indian company’s failure to comply with agreement. However, there came a sigh of relief when, in 2016, the past legal challenges bedeviling ownership of Ajaokuta Steel Complex were settled out of court. Consequently, an amicable renegotiated concession agreement was signed between government for the new operator – Nigerian Iron Mining Company (NIOMCO), Itakpe, with Global Steel Holding Ltd (GSHL) to enable NIOMCO revert to federal government. Now that the 10-year-old disagreement between past administrations and GSHL has been amicably resolved, promise by Chairman of GSHL, Prammod Mittal, that as soon as his company starts operations it would supply steel to Ajaokuta Steel Company and Delta Steel Company, should be fulfilled so as to end the prolonged delay that has affected the industrial take-off of Nigeria for over 30 years. 0 comments