Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers on Wednesday in Port Harcourt said any individual who is interested in seeing Nigeria remaining as a single united entity will always support sports development. Wike, while reacting to being honoured by the national and Rivers bodies of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN), said that this was because of the crucial role of sports in Nigeria. SWAN revalidated Wike’s position as a National Patron at the Government House in Port Harcourt on Wednesday. At the same ceremony, where National SWAN decorated him with the insignia of his position, Rivers SWAN also made Wike its Grand Patron. “The impact of sports is very crucial in our lives. It is one thing that binds us, with no political party as a rallying force. “In spite of our political differences, whether in the Third Force or in the tenure elongation group, there is always no differences among Nigerians when it comes to sports. “The effect of sports is so magnificient, and that is why whoever wants this country to be united will always support sports. “I, and all of us in Rivers, want unity in this country and we will always support sports development,’’ he said. Speaking earlier, SWAN National President Honour Sirawoo had restated the reasons behind the revalidation exercise, saying it was aimed at ensuring the Association’s National Patrons played their roles as expected. He said Wike had however not failed at all times to respond to SWAN’s call for support, saying he is a big example to others, “because SWAN is like an NGO and relies on its Patrons to support it to perform its roles’’. Sirawoo assured that SWAN would “continue to play its role of promoting sports in order to ensure Nigeria does not fail in its leadership position in sports in Africa’’. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.