The Nigerian Army on Saturday said its troops killed four Boko Haram insurgents at Malumti village on the fringes of Sambisa forest. Brigadier Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, the Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, Operation Lafiya Dole, who disclosed in a statement in Maiduguri, said the troops killed the insurgents in an ambush while trying to escape ongoing clearance under “Operation Deep Punch II” on March 30. He said the troops recovered a Toyota Land Cruiser, one AK 47 rifle, 15 rounds of 7.62 mm ammunition, one magazine and 47 jerry cans of petrol from the insurgents. He added: “The insurgents were routed out of the Sambisa forest by troops under ‘Operation Deep Punch II’, rummaging for food and logistics when they met their waterloo.” Nwachukwu said that gallant troops deployed at a checkpoint in  Muna garage in the outskirts of Maiduguri, also neutralised four suicide bombers on Friday. He explained that the bombers, comprising a male and three females, were killed while attempting to infiltrate Maiduguri metropolis. According to him, “The insurgents, attempting to infiltrate Maiduguri metropolis through Muna Zawiya area at about 9.30 pm., were spotted by vigilance troops who fired shots, hitting one of them, thereby triggering simultaneous explosions, which killed all of them. “Regrettably, 18 persons were injured in the incident and have been evacuated for medical attention.” He said troops and members of the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) were conducting cordon and search operation in the area for any other suicide bomber lurking around. Nwachukwu urged the public to be vigilant and report suspicious persons and activities to security agencies. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.