Lagos – Criticism is the practice of judging the merits and demerits of something. Criticism therefore is an evaluative or corrective exercise that can occur in any area of human life. It can take different forms. How exactly people go about criticizing, vary a great deal.
In specific areas of human endeavour, the form of criticism can be specialized and technical; it often requires professional knowledge to understand the criticism.
To criticize does not necessarily imply “to find fault”, but the word is often taken to mean the simple expression of an object against prejudice, no matter positive or negative.
Often criticism involves active disagreement, but it may only mean, “Taking sides”. It could just be an exploration of the different sides of an issue. Fighting is not necessarily involved.
Criticism is often presented as something unpleasant, but sometimes, that may not be the case. There are also friendly criticisms, amicably discussed, and some people find great pleasure in criticism.
The above assertions therefore bring to mind the just executed two ‘Grade A’ international friendly matches between Nigeria, Poland and Serbia.
In the first match, the Super Eagles defeated the sixth best playing nation in the world, Poland, 1-0 in front of their teeming supports in Wroclaw, Poland.
In the second match, four days later, the Super Eagles succumb to the firing powers of Serbia, losing 2-0 on Tuesday, March 27 at the Hive Stadium, England.
The Serbia loss was only the second in 14 games for the Eagles under Rohr. Employed 20 months ago as Super Eagles coach, Rohr has won eight matches and drawn four.
While Serbia is ranked 34th on the current FIFA ranking Nigeria are ranked 52nd in the world.
After the two friendly matches, rather than encourage the team and the technical crew to work harder and correct the loopholes noticed in the two matches, the reverse has been the case.
And in most cases, the critics have gone as far as put pressure on the coach, to invite new players in order to perform well at the World Cup.
Some of them have also re-opened the recalling of former captain and goalkeeper, Vincent Enyeama despite Rohr, saying he (Enyeama) has no place in his team for the World Cup.
Their grouse was that Francis Uzoho who kept the posts in the 2-0 defeat to Serbia lacks the experience and exposure to man the post at the World Cup.
However, Rohr has refused to blame Uzoho for the defeat to Serbia.
Serbian striker Aleksandar Mitrović scored in the 68th and 81st minute to give the Europeans victory.
After the defeat, Nigerians expressed their unhappiness with Uzoho’s performance while some suggested that he could have done better.
Despite the criticism, Rohr has refused to fault the 19-year-old who has replaced Ikechukwu Ezenwa as the first choice goalkeeper
The German tactician admitted that Uzoho did not have the same type of game he had in the 1-0 win over Poland, but did not point out that he caused the defeat as he gave credit to Serbia for the victory.
“We don’t blame any individual over our loss. As a team, we are collectively responsible for whatever result we get.
“Win, lose or draw. Serbia did very well to win the game. Congratulations to them.” Said Rohr.
The Super Eagles boss also noted that there were areas in which his team can improve on, as their mistakes in the friendly matches have been identified.
”There are areas we need to work on in our team, and we have seen them over the two games.”
“Hopefully, we will have them sorted out before we play in the World Cup later in the year. You expect to see mistakes in friendly games, and make corrections in competitive games.” Rohr Said.
Another call to the team is that of Obafemi Martins who plays as a forward for Shanghai Greenland Shenhua of China.
Before Martins had a torn hamstring injury during his team’s clash against Kashima Antlers in the Asian Champions League, which has ruled him out of action for up to seven months, critics were of the opinion that he (Martins), who is known for his speed on the ball, can help the Super Eagles excel at the World Cup and should be given a call.
The call was premised on the recent poor display of the attacking department of the national team in the two friendly matches against Poland and Serbia where the forwards could not boast of 10 shots on target in over 180 minutes of action.
It will be recalled that following the end of Nigeria’s 2008 Africa Cup of Nations qualification campaign, Nigeria faced Mexico in Ciudad Juárez for a friendly match. Martins scored two goals in the 2–2 draw.
On November 17, 2007, Martins captained Nigeria for the first time, in a friendly match against Australia for his 19th appearance.
On November 12, 2009 he scored a spectacular goal in the 83rd minute against Kenya in Nairobi, thus ensuring Nigeria’s qualification for the 2010 FIFA World Cup.
At the finals in South Africa, Martins played in just two games for a total of 71 minutes, without scoring.
In the first group game, he came on as a 52nd-minute substitute for Victor Obinna. In the third game he was used as a 57th-minute substitute for Nwankwo Kanu. Nigeria exited the tournament bottom of Group B with only one point.
The critics have failed to know the last time that the player ever played for the country and how easily it will be for him to fit into the team, which presently boasts of young and talented players.
However, two former national team midfielders, Henry Nwosu and Mutiu Adepoju, have disagreed on the recent call.
Adepoju said that if he were to be the coach, he won’t ignore a forward who scores regularly in his club, making reference to Martins’ recent hatrick for his club
“I will definitely take a player who is scoring frequently for his club to the World Cup because all I want are goals. He (Martins) is getting the goals and he just scored a hatrick so if I am the coach, I will seriously consider him,” Adepoju said.
But in what looked like a diversion, Nwosu, urged the coach to build faith in his current players, admonishing that the same players were the ones who qualify the country for the World Cup.
To him, the coach has the right to beef up his team but should not throw away the players whose efforts qualified Nigeria for the Mundial.
“He should do everything possible to get a good team before the World Cup. Martins is good and the coach has the right to invite him but I will advise that he builds confidence in his current players because through their efforts, Nigeria qualified for the World Cup,” he said.
And while the pressure keeps piling on the coach, former national team goalkeeping coach, Ike Shorunmu called for caution and distraction in the team ahead of the World Cup.
Shorunmu, took a swipe at Nigerians over their unguarded comments following the Super Eagles’ 0-2 loss to Serbia and a not-too-impressive 1-0 win over Poland.
He averred that the friendly matches achieved their aim of exposing the team’s grey areas, warning Nigerians against undue criticism of players, even as he admitted that it was the prerogative of Rohr to decide whether he will need more players or not.
To him, Nigerians may end up confusing the coach if they would not stop their attempt at ‘imposing’ players on him.
“I am not the coach and it is only him that will know whether he needs to invite fresh players in the team.
“We just play two of the five or more friendly matches lined up for the team and it is not enough to start criticising them and writing them off.
“Whatever happened in the match is for correction and that is the essence of playing those matches.
“Come to think of it, we lost one and won one. So it was balance results. We cannot impose players on him because he knows who and who that can get him the result,” Shorunmu said.
As the team continues preparations for the World Cup and the players sweating it out at the respective clubs, it is pertinent that what the players and the coach need now is words of encouragement from Nigerians, especially football lovers that they can achieve success at the World Cup and not condemnation or undue criticisms from all quarters.
Next up for the Super Eagles in the pre-FIFA World Cup build-up is the Send Forth match against Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in Nigeria on Monday, May 28, to be followed by a prestige ‘Grade A’ game against England’s Three Lions on June 2 at Wembley.
Last December in Moscow, Nigeria drew Argentina for the fifth time in Super Eagles’ six appearances at the FIFA World Cup finals.
The Super Eagles were drawn alongside Argentina, Iceland and Croatia in Group D of the World Cup.
Super Eagles reliable defender Leon Balogun welcome the group oppositions as he took to his Twitter handle to express his opinion on the draw.
“Wow – what a draw! This group is a challenge, an honour, a chance, an opportunity…it’s fire!!!! World Cup baby,” Balogun wrote.
The Super Eagles of Nigeria will take on Croatia first on June 16 in Kaliningrad, before facing Iceland on June 22 in Volgograd and then play Argentina in their last group match on June 26 in St. Petersburg.
The 2018 FIFA World Cup is scheduled to kick off on June 14 and last till July 15. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.