Hon. Ekanem Brown, an Information Technology expert, is the Executive Chairman, Mkpat Enin Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. In this interview with IDONGESIT ASHAMERI, he speaks on his transformation agenda of his administration. Excerpts You recently celebrated your first 100 days in office, what are your major achievements within the period? Before coming in, I made campaign promises; I know the problem of my people. The first was that I needed to grow their economy. I came from a private sector, I know what is capital flight; you bring one million to the council then, the whole money is taken out. So, I decided that we make do with what we have. They had started a shoe factory, but it was never completed by two administrations. I went there, opened it, completed the building, installed more machines, did the wirings, engaged the consultants, they came in. As I speak today, we have the most equipped shoe factory in the entire Niger Delta. The shoe I am wearing now was produced by the factory – Cortina Fashion, military boots, shoe, etc., all kinds of shoes. We are planning to launch back Cortina. So, the most conspicuous products in our factory will be the military boot and Cortina Fashion shoes. It is not that we could not do other shoes, but being a new factory, we need to go into products that have market in the terms of volume. We have recruited up to 30 people. I just came back from Jos the other day when I went to see the manager of Naraguta Leather Works, Kanu. They are to supply us with quality leather. I was so excited when I heard that the governor was about to start a ranch either in Uruan, Akwa Ibom State, where they will produce milk, beef and skin. We would need that. When they start, we will be the off-takers that would need the skin to produce fine quality leather. So, we hope to bring back Cortina very soon you would see shoes made in Akwa Ibom. You are blessed with arable land in Mkpat Enin, do you see any economic potential you intend to harness through this means? Agriculturally, Mkpat Enin is located in an area where almost everything grows. Arable soil, I had done the research before coming in. Anything grows; tomatoes, cucumbers, pepper, cassava, letus, coconut, palm trees etc. So, I decided that when I come into power, I would set up factories, production lines for red oil. I have currently discussed with bank of industries on that. The production line for coconut oil to support what the governor is doing in my local government, and also production line for packaged plantation meal, we want to start packaging plantain and sell. So, we are currently cultivating seven hectares of land, we are planting in a section; cucumber, another tomatoes and pepper. Why? It will create jobs for the youths. Currently, I have employed 27 people. It will be additional source of revenue for the council. Everybody goes home happily. We have acquired 150 hectares of land that will be used to cultivate ginger, plantain and cocoa. So, there is need to key into the Governor Udom Emmanuel’s industrialisation drive, to see that his five-point agenda to the state is followed to the letter, to see that we put the people first. That is paramount, and that is my slogan. Whatever decision I take in the council, it is to see that the people’s interest is paramount come what may. So, I’m here to let you know that this is what we have achieved so far. The future is so bright. In the future, we will be making millions of naira. As I am speaking to you, people are coming in for the cucumber. In the next three-weeks, we will make close to N12 millio. Can you imagine that in just about seven hectares, we will make such a huge revenue income? So, the future is bright. We have plans to organise economic summits, to bring in investors. That is why I’m here. People in Kano, Kaduna, Enugu, West, will know that we are doing these things. People who will come and invest in Mkpat Enin should know that they have a chairman that will accommodate them, who is willing to protect them at least within my tenure and more. Recently, we sent in an execution bill to the legislature – The Public Private Partnership bill. What does the PPP Bill seek to achieve? My being the executive chairman of the council is tenured. After three years, and will be over. But, these investments need to be protected to live beyond my tenure. So, I have decided to send in this bill to the legislature, which will be passed soon, and why? To protect all these investment – the oil mill, the plantain meal factory, the shoe factory. All of these investments need to be protected. That is why I’m sending the bill. So, I’m encouraging those who would want to farm, we have farm lands, very, very arable, they should come and farm. We are talking to the youths, they are seeing need not to be violent. They are beginning to see that they have alternatives; that if I can plant plantain, that if I plant 1,000 sucker of plantain, in nine months time, I should be making millions of Naira. The youths are the ones involved in the farms. As I speak, some of them are already planting cucumbers in their own farms. So, apart from having money and creating employments, we are also giving experience. They are acquiring these experiences that they would use, and this is not something you can quantify. So, please any investor should come into Mkpat Enin, and you can be assured that you will have high returns on investments. On ginger and cucumber have you done the feasibility study, how long will it take to harvest these? You asked was I ready before going into agriculture? Yes, I was very ready, all these crops I intend to cultivate are thing I have planted or cultivated. I have planted rice not today. We talked about cucumber, cucumber is 45-days, so in 45days. In fact, we have gone to an extent that if we have 10,000 herds of plantains, because we want to have 100,000 suckers or plantain stands. There is a factory, there are people that are willing to set up 4-different factories, that’s the projection. In 9 – months’ time they will produce more 13-suckers and by that time we bring in the factories to process the plantain, the body of the plantain, then extract the fluid, put it in drums and sell. There are companies that buy these fluids as raw material for their companies. The body is used as POP. And then the inner parts when it is dry, is used to produce cartons. So, we have companies that will produce carton, use the fluids and then those that will use the plantain. So, I’m well informed about all these things and it is promising. That also answers your question on processing and packaging, yes on the long run we hope to bring in factories that will process our ginger, our ginger cannot be sold without processing. They have to be dried, milled and packaged, so yes we are planning to process all that we cultivate here in Mkpat Enin. On funding, the Local Government has allocation, apart from that, we do source for partnership. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.