Aare  Gani Adams, Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, has  said the Oodua Progressive Union (OPU) was founded to project the image of Nigeria and Yoruba race positively to the world. Speaking to newsmen shortly after his arrival from Euraope and United Kingdom, on a 12- day-visit, where he was received warmly by members of the group. He said the group was inaugurated six years ago to unite Yoruba sons and daughters in the Diaspora, for socio- economic integration, growth and networking of Nigerians abroad. Aare Adams added that the group, which is presently in 82 countries across the world, is doing everything possible to extend its frontiers to every parts of the world. “Our aims and objectives are clear; we are poised to promote our cultural identity, including our language and socio- economic values.  We are also determined to protect the interest of the race through global integration,” he said. Giving reasons for the visit to Europe, Adams said he was in Europe to attend the receptions organized by the Europe chapter of the OPU. “Since my installation as the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, in January, prominent people and groups have been holding a number of receptions for me in Nigeria, that is why members of the OPU in Italy,France, Sweden, and United Kingdom decided to honour me and my family”, he said. Adams, however, urged members of the group in the diaspora to be good ambassadors of Yoruba race, saying as Nigerians based abroad, the best thing they could do for the Yoruba nation is to continue to project the ideals of the race positively to the world. He also expressed appreciation to all members of the group in France, Sweden, Italy and United Kingdom, especially the coordinators and individuals that hosted him in their respective countries.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.