The Red Card Movement, a group which was formed to promote democratic rights and enhance electoral due process, has officially been launched in Abuja with a mandate to Nigerians to vote out corrupt leaders in the 2019 elections. The movement also kicked off its Phase One programme tagged #OfficeOfTheCitizen, #MyPVCMyRedCard and #RedCardToAPCAndPDP campaign, which holds three distinct objectives. These objectives, according to it, are to educate and sensitise Nigerians on their power as citizens and for them to realize that they as citizens occupy the most powerful office. Also, as part of the objective, the members of the movement are to mobilize up to 30 million Nigerians to register and vote, while urging about two million citizens with uncollected PVCs to collect them. The other objective is to publish empirical data from both local and foreign organisations that reflect evidential failure of governance and corrupt leadership in the last two decades, and third party evidence on the streets from citizens that show governance failure from huge infrastructural gap. Speaking at the event, Oby Ezekwesili, the convener of the group, stated the aim of the movement was to “remove our nation from the hands of bad governance and corrupt leadership.” She reiterated that the idea was to remove the decadent class and to enthrone quality leadership at all levels of governance in the country. “The key idea is that we wish to elevate the citizens’ awareness of their position and roles in our politics and governance. We will walk the streets, knock on doors, talk in the local language and pidgin English to achieve our enlightenment agenda until most of our citizens who vote do so based on strong options of candidates with the priorities that matter to their wellbeing. “We understand that there are many reasons for low citizens’ participation in elections and we are ready to encourage every eligible Nigerian citizen to register to vote,” Ezekwesili added. Nigerians trooped into the launch venue from across the country to witness the momentous occasion while expressing support and allegiance to the movement. The unprecedented attendance was achieved with only two days notice on social media. A key goal of The Red Card Movement is to increase the level of women and youth participation in the electoral process from 15 million to 62 million as well as target national legislative elections that are devoid of inducement and coercion. According to a co-convener and co-chair of the movement’s secretariat, Tony Akabuno, the purpose of democracy is defeated if only a few people who are eligible to vote actually exercise their rights to do so. “Voting gives the right to take part in public affairs, so it is often described as the heart of democracy. It is absolutely necessary to build the critical mass of people who are eligible and willing to take part by exercising their constitutional rights to vote,” he said. 0 comments