Ilorin –Residents of Kwara State are expressing deep regrets and worries and are querying Thursday’s armed robbery attack in Offa town, the second largest settlement in the state after Ilorin, the capital city. They are worried by the number of casualties recorded in the attack as the police have confirmed that at least 16 people comprising nine police officers and seven civilians died while unconfirmed sources put the total number at 23.
The people are querying the incessant occurrence of the attack with the Thursday one said to be the third in five years.
The penultimate one which was carried out in same manner as Thursday’s was also brutal and cruel as about seven police officers were killed.
Among those who were killed in the Thursday attack was a pregnant business woman who was said to have gone to lodge a complaint about her transaction in one of the banks attacked by the robbers.
The woman identified as Omilola Korede was said to have been shot dead alongside her toddler son she took along to the bank.
There was also a pregnant police woman reportedly killed by the robbers who first attacked the Divisional Police station in the town where they killed police officers to make their robbery operation at the banks easier.
The heavily armed robbers were said to have also killed two mobile policemen at some of the five banks they robbed before carting away an undisclosed huge amount of money.
The incident is said to have thrown people of the Offa in sober mood as the community has postponed a colloquium schedules for today (Saturday) by a week while they have also reportedly planned an enlarged meeting of the indigenes for April 29 to review the security of the community.
The Olofa of Offa, Oba Muftau Gbadamosi was unable to speak with newsmen when contacted as he said he was too disturbed by the development that he was not in the mood to talk for now.
However, the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari who doubles as the chairman of the state council of chiefs expressed shock over the development and urged that the Friday jumat service should be dedicated for prayers for security of the state.
Alhaji Sulu-Gambari who expressed shock over the incident disclosed this on Friday in his condolence message signed by the National Secretary of Shehu Alimi Foundation for Peace and Development, Mallam Abdulazeez Arowona. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.