The issue of inefficiency  in Nigeria’s electricity power sector has been lingering for decades with various efforts at ensuring uninterrupted power  supply  not achieving desired results. Considering the pivotal role of  steady power supply  in realising socio-economic goals of any country,  issues bedeviling the power sector will remain on the front burner, at least, in the near term.  Since the return to democratic governance in May 1999, successive governments have identified steady power supply as key to delivering  the dividends of democracy to the people.  The problem has been the appropriate strategy, the structure, the  system  and the orientation to deliver the promises  of  abundant  power supply  made to the people. Under the presidency of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, the Electric Power Sector Reform Act of 2005 was enacted for the unbundling of the behemoth national power utility company into  18 successor companies –  six power  generation companies and 12 power distribution companies.  The national transmission company  is to be publicly owned.  The Electricity Roadmap to Power Sector Reform was launched on August 26, 2010, winning bids were announced  on 16 October 2012 after payment of about $2.5 billion by the bidders and the handover to the new  private owners was done on September 30, 2013. However, over four years since the handover to the private investors, the power sector is yet to record significant  successes in terms of regular power supply. It has been a case of lots of motion but limited movement.  We believe that the emergent  problems  and the apparent quandary in which both government and the private investors find themselves are a manifestation of  lack of anticipatory  diligence. The government seems to be euphoric for relieving itself of  the albatross that the power sector had constituted while the investors must have felt that they have cornered a cash cow. Now, government and investors in the power must do a rethink.  The problem is  reaching an accord between the two parties on the way forward.  While government is musing the idea of  reviewing the privatisation protocol, the private investors would prefer that government continues the bailout of companies in the power value chain. We say government should not allow itself to be blackmailed  into offering bailouts to the power sector companies.  The  president, Muhammadu Buhari, had in his message to the closing session of the 23rd Nigerian Economic Summit in Abuja in October 2017  disclosed government plan to  review the privatisation of power plants by restructuring their ownership to get new investors. He had stressed that current owners who do not demonstrate sufficient capacity to operate the facilities  should cede their stakes to new investors.  The president’s statement  is  a reinforcement of  an earlier position by the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, who had at the opening of the NESG meeting declined a request by  Mr. Tony Elumelu, chairman of Transcorp Ughelli Power Limited  that the federal government should reconsider refinancing the  power distribution companies – DISCOS – by acquiring fresh shares from the firms. The Federal Executive Council had in March 2017 approved N701 billion intervention fund for power assurance guarantees while the Nigeria Bulk Electricity Trading (NBET)  Plc in June released the first tranche of  about N12 billion to 10 generating companies (GENCOS) from the intervention fund.  The government had noted then : “We hope this injection will  help. We are looking at several  reforms in the sector to make the market self sustaining, independent and run on its own”. While we believe that government should not turn itself into  a generous donor to power companies, it nevertheless has a responsibility  to provide supportive regulatory and conducive operating environment for the companies. For instance, government needs to improve operation of its own national  transmission company which is a significant player in the power value chain. Government also needs to facilitate synergy among the various companies in the power sector.  It is instructive  that Power Africa, an American government led initiative to provide technical partnership to the power sector in Africa, which recently signed an MOU with  Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) had  noted systemic issues among companies in the power sector, complicated differences among  different players and the huge debt by consumers. With an estimated  N11 trillion naira so far expended on the  power sector  but with minimal improvement in power supply, the federal government  cannot abdicate its responsibility to Nigerians in this very strategic sector . 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.