The date was Saturday 21st April, 2018. The venue was the massive Christ Missionaries Crusaders Church, Ekpan, near Warri. The premises was thronged by humanity. Vehicles blared and the security and traffic personnel had a hectic moment controlling human and vehicular traffic. In spite of the tornado assailing the nation, in spite of the deprivation occasioned by an intractable economic recession, in spite of the Senate’s stolen and recovered mace, in spite of the president’s telling the world that Nigerian youths were lazy, in spite of the claims and counterclaims about looters’ lists between the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), humanity closed ranks for that moment as everybody trooped into the   church. The occasion was the seventieth birthday thanksgiving service and ceremony of His Grace Archbishop God-Do-Well Oyibo Ikoyi Avwomakpa, the founder of the church. Born at Oginibo, on 20th April, 1948, his father it was who introduced the Baptist Church into the community in 1922. After attending primary and secondary schools at Oginibo, during which he was credited with brilliance and perspicacity, the young God-Do-Well worked briefly as a goldsmith before the exigency of the Nigerian Civil made him to join the Nigerian Army. He was, however, not to run the gamut of a soldiering career as he experienced a “military to ministry” conversion on the 8th of October, 1967. He left Gowon’s army to join God’s army as a crusader for Jesus Christ, the saviour of humanity. Once in the Lord’s vineyard he put his hands to the plough and never looked back to this day. Although, a Baptist by denominational affiliation, he joined the Anglican Adam Prayer Society (AAPS), which was then Africa’s largest evangelical society and worked assiduously with the body from 1967 to 1977. Having apprehended the power of music as an instrument for winning souls, he founded and ran the Baptist Soul Winning Band from 1977 to 1980. His most significant turning point came in 1981 when he founded the Christ Missionaries Crusaders Church. His phenomenal work in Christendom earned him an ordination as a Bishop in 1988. He thereafter, from the mid 1980s to 1992, embarked on an academic roller coaster earning a string of degrees; Bachelor’s, Master’s and a doctorate from Aspen Christian College, Colorado in the United States of America. Armed with knowledge acquired through serious academic inquiries as well as theological edification, Avwomakpa took the gospel of Jesus Christ to the remotest places through the process of rural evangelism. He organised crusades in the most interior of places and won many souls for Christ. He is also a notable televangelist whose voice is now heard all over the world proclaiming the Gospel of repentance and salvation. The remarkable innovation he brought into the preaching of the Gospel inheres in his adaptation of Urhobo songs and dance motifs which have added freshness and vigour to evangelism in these parts and other places where his messages are aired. He often breaks into Urhobo folksongs and dances to the approbation of listeners and viewers. Many viewers often looked forward to his memorable sermons. Archbishop Avwomakpa has come a long way and in the process has also become an author of a significant body of Christian literature. He is the author of the following books; The World’s Three Greatest Needs (2002), The Power of Breakthrough (2004), Pray That You Enter Not Into Temptation (2006), Our Inheritance in Him (2014) and Passing on the Blessing (2018). Highly impactful books they are. He is also a philanthropist who has awarded many scholarships and offered free medical services. He wears another hat as an educationist establishing a new polytechnic set to offer vocational and entrepreneurial education to the next generation of Nigerian entrepreneurs. A highpoint in his service in the Lord’s vineyard is his active involvement in the formal organisation of Christendom in Nigeria under the auspices of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN). He has held influential positions in both bodies at the state, zonal and national levels. Through this, he has succeeded in elevating the interface between church and state to the benefit of both government and the citizenry. He has also been active as a crusader of the rights of Christians to worship especially in Northern Nigeria. Archbishop Avwomakpa is Urhobo and his calling as a fisher of men can be located first within the tradition of proselytizing begun by Rev. Gideon Urhobo when he founded the God Kingdom Society (GKS) in 1934. Today, Archbishop Avwomakpa has carved a niche for himself on the global arena as a fisher of men. The charismatic and inspirational Archbishop is married to Pastor Victoria Avwomakpa and they have nine children and fifteen grandchildren. As he clocks seventy, marking the Biblical threescore and ten, Archbishop Avwomakpa stands out as a General in the army of the Most High God. He has converted many to Christianity and won souls for Christ. He is unrelenting as he mounts the pulpit proclaiming the salvation of God. Historians will surely accord him his rightful place when the history of his time shall be written. 0 comments