An Alabama inmate convicted of the mail-bomb slaying of a federal judge has been executed, becoming the oldest prisoner put to death in the US in modern times. Walter Leroy Moody Jr, who used mail bombs to assassinate a federal appeals court judge and a civil rights lawyer in the US in 1989, has been executed at the Alabama prison where he spent decades denying his guilt. With his execution by lethal injection on Thursday night, the 83-year-old became the oldest prisoner put to death in the modern era of US capital punishment, according to the Death Penalty Information Centre, a research group. Moody’s reign of terror — deadly bombings and thwarted attacks in three Southern states, as well as menacing letters to judges and the media — raised fears of racial violence and unsettled the federal judiciary. His complex case drew in people who would become household names of US law enforcement: Louis Freeh, a future FBI director; Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election; and Jeff Sessions, now the US attorney-general. Although Moody was found guilty on scores of federal charges, his execution was punishment for a 1996 state court conviction for the murder of Judge Robert Vance Sr of the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Mr Vance’s son, Robert Vance Jr, himself a judge in Alabama, said that he had not forgiven Moody because “he has not acknowledged any remorse or any acknowledgment that he was guilty.” “I’m not a psychiatrist, but if you’re talking about using labels like psychopath, this seems to be the kind of person that would fit that description because of absolute lack of empathy or concern for others,” Mr Vance said. Moody was pronounced dead Thursday night inside a south Alabama prison, ending a generations-long legal drama that began in 1972, when he planned a bombing against an automobile dealer who had repossessed his car. In a plea for clemency to Governor Kay Ivey, one of Moody’s lawyers noted that Vance was “by all accounts, an opponent of capital punishment.” On Thursday, the judge’s son acknowledged that his father had expressed reservations about executions. “But he also made clear that as a judge, he has to follow what the law dictates and put aside his personal views, and he had to do that several times sitting as a judge,” Mr Vance said of his father. “Moody was tried, convicted by a jury of his peers twice, the final time with the recommendation of the death penalty,” he said. “I think the legal system worked well in getting those convictions.” 0 comments