P/Harcourt – In view of the public outcry that has greeted the recent list of looters published by the Federal Government, Nyesom Wike, Rivers State governor, said Nigerians were experiencing the height of irresponsibility in governance with the refusal of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Federal Government to obey the rule of law. The governor also declared that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as presently constituted was setting the stage for the rigging of the 2019 general election. He noted that Rivers people had the capacity to resist INEC and APC rigging machine in state. Speaking during a courtesy visit by civil society organisations of Rivers State on Thursday at the Government House, Port Harcourt, Governor Wike said publishing the list of persons standing trial in courts and calling them looters was an unfortunate act of irresponsibility by the Federal Government. He said the act of irresponsibility was worsened by the fact that APC leaders standing trial were excluded by the APC Federal Government. “This is an irresponsible Federal Government that has no respect for the rule of law. They have become the judge, the prosecutor in cases before courts. “All they want to do is tie the hands of judges to ensure all those standing trial are convicted at all costs,” the governor said. The Rivers State governor pointed out that the irresponsible list of looters excluded the name of the immediate past Rivers State governor, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, who was indicted by the court-approved Judicial Commission of Inquiry for embezzling over N90 billion state funds. Alleging plot by INEC, the Federal Government, and security agencies to rig elections in Rivers State, Governor Wike said available credible intelligence indicated that strategies had been mapped out by the three institutions. He noted that Head, Rivers State Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Akin Fakorede, was indicted by INEC in her official report for the re-run elections, but that the commission made no attempt to prosecute him. The governor said instead of prosecuting Fakorede, he was promoted by the police high command to the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police posted to Yobe State and the posting cancelled for him to remain in Rivers State for planned electoral fraud. He said despite overwhelming evidence, INEC has refused to respond to the fraudulent release of two separate original Rivers East Senatorial District result sheets which led to use of police for the theft of the people’s mandate. “Unfortunately for them, we have so much capacity to resist any attempt to manipulate the forthcoming elections,” he said. He noted that there was a plot to unleash violence on the state using SARS and other security agencies so that the elections would not hold alongside other states. He said this would pave way for their rigging plan. On the neighbourhood safety corps, he said the police and other security agencies would be involved in the recruitment of operatives. He wondered why some Rivers politicians derived pleasure in de-marketing the state, saying that they should re-direct their energies towards attracting projects to the state. Governor Wike affirmed that he would personally lead the charge to stop street trading in Port Harcourt beginning April 12, 2018. On the issue of soot, he expressed regrets that the APC Federal Government and her agencies had politicised the issue as they had refused to work with the Rivers State government to curb the menace. “We have been fighting with the Federal Government that the military must find refined ways to destroy illegal refineries. “We are not in charge of security agencies. They take their orders from Abuja,” he said. Earlier, leader of the civil society organisations, Sotonye George, commended Governor Wike for fulfilling majority of his campaign promises. He said civil society organisations of Rivers State would always partner the Rivers State government for the development of the state. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.