Ado-Ekiti – Chief Orji Uzor Kalu, former Abia State governor, on Sunday said former President Olusegun Obasanjo remains the most corrupt president Nigeria ever had. Kalu said this in Ado-Ekiti in continuation of his peace advocacy tour. Addressing the All Progressives Congress (APC) members at the premises of Rt. Hon. Femi Bamisile, the former speaker of Ekiti State House of Assembly, at GRA in Ado Ekiti, Kalu told the gathering that President Buhari was desirous to contest for second term and that no effort would be spared in stopping Obasanjo from thwarting the dream. Kalu said: “Nigerians should tell former President Obasanjo to stop writing frivolous letters. “It is sad that some who behaved badly by not listening to advice could talk like this. “Let me tell you emphatically that President Buhari will contest again; don’t listen to letter writers like Obasanjo. “Obasanjo has been president twice, so he should keep his letter in Otta for himself. “If anyone will caution President Buhari, it should not be Obasanjo. “If you check your records very well, he remains the most corrupt president ever. “He came into office with less than N20,000 and he later built a multi-billion naira Otta Farm Library Project, and the Hilltop Mansion. “That is why somebody like me is in Ekiti to tell our people not to listen to Obasanjo. “He met the economy comatose, today President Buhari has raised the foreign reserve from $23 billion to as much as $47 billion while the menace of Boko Haram has been defeated. “So, some people are out to destabilise his government. We want Nigerians to embrace love, peace, and show understanding.” On July 14 governorship poll in the state, Kalu urged Ekiti delegates to vote wisely by voting an aspirant who has the political network and dexterity to defeat Fayose. “You need to work very hard because President Buhari doesn’t believe in rigging. “I am ready to support whoever you bring up as a candidate here in Ekiti for the July 14 election, because I am part of you. “If I am to choose for you, I will choose Hon. Bamisile, but this lies on Ekiti delegates. “However, as a national leader of APC, I am ready to support whoever you bring up,” he assured party faithful at the event. He promised to work hard to ensure that APC wins the 2018 poll, so that the battle could be easy for the party in the 2019 presidential poll when Buhari would be re-contesting. Earlier, sporadic gunshots heralded the arrival of Kalu to Ado-Ekiti on Sunday. Governor Ayo Fayose had told Kalu that he was not welcomed to the state. He also warned all traditional rulers not to welcome the Abia strongman to their palaces. But Kalu was in the state and announced that he had declared war on Fayose, insisting that the Ekiti State governor would never defeat him on anything even if he were lying on the floor. Kalu said: “My attention was called from Ondo State on Saturday that Governor Fayose said I should not come to Ekiti. “Fayose is my boy, he can’t stop me from coming. He is my boy and he knows he can’t stop me on anything. “Governor Fayose was in my house for 90 days after he was impeached, he is my friend but he has gone beyond his limit by saying a bona fide elder statesman like me should not come to Ekiti. “Fayose was in my state, Abia, last week, nobody said he should not come; so, I have declared war on him. “Even if I sleep on the floor, I will still defeat Fayose on any issue,” he said. Kalu arrived Ado-Ekiti about 2p.m amidst tight security and headed for the private residence of Rt. Hon. Femi Bamisile, the former speaker of Ekiti State House of Assembly. Kalu is the acting Chairman of the Advisory Board for the National Movement for the Re-election of President Buhari. He used the opportunity of his peace advocacy visit to Ado Ekiti to plead with Nigerians to embrace the second term bid of the president. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.