Bauchi – Engr. Buba Dada, the Caretaker Chairman of Alkaleri Local Government of Bauchi State, has said that the state government was committed to ensuring that oil exploration was resumed at the Kolmani River Basin of the state. Engr. Dada gave the assurance following a complaint by some NNPC officials on the non-provision of some infrastructural facilities to herald the commencement of oil drilling in the Barambu village area. He said Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has already contracted the Shell Nigeria Exploration Company (SNECO) to explore oil at the Kolmani River Basin of Barambu village whose drilling of new oil block was expected to commence next month. Engr. Manasseh Damulak, NNPC Deputy Director, Mechanical/Civil/Electrical Engineering, specifically complained about the broken down bridge on Kilometre 35 along Alkaleri – Futuk Road which, he argued, could not facilitate smooth movement of heavy equipment and machinery to the oil exploration site. Engr. Damulak recalled that the NNPC had sometimes last year complained about the broken down bridge to the Bauichi State government for immediate reconstruction, yet without any response whereas oil exploration was about to commence after months of seismic survey of the area. Engr. Dada, the Alkaleri Local Government Council Caretaker Chairman, directed the NNPC officials to write about the request for the bridge reconstruction through his council, and assured them of quick response by the state government. The NNPC had similarly contracted the Brass Construction Company Limited for the provision of infrastructural facilities such as access road off Alkaleri – Futuk Road to the project site with construction machinery started moving to the site to pave way for the black gold find. Engr. Dada and Alhaji Garba Mohammed Sambo, the Pali District Head, at the exploration site Wednesday mediated on a disagreement between a farm owner, Adamu Ibrahim, and Brass Construction Company Limited over land compensation payment on which the first oil block is to be drilled is situated. Both the chairman and the district head have counseled people of Barambu village and entire communities in Alkaleri Local Government Area to give all necessary cooperation and support to the companies involved in oil prospecting in the area for the overall interest of the nation. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.