Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, lawmaker representing Delta North at the National Assembly, has been in the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for days, the anti-graft body said on Monday. Wilson Uwujaren, EFCC spokesperson, did not give reasons why the senator was being held. Andy Onyemeziem, Media Aide to Nwaoboshi, said “on Tuesday, April 17, 2018, Senator (Barr.) Peter Onyeluka Nwaoboshi, senator representing Delta North was detained by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) after series of interrogation over some pending issues part of which is already before the court. While formal charges have been filed against him by the commission, however, attention is drawn to the ill treatment meted against his person. “As a law abiding citizen, who believes fervently in the rule of law, the senator urges his teeming supporters and well-wishers to remain calm and steadfast to the laws of the land as this is the handwork of detractors, who are bent on tainting the senator’s image and throwing cogs in the wheels of his good works for the Anioma people, the Niger Delta and Nigeria in general.” An online news website reported that Nwaoboshi was arrested over the purchase of a building owned by Delta State, ‘Guinea House’, in Lagos among other corruption related issues. Nwaoboshi’s travails with EFCC dates back to 2017 when he was accused of diverting N1.2 billion loan from NEXIM Bank as a member of its board of directors. The loan was granted to him by NEXIM Bank under the local industrial growth scheme in 2014. The money meant for the purchase of equipment and electrical materials was allegedly diverted to acquire properties in Lagos by the senator. Earlier in 2017, a Federal High Court in Lagos had ordered the temporary forfeiture of a 12-storey building belonging to the senator over an alleged contract scam of N1.5 billion. The EFCC told the judge that Nwaoboshi, through his company, Bilderberg Enterprises Limited, got N1.580 billion contract to supply some construction equipment to Delta State Direct Labour Agency in 2010. The EFCC, however, said Nwaoboshi’s company supplied used equipment to the agency while he collected money to supply new equipment, thereby short-changing the agency. The EFCC said Nwaoboshi later used the proceeds to bid for and purchase the 12-storey building, formerly known as Guinea House, for N805 million in the name of his company, Golden Touch Construction Project Limited. 1 comments