OUR CORRESPONDENTS For Dino Melaye, the Senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, this is not the best of time. The Senator, who is known for his outspokenness and drama, has been embroiled with the Kogi State government on one hand and the Nigeria Police on the other, over allegation of gun running. Melaye, who had reported to the police in Abuja and was granted bail, was re-arrested few days ago. He reportedly jumped down from a moving police vehicle as he was being taken to Kogi State, allegedly supported by thugs and got severely injured. He was taken to the hospital in Abuja, where he has been receiving treatment under the watchful eyes of the Police However, Melaye and his state governor, Yahaya Bello, had been at loggerhead since the inception of the administration. Melaye, was a die-hard supporter of the late Prince Abubakar Audu, who died as he was coasting home to victory as the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in the 2015 election. Following the death of Audu, the party picked Bello, who failed in the primaries, as against James Faleke, his running mate in the election. Melaye was one of the strong backers of Bello to succeed Audu as the governorship candidate of the APC. It was reported that he nominated his supporters into state executive council as compensation for his support for the governor. However, the relation turned sour as Melaye and Bello have been on each other’s throat shortly after the governor assumption of office.. It was also believe that Melaye’s support for the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, who had a case to answer at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT), might have brought him against the Federal Government. Police Declare Melaye, Audu’s Son Wanted However, recently, the state government and the police in Kogi State, accused Melaye of arms possession and gun running. The police claimed that some detained suspected criminals had allegedly implicated Melaye, who they said, was their sponsor. Based on this, the Senator and Mohammed Audu, the son of the late Prince Audu, were declared wanted by the police. Melaye has since been shouting his innocence, saying that Gov. Bello and his government had been using the state police command to get at him. The Kogi State Police Command, which declared Melaye wanted, accused him of conspiracy in gun running. It also placed on the Melaye and Mohammed Audu on the watch list of the International Police Organisation (INTERPOL). The police said they established a link between two suspects, who had allegedly confessed to being armed by Melaye, ostensibly to cause mayhem in the state. A police statement to that effect said: “The Nigeria Police Force, Kogi State Police Command, on March 28, 2018 received a news that six suspected criminal elements namely; Kabiru Seidu a.k.a Osama, Nuhu Salisu a.k.a Small, Aliyu Isa, Adams Suleiman, Emmanuel Audu and Musa Mohammed, who were under detention at the ‘A’ Division Lokoja, escaped from lawful custody. “Four of the suspects were on court remand, including two that indicted Senator Dino Melaye and Mohammed Audu. “Consequently, all the six suspects, Senator Dino Melaye and Mohammed Audu, were sent for watch listing and red notice by the INTERPOL for immediate arrest anywhere we see them. “The Command hereby appeals to the members of the public to assist the Police with useful information on the whereabouts of the suspects by reporting to the nearest police station. “Investigation into the unfortunate incident is ongoing, while the 13 police officers, who were on duty when the incident occurred, were defaulted and detained for interrogation.” The statement was issued by the Commissioner of Police (CP), Kogi State Command, Ali Janga, stated. However, following the declaration, Melaye threatened to sue the IGP, for falsely accusing him of sponsoring some criminals in Kogi State, as well as supplying them with guns to perpetrate criminality against the state. Melaye Accuses Of Police Of Complicity Speaking in plenary under a Point of Order, Melaye also accused the Nigeria Police of releasing the two suspects allegedly linked to him in a criminal case bothering on illegal possession of firearms. His words: “We were all supposed to appear before the court in Lokoja this morning (yesterday), but, lo and behold, my lawyers were in court by 9am. and the case was called up. The prosecutor – the Nigeria Police – could not produce the two accused persons. “Instead of producing the two accused persons, they asked the judge to issue a bench warrant for my arrest. But, the judge refused to grant their prayers. The matter was adjourned to May 10. “I want to use this opportunity on the principle of justice to say that the Police must produce the two accused persons within 48 hours because they are presumed innocent until proven guilty. They also have right to life. Failure of the Police to produce them, I will sue the IGP for intimidation, harassment and mental assault. “Nigeria is not a banana republic. They cannot escape, the Police must produce the accused,” he added. Arrested Melaye Jumps From Police Vehicle However, the matter became more dramatic as Melaye jumped down from a moving police vehicle. The Force Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood, explained that Melaye was being transported to Lokoja for arraignment when two vehicles blocked the police van and Melaye jumped out of the police van through the window. The Police also issued a statement saying that it had re-arrested Melaye after he attempted to escape from police custody. Moshood explained that Melaye was being transported to Lokoja for arraignment when two vehicles blocked the police van and Melaye jumped out of the police van through the window. He said: “At about 1200Hrs of today Sen. Dino Melaye while in lawful custody of the Nigeria Police Force personnel and being taken for arraignment in Federal High Court Lokoja from Abuja, escaped from lawful custody when hoodlums and miscreants in Two (2) Toyota Hilux Vehicles blocked the Police vehicle conveying Senator Dino Melaye around Area 1 Round About, Abuja. “In the process, the Senator jumped out of the Police vehicle through the window and was rescued from the policemen by hoodlums and miscreants to an unknown destination.” He informed that the police re-enforced and trailed Melaye to Zankli Hospital, Abuja, where he was re-arrested, maintaining that the Senator would be arraigned in court without further delay. Moshood added that the Police team recovered one of the Toyota Hilux vehicles used by the hoodlums and miscreants in aiding the escape of the Senator. However, Ibrahim Idris, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), reportedly directed a thorough investigation into the circumstances leading to Melaye’s rescue and escape from lawful custody. Prior to this, Melaye was detained at the facility of Special Anti Robbery Squad  (SARS) of Nigeria Police at Guzape District of Abuja. Melaye, who remained indoors in his house, which was under senator decided to end the hide and seek game between him and the law enforcement officers who were deployed to his house. Dino reportedly came out from his house and surrendered himself to the police in front of his residence before he was taken to the SARS’ office. Following Melaye’s travails in the hand of the police, which was said to have been acting under the instruction of Gov Bello, a cross section of Nigerians believe that indeed, the issue has a political undertone and that his trouble was politically motivated. Melaye’s Travail Politically Motivated – Analyst Andy Omodamwen Izehimwen, a Benin-based computer engineer and public affairs commentator, said “Without being told, you should know that Senator Dino Melaye’s present travail is politically motivated. “He has been having a running battle with his state governor, Alhaji Bello and some other prominent Nigerians since his election because of his outspokenness on national issues.  They have now seen this as an opportunity to rubbish him. But, my advice to the enemies of the embattled senator is that no condition is permanent and my prayer is that they should not kill him.” ‘Melaye Not A Robber, Fraudster, Or Ritualist’ Ibe Malachi, a businessman, said: “I really don’t know what to believe anymore from what people are reading in newspapers if the reports are true or not about what is happening in Kogi State between Senator Dino Melaye and the state governor, Yahaya Bello. “Again, I heard he is being victimised for being a strong supporter of the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, against President Muhammadu Buhari and that is why he is being hunted down at all cost. “Either way, this is not the best of time for Dino Melaye, Kogi people and the upper legislative chamber of the National Assembly. So, it is going to be difficult whichever way I try to answer the question on whether or not the Melaye scenario is politically motivated or not. “But, I think it is more political to settle scores than fight against corruption as always been painted by this government. I am not holding forth for Senator Melaye, nor am I his mouthpiece. But, in stating the obvious, nobody has come out to say that he is an armed robber, fraudster or ritualist. All we are hearing is that he is supporting Saraki.” comments