Lagos – The National Conscience Party (NCP) has written to the Lagos State House of Assembly, demanding the repeal of the Lagos Land Use Tax Law and what it termed anti-people laws in the state. The party, in a memoranda sent to the six-man Ad Hoc Committee of the state’s Assembly reviewing the recent Land Use Charge of the state, the party called for outright cancellation of the charges already issued to Lagosians. In the memoranda, titled ‘Demand For The Repeal Of The Land Use Tax And All Anti-People Levies And Laws Of Lagos State’, obtained by SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, the NCP stressed the need for a return to status quo and a total cancelation of the Land Use Tax altogether. The memoranda, signed by Comrade Fatai Ibu-Owo, the party’s chairman in Lagos State, said: “We are definitely not satisfied with the so-called 50 percent reduction by the governor after massive public outcry and protests. This is still an increment of over 250 percent over the original rate amounting to nothing but the usual trick of increment. This is not acceptable. “As far as the mass majority of Lagosians are concerned, there is no justifiable basis for the tax in the first instance (imposed since 2001) and the 2018 ‘amendment’ of the so-called law, which brought about a monstrous increase in the charges, is nothing but an amendment of an outright illegality and extortion.” The party maintained that the setting up of an Ad Hoc Committee of the Lagos State House of Assembly to review the ‘law’ after mass protests and outbursts was like medicine after death, adding that the damage control mechanism was a face saving measure by the lawmakers to protect their seats. The NCP lamented that the All Progressives Congress (APC) dominated 40-man Assembly, had been eager to pass all manners of anti-people laws within 24-hours and without due democratic process. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.