Lagos / Abeokuta – Former President Olusegun Obasanjo on Monday again blasted President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC), saying it would be foolhardy to reelect them in 2019. The former president spoke at Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, during a consultation visit by a socio-political group, New Nigeria 2019 Group. Obasanjo, who bemoaned the blame game by Buhari’s administration, said the ruling party wouldn’t have had a taste of power if not for those challenges which APC is complaining about today. According to him, economy of the country and small businesses would have been better if not for the ineffectiveness of Buhari-led APC government. Obasanjo, sharing his military experience, said Nigerians should not reinforce failure by attempting to vote for the ruling party in 2019. He also slammed the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on its recent apology to Nigerians, saying people should not accept the apology. He added that neither the APC nor PDP can take Nigeria away from the current mess but a grassroots platform which will involve all stakeholders. According to him, both the PDP and APC are majorly peopled with leprous hands, advising that little clean hands in the two parties should be integrated into the new grassroots platform. He said, “But this time, for us to make it, we need all hands on deck. You see, I have publicly said and I mean it, that as a party, neither PDP nor APC can get us there as they have been. Never mind about reforms and apology and all that. “And yet we have to get there. I asked one of the foundation members of PDP, the PDP when we started, was it a grassroots party? He said it was an elitist party. Really, we have never had the so-called grassroots party. Even NEPU which we could say is the nearest was not grassroots enough. “And I believe strongly that we must have a strong popular grassroots movement to bring about the change, sustainability and stability that we need in our democracy and development. “The truth is this, when you have an ineffective and incompetent government, we are all victims. And don’t let anybody deceive you, those of you who are in business, your business could have been better today if we have a competent and effective and performing government. “As I said, stop giving excuses; we met challenges. If there are no challenges, then we wouldn’t need you to come. You come in because you know there are challenges and then giving us excuse that you have many challenges, that is why you haven’t achieved results. “And then you still want to go. The first lesson I learnt in my military training is never reinforce failure. What we have now is failure. Never you reinforce failure. Let failure be failure. And if you do not see what you should see, you will then be a victim of what you don’t like because it’s only when you see what you should see and you do what you should do that you put away what you do not like. And if you don’t see what you should see and you don’t do what you should do, you will be a victim of what you don’t like. “There are good people. I said PDP is leprous hand, APC is leprous hand, but there are some clean fingers in them. So, let’s take those clean fingers in them and graft the clean fingers in our own. That is the way to go and if we go that way, we will get there, we will move together, and we will move fast and we will move far”, Obasanjo said. While advising Nigerians and especially the youths not to take anything for granted, Obasanjo warned of likelihood of divide and rule by those he tagged power addicts. He also advised the movement not to throw away the baby with bathing water as some members of both political parties still have integrity and can still help the ideology and movement succeed. “I am happy to meet with you, but don’t take anything for granted. There will be a lot of work that we have to do. What those I call power addicts would want to do is to divide you based on gender, age, tribe, religion and region. You have one commonality – interest of Nigeria. And it doesn’t matter where you come from. We had that interest. “But let us bring together all these movements because we are pursuing the same thing. If we allow ourselves to be taken piecemeal, it is finished”, the former president noted. It would be recalled that former President Obasanjo had, late January, asked Buhari not to seek reelection for second term, saying he and the ruling party has given their best which, he said, is not good for Nigeria. The Ebora Owu as he’s fondly called by admirers, in a special press statement made available to journalists in Abeokuta, accused Buhari of running a nepotic cult bordering on clannishness at the detriment of national interest. Obasanjo said he knew the weakness of President Buhari which borders on lack of understanding of the economy and foreign affairs sector but that the president has also shown a poor understanding of internal politics and dynamics and engage in passing bulk. In the statement titled ‘The Way Out: A Clarion Call for Coalition for Nigeria Movement’, Obasanjo appealed to Buhari not to over-push his luck or over-tax the patience and endurance of Nigerians by seeking reelection in 2019, saying it’s time for the president to honourably consider a deserved rest. Buhari’s Success In Rice Production Enough To Get Him Reelected— FG The Federal Government on Monday said the rice revolution embarked upon by President Muhammadu Buhari since assuming office has taken millions of Nigerians out of poverty, adding that the achievement alone is enough to get the president reelected for another term if he decides to run, according to rice processors in the country. Addressing newsmen in Lagos, Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information, said the rice revolution started by the Federal Government through the Anchor Borrowers Programme has reduced drastically the importation of rice in the country as 60 percent of rice eaten in Nigeria today are produced locally. “The agricultural revolution in general and the rice revolution, in particular, have taken millions of Nigerians out of poverty. As a matter of fact, today, 60 percent of rice eaten in Nigeria is produced in Nigeria. In the words of the rice processors, the rice revolution alone is enough to guarantee reelection for President Buhari, if he decides to run again! “We want to use this opportunity to appeal to Nigerians to complement the efforts of the government by consuming only locally-grown and processed rice. It is fresher. It is tastier. It is healthier. It has not spent months on the high seas and warehouses. “We don’t know where or how imported rice is made or how old it is? It is reported that most of the rice dumped on us are old and probably rejects. The citizens of those countries do not eat this rice. The citizens of Benin also do not eat it. But they send it to us. Unhealthy foods are dangerous to health. So let’s eat what we can vouch for”, the minister said. Continuing, he said, “But Nigerians should remember that every time they eat imported rice, they are eating the jobs that would have been created for Nigerians and instead funding the creation of jobs in the source countries. Just imagine that less than three years into the rice revolution, millions of jobs have been created in the whole value chain. “It is important for Nigerians to know that when they consume imported rice, they are creating jobs in India and Thailand and destroying jobs across our country. Today we have rice farmers in all states and all geopolitical zones. In fact, most of us have friends and relatives who are farming rice. So if we don’t patronise their product, we are destroying their livelihoods. “In this regard, we are embarking on a massive nationwide campaign to sensitise our compatriots to the need to support the rice revolution by consuming local rice. Nigerians are patriots. They want more jobs. They will support the rice revolution and Nigeria will become self-sufficient in rice sooner than we have started”, he said. The minister also gave reasons why price of the local rice was now above that of foreign rice, saying most of the imported rice were from India and Thailand, that subsidise the export of rice. “Presently, smuggled rice costs between N11,000 and N13,000 per 50kg bag. Nigerian processed rice sells for between N14,500 and N15,000 per 50kg bag. Smuggled rice is sourced mainly from Thailand and India, which gives a high level of subsidies to rice farmers and rice processors.” Meantime, President Muhammadu Buhari will today meet with governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja. A presidency source told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the meeting was slated for 2pm to address certain crises in the party, especially on the issue of tenure extension for the John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Working Committee (NWC). Citing the Nigerian Constitution and the constitution of the APC, the president, during the party’s National Executive Council (NEC) meeting last week, shocked his party members when he raised objections to the plan to extend the tenure of elected and appointed executives of the party at all levels, including that of Odigie-Oyegun, the national chairman, by one year, possibly saving the party from the series of lawsuits that would have arisen from the extra year handed the executives. He said while Article 17(1) and 13.2 (b) of the APC constitution limits the tenure of elected officers to four years, renewable once by another election, Section 223 of the Nigerian Constitution also prescribes periodic elections for party executives at regular intervals, which must not exceed four years. On the adoption of a caretaker committee to manage the affairs of the party, Buhari also said a caretaker committee could not remedy the situation and validly act in place of elected officers. “I hope we will take the opportunity of this gathering to resolve outstanding issues and consolidate on our plans towards making APC the strongest defender of the interest of our people. “In particular, I think it is important for me to speak quickly on the contentious issue of the tenure of our national and state executive officers. “As we all know, a motion was moved at the last National Executive Committee meeting of February 27 to the effect that when the tenure of the current executives expires in June this year, they should be allowed to continue for one year. “On my own part, I have taken time to review and seek advice on the resolution, and what I found is that it contravenes both our party’s constitution and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said. His decision led to war of words between vested interests, while the party in a statement by Bolaji Abdullahi, the National Publicity Secretary, said only the NEC could reverse the extension. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.