Agege Local Government Area of Lagos State has named its Legislative building after Mudashiru Obasa, the Lagos State House of Assembly speaker. Ganiyu Egunjobi, chairman of the local government council, announced this on Wednesday during the presentation of the council’s budget at the council’s legislative quarters. Egunjobi stated that the decision to name the building after Obasa was in appreciation of his remarkable representation of the Agege community in the Assembly. “There’s no doubt that Rt. Hon. Obasa has contributed immensely to the development and growth of this great community. He has proven to be a role model for youths who want to achieve greater things in life. “Rt. Hon. Obasa remains our symbol for his commitment, strong desire and resilience to the development and growth of this great community,” Egunjobi said. According to him, the speaker remains a source of inspiration to aspiring young politicians. Responding, the elated Lagos speaker expressed appreciation to Agege Local Government for finding worthy of the honour. “I’m happy and elated and I’m equally surprised at this very great honour. Nobody informed me that this is what I’m coming to see. I thought it was only for the budget presentation, but indeed this is a very pleasant surprise,” Obasa said. The speaker stated further that the honour would spur him to do more for the development of Agege. “We will not relent in our desire and commitment to the development and growth of the Agege community in particular and Lagos state in general.” “I also want to thank Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for his commitment to the even development and growth of Lagos in general and Agege in particular. “I’m assuring you all that we remain steadfast to the growth of this state,” he said. The event was witnessed by Oluyinka Ogundimu, representative of Agege Constituency 2 in the House and Johnson Babatunde, chairman of Orile Agege Local Council Development Area, among others. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.