Abuja – Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has intensified efforts at the construction of 2X150MVA and 2X60MVA 132/33KV Transmission Substations for communities in Ikot Okoro, Essein Udim, Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. The Ministry of Power, Works and Housing said the communities would soon be directly connected to the national grid from the 330kv Ikot Ekpene Transmission Switching Station. This is contained in a statement signed by Etore Thomas, Deputy Director, and Head, Press and Public Relations Unit (Power Sector). The ministry said Engr. Solomom Emmanuel Oyouku, the General Manager, Port Harcourt Regional Transmission, gave the assurance, during the presentation of the Power Project sites and operational facilities to Management Staff of the ministry at the 330kv Ikot Ekpene Switching Transmission Station in the state. “Communities in Ikot Okoro, Essein Udim, Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State would soon directly be connected to the national grid from the 330kv Ikot Ekpene Transmission Switching Station as effort is being intensified to construct a 2X150MVA and 2X60MVA 132/33KV Transmission Substation within the premises by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC)” reads the statement in parts. Oyouku further revealed that the switchyard which was built to wheel power to the national grid has 12 circuits that can supply power to Afam, Alaoji, Ugwuaji, Ajeokuta and Makurdi amongst others. The switchyard is also to stabilise power to the National Grid. Also during the presentation, Engr. Uche Ibukole, the Project Manager, Income Electrix, who is in charge of construction of the transmission substation said civil work for the construction of the foundation of six feeders for transformers is almost completed and currently his company has mobilised over 100 workers to the site from the host communities. Uche also disclosed that upon completion, the transmission substation would directly supply electricity to the host communities. Ikot Ekpene currently receives their electricity directly from Uyo, Akwa ibom State. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.