Lagos – Tender Arts Nigeria, in partnership with the United States Consulate, Lagos last Saturday showcased 600 artworks during the maiden edition of ‘Arts in Medicine’ exhibition at the Terra Kulture Cultural Centre on Victoria Island in Lagos. The exhibition, which ran from Saturday through Sunday, was a collection of 600 artworks from paintings, creative writings, photographs, and mixed media, created through collaborative engagements between medical practitioners and patients living with sickle cell anemia, cancer, and mental health conditions. John Bray, the United States Consul General in Lagos, said that it had been noticed that arts could help heal patients. In his words: “In the 30s in the United States, we started to become aware that people in the arts could help heal and they saw that patients who pursued different things like painting, singing, sculpting, healed quicker.” He added: “There is a consensus that if arts affect emotions and emotions affect health, then art affects health. If they feel better, they get better.” While congratulating the organisers of the exhibition, Bray encouraged every hospital in Nigeria to be an exhibition and added that he wanted a situation where every hospital had such art on display. Annette Akinsete, the Chief Executive Officer and Director of Sickle Cell Foundation, Nigeria, who was also a guest and one of the backbones of the exhibition remarked that working with Tender Arts had transformed the way hospitals looked. “The way we have been working with Tender Arts has transformed our space so the hospitals, clinics, healing places no longer look like the stark, sterile place you’re used to, now they look more and more like hotels and that’s better because that makes patients feel better even before they see the doctor,” she said. Kunle Adewale, founder of Tender Arts Nigeria, said that the exhibition was the beginning of great things, and that ‘Arts in Medicine’ hoped to bring healing and wellness to patients. Participants attending the exhibition were public health leaders, medical doctors, nurses, trained caregivers, visual artists, curators, and arts enthusiasts. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.