Lagos, Abuja, Akure – Condemnations on Wednesday trailed the forceful removal of the mace at the Senate by armed men allegedly led by suspended Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (APC, Delta Central). Analysts said the action is dangerous to democracy and signals political commotion ahead of the 2019 general election. The mace is an ornamental staff symbolising the authority of the legislature. It usually lies on the table before the Senate President. Decisions taken in the Senate cannot be approved without the mace. The Senate has described the forceful removal of the mace as treasonable act. Meanwhile, the police on Wednesday arrested Omo-Agege at the National Assembly complex. The Commissioner of Police, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) command, Sadiq Bello, led the team of policemen, who arrested the senator and whisked him away in a Hilux van with registration number NPF 840 at about 1.50p.m. Before he was taken away, Omo-Agege had told the police that the court had pronounced that the National Assembly “and specifically the Senate, has no power to suspend a senator for one day. “I can’t be under arrest; for what purpose?” Omo-Agege who was sighted in the upper chamber during the day’s plenary was apprehended when he stepped out at the end of the session. Omo-Agege, a ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) member, is seen as a President Muhammadu Buhari loyalist. Sources said he was at the Senate to stop the lawmakers’ move to amend the Electoral Act to reverse the sequence of elections allegedly against Buhari. The drama had all begun when the Senate reconvened and commenced plenary session at exactly 10:53a.m. This was after the presiding officer and Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, had examined and approved the votes and proceedings of the previous day. But just a few minutes into the session, five fierce-looking men walked into the Senate chamber right behind the suspended Delta senator. One of the men, a stern-looking individual, on getting to where the senator’s seat is located in the chamber, said, “My distinguished, sit down, this is your seat as a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” The men promptly moved down the aisle and made for the mace. The attempt, although resisted by the sergeant-at-arms, who serve as mace guard within the chamber, still succeeded as the men took the mace and pushed their way out of the chamber. The other sergeants-at-arms, who had earlier ushered the men into the chamber in the company of Senator Omo-Agege, tried to stop them, but they were over-powered by the men who threatened to shoot whoever came close to them. Notwithstanding the threat, one Omale, a sergeant-at-arms, wrestled with the holder of the mace but found himself lacking support from his colleagues. The intruders had their way and bolted with the mace into a waiting black Toyota SUV and zoomed off. However, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, who was last week suspended for 90 legislative days, remained seated in the chamber as the drama unfolded. He witnessed the proceedings on the floor without actually contributing to any of the debates, including the one on the Election Re-ordering Bill over which comments he got into trouble with the Senate leadership. However, the police have arrested five persons who allegedly invaded the Senate and snatched the mace. They are Tuoyo Mabiaku from Warri North Local Government Area of Delta State; Peter Orede, Warri South LGA; Blessing Edjeke from Abraka In Ethiope East LGA; Lucky Okomu from Oghara in Ethiope West LGA and Prince Enayemo, Ughelli South LGA all of Delta State. Mace Snatching Saga Disgraceful, Dangerous — Balarabe Musa A former governor of old Kaduna State, Balarabe Musa, has described snatching of the mace as disgraceful. Musa said that the incident was dangerous, not only for democracy, but for security. Musa said the saga was more dangerous to security than it was to democracy. “I ask, how can anyone or group invade the Senate and seize the mace, which is the symbol of authority? “The incident, though a disgrace to democracy, had greater implications for security”, he said. Mace ‘Abduction’ Humiliation Of Nigeria’s Democracy— CSOs Some civil society organisations (CSOs) in Abuja said the “abduction’’ of the mace at the Senate’s chamber in the National Assembly was a humiliation of Nigeria’s democracy. The CSOs said in separate interviews that the ugly incident was a challenge to the authority of the National Assembly. Chairman, Partners for Electoral Reform, Ezenwa Nwagwu, said the act must have been planned by some people not comfortable with the leadership of the Assembly. “The mace is the symbol and power of the National Assembly, so if anybody is taking it away, it means that there are people who are uncomfortable with the current leadership,’’ he said. Chidi Onuma, Coordinator, African Centre for Media and Information Literacy, described the incident as “frightening’’. Onuma said the mace “is supposed to be the symbol of Nigeria’s democracy from the legislative point of view. So, if a stranger can just walk in and take it away, that tells us how weak the nature of the legislature is. “The public deserve to know what happened and this also calls for thorough investigation because these are the kind of things that happen only in banana republics.” On his part, Frank Tietie, Executive Director, the Citizens Advocacy for Social and Economic Rights (CASER), said that the entire event was a political conspiracy. “The first thing that comes to my mind is that it is a political conspiracy among the leadership and security at the National Assembly. “I do not want to subscribe to the cheap conclusion that one man has the intelligence and knowhow to beat the security at the Assembly. “I believe this is another calculated way of humiliating our country and the price is too much for this kind of political dealings and must be investigated for the purpose of exposing the collaborators,’’ he said. Senate Attack Evidence Of Broken Country, Says Secondus Uche Secondus, the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) National Chairman, on Wednesday flayed the invasion of the Senate by hoodlums. Secondus described the action as the height of insecurity and an indication that Nigeria had become a broken country. He spoke in Akure, Ondo state capital, on his way to Ekiti State to meet the PDP stakeholders ahead of the governorship election in the state. “A few minutes ago, we were informed that hoodlums forced their ways into the Senate chamber and carted away the mace, the symbol of authority. “What that means is that the country is totally broken. The APC government is totally broken. Insecurity all over the country from the North to the East to the West. People are dying on daily basis,” he said. The PDP national chairman said the party was not disturbed by the rumours of some of its top members leaving for other political parties. Secondus said forces would soon come together to force President Muhammadu Buhari out of government in the interest of the country. Saraki Commends Colleagues, House Members For Defending Democracy The President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, has commended lawmakers for standing up firmly in defence of democracy and the rule of law in an attack on Wednesday where the mace was carted away. Saraki, in a statement by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, also lauded the swift reaction by the leadership and members of the House of Representatives. He commended them for demonstrating solidarity with the red chamber, adding that it was a strong signal that enemies of democracy and those who wanted to undermine the legislature would be resisted by all parliamentarians. Saraki spoke from Washington D.C, where he was attending the Spring Meeting of the World Bank/International Monetary Fund (IMF). APC, Presidency Emboldened NASS Invasion, Says PDP The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has come down hard on the ruling APC and the presidency, accusing them of masterminding the invasion of the National Assembly and the seizure of the Senate mace. The opposition party calls it a direct assault on the legislature and bold attempt to truncate Nigeria’s democracy. PDP alleges that offensive on the Senate was emboldened by series of interferences and direct attacks by APC and the Buhari presidency on the institution of the National Assembly, particularly the Senate. “The APC has foisted on our nation an irredeemable autocracy, which has in three years of governance, gone beyond limits to force Nigerians to accept a government that has no respect for freedom and the ideals of democracy, particularly the constitutional separation of powers,” explained Kola Ologbodiyan, spokesman for the PDP. We Will Mete Out Sanctions Where Necessary— Presidency Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has vowed to mete out sanctions on security officials who aided Senator Ovie Omo-Agege gain access into the National Assembly on Wednesday. Osinbajo also sympathised with the leadership of the Senate, when he played host to Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, who came to brief him on the incident that unfolded earlier at the chambers. The Deputy Senate President, who has been presiding over the Senate, on behalf of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, alleged that the suspended senator (Omo-Agege) was acting a script. He described senator’s action as threat to Nigeria’s democracy. Invasion Shows Democracy Is In Shambles – Odumakin Yinka Odumakin, National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, has said the invasion of the National Assembly by thugs is an indication that Nigeria’s democracy is in shambles. Odumakin, who accused the security agents in the National Assembly of colluding with the thugs, said it is surprising how six thugs can beat the security agents to break into the Senate chamber and steal the mace, which is the symbol of authority. He, however, lauded the senators for standing up against the criminal act, saying had the thugs succeeded, the lawmakers will be forever cowed from carrying out their legislative duties. “It portends a lot of danger for our democracy. It shows that our democracy is in shambles. It is now clear that we are a laughing stock in the assembly of civilised nations. That six thugs will walk into a whole National Assembly and steal the mace which is the symbol of authority calls for serious concern. The security agents in the National Assembly are more than enough to stop six thugs”. Invasion, An Assault On Nigeria’s Democracy, Says Atiku Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar condemned the invasion. Reacting to the incident in Abuja on Wednesday, Atiku Abubakar described the attack as a dangerous precedent and an assault on Nigeria’s democracy by anti-democratic elements. “I am utterly embarrassed, shocked and outraged by this ugly development because it is not only a threat to a major democratic institution, but also represents a grave danger to the survival of our democracy.” Attack Against Democracy—APC On its part, the ruling APC condemned the invasion of the Senate chambers. In a statement issued by APC’s National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdulahi, the ruling party whose member, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, was alleged to have sponsored the attack, described it as an attack against democracy. “The attention of the APC has been drawn to the invasion of the Nigerian Senate by suspected thugs who disrupted Wednesday’s plenary and made away with the mace. “The APC hereby condemns this action and views it as an attack on our democracy and a desecration of the hallowed institution of the National Assembly.” Invasion Of Senate Dangerous For Democracy – Lawyers Lawyers have roundly condemned Senate invasion, which saw the disruption of plenary after suspected thugs, reportedly led by suspended Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, invaded the chamber and made away with the mace. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, the lawyers described the development as shocking, unprecedented and capable of truncating the nation’s democracy. “The development is dangerous to our democracy,” they stated in agreement. According to Chief Emeka Ngige (SAN), the perpetrators of the incident deserve to be punished because their action is antithetical to the democratic ethos. He said, “It is a very shocking development, and a very dangerous one for our democracy. What has happened must not be allowed to happen again; otherwise it is capable of truncating our democracy. “This is why I call on the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the Director of the Department of State Security (DSS) to wade into the matter, get to its roots and deal decisively with the perpetrators according to the rule of law.” For Ilorin-based senior lawyer, Yusuf Alli (SAN), the incident must be deplored by well-meaning Nigerians because it could be fatal to democracy and also because it is an invitation to anarchy. According to him, “The mace is the symbol of authority of the legislature without which it cannot sit or carry out its business in plenary. What has happened is indeed dangerous for our democracy, because an attack on the National Assembly is literally an attack on democracy. “The difference between military dictatorship and constitutional democracy is the presence of the National Assembly. Without the National Assembly what you have is anything but democracy.” Lawyer and public affairs analyst, Olusina Fasugba, says the development, which he describes as “sheer gangsterism and rascality,” has historical antecedents dating as far back as the First Republic. He said, “It is sheer gangsterism and rascality. It has historical antecedents dating back to the immediate post-colonial period if you can recall the events of the ‘wild wild west’ that saw the reign of anarchy in the Western Regional Assembly during the First Republic.” He added, “It is even commonplace in many state Houses of Assembly. But this is the first time we are seeing this kind of thing happening in the Senate.” FG Orders Probe Of Senate Invasion The Federal Government has ordered a probe of the invasion of the Senate on Wednesday. Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information, disclosed this in a statement issued in Abuja. The statement said the government received the report of the theft of the Senate’s mace with shock. DSS Quizzes Sergeants-At-Arms Meanwhile, the Department of State Services (DSS) at the National Assembly has summoned all sergeants-at-arms who were on duty at the time of the incident. The DSS, according to sources privy to the interrogation, was concerned that the intruders were able to gain access to the chamber, using the suspended senator as a decoy. A source who spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT stated that the secret police was suspecting a grand conspiracy on the part of the sergeants-at-arms to have allowed the suspended senator into the chamber, knowing that he had been suspended a week prior. “You, too, look at this. It’s not as if they don’t know that this man had been suspended, they knew, yet they allowed him into the chamber, and not only him, other strangers who were not senators. Nobody will tolerate that kind of negligence. “After failing to identify and stop the intruders from gaining access to the chamber, they also failed to stop them from taking the mace away. “What if it was a Boko Haram terrorist that came here, that was how they would have allowed them in to kill people and go scot-free,” the source queried. 1 comments