Hon. Jude Idimogu is the member representing Oshodi/Isolo constituency 2 in the Lagos State House of Assembly on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with Joy Anigbogu,  he spoke about his party and other issues of interest. Excerpts: The 2019 general election is very close. Do you think that you can still get the kind of support you had three years ago considering the fact that you vied for this position on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)? I am more popular now and I think that I have more supporters now. My contribution in the constituency will always speak for me. The platform might have changed but the performance is there. My party APC is doing very well in Lagos State. Our governor is performing well and as long as he is performing it makes our work easy. My former party PDP as of today does not have a strong footing in Lagos State. Do you hear anything about the party? It is more like the party is dying slowly. I did not just move to APC. If there had been no crisis in the party, the desire for me to do more for my constituency and the desire to join the progressives, I would not have moved. Also very important to note is that the governor had been nice to me. He was working in my constituency irrespective of the fact that I was in the opposition party. I just reasoned that since I was gaining so much support that if I should be on the same platform with him that my constituency will fare better. Some of your supporters felt very bad that you moved without proper consultation and now that you would need them in the forthcoming election, how do you intend to regain their trust? Some of them were aggrieved quite alright but I have been able to persuade them. You know it is not going to be a day’s job, we would continue with negotiations but I must also tell you that the aggrieved people are in the minority. We live in Lagos and as such we should work in tandem with the government of the State so as to get better benefits for our people. The governor respects every tribe, you can attest to that with the relationship he has with non-indigenes. Since the inception of the government of Ambode, no market has been closed down in the State. He sees everybody as a stakeholder in the State. You said that you left PDP because there was crisis in the party and now that your party, APC is also having crisis at the national level, don’t you think that can also rub off on the fortunes of the party in the forthcoming elections or do you intend to move again? The crisis in the party is a minor one. It is being handled internally. I call it internal crisis because our president and our national leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu saw the future and knew there would be problem. If the crisis you are talking about is the tenure elongation. The problem that we have in this part of the world is that people do not want to obey the law. A typical Nigerian wants to flex muscles. He does not want to obey the law and the law is meant to be obeyed. If the constitution of the party says every 4 years you would conduct election, if the constitution requires you to go for reelection the door is open for you, so why do you want to go against it. It appears to me that what the present national working committee (NWC) wants to do is to take a short cut. If that is allowed to happen, the opposition parties will challenge you and even aggrieved members of the party can decide to go to court. The court will then interpret the constitution. We need to prevent all these contradictions now. If you use an elongated tenure NWC to nominate candidates, they will all be termed illegal, so it is good to do the right thing now. The land use law that was promulgated by you (legislators) is causing ripples in the State and Lagosians are still not comfortable with the 50 percent cut and other issues like the determinants of the market values of properties? The house is working on it. The house has even called for a public hearing. The attendance was impressive and people expressed their grievances especially in the area of market values of properties. Some of them requested for 2 weeks and it was granted them. The house gave everybody a fair hearing on issues like market value, how it is determined. The governor cannot just change it unilaterally. He has to come back to the house that makes laws. When the amended copy comes out it will take care of the issues raised by Lagosians because it is Lagosians that put us here and so we cannot undermine their interest. Your party keeps releasing lists of names of treasury looters and these lists contain only names of PDP members but we all know that your party has a good number of members who were once PDP members, so why are their names not on the lists? You remember that there was a Supreme Court judgment on the issue of releasing treasury looters names when somebody went to court. The issues of releasing names have been there for a long time. I will say that our party has even been slow in releasing the lists. People have looted the national treasury and there has been indictment whether the matter is in court or not does not mean that the names should not be mentioned. If PDP believes it has evidence that some members of APC looted the treasury as well they should come up with their lists also. It is good for the economy of this nation to mention looters names irrespective of party affiliations. APC is only trying to sanitize the system and rid it of corruption. If I call you a thief and you know that I am a thief also, you can go ahead and call me a thief if you have concrete evidence. We should appreciate the president who has summoned courage to fight corruption. The security of this nation is having huge challenges and just recently, General Theophilus Danjuma (Rtd) advised Tarabans to defend themselves since the State (federal government) has failed to perform its primary assignment. What is your view about that advice? What he said was like asking people to take laws into their hands but aside from that Gen. T.Y. Danjuma is a respected Nigerian and I believe that he must have thought over the issue and has been disturbed by what was happening around him. I don’t know if he had previously gone to the appropriate authority before he chose to give that advice but I must confess that what he said was weighty and a call to people to take up arms is a call to anarchy. 1 comments