The increasing death rate of Nigerian youths from addiction to hard drugs is startling, scary and scandalous! This critical issue of national concern elicits the  obvious  questions: Who supplies them? What are the effects on the users and more importantly, what should we be doing to combat the monster frontally and bring it to its knees? As records have shown, they began with cannabis but have since graduated to harder drugs. Name them: tramadol, codeine, morphine and pentazocine (fortwin) are some. Others include pethidine. diazepam, rochephenol and heroin, which  taken frequently and in excess  have sent many of our young ones to their early graves. For those lucky to be alive, hard drugs deaden their nervous system, increase  the heart-beat and  cause the blood vessels to dilate. They also lead to bad digestion, notably of vitamin B,  especially when taken on empty stomach. Worse still,  hard drugs interfere with the power of judgment and poison the higher brain and nerve centre . In spite of sustained efforts by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA to stem the scandalous tide of addiction to hard drugs by our directionless youths, there seems to be no letting, at least for now.  In fact, we should be worried because apart from consumption, the level of our youth actively engaged in drug trafficking  is alarming. For instance, in March 2016 some 158 Nigerians were on death row for related crimes in China and Malaysia. From the product of an extensive work done by Haladu (2003) the  causes of drug abuse include experimental curiosity, peer group influence, lack of parental supervision and personality problems due to socio-economic conditions. Other factors may include the need for energy to work for long hours, availability of drugs and the need to prevent withdrawal symptoms. Firstly, we should understand that a drug is a substance used for medical purposes that change the state or function of the body. On the other hand, drug abuse is a situation when drug is taken more than it is prescribed. Essentially, heroin, tramadol, codeine and the likes are described as addicting drugs capable of producing severe physical or psychological dependence. The National Institute on Drug Abuse United States of America (NIDA) explains that “the excessive use of drugs can alter important brain areas that are necessary for life-sustaining functions and can drive the compulsive drug abuse that marks addiction’’. The root of their production was supposedly traced to the United States, U.S. between 1965 and 1970. Ever since, their manufacture and sales have spread to other parts of the world, notably South America and Europe. It should be noted that the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) was specifically established by Decree Number 48 of January 1990 as a Federal Government agency in Nigeria charged with eliminating the growing, processing, manufacturing, selling, exporting and trafficking of hard drugs. Of importance to us are the solutions to the malaise. Concerned about the increasing menace of the abuse of drugs by undergraduates, the Bells University Parents Forum (BUPF) chose it as a topic for the Second Annual Seminar in Ota, Ogun State in 2014. The thought-provoking lecture  was aptly delivered by Dr.Dokun Adedeji,  a medical expert and the CEO of Mind Trials Limited.  He focused attention on the significant roles parents and lecturers could play in mitigating the scourge. One of the challenges with the abuse however, is the lukewarm attitude governments and parents have had towards accepting the fact that it poses a socio-economic challenge. Globally, between 102,000 and 247,000 died from drug overdose in 2011 alone (UNODC). Though South Africa’s drug addiction is ranked as twice the world normal with 15 per cent of its citizens actively involved in its consumption, Nigeria is the 8th highest consumer of Indian hemp or cannabis. From NDLEA records cannabis accounts for 80 per cent of substance abuse in Nigeria. According to a 2013 study, 90 per cent of drugs abusers are teenagers and young adults between the age of 15 and 29.It means that these youths constitute a wasting generation. Inadvertently, the addict becomes a financial and social burden on his parents and the larger society. The victim is susceptible to criminal activities to raise all the huge funds needed to keep up the self-decimating habit in addition to reducing the country’s labour force. According to Adedeji, an addicted person may show a decline in academic performance, frequently fail to attend classes, lose interest in school work and display weakened motor coordination, poor health and a lack of interest in old friendships. Parents and university authorities should be on the lookout for presence of drugs and their paraphernalia like foil, rolling paper, mirror, straw and blade. They may also be in possession of actual drugs, seeds or leaves in ashtray or on clothing. They should be conscious of odour of drug, smell of incense, use of strong perfumes and strong menthol sweets to dampen or obscure smell. Furthermore, they should establish and nurture good relationship with their children and lead by example. To curb with the menace of hard drugs parents must be there for their children. They should allocate quality time to spend with their children. They must discard the know-it-all attitude. It is necessary to allow for heart-to-heart discussions before decisions are taken or foisted on family members. Parents too should have open mind to seek more knowledge about contemporary issues affecting young people. The role of the University Community in combating this social problem is also first to accept that there is a challenge on their hands. There should be the establishment of a guidance and counseling unit to address deviant cases. The Guidance and Counseling Officer should seek relevant knowledge on contemporary social issues. The school curriculum should be modified to accommodate relevant issues as much as possible. The department in charge of such sensitive issues should encourage and accommodate self-disclosure by the student victims. A parents’ forum such as the one at Bells University of Technology will provide help before punishment. We all-parents, the university and other students should avoid stigmatization of the addicts. They need help. That calls for drug advocacy within the University Community as an open affair. All students should have better understanding about drugs and internalize such. They should be careful the types of friends they choose and steer clear of peer pressure. If they find themselves in sticky situations they should ask for help as soon as possible to resolve all forms of conflict. There should be no room for experimentation; to even try the drugs at all. Above all, the students themselves must come to terms with the fact they bear the primary responsibility for their lives and future. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.