Uyo – Rural communities in Akwa Ibom State have in recent months undergone bumper harvest of dividends of democracy as all 26 members of the State House of Assembly have taken turns, in a positively competitive manner, to go back home and empower members of their constituency. This has made it possible for many rural dwellers to become owners of cars, mini buses, modern boats and canoes, sewing and hair dressing facilities, generating sets, barbing kits, wheelchairs for the disabled, motorcycles, educational scholarship, and financial empowerment for business advancements. The empowerment/constituency briefing under review was that of the House of Assembly member representing Mkpat Enin State Constituency and Chairman House Services Committee, Engr Otobong Ndem. Ndem in his empowerment hosted at Community Technical College, Ikot Akata, Mkpat Enin LGA however went steps further to provide a much more enduring means of empowering the people, with the donation of a mini housing estate, sitting on a 16 plot of not less than 620square meter a plot at Mkpat Enin Unity Estate, Mbiokporo, Uyo capital city, to his constituent members. Addressing the mammoth crowd which thronged venue of the constituency briefing/ empowerment to be part of the occasion, Ndem who had previously empowered over 200 constituent members with cash empowerment ranging from N500,000 to N30,000 said he was on current empowerment giving out five cars, 10mini buses, 14 motorbikes, 14 hair dryer/kits, 15 sewing machines, seven aluminium cutting machines. Other items included; 14 generators, 14barbing kits, two tool boxes, a wheelchair, 14deep freezers, land allocation to 14 persons, bursary to 27 students, educational scholarship to 17 students and financial empowerment to 58 members of his constituency. The lawmaker said some of the empowerment items were donated to the 75 persons he had previously trained on various skills such as hair dressing, fashion design, welding/fabrication, ICT/computer training, phone repairs, videography, automobile maintenance, electrical installation (Domestic), barbing, carpentry/furniture, pharm./patent medicine, balloster production and tiling. Rendering account of his legislation, the lawmaker said he has within the last three years sponsored three bills, cosponsored nine bills and moved six motions. Some of Ndem’s sponsored bills include; Akwa Ibom State Economic and Strategic Bill, 2016, Investors/Investment protection bill 2016 and the Akwa Ibom State Urban and Regional planning Bill, 2017. It is also on record that the motions on “death fangs from consumption of illegal drink popularly known as kai kai (Ethanol and Methanol), Rehabilitation of Cottage  Hospitals at Asong, Ikot Abia and Ikot Ekpaw, all in Mkpat Enin, Indiscriminate proliferation of tertiary institutions in Akwa Ibom, Assessment of state implementation of the 2016 Akwa Ibom State budget, Deplorable state of Community Technical College, Ikot Akata and checking roadside market and trading on highway in the state to safe guard lives” were all moved by this lawmaker. On his Oversight functions, Ndem who is currently the Chairman House Services Committee had previously chaired the house committee on Rural Development and public utilities as well as committee on Judiciary, Justice Human Right and Public Petitions. He was once Chairman, Ad-hoc committee on gully erosion of Calabar Itu road. His commitment and due diligence led to the prompt rehabilitation of the road, which had become a dead trap. In their goodwill messages, leaders of Ward elder’s forum beginning from Elder Friday Ayara of Ikpa Ibom, Mr Nkereuwem Akai from Ukpum Minya clan,  Barr Konsit Akpanenang of Ikpa Ikono and Evans Emmanuel Eshiet from Ibiaku clan unanimously adopted Otobong Ndem as sole house of Assembly candidate for 2019, and Udom Emmanuel for a second term. comments