Enugu – Enugu State Executive Council (SEC) has approved N2,572,686,367 for the immediate construction of new classroom blocks and renovation of dilapidated structures in both primary and junior secondary schools in the state. A total of 208 projects are to be executed under the Enugu State Universal Basic Education Board (ENSUBEB). Prof. Uche Eze, the Commissioner for Education, made this disclosure at a press briefing after the meeting of Enugu SEC. According to Eze, part of the approval, aimed at improving the standard of education and creating a conducive learning environment in the state, was the procurement of classroom plastic chairs and desks, white boards and sporting equipment. The don also disclosed that the council, in keeping with the four-point agenda of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s administration as it concerns quality education and welfare of workers, approved N271 million as bailout fund to Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT) to enable the institution offset the remaining seven months monetisation arrears owed its workers. He explained that prior to the inception of the present administration, ESUT workers were owed 14 months arrears of their monetisation, recalling that the state government had, three months ago, approved an equivalent amount for the institution, which was used to pay the first seven months arrears. “These arrears of monetisation owed the staff of ESUT dated back as far as 2006. This is the money owed by previous administrations. But His Excellency in his magnanimity and concern for the welfare of staff of the state has made this fund available to make these workers happy and motivate them to put in more effort to ensure that educational delivery is improved,” Prof. Eze said. He also stated that the council, in its determination to ensure a speedy relocation of the Enugu State College of Education (Technical) to the permanent site in Ihe, Awgu Local Government Area, also approved N14.6 million for the clearing of the site, erection of perimeter fence and creation of access road in the new site. The commissioner added that the speedy relocation of the school to Awgu would open up the area to development and economic activities, in line with the rural development agenda of the present administration. “The government is fast fulfilling her promises to the people of the state, and Awgu in particular,” he stressed. Also speaking, Greg Nnaji, the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, announced that the state government, in continuation of its “aggressive” infrastructure development initiatives both in urban and rural areas, extended the newly-flagged off four-kilometre Nkwo Inyi/Akpugoeze/Anambra State border road, phase one, by two kilometres. Nnaji told newsmen that the decision for the extension was to cover the length and breadth of Nkwo Inyi and Akpugoeze, adding that the contract was awarded to the same construction company handling the initial contract, Ambeez Services Ltd, at the cost of N326.6 million. The works commissioner also briefed newsmen that the council approved the award of contract for the installation of solar-powered smart street lighting system within the surroundings of New Market, Enugu, in keeping faith with the state government’s urban renewal agenda and to complement the already installed ones from the Aguabor-New Market dual carriageway into the city of Enugu. He further explained that the contract, which was awarded to Fordmax Nig. Ltd at the cost of N34.455 million, would cover NCFC roundabout to Milliken Hill road barrier; New Market roundabout by Civil Defence state headquarters to works road; New Market roundabout to Ekulu Primary School and New Market roundabout to NCFC roundabout. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.