Lagos – Two suspects who belonged to a six-man kidnap gang have been arrested for allegedly masterminding the kidnap of one Alvin Onuoha in Ajah, Lagos and demanding $30,000 as ransom for the release of the victim. The suspects, Eze Douglas and Vincent Uchenna who had confessed to be involved in cybercrimes (also known as Yahoo Boys) were paraded at the Lagos State Police Command in Ikeja on Monday by the Commissioner of Police, CP Edgal Imohimi. The command also arrested one Abdulrahman Mohammed on allegation that he impersonates as a medical doctor. According to CP Imohimi, the two suspected kidnappers  had on April 6th,  2018 at about 5:20pm kidnapped the victim who was returning from work in front of his gate at Ajah. They had demanded for $30,000 as ransom but had after much consultation amongst the gang members reduced the ransom to N200,000. Imohimi said:  “The six-man gang had stormed the house of the victim in a salon car and a motorcycle.  At gun point, the victim was forced into the Camry car with four occupants while the other two kidnappers followed them behind on a motorcycle to an unknown destination. Two of the suspects namely,  Epe Douglas and Vincent Uchenna were however arrested on the same day as they were about to collect the N200,000 ransom for the release of their victims by the anti-kidnapping squad of the Lagos State Police Command led by Okosun A. Odion, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP). Also, the police boss said that on the 14th of April, 2018, at about 25 minutes past midnight, detectives from Area ‘D’ Command, Mushin arrested one Abdulrahman Mohammed, a 39-year-old native of Ran Village in Gamboru Ngala Local Government Area of Borno State for allegedly operating as a medical doctor with office at 3, Bamishiele Street, Idi-Araba. According to the CP, the suspects education stopped at the primary school level, even though there is no certificate to authenticate the claim. “Further investigation into the activities of Abdulrahman who had been impersonating as a medical doctor for the past four years revealed that he had been practicing as a doctor since 2014. He had been administering intravenous injections, conducting medical test on his patients, taking urine and blood samples from his patients,” said the CP, adding that the suspect claims to be buying the drugs from Idumota market. “Exhibits recovered from him includes blood pressure reading machine, both manual and electronic, syringes, drip packs both saline and sugar solutions,” Imohinmi revealed adding that the suspect would be charged to court as soon as investigation was over. However, during interrogation, the alleged mastermind of the kidnapping, Douglas confessed  to have stayed with the victim in the same house. He stated further that the sum of $30, 000 was what the gang initially demanded as ransom for the release of the victim before reducing it to N200,000. Contrary to the revelation by the police, Douglas denied being a kidnapper and said that he had only kidnapped the victim who is a brother to his boss, Nelson Ejiofor to make his boss pay him his debt. He claimed that he and Ejiofor were into cybercrime business and had a sharing formula which Ejiofor did not comply with. The 26-year-old indigene of Imo State said, “It was Ejiofor who brought me from Imo State where I was working as a carpenter to Lagos.  He introduced me to Yahoo business. “I was getting links from Facebook and giving him to follow up and collect the money with a sharing formula of 60 to 40. “Two of my links paid but Onuoha denied me my share of the money. He denied that the links were yet to pay. “Fortunately, a friend of mine who was also following up on the business called to inform me that the second business paid $30,000. “I got mad and when I insisted on him paying me he sent me out of his house and threatened to deal with me. “I left Ejiofor’s house and was sleeping on the streets of Lagos. So when I told my friend Uchenna how my boss had cheated me,  he asked me what I wanted and I told him I wanted my money.  So we came up with a plan to kidnap him and request for the $30,000 he had collected in the second deal. “We contacted two Army personnel to help carry out our plan.  But unfortunately when we got to the house, we met Onuoha at the gate and we picked him up and contacted Ejiofor to pay $30,000 for his release.” The suspect who was arrested by the anti-kidnapping team of the command led by Okosun A. Odion  insisted he only wanted his money and nothing more. The Commissioner of Police said investigations into the matter is ongoing and that the suspects will be charged to court for conspiracy and kidnapping on the conclusion of investigation. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.