It is not often that unwarranted outbursts should be dignified if the motive is not clearly designed to wilfully disparage at the slightest opportunity. Notwithstanding, politics is ultimately war often deviously fought through other means necessary; including the deployment of seemly harmless non-lethal weapons which could turn out to be more destructive than the conventional warheads. Precisely to this end and in the absence of clear-cut ideology that separates real progressives from pretenders, subtle politics easily offers avenues for undue indulgence in uncharitable profiling through self-seeking mercenaries who take delights in mordant and if not throat-slitting criticism. Whereas progressive politics ordinarily should provide fertile ground for robust engagement and respect for divergent of opinions, it is unfortunate that the self-consuming tasks of castigating those with alternative views remains attractive to those who have unwittingly (even if tragic) dragged the political landscape to the prevailing order of quislingism under which they now struggle for a lifeline even as they continue to feign believability in the wallowing contradictions that is the scorecard of prevailing progressive politics. The auspicious 90 years birthday celebration of quintessential elder statesman, Chief Samuel Ayodele Adebanjo was rudely invaded by distractions recently through popular Columnist Sam Omatseye whose piece titled “Adebanjo: Not my progressive” was clearly needless and uncouth. Ostensibly irked with rage, for whatever motive, by the well-deserved commendations accorded the celebrant by well meaning Nigerians including the vivacious Reuben Abati, another Columnist of note, Sam Omatseye queried Pa Adebanjo’s progressive credentials largely on the account of what he considered unethical romance with the former President Goodluck Jonathan who is evidently is the fall guy of the crisis of Nigeria’s power oligarchy. While Sam Omatseye is free to disagree with the choice of methodology embraced by the nonagenarian in engaging the political terrain at the age he ought to be enjoying a fitting rest, it is however one folly carried too far to have dubbed Pa Ayo Adebanjo a turncoat. In his words, ‘what some, including many political stalwarts, have left out is that a man should spend decades pursuing one goal and then turncoat in a later year”. Hypocritically, the writer failed to avail readers his opinion as to where the alternative rabidly pursued by his masters in the time-serving progressive camp has left Nigeria today. But not to worry, we know where he stood six month ago and how he has suddenly turned 180% no sooner than the beats began to change. Indeed, the tragedy of progressive politics that ought to elicit pondering and if not lamentation by Sam Omatseye were he not utterly slippery is the prevailing decline into quislingism in the order of Abraham Lauritz Jonsson, the puppet premier of Norway later known as Vidkun Quisling in the heat of Nazi occupation in the mid 20th Century. And trust Pa Adebanjo not to allow the chanllenge continue unengaged even at 90 years! It is recalled Quisling welcomed the Nazi’s invasion in 1940 and enhanced the political support that foreclosed resistance from fellow Norwegians. He was rewarded with Premiership in 1942 but paid dearly with his life in 1945 on account of treason charges. Happily, Chief Ayo Adebanjo in his graceful age has remained ever conscious and alert and would not, for any reason, pass for a Quisling by whatever estimation today. How more graceful could a political sojourns that spanned over 60 years turned out to be considering the prevailing bare-faced denials by those who revue at progressive conquest while the country literarily totters on the precipice. Understandably, Chief Ayo Adebanjo may no longer fit into today’s categorisation of what progressive politics entails under the prevailing order but he sure has an unassailable political history which could not be deodorised on account of his political choice and notwithstanding the momentum of infantilism that is now the hue of politics of anti-corruption. But it must be reiterated that none of the leading opinion moulders in Nigeria in recent time has exhibited the level of brazen volte-face we have seen Sam Omatseye demonstrated within the last couple of months. We are not unmindful of the fact that we are in the era of philistinism when electoral victory confers political correctness; and if not legitimacy of monopoly of progressivism as though ideals that propel political engagement on the basis of pro-people agenda essentially begins and ends with success or failure in periodic elections. Otherwise Chief Obafemi Awolowo and other committed progressives alike would not qualify for such edification considering their travails at different times at the polls. However, the predilection for asserting control on the political landscape with the trappings of conquistadors is really not an issue to bother about. The concern however is the lack of tolerant by self-style vuvuzela who seek futily to redefine progressives within the confines of their convinience. But beyond writing fantastic prose which we dearly love, what has Sam Onatseye contributed at the level of the field in giving direction to the progressive cause?. I recall how Chief Ayo Adebanjo at 82 years of age sometimes in 2010 denied himself the luxury sleep on fine night in Abuja while we were rooting for mega platform alongside the Buhari’s group before they abandoned the cause to form the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC). Unfortunately, the rabid aversion for rule of civilised engagement has become a joke that has been taken too far; into the abyss. The tragedy however is that , if not already the case, all manner of disservice to the chequered history of progressive politics in Nigeria may soon become the passion of quislings who would not defer to age and the ennobling sacrifices of their chosen victims of wilful vilification. 0 comments