Title: Phenomenal Woman Author: Maya Angelou Reviewer: Andrew Spacey Publisher: Random House Publishing Group No of Pages: 32 Phenomenal Woman is a lyrical poem that sends out an important message to the world of convention and stereotype: empowerment comes from being confident in your own female skin, no matter if you are not seen as cute or fashionable by the masses. Maya Angelou published this poem in 1978 when it appeared in And Still I Rise, a collection of powerful poems that set many an oppressed woman free. Since then, the poem has been adapted and used by associations and groups world-wide involved in protest and political issues around inequality. ‘The idea is to write it so that people hear it and it slides through the brain and goes straight to the heart.’ Phenomenal Woman is a direct and passionate poem no doubt, you can feel the speaker’s need to lay things out just as they are, yet it also contains the seed of self-knowing, of self-confidence. ‘A wise woman wishes to be no one’s enemy; a wise woman refuses to be anyone’s victim.’ And it does convey the idea that no matter the pressures of society to conform and be who others want you to be, inner self-belief is the phenomenal bit. Once this is accepted, you will be a happier and more complete person, a phenomenon. ‘I love to see a young girl go out and grab the world by the lapels. Life’s a bitch. You’ve got to go out and kick ass.’ In short, this poem boasts that a woman is more than the sum of her parts, much more. She is enigmatic, magnetic and is also capable of defining her own beauty. Phenomenal Woman Pretty women wonder where my secret lies. I’m not cute or built to suit a fashion model’s size But when I start to tell them, They think I’m telling lies. I say, It’s in the reach of my arms, The span of my hips, The stride of my step, The curl of my lips. I’m a woman Phenomenally. Phenomenal woman, That’s me. I walk into a room Just as cool as you please, And to a man, The fellows stand or Fall down on their knees. Then they swarm around me, A hive of honey bees. I say, It’s the fire in my eyes, And the flash of my teeth, The swing in my waist, And the joy in my feet. I’m a woman Phenomenally. Phenomenal woman, That’s me. Men themselves have wondered What they see in me. They try so much But they can’t touch My inner mystery. When I try to show them, They say they still can’t see. I say, It’s in the arch of my back, The sun of my smile, The ride of my breasts, The grace of my style. I’m a woman Phenomenally. Stanza 1 It’s interesting to note that the people this phenomenal woman wants to address initially are pretty women. The reason why is soon revealed – the speaker is plain looking herself, she’s not cute or slender or fashionable in shape, but inside she knows she has those pretty women asking questions that are difficult to answer. Stanza 2 Next up are the men who are instinctively drawn to the phenomenal woman, some even start to worship her, or else cannot sustain a standing position so overcome are they. There’s a sort of spell cast over these males who act as honey bees around the hive. Stanza 3 Concentrating on the male of the species again, the speaker perceives that even they can’t put their finger on just why they’re so attracted by this phenomenal woman. Stanza 4 In a direct appeal to the reader, the speaker lays it on the line and attempts to clarify all that has gone on in the previous three stanzas. She can hold her head high because of what she is: proud of being an individual without the need to kowtow to society and its false stereotypes, its idea of what a beautiful female should like and aspire to be. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.