OGHARA – Prof Shedrack Gaya Best, Department of Political Science, University of Jos has said that any organisation or individuals who establishes a university belong to a class of people to be termed as heroes as they are performing the duty of the government. Prof Best stated this at the weekend in Oghara, Delta State, during the 4th public lecture in commemoration of the 10th anniversary of the Western Delta University, positing that such people and organisations have the option of investing in lucrative businesses, but believe that the future of private universities is bright and assuring. Speaking on the topic, ‘Private Universities and the Challenge of Educational Development In Nigeria,’ Best said the owners of such institutions were building the future of Nigeria; hence they should be commended and celebrated, while the government must show its interest and support. Best, who stated that private universities had been rendering invaluable services to the nation, stressed that supporting them amounted to supporting the future of education. He said that more universities should be registered since it was certain that the number of private universities would continue to increase as public ones would never cope with demand for education. He advised that despite that graduates from private universities ranked among the best in the competitive examinations and aptitude tests, monitoring and quality control measures should be strengthened and a policy framework for supporting it put in place as it goes beyond approvals and accreditation. The Don maintained that to properly build the future of Nigeria, the funding of private universities, as the third category of proprietors, should attract government support, while more scholarships should be given to students in private universities as public ones would never cope with the rising demand for higher education. Prof Andrew Onokerhoraye, Chairman and Pro Chancellor of the university, maintained that the topic of the lecture was important, especially in Nigeria where public universities look down on private ones. According to him, the principle and essence of such public lecture was to bring about people from the university, outside the university community to make students learn from lecturers and lectures from students. Prof. Otete Okobiah, Vice Chancellor, Western Delta University, described education as the foundation for every development, as it provides the technology and tools of transformation and that the capacity, skill and talent of the people is enhanced through education. She maintained that the university had achieved a lot in the areas of human and capital development, especially in the areas of accreditation of its courses, even as he mentioned funding as one of its major challenge. 0 comments