By now, most Nigerians would be familiar with Mr Bill Gate’s incisive perspective on Nigeria’s development because his speech to the National Economic Council last week has gone viral. So there is no need repeating the fact that he identified health and education as sectors that Nigerian policy makers have to rejig in the Economic Recovery Growth Plan,ERGP to enable the full realisation of our country’s potentials.This is because he noticed that even if the ERGP boasts of being focused on Nigerian people via investment in healthcare and education which are the critical elements of human development, attention seems to be skewed in favour of physical infrastructure to the detriment of sustainable human development from birth. According to Mr Gates, for real development that would make reasonable impact on the polity to take place, both human and physical infrastructure have to be developed pari pasu. To me, mr Gates’s perspective is a pretty straight forward analogy of the prospects and impediments to Nigeria’s much anticipated lift off from the poverty trap. But such positive optics of mr Gates presentation is not shared by Gov Nasir El Rufai of kaduna state who was part of the audience at the forum. He faulted Gates’s presentation and offered a counter view which is that the ERGP is a great document as it is. He is of the view that it only needs to be adopted at the state level for the vision behind it to be accomplished. His argument is that once the ERGP is implemented at grass roots level, the alarming infant and maternal mortality rate and embarrassingly short life expectancy of the average Nigerian (pegged at 53 years) , as well as the abysmally low funding of the education sector, (responsible for the high level of illiteracy) that Mr Gate identified as the key factors responsible for Nigeria’s arrested development, would simply evaporate. Gov El Rufai’s proposition reminds me of the National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy,NEEDS, and State Economic and Development Strategy,SEEDS, policy packaged by Prof Chukwuma Soludo, then Economic Adviser to President Olusegun Obasanjo and later Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, governor, 2003-7. When the NEEDS policy failed to yield the lofty results that the architects had promised , it was resolved that it needed to be cascaded down to the state level for it to be more efficacious . Accordingly, SEEDS was born and it turned out as another exercise in futility. Until Udo Udoma -led ministry of economic planning came up with ERGP a couple of years into President Muhammadu Buhari’s regime, SEEDS was officially Nigeria’s economic policy aimed at leapfrogging development at the grass roots level. El Rufai can’t argue against the fact that it failed to meet expectations. Otherwise a replacement with ERGP would not have been necessary. And as the saying goes “ if ain’t broken, why fix it ?“ Which begs the question, why El Rufai is clamoring for the cascading of the ERGP which is more or less a rehashed NEEDS along same failed route of being adopted at the state level as a panacea to the gaps identified by Mr Gates ? Benchmarked against the highest scientific standards, Mr Gates’ presentation is a well researched document. Apart from himself being one of the world’s best technologists who through his invention (commercialised via Microsoft) revolutionised or democratised the use of computer, he engaged experts from a university in Washington in the study. To localise the report he referenced the works of late Olikoye Ransome kuti who was one of Nigeria’s foremost Ministers of Health and Akinwunmi Adesina, another former Minister of Agriculture of Nigeria, now chief executive officer of Africa Development Bank, ADB, as well as the famous novelist,Chimamanda Adichie. Apart from the fact that he has physically visited Nigeria on several occasions, the aforementioned references clearly demonstrate that Mr Gates is fully abreast of the local development dynamics in Nigeria. Indeed, how could the technologist/philanthropist not be conversant with a country where he has committed about $1.6 billion to helping prevent or combat diseases and disasters? To me, and l dare add, every open and fair minded researcher or intellectual , a report that was put through the rigorous process as Bill Gates did, can not and must not be dismissed with a wave of hand or sacrificed on the altar of politics as El Rufai reportedly did by attempting to rubbish the Bill Gates presentation. If anyone is in doubt about the validity and viability of the report , the most reasonable thing to do is put it in a crucible for further scrutiny before comments can be made. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who was also at the event held his peace , perhaps with a view to interrogating the points raised before commenting. And in my considered opinion that is the right thing to do. Onyibe, a Development Strategist, Alumnus of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and former Commissioner in Delta state govt,  wrote in from Accra,Ghana 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.