Debo Adeniran, is the Executive Chairman of the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he assesses the successes of President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti-corruption was among other issues. Excerpts: Would you agree that the Fulani herdsmen should be classified as a terrorist group considering their killings and destruction? I do not buy the idea of calling these criminals Fulani herdsmen terrorists. They may be herdsmen. But, when they kill, they are not usually with the herds. Fulani herdsmen and farmers are always scared of one another. They are supposed to be friends and are not supposed to get on the way of each other. But, crops and cattle are not supposed to be together. There are many non-Fulani who own cattle. It may not be the cattle rearers who own the cattle. The owners may not want to create enmity between the rearers and the breeding communities. I don’t want to subscribe to the argument that Fulani are violent. We have lived with them for a very long time. I did a tour recently, crisscrossing South West and South East states. I saw cattle rearers. They still carry their sticks. I wonder if they are the same people carrying guns and shooting people, the case of farmers and herdsmen confounded me. If it was 10 herders who carried out such devastations and security agents could not do anything, I wonder if it was true. There are so many falsehood about the attacks or that they are machineries masquerading as herdsmen. The height of the attacks seem to give ground that there are Fifth Columnists in the centre, people who do not want the diversification of the economy from oil to agriculture. Certain people may not want the country’s agricultural policy to succeed. So, they want to scare farmers away from the farms. If farmers do not farm, there will be no crops and diversification will not be. On Myetti Allah’s threat, there are two factions of the group. They said their cattle are being rustled and the breeders are being killed. If that is so, they may be responsible for the attacks. If they are not arrested and questioned, those who should arrest and question them should be questioned. Those carrying out the attacks have something they are gaining. That is why security agencies have to be questioned on why they could not nip the attack on the bud. NIA, DSS, Military Intelligence should questioned on why they could not function to ensure that the attacks did not take place. Declaring the herdsmen as terrorist is not appropriate. They have not threatened the corporate existence of the country or attempted to conquer any territory and convert it to theirs. They do not endanger government institutions or preventing trade and commerce. Their invasion of farms seems localised. If they are terrorists, they will target security institutions and hoist their flags. That is why you cannot compare them with IPOB IPOB is a separatist movement. But, the cattle rearers are nomads and are not at a particular place. They do not have camps like Boko Haram. It will be an overkill to declare the herdsmen as terrorists. They attack soft targets in rural areas. They do not have private radio or invade media houses. What does the recent abduction of the Dapchi school girls tell of the nation’s security? It is a graphic example of what an intelligence failure should be. It showed that the nation’s intelligence, security and strategists have failed. They should have learnt from what happened at Chibok that schools in rural areas should not be left open. Negligence of security agencies should not be tolerated. They had pre-information of the attack. Those who carried out the attack came in ramshackle vehicles. Some broke down and they spent about three hours to repair the vehicles before they left. So what happened in Dapchi was security negligence. I expect such vehicles not to have vanished. There should be Police, DSS, NIA and soldiers at the borders as well as Customs and Immigration. Why was it that no one noticed when they moved out of the state or the country? If they had moved out, why was it impossible for security agencies to comb the areas where the girls were boarded. If nobody is punished, it could be concluded that they have the backing of the state apparatus. There would have been powerful vigilance interests that hide under the obscure to monitor movements in the rural areas. Parents should also engage in self-help to protect their children. Nobody in the community tried to trail the people that abducted the children. They could not call the security agencies and report that they were under siege. There was no vigilance network to reduce the repeat of such attack. If they see such movements, they could have called their colleagues to help. People should develop a system to help themselves. Would you agree that the abduction of the Dapchi school girls was a political conspiracy? The recent attack on Dapchi may be politic al if we relate it to what happened in Chibok. There ma may be a plot to show that what happened in previous administration can happen again under Buhari. The Boko Haram may have been annoyed over the announcement that they have been incapacitated. They may want to prove that they are still strong. They may want to improve their livelihood if it is true that government paid a lot of ransom on the released Chibok girls. So, they may want to extract money from the Federal Government and get other concessions like the release of some of their arrested members. They may want to make that part of the country ungovernable or embarrass the government. (The Chibok girls have been released). Would you say the anti-corruption crusade of President Muhammadu Buhari is a success? So far, it has been so good. No regime could have done better. None has done better. So many lapses, granted. But, no Federal Government could have done better given prevailing situation. The APC was less than a year old when it came to power. The groups and elements had no time to understand themselves. You cannot compare them with a party that has stayed 16 years. Before you can work together, these will be understanding of opinions and ideologies. The different that formed APC did not work together before. People, who formed the government, had not worked together before. President Buhari too did not work with any of them. Some of them could have hoodwinked President Buhari to be appointed. It would take at least a year to detect a fraudster in the administration. Until when a minister gives account, you will not know that he is a fraudster. They were strangers recommended by people to fulfil constitutional provisions. Fighting corruption is herculean. Corruption can corrupt anyone or system that fights it. That is why you find different opinions in the Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary. Majority of those in the Senate have served before in many states and are neck deep in corruption. Many were under trial in courts and were being investigated before. Some had not been found guilty. Some were also in prison detention for corruption charges when they won election. No corrupt element can make a law that will lead to his arrest, prosecution and imprisonment. So, they will make laws that will make the fight against corruption difficult. The Judiciary is also corrupt. Only few officials will be free of corruption. The administration has tackled the Military, dismissed and tried several officers. The administration has brought judges to justice, some dismissed or de-robed or are being tried. Some houses sealed. The regime made people to return or abandon their loots. The Treasury Single Account (TSA) has exposed several accounts run by some agencies opened for corruption. TSA has harmonized government accounts. The advent of the BVN checked those who have illicit money. Many abandoned their illicit accounts. Many have been detected because of the biometric component of the BVN. The administration has taken the bull by the horn, to a large extent, they are winning. Many who are to implement the law or policy are corrupt. President Buhari cannot deal with everyone at a time. He has to delegate. When you have a Magu as the EFCC boss, you have a regime that wants to fight corruption. He did not compromise. That is why the Senate will does not like him. The Senate will not like anyone who will bring the corrupt ones among them on trial. The Senate President, who doubles as the Chairman of the National Assembly, was on trial. Many of the National Assembly members are among those having corruption charges. So, they will not like someone who wants to tackle corruption. They are the ones earning unearned salaries and wages. Having serving judges and Chairman of the National Assembly on trial at the same time, the regime has done well in the fight against corruption. President Buhari has shown a lot of courage in this regard. How do you see President Buhari’s refusal to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill? The President gave his reasons for not signing the bill into law. Bandwagon effect is non-issue if any candidate has done his home work. President Buhari is right to have refused assent to the bill. It does not matter if it is a conspiracy against the President. INEC has exercised its independence and has done its schedule up to 2015, far into the future. Why did the National Assembly not do the amendment after the lawmakers entered into office? Why did they do it now that the elections are coming? Why did they not see it as if the president loses and the bandwagon effect it will lead to? They passed the Peace Corps Bill within three days. The Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) has been there for decades. What they passed was watered down. The National Assembly has been self serving. They want to water down or destroy everything that makes government tick. They do not want President Buhari to outshine the previous administration. What President Buhari did by not signing the bill is right. Now that someone has gone to court, let us how far they will go. History will not forgive them for engaging in atrocious activities during their tenure. What is your take on the bill against Hate Speech being considered in the Senate? It is self-serving. The bill against hate speech is uncalled for. It is superfluous. We have laws against defamation, libel and sedition. Why are they coming out with a bill on hate speech? A lot of hate speeches have been emanating from the National Assembly against the President and every other person. It is self-serving because they want to stop people from having strong opinions against them. They have performed below par at their constituents. They know that they have shortchanged the people. That is why they want a bill against hate speech. Why will there be hate speech if they perform well? Hate speech do not kill. It is accountability or absence of it that can lead to an uprising that can lead to death. Even if there is war, the political leader of the constituency could be held responsible. If you like, blackmail me, or do hate speech against me, you cannot succeed. If I have performed my responsibility, and you incite people against me, so be it. History is there to vindicate me, even if I am killed on the way. Several people, like Ken Saro-Wiwa, M.K.O. Abiola, Kudirat Abiola, Rewane died. It is what you died for that matter. These people died, but their names live till today. You also have the Abaca family. You also have the Murtala Mohammed family. We also have the Akintola Family. We also have the Awolowo family. You cannot compare the name of Abacha family to that of Murtala Mohammed. In the same way, you cannot compare Akintola family to that of the Awolowo family, although Akintola was the Premier of Western Region. Awolowo’s name commands respect it is unnecessary for anybody to pass any selfish bills. They should pass pro-people bills, not self-serving bills. You have spoken on the successes of the war against corruption, in what other areas would you say the Buhari administration has done well? In the area of security and the economy, the government has succeeded to a large extent. A lot of people have gone back to the farms and prices of foods are coming down.  Produce are growing, although not enough. People are now into cassava farming, yam farming, cashew and even rice. Rice has become a focus, especially in Kebbi, Ogun, Ekiti. All these have scored the administration high. The government has not done well in education. In the area of solid minerals, there is more successes and investments. In the area of petroleum exploration, they are coming up with modular refineries. The government has tried in the area of road network the power generation has not manifested much. The rail is being worked on. The aviation sector has a lot of hiccups, with few crashes. These are our observations on the economy. Many of the drawbacks have been blocked. How do you see the calls on President Buhari not to contest the 2019 election? That is politics. Nobody has the right to ask anyone not to contest, they should allow the electorate to choose. It is self-defeatist. That means that Buhari is the candidate to beat. Until we have a credible alternate, people should not ask anybody not to contest. When you see those asking Buhari not to contest, you will know that they have failed in their time. Some of them are ‘owambe’ governors who organise parties. Most of the problems of this country started during Obasanjo’s regime. Lands were misappropriated, while legacies wee distorted. Ask those who know why Chief Obafemi Awolowo and M.K.O Abiola were not allowed to be presidents. Obasanjo imposed an ailing Yar’Adua and Jonathan on Nigerians. Buahari’s age does not matter. What matters is his integrity. He is to give instructions and give people opportunity to actualise their potentials to make Nigeria a better place. He is still the best candidate to run to complete most of the policies he has introduced. No other candidate has been able to demonstrate the type of courage and discipline he has introduced.xx 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.