Lagos – A total of 79,987 candidates over the weekend wrote the National Common Entrance Examination for admission of candidates into Junior Secondary School (JSS 1) of Federal Government Unity Colleges (NCEE) throughout the country. The examination that was also written by a number of candidates from Cotonou, the capital of the Republic of Benin featured over 26, 000 candidates in Lagos State alone to fill about 24, 000 spaces in the 104 unity schools across the country. At the Oregun Junior High School, Oregun, Lagos centre monitored by DAILY INDEPENDENT a total of 180 candidates were registered for the first set of the screening exercise. At the end of accreditation exercise for the test, 177 candidates wrote the examination while three were absent for the test meant for the 2018/2019 academic session. The accreditation exercise which commenced at about 8.15 in the morning was concluded at exactly 9.10 am while the examination proper started at 9.30 in order to accommodate candidates who could not make it to the centre due to a Marathon race that obstructed the flow of traffic in the metropolis. A parent, Mrs. Magdalene Ezegbulam, who was caught up in the traffic frowned at the staging of the marathon race at a time such important examination was taking place and urged the Federal Ministry of Education and the National Examination Council (NECO) to firm up logistics to forestall such hitches that may mar the conduct of the examination. On the conduct of the examination, parents and guardians at the centre praise NECO and Ministry of Education for orderly conduct at the centre. A parent and teacher at the Hallmark School, Alausa, Lagos, Mr. Solomon Ayoola commended the organizers for the smooth conduct of the examination and parents for the display of maturity while the examination lasted, saying that his experience at the centre two years ago fell short of expectation. In the same vein, John Amusa who led a group of pupils from Daolak International School, Alausa and Abiodun Kamorudeen of LGA Model Nursery and Primary School, Ojo corroborated the position of Ayoola on the conduct of the examination. In an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Mrs.Banke Fatokun, the Centre Coordinator lauded the parents for orderly conduct and adherence to official instructions before, during and after the examination. Along the six geopolitical divide the South-east has 12; southwest 17; south-south 16; north-east 15; north central 23 and north-west 18 schools. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.