GOOGLE’S hugely popular Gmail service looks set to get a radical overhaul with new features and a refreshed look. Here’s five things every user should know about this major new update. Gmail’s billions of users could soon see a refreshed look and radical new features landing in their inbox. Google recently revealed that it’s working on a major Gmail upgrade which will offer a number of improvements to its hugely popular email service. In a recent statement to technology website The Verge, a Google spokesperson confirmed the changes saying: “We’re working on some major updates to Gmail (they’re still in draft phase). “We need a bit more time to compose ourselves, so can’t share anything yet—archive this for now, and we’ll let you know when it’s time to hit send.” There’s currently no word on when the new features will be unleashed but users could see the update arrive in the coming weeks. So, if you’re an avid user of Gmail here’s what looks set to be coming soon to your email account. A WHOLE NEW LOOK It’s thought the refreshed service will offer users a much cleaner and less cluttered appearance. The updated design also features a new sidebar which will give users easy access to G Suite apps including Google Calendar from within Gmail. SMARTER REPLIES The Smart Reply function will offer the ability to select from three automatic responses based on what’s in the original message. For example, if someone emails asking “would you like to go to dinner tonight?,” Gmail might suggest “sounds great!” as a one-tap reply. This feature has been available on the Gmail app for sometime but now it’s coming to the web. SNOOZE THOSE MESSAGES Don’t want to deal with a email until later in the day? No problem as Gmail looks set to allow the option to snooze conversations allowing users to temporarily delete emails from their inbox until a set time. Once the clock strikes the hour you’ve set, the message will then reappear in your inbox. CONFINDENTIAL MODE The new feature allows Gmail users to control what happens to their message after it is sent. Gmail users who use Confidential Mode will be able to stop recipients from forwarding select emails. It can also purportedly be used to prevent recipients from copying, downloading, or printing the content of the email. OFFLINE SUPPORT There could soon be access to emails even when users are not connected to the web. Gmail offline could be coming to the web allowing mail to be read, responded to, searched and archived without network access. This latest Gmail upgrade comes as Google is expected to announce more big news in the coming weeks. The search giant’s I/O conference takes place from May 8th to 10th at the Shoreline Amphitheatre in Mountain View, California. I/O brings together developers from around the globe for talks, hands-on learning with Google experts, and a first look at Google’s latest developer products. The California-based company could also showcase updates to Google Chrome, Google Photos, Android Wear, Google Home, and more. Last year, it focused on Google Assistant, Google Photos and standalone DayDream VR headsets.  0 comments