Owerri – Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State says the late Joseph Achuzie was a strong believer in the unity of Nigeria and the Igbo race. The governor spoke on Wednesday when two sons of the late war veteran visited him at the Government House, Owerri, to formally inform him of their father’s demise and also brief him on the obsequies. Receiving Simeon Achuzie and Onyeka Achuzie at the Government House, Okorocha added that one could not talk about the Igbo race without talking about Col. Achuzie. Uche Nwosu, the Chief of Staff, who represented the governor, remarked: “Col. Achuzie was one of us. Even when he was sick, we were meeting here. His Excellency has directed that we must receive the children and also support them in the burial of the late war veteran. He was one person that believed in Imo State and in the governor and saw the governor as a leader.” He further stated that “Col. Achuzie was one man that believed in the unity of Nigeria and Igbo race. We can’t talk about Igbo race without talking about Col. Achuzie. History will not make itself. I was opportuned to meet with Col. Achuzie. And even at his old age, he was still looking strong like a military ready for a combat.” “Col. Achuzie was very close to His Excellency, Owelle Okorocha, and the governor has asked me to condole with the family and by the special grace of God, he will be at the burial. We condole with the family and may his soul rest in peace.” He informed his guests that “the governor has also asked me to present a token of N5 million naira from the state government to the family of Col. Achuzie, to help in the burial expenses.” In his response, Simeon Achuzie, the second son of the late soldier, on behalf of the family, thanked the governor for the kind gesture. Achuzie, who hailed from Delta State, was, until his death, the Secretary-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.