Calabar – Moves to ensure that Governor Ben Ayade faces an uphill task and possibly does not get a second term ticket from his party, the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has begun to gather momentum. Besides numerous underground intrigues and scheming at various levels in and outside the state, a group under the auspices of Cross River PDP Support Coalition surfaced in the National Secretariat of the PDP in Abuja, last week and protested the trend of things in the state chapter of the party. The group carried different placards with inscriptions such as “No imposition of Candidate, No Impunity in Cross River PDP”, “Wanted Emmanuel Ibeshi” among others. The move is a clear contrast and a counter to numerous endorsement rallies which the governor sponsored across the state for himself two months ago. The rallies were aimed at achieving, among other things; scare away any contender against the governor within the party. Pundits believe Emmanuel Ibeshi who was promoted by the group that stormed Abuja may just be a forerunner to others who will eventually be made to join the race for the PDP ticket in the 2019 race. Worried by the development, governor was reportedly enraged by the actions of the group of party members that held a protest in Abuja at the National Secretariat of the party petitioning the hierarchy over disturbing indications in Cross River state chapter. The group beyond their petition openly identified with the aspiration of a one time National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr. Emmanuel Ibeshi. But in a move to checkmate the situation, Governor Ayade called a meeting of most of his political appointees and party officials directing his commissioners and aides to stay clear of other governorship aspirants ahead of 2019 general elections. Sources close to the meetings said the governor was miffed at moves by some of his aides to romance with his opponents, threatening fire and brim stone if any of them is caught in the act. The PDP leadership in the state also had a similar meeting in which they re-echoed the order from the governor to political appointees not to play anti-party activity or anything that could jeopardize the second term chances of the incumbent. However, some stakeholders of the party, regrouping under the auspices of Fix Cross River Initiative, FCRI, described the governor’s directive as undemocratic and an attempt to muscle opponents. Briefing news men in Calabar yesterday, the spokesman of the group who admitted acknowledge of the governor’s recent directive, Mr. Joseph Oyama, said barring appointees from further interaction or affiliation with other gubernatorial aspirant in the party is tantamount to returning to the black era of impunity where anything goes. Oyama said, ”we had it on good authority that the Governor held a separate meeting between Monday, April 9 and Friday, April13, 2018 and threatened to suspend any of his aides seen or caught in romance with any other aspirant and to this effect, they will be on close monitoring to ensure compliance.” “It is unfortunate that this directive to his appointees and party faithful is coming at a time the national leadership is embarking on a massive reconciliation process of aggrieved members and calling on all to come out and stand in for elections. “We totally condemn this kind of arrangement from the incumbent and we also call on the national secretariat to please wade in to avoid further drift of the party at the state. We want a free and transparent primarily election devoid of manipulation else there would be mass exodus to a rival party in Cross River.” He decried the attitude of the state party leadership that have carried out the directive by ordering wards officers not to embark on any action that could jeopardize the chances of the incumbent in the pending party primary election. Reacting to our enquiries, the Cross River PDP Publicity Secretary, Mr Odama Egbung, denied that the governor nor the party has threatened party members with suspension nor sanctions if they campaign for other governorship aspirants. According to him, “the party or the governor cannot give such instructions because PDP of today is not PDP of years back where there was impunity. The party only appealed to stakeholders in a meeting with them not to abandon zoning to reduce tension”. Adding, “Of course, the governor would have the offer of first refusal. Besides, the party is open to anybody who wants to run for any office as we don’t have the right to bar aspirants to any position. This is democracy, the majority carries the day. So, we shall provide a free and fair platform.” Governor Ayade is believed to be growing unpopular among the electorates in the state and many stakeholders consider having him as a flag bearer of the party a high risk that may hand over the PDP controlled state to any opposition party that fields a popular and acceptable candidate. comments