Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday wrote the Senate requesting confirmation of 23 Nigerians nominated for appointment into the National Population Commission (NPC). Reading the president’s letters containing various requests during a brief plenary session on Tuesday, Bukola Saraki, President of the Senate, informed his colleagues that President Buhari also sought approval for the appointment of Festus Okoye as National Commissioner, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and two non-judicial practitioners as members of the Federal Judicial Service Commission. The 23 nominees to represent their various states at the NPC are Mr. Richard Odibo (Delta), Mr. Okereke Onuabuchi (Ebonyi), Mr. Olusegun Aiyrjina (Edo), Mr. Ejike Ezeh (Enugu), Mr. Abubakar Damburam (Gombe), and Prof. Uba Nnabue (Imo). Others include Mr. Nwanne Nwabuisi (Abia), Dr. Clifford Zirra (Adamawa), Mr. Chidi Ezeoke (Anambra), Mr. Isa Buratai (Borno), and Navy Capt. Charles Ogwa (rtd.) Cross River. Also nominated for appointments are Dr. Abdulmalik Durunguwa (Kaduna), Mr. Suleiman Lawal (Kano), Prof. Jimoh Isah (Kogi), Dr. Sa’adu Alanamu (Kwara), Mr. Nadir Kwarra (Nasarawa), Mr. Aliyu Datti (Niger), Mrs. Seyi Olusanya (Ogun), and Dr. Oladiran Iyantan (Ondo). Mr. Mudashiru Hussain (Osun), Mrs. Cecilia Dapoet (Plateau), Dr. Ipalibo Harry (Rivers), and Mr. Sale Saany (Taraba). The new non-legal practitioners to serve as members of the Federal Judicial Service Commission are Abba Ali (Katsina) and Mohammed Sagir (Niger). The request for confirmation, according to the president, was in compliance with section 154 (1) of the 1999 constitution (as amended). Buhari Appoints Seven Rectors, Seven RECs, Nine Others Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of 23 chief executive officers of agencies in Ministries of Health, Information and Culture; Education; Power, Works, and Housing, and Resident Electoral Commissioners for Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). In a statement by Lawrence Ojabo, Director, Information, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Buhari charged them to reinvigorate the agencies in the delivery on their mandates through a renewed commitment to transparency, accountability, and service delivery with integrity. Those appointed in the Federal Ministry of Health include: Dr. Abdulkareem Jika Yusuf, Medical Director, Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Kaduna, Kaduna State. He has an initial term of four years with effect from April 8, 2018; Dr. Abubakar Musa, Medical Director, Federal Medical Centre, Nguru, Yobe State. Renewal of appointment of four years with effect from July 3, 2017. The president also appointed Dr. Abdullahi Ibrahim, Medical Director, Federal Medical Centre, Azare, Bauchi State with renewal of appointment of four years with effect from April 2, 2018; Dr. Nasir Ibrahim Umar, Medical Director, National Obstetric Fistula Centre, Bauchi, Bauchi State with renewal of appointment of four years with effect from April 8, 2018; Dr. Iliasu Adeagbo Ahmed, Medical Director, Federal Medical Centre, Owo, Ondo State, with initial term of four years with effect from April 8, 2018; Dr. Aliyu Muhammad El-Ladan, Medical Director, National Obstetric Fistula Centre, Katsina, Katsina State with renewal of appointment of four years with effect from April 8, 2018. In Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, the president appointed Dr. (Mrs) Stella Morounmubo Oyedepo, General-Manager, National Theatre, Lagos, with initial term of four years with effect from April 8, 2018, in compliance with the Establishment Act, especially sections 7 and 8 of the National Theatre and National Troupe of Nigeria Act 1991. With this appointment, the president has separated the leadership of the National Theatre from the National Troup of Nigeria. In the Federal Ministry of Education, Buhari appointed Dr. Baba David Danjuma, Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Idah, Kogi State, with initial term of four years with effect from December 27, 2017; Dr. Usman M. Kallamu, Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Damaturu, Yobe State with initial term of four years with effect from April 8, 2018; Dr. Jimah Momodu Sanusi, Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Auchi, Edo State, with initial term of four years with effect from February 23, 2018; Dr. Dayo Hephzibah Oladebeye, Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State, with initial term of four years with effect from February 23, 2018. Others are Arch Sanusi Gumau, Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Bauchi, Bauchi State, with initial term of four years with effect from February 23, 2018; Prof. Tomunomi M. Abbey, Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Oil & Gas, Bonny, Rivers State, with initial term of four years with effect from February 23, 2018; Engr. Omokungbe Obafemi Omoseni, Rector, Yaba College of Technology, Lagos, with initial term of four years with effect from January 30, 2018; Prof Faruk Rashid Haruna, Provost, Federal College of Education, Kontagora, Niger State, with initial term of four years with effect from March 27, 2018. In Power, Works and Housing Ministry the president appointed Usman Gur Mohammed, Managing Director, Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), with initial term of four years which took effect from February 1, 2018. At Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the president appointed Dr. Emmanuel Alex Hart, Resident Electoral Commissioner, with initial term of five years which takes effect from April 17, 2018; Mohammed Magaji Ibrahim, Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) with initial term of five years which takes effect from April 17, 2018; Dr. Cyril Omorogbe, Resident Electoral Commissioner, initial term of five years with effect from April 17, 2018; Dr. Uthman Abdulrahman Ajidaba, Resident Electoral Commissioner, with initial term of five years which takes effect from April 17, 2018; Mr. Segun Agbaje, Resident Electoral Commissioner, with initial term of five years which takes effect from April 17, 2018; Baba Abba Yusuf, Resident Electoral Commissioner, with initial term of five years which takes effect from April 17, 2018 and Yahaya Bello, Resident Electoral Commissioner, with initial term of five years which takes effect from April 17, 2018. The Resident Electoral Commissioners will be sworn in by the INEC chairman at INEC headquarters on Tuesday, April 17, 2018 at 10.00a.m. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.