With the 2019 general elections around the corner and the increase in the number of those calling on President Muhammadu Buhari not to go for re-election, the Federal Government recently said that its rice revolution is enough to see the President into his second term. Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture,  who spoke to newsmen in Lagos, said the achievements in rice production alone is enough to get President Buhari re-elected for another term if he decides to run. The minister said the FG’s rice revolution has reduced drastically the importation of rice, as 60 percent of rice eaten in Nigeria today is produced locally. Mohammed said: “The agricultural revolution in general and the rice revolution, in particular, have taken millions of Nigerians out of poverty. As a matter of fact, today, 60% of rice eaten in Nigeria is produced in Nigeria. In the words of the rice processors, the rice revolution alone is enough to guarantee re-election for President Buhari, if he decides to run again!” But, a cross section of the country has been wondering if the achievement of the administration alone is enough to get Buhari a second term. Rice Is Least Of Nigeria’s Problems – Rights Activist Daniel Idiamu Omosefe, a Benin-based businessman and human rights activist said: “I will say ‘no way’ because rice is not the major problem that the country is facing at the moment. Let me start from the problem of petroleum products which was about N80 when the APC government took over, which is now N145. “Look at the security situation, especially the herdsmen killings and the unending Boko Haram issue. With all these numerous problems, what is rice? I believe under the scale of preference, if I want to itemise them, rice production won’t come as number five on the list. If I may ask, all those who died in Benue, Taraba, Bornu, Kaduna, Zamfara and many other places as a result of herdsmen escapades and the unabated Boko Haram onslaught in the North East, are they still eating rice now? “Well, I voted Buhari in 2015 election with the hope that he was coming to solve some of the country’s problems. I say some because no government has ever solved all the problems of any nation. But, rather than tackle some of the problems he met on ground head on, he added to them. The issue of herdsmen would not have escalated due to the ineptitude and sloppiness of the man heading the government. Let those campaigning for his second term continue and I wish them luck.” Buhari, APC Will Do Themselves Disservice If They Run Again – Amori Senator Ighoyota Amori, Political Adviser to the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, and Senatorial aspirant for Delta Central, said that the FG is trivialising  the issue by thinking that Nigerians will re-elect President Buhari based on what it claimed to have done in the area of rice production. According to him, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Federal Government should accept former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s advice not to contest again. He said that Obasanjo spoke out of sincerity and patriotism to the country. He said: “Buhari will do himself a disservice if he chooses to run again. So, I support the advice. Recall that Obasanjo supported Buhari when he discovered that the then President Goodluck Jonathan administration was not living up to expectation. Now with Buhari’s government as of date, things are becoming worst and from Obasanjo’s vantage position, he cannot keep quiet hence the timely advice. “No Nigerian will pretend that he or she is not suffering from one distress or the other from the government of Buhari. Things have generally nosedived for the worse below the expectations. Obasanjo spoke the minds of millions of Nigerians. He is the right person to give this advice having been in the forefront of Buhari’s rise to power in 2015 by sacrificing his own party, the PDP. It Will Be Disastrous For APC If Buhari Runs Again – Ex-LG Boss Prince Ben Oru, former Chairman, Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State, also believes it would be disastrous for the FG and the APC to go into the election with Buhari as the party’s candidate, instead of accepting sincere advice of patriotic and sincere Nigerians like ex-President Obasanjo. Oru said: “Like him or not, former President Olusegun Obasanjo remains conscience of the nation. He is bold and courageous. He speaks when the need arises. If all past leaders join him to speak, as ex-Military President Ibrahim Babangida seems to have done, Nigeria will sooner or later wake up to a new dawn that will gladden the people’s hearts. “Obasanjo is human and is, therefore, fallible like all humans. The good thing about him is that he openly accepts his mistakes when he realises them. He helped to foist Buhari on the nation and has realised that he made a mistake. “Nigerians should heed the advice that he has given concerning Buhari and APC. In fact, APC should know that the monumental damages it has done to the peace of the nation, welfare of the people and the nation’s infrastructure all combined to disqualify it from ever again seeking to rule the nation.” Buhari Administration Has Failed – Analyst Chris Maduka, a public policy analyst, and National President of New Tone In Leadership Foundation, said that the FG seems not to read Nigerians properly as utterances of its officials tend to be disappointing. According to him, President Buhari has so far vindicated those who had doubted his ability to govern, especially in the area of service delivery to the people. Maduka said the administration has been a disappointment to people who had celebrated Buhari’s 2015 election victory, as none of his promises has been fulfilled three years into the administration, even as he said the anti-corruption crusade has been lopsided. He said: “Buhari failed in the areas of security, protection of lives and property, the economy, high oil price, inability to eradication poverty and dearth of infrastructure. Buhari has taken certain pre-existing problems to a very new level. “We have always had the problem of tribalism, nepotism. But, we have seen a new level of nepotism in appointments by the leadership across the board. We have failed to put down our best 11 in government. We have not really paid attention to the most important asset in the society, which is the human asset. It is the human asset that drives intellectual and financial assets. “In the past three years, it is obvious that hunger knows no tribe or religion. The spate of killings and violence across the land seems also to have put even the most advent sympathisers of the administration at the edge. If a referendum or opinion poll is conducted today, I doubt if the job approval rating for this administration will make it get 30% pass. That is to be conservative. “On those calling for Buhari’s return, what do you expect? That is normal in partisan politics, especially in a country driven by religion and tribal sentiments, where one tribe’s gain translates to another’s loss. In a system that provides for the winner-takes-all, of course, those benefitting from the current administration will want Buhari to return, regardless of where we are heading to as a nation. That is their less concern. “Those asking President Buhari to return are driven by sentiments. If they truly love Mr. President, considering his age and health and as things are in Nigeria today, they should advise him to retire. He served the nation as a youth and as a man. They should allow him to go on retirement. “If they believe this is a democratic government where majority of votes actually carries the day, let them carry out an opinion poll and see how Nigerians feel about Mr. President. It is not for me or an individual to tell him to come out or not to come out. It is a constitutional right. “Without sentiments, the facts on the economy, security, relative peaceful co-existence in the nation, global perception of Nigeria, if they are something to go by, they should look at records and see if the advice is a well informed one.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.