Before Lai Mohammed was made the Minister of Information and Culture, I used to admire him. Think about how vibrant he was as opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) spokesman. He was a perfect match to the arrogance of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). And when I eventually met him in person at the Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), Ogba, Lagos, I was happy I met this PDP’s albatross. When Buhari won the presidential election and kept the nation in the dark about his ministerial list, not a few people rightly predicted that Mohammed would be the information minister. I agreed with them. And the prediction came to pass. Mohammed, we later discovered, seems not to know the difference between being in opposition and being in power. This Minister of Information was reportedly active in the days of National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), the group that fought the military to a standstill. He must have worked with the likes of Bola Tinubu, who later governed Lagos State. But I don’t think he learnt much from Tinubu, especially how to be in power. Tinubu’s temperament is laudable, both in government and in opposition. I remember in the late 1990s when he was accused of parading a fake University of Chicago certificate, even by prominent lawyers. He kept his cool and allowed people to talk on his behalf. I doffed my hat to him. Maybe Uncle Lai’s unguarded utterances, unlike Tinubu, cost him a shot at Kwara State governorship in the April 2003 on the Alliance for Democracy platform. He was assaulted and five vehicles in his convoy were smashed in front of Senator Suleiman Ajadi’s campaign office at Oke-Onigbin during a festivity. Uncle Lai seems to have silence in short supply; he would respond to anything, defending the indefensible. Was he not around when the likes of Uche Chukwumerije, Chukwuemeka Chukelu and Jerry Gana were information ministers? Even if he was not around, can’t he study them? Perhaps, the minister needs to appreciate that PR is not propaganda. Silence could be golden. I was shocked when he woke up on Good Friday and took PDP’s challenge of naming looters, without realising that it was a trap to ridicule him and the APC government. He fell for it. How could he attempt that, when the APC government was “using deodorant” on its corrupt officials? Did he think about Abdulrasheed Maina, Babachir Lawal and all the acts of nepotism and tribalism (all corrupt practices) the APC government at the centre was promoting. Just on Wednesday, April 4, President Buhari reportedly shunned the National Assembly and went ahead to approve the controversial $1 billion to purchase arms for the fight against “technically defeated” Boko Haram. Wailers have alleged that the money is meant for the execution of the 2019 election, more so when about 20 governors have been reportedly promised second term in office by the presidency, if they backed down on the tenure elongation for John Odigie-Oyegun, the APC national chairman. That Good Friday, Mohammed had named Uche Secondus, PDP national chairman, and Raymond Dokpesi, another PDP chieftain, as looters of the treasury. On Easter Sunday, he released more names, including former Governor Jonah Jang of Plateau State, saying he looted N12.5 billion. But in reaction, Jang said the minister had abandoned the truth he was known for during the NADECO days. In a statement he issued in Jos, on Wednesday, Jang asked Mohammed to remove his name from the looters’ list. Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State, still reacting to the list, said Buhari was presiding over the most corrupt government in the history of Nigeria and protecting looters. Fayose said: “A government that reinstated and promoted Abdulrasheed Maina, who was declared wanted for corrupt practices by the International Criminal Police Organisation (INTERPOL) and dismissed in 2013 for alleged N2.1 billion pension fraud and used APC broom to sweep the $25 billion contract scam in the Nigerian National petroleum Corporation (NNPC) under the carpet is nothing but a government of plunderers, and that is the clear definition of Buhari’s government. “It was in this same government that the Minister of Health, Isaac Adewole, suspended the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) Executive Secretary, Professor Usman Yusuf, for alleged corruption and the president recalled him, even without the knowledge of the minister. “Till today, nothing has happened to the probe panel on the alleged N500 million bribery said to have been paid to the president’s Chief of Staff (COS), Abba Kyari, by officials of MTN to influence government to discontinue its heavy stance on the $5 billion fine imposed on the company.” Sunny Onuesoke, a chieftain of the PDP, also challenged Mohammed and the APC-led government to release the names of APC members in the government who also have corruption cases to answer, if Nigerians are to take them seriously with their so-called looters’ list. Before then, the information minister had come all the way from Abuja to Lagos where he gathered online publishers to ‘brainwash’ them against the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) and why the group should be branded a terrorist organisation, even when none of the members was seen with a deadly weapon. He did not investigate to know whether those who allegedly threw objects at soldiers were even IPOB members or those that the soldiers provoked. But he has never seen anything bad in Fulani herdsmen who slaughter people with reckless abandon. He would rather support those who are making case with the killers, like Myetti Allah. If I were Mohammed, I would have left those divisive comments for the APC spokesman, and concentrate on development speeches. He is the minister of information and culture, but how many times has he commented on culture? It is my humble opinion that since Mohammed seems not to know the difference between being in opposition and being in power, he should return to the APC publicity secretary’s office, pending when he would finally retire to the opposition, where he would shine like a million stars. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.