Uyo – The House of Assembly member representing Uruan State Constituency, Mr Aniekan Bassey over the weekend joined the league of lawmakers who have been endorsed by kinsmen for a second term after a roburst constituency empowerment programme. Spearheaded by the political leader of the area, Obong Ekpe Atakpo, the people said the best way to reward the lawmaker for his effective representation was their unanimous support to enable him continue to deliver dividends of democracy to the people. Having taken the stance, the Uruan people have therefore evoke all traditional and political injunctions against any who may be nursing the ambition to vie for same position, as they insist on having a ranking member for more responsibilities and dividends of democracy come 2019. In his address to the constituency briefing/ empowerment programme tagged “ Showcasing Democratic Dividends in Uruan State Constituency” the political leader said the position was reached after very wide consultation with leaders, youths and elders of the area. “We have decided, for the sake of peace and unity of the Uruan people, to ensure that we will only support Aniekan Bassey for the state house, and Governor Udom Emmanuel for governorship. Our decision is because we are satisfied with his quality of representation and we want every section of Uruan to be fully represented. We evoke ‘Nkanda’ to support this vow, and we know what it means”. He declared. Presenting a scorecard of his representation to his constituents, the lawmaker representing Uruan State constituency, Hon Aniekan Bassey said in addition to sponsorship of life-touching bills and motions in the state legislature, he has also sponsored training of over 1500 students from the area on requisite skills for computer based examinations, 60 among these, he sponsored on jamb and currently training the 10 who later got admitted into higher institutions. The lawmaker used the occasion to present empowerment items to his constituents to include; 11nos saloon Cars, 11 Mini buses, 25 motor cycles, 12 sewing machines, two vulcanizing machines, one grass cutting machine, 12 hair dryers, N20,000 each to 100 students, N20,000 business support to 100 women and business support to 110 youths. Other items include; business support to 150 house to house canvassers, 12 barbing saloon kits, 13 generating sets, four deep freezers, complete set of fishing net and wheelchairs for the physically challenged persons in the area. “My desire to serve Uruan people has been guarded by the notion that only a life lived for the service of others is a life well lived. It is for this reason that I have always ensured that Uruan people are constantly empowered since I see it as a daily routine. The doors of my office and home are always open for all Uruan people” he said 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.