P/Harcourt – Miffed by the rising cases of piracy along the waterways, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has reiterated its decision to work in synergy with security agencies, and other stakeholders in the maritime sector towards ensuring a secured channel for vessels coming at the Rivers Port. Hadiza Bala Usman, Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority disclosed this while speaking at NPA’s first quarter meeting with stakeholders at the Rivers Port held at NPA Dockyard, Port Harcourt. Usman, who was represented by Mohammed Bello Koko, the Executive Director (Finance and Administration), stated that the NPA was collaborating with the Nigerian Navy and other security agencies to enhance surveillance and provide security for vessels visiting the port. Stakeholders at the meeting included terminal operators, government agencies at the port and others had condemned attacks on vessels visiting the port by pirates, stressing that such had impacted negatively on their businesses, the local economy, low patronage at the port and the general national economy. As a result of this, they stated that some importers had been forced to divert their ships to the Republic of Benin to discharge their cargos, with the Federal Government suffering revenue loss in the process. Usman stated that NPA had gotten approval for the procurement of six water patrol boats, and had also made arrangements for the installation of a security system that would enable NPA to monitor vessels and ships and pick them up when there was any distress. She assured that the insecurity faced by the ports would soon be curbed through NPA’s collaborations with the Navy and Nigerian Maritime and Safety Agency (NIMASA). Usman further maintained that the Federal Government was not relenting in its efforts to ensure the security of lives and properties for Nigerians especially those doing business in the sea. The NPA boss disclosed that the agency would soon acquire more tugboats and six pilot cutters, while procurement process was ongoing for the purchase of six marine boats, even as the authority was planning to dualise Bonny channel to accommodate more vessels for increased traffic. She, however, noted that the facilities at the dockyard were decaying, adding that budgetary provision has been made to upgrade the dockyard. Meanwhile, Alhaji Abubakar Umar, the Manager of the Rivers Port, has given kudos to the Managing Director for embarking on the restructuring of NPA, while maintaining that the Rivers Port had been restructured to achieving optimum operational efficiency. Umar stated that the serene environment at the port had attracted more importers, increased shipping traffic to Rivers Port as well as increased revenue generations despite daunting challenges. He, however, noted that the Port had its challenges, which included lack of finger jetty at the dockyard, operational tugboats and patrol boats among others. Stating that responsive management and reduction in vessel turn-around time among others were the achievements recorded by the Port. Umar also said Rivers Port had achieved improvement in revenue generation and collection, service delivery and safety guidelines. The port manager further disclosed that the port also maintained a coordinated relationship with the stakeholders and terminal operators among others for efficiency at the port. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.