Finlab Nigeria Limited has introduced its new laboratory top and fittings to the Nigerian market towards enhancing technological development in Nigeria, a foremost manufacturer of laboratory equipment and furniture. Speaking on the new upgrade, the Marketing Director of Finlab Nigeria Limited,   Mr. Uzo Nwaije stated that the new products have been designed to meet the yearnings of users. According to him, Institutions complaining of dearth of quality tops can now heave a sigh of relief with this new introduction. Mr Nwaije noted that the products have been designed to offer excellent resistance to chemicals, corrosion and stain. He urged institution of higher learning and other research institute to take advantage of the opportunity by patronising the brand. He said: ” Finlab has come with new range of products with good quality. All the products on our stable   have been designed to assist researchers, scientists in their academic work. As we speak, some organisations are showing interest in partnering with us not only in supplying us with the right work top but also in installation. While calling on the Federal Government for support, he said the provision of key infrastructure was necessary to achieve the goal. ”We need the Federal Government to identify with this expansion programme by improving infrastructure in the sectors of Health care, Education, Science and Technology.” he said. While commending the government commitment to promoting local industries, he urged them to provide other necessary incentives that would help create ready market for the business. While expressing delight over the milestones achieved by the company in the last 36years, the Managing Director said there has been tremendous progress for the business and this has been based on the ability to provide equipment and services tailored to the customer’s needs. Finlab Nigeria Limited commenced business operations in 1981 and currently has four branch networks across the country. The branch networks are located in strategic cities that include Lagos, Owerri, Abuja and Kano. Finlab Nigeria Limited has pioneered the advancement in Science and Technology in Nigeria; furnishing and equipping laboratories with state of the art facilities for over three decades. The company, a conglomerate group, is also responsible for the provision of services in construction (laboratory and greenhouse), furnishing, maintenance and equipment training. Over the years, the business has consistently designed, manufactured and installed many laboratories in a large number of educational institutions (Universities, Polytechnics, Colleges of Education, Secondary and Primary Schools), hospitals, industries and research centers in almost every Local Government Area in Nigeria. 0 comments