Thousands of mourners gathered in South Africa’s Soweto township on Saturday to bid farewell to anti-apartheid heroine, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, in a funeral that united the nation and people from various political divides. Madikizela-Mandela’s death on April 2 at 81 after a long illness, was met by outpouring of emotion across the country, with the ruling African National Congress (ANC) and opposition parties holding memorials for her courage in the struggle to end white-minority rule. The official funeral service for the late Nelson Mandela’s ex-wife took place on Saturday morning in Soweto, a Johannesburg township where she lived, which was at the forefront of the battle against apartheid. Mourners sang and cheered as Madikizela-Mandela’s body was brought into the 40,000-seater Orlando Stadium, venue of the service, with many dressed in the green and yellow colours of the ANC. Member of the leftist party, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), also attended in large numbers. Present at the service were South Africa’s former Presidents, Thabo Mbeki and Jacob Zuma, as well as foreign dignitaries from Kenya, Namibia and Lesotho. During Mandela’s 27-year incarceration for his fight against apartheid, Madikizela-Mandela campaigned for his release and for the rights of black South Africans undergoing detention, banishment and arrest. For many South Africans, the most memorable image of Madikizela-Mandela is her punching the air in a clenched-fist salute as she walked hand-in-hand with Mandela out of Victor Verster prison, near Cape Town, on Feb. 11, 1990. For husband and wife, it was a crowning moment that led four years later to the end of centuries of white domination when Mandela became South Africa’s first black president. Madikizela-Mandela’s legacy, however, was later tarnished, as evidence emerged in the dying years of apartheid of the brutality of her Soweto enforcers, known as the ‘Mandela United Football Club’, some South Africans questioned her ‘Mother of the Nation’ soubriquet. In 1991, Madikizela-Mandela was convicted of kidnapping and being an accessory to assault, but her six-year jail sentence was reduced to a fine and a two-year suspended sentence on appeal. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.