The world received the news of the passage of Winnie Madikizela Mandela; one of the foremost icons of the struggle against apartheid rule in South Africa with fond memories of the unusual Amazon of uncanny courage. There is so much to remember about the eventful life and times of this estranged but famous wife of Nelson Mandela who was undeniably the most vilified but celebrated leader of the African National Congress (ANC) and who later became the first post-apartheid South African President. Indeed, Winnie Mandela romance with the struggle against apartheid would continue to elicit robust narratives regarding the unique roles she played in the struggle to liberate South Africa in spite of the controversies that dominated the last two decades of her active engagements. It is therefore not unexpected that since her death on April 2 at the Netcare Milpark Hospital in Johannesburg, global media have been awash with fitting recollections of flashpoints of the historic resistance against the codified oppression and cruelty that held sway in South Africa under the apartheid regime. Winnie Mandela featured as a courageous and resilient activist and most often defying controversies that became synonymous with her activities. Indeed, Archbishop Desmond Tutu who was also a torn in the flesh of the apartheid regime was quoted years back to have said of Winnie Mandela: “No one who has ever lived in this country can gainsay that Winnie was tremendous in her struggle roles”. It is therefore not fortuitous that testimonies capable of inspiring generations yet unborn have trailed her passage. It is instructive that decades after Winston Churchill averred that “without courage, all other virtues becomes meaningless”, a country girl would emerge in the apartheid enclave to demonstrate how much impact courage could bring about in the lives of a people. Winnie was married to the legend Nelson Mandela, but she would later become hooked to the struggle to liberate the people of South Africa from the throes of white minority rule. She became a household name in South Africa and across the globe when the apartheid authorities took on her; subjecting her to frequent solitary confinements on account of protests and resistance she led with defiance. With Nelson Mandela serving a lifetime in jail, Winnie sacrificed the comfort of her matrimonial home and became a vocal voice and as well a prime target of the repressive apartheid regime for most of the 27 years that her husband was in prison. In her Biography titled “Winnie Mandela – A life” a former South African policeman under the apartheid regime once admitted that “whenever Winnie’s was mentioned in security circles, a shudder went through the ranks”. She was a dedicated follower and mobiliser. Winnie Mandela was bold, resolute and consistent as much as she was feared and detested by the authorities. Such was the relevance of her engagement with the struggle to liberate the people of South Africa! She was enigmatic and therefore would not be out of place if she was misunderstood and even probably betrayed by comrades. But more importantly, Winnie was loved, adored and respected in South Africa and in the global community. Little wonder Jude Dennis Davis in a testimonial to her biography described her as “a political figure of almost Shakespearean tragic proportions”. Beyond South Africa, Winnie Mandela inspired millions of cadres in third world countries who became enamoured with stamina with which despotic regimes as well as sit-tight leaders who denied freedom to the people were confronted.  Unfortunately however, her life also depicted the frailty that is often at the heart of all heroic failures. Nevertheless, her passion would continue to stand out as part of the momentum that stirred the struggle for the freedom of South Africa. Winnie Mandella has left a legacy that is inextinguishable in the history of mankind. More importantly, she has demonstrated that nothing should be too big for the African women to achieve. The South African government therefore owes it a duty to Africans and the rest of the world to accord her a most fitting immortalisation that would make her legacy evergreen to lovers of freedom across the world. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.