Mr. Patrick Ukah, Delta State Commissioner for Information, in this interview with select journalists, speaks on the achievements of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: Do you think Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has done enough to seek the mandate of Deltans for a second term? I will not particularly respond to the word “enough” because continually we will continue to improve on the performance we met on ground and continue to do more to endear us to the people. But I can say confidently that Senator Okowa has lived up to his billing. First, when we came in to government; I will say that the first thing he did was to stabilise the polity and the economy of the state and to keep the state coasting. When he assumed office, there were salaries unpaid; there was problem in the Niger-Delta creeks. There were a lot of issues with dwindling revenues. One will begin to wonder how he will navigate this myriad of problems. First and foremost, managing a government with a workforce of over 60,000 personnel with monthly salaries of N8billion, the Forcados trunk-line which the state depends on for accruals from the Federation Account was blown up by militants. Under those conditions, any faint- hearted person will be discouraged and panic, but confidently the economy was properly managed. I give the Okowa administration a very high mark. Governor Okowa was able to weather the storm and today we are not owing salaries; today we are addressing the issues of pensions head-on and road infrastructure has improved greatly in the urban and rural areas without significantly increasing the debt portfolio of the state. I think he is a stabiliser; I think he has done well in stabilising the economy and polity. I believe Deltans will give him a second term when he decides to do that. The mantra of the current administration is prosperity for all Deltans, how much has this administration impacted on the lives of the average Deltan? Well, in the area of job creation, we have been able to empower over 3000 Deltans. We are currently in the third batch of the job creation programme with over 750 youths being engaged and we have testimonies of persons who have gone through these youth empowerment programmes YAGEP and STEP and the PPSP initiatives and graduates of these schemes are now employers of labour. The schemes have given confidence to our youths. It is one strategy by the Okowa administration to move the minds of youths from crime into productive ventures. In terms of infrastructure, we have over 188 road contracts awarded and over 70 roads completed. The road programme has been strategic with emphasis on opening rural roads to enable farmers bring their agricultural produce to the urban centres. In the area of urban development, in Asaba for example, the number of road projects has not been seen in the last 16 years. In Oleh, Agbor, Owa, Okpe the story is the same and I think the people are happy and appreciate it. The governor has often lamented dwindling revenues accruing to the state and the huge wage bill, but he has gone ahead to appoint over 2500 appointees in the last three years, does this rhyme with his call for frugality? I do not know where your figure of 2500 appointees is coming from, but I am aware that the law allows him to make some political appointments, but the number you are quoting I do not know where you got them; I know definitely it is not up-to that figure. Maybe you are referring to community relation officers; these are not in the employment of government; perhaps that is the mistake the media is making by including them as government appointees. Those who have been given appointment are far less than that. The number of appointees is insignificant in comparison to what we have as the strength of the civil service. If you go to some other states, you will find out that Governor Okowa has been prudent in his appointments. Several MoU’s have been signed by the present administration but Deltans are seeing minimal results; examples are the Trailer Rest Park in Umunede, Agricultural Industrial Park, Ogwashi-Uku, Delta Commercial City, Asaba and the many MoU’s on  housing and a host of others; why is this so? If you understand that in PPP arrangements, there are a lot of issues that come to play before the actual physical construction takes place, because the state government is very meticulous in going into partnership with these investors, you will expect such because we have some in the past when government will spend so much money yet there would be nothing on ground. We do not want to get into that type of problems. On the Trailer Rest Park and the Agriculture Industrial Park; only recently the final MoUs were signed; we have also approved the 10,000 housing units that are coming up in Illah. There are a lot of things that will need to be done behind the scene. I can assure you that these projects will start soon. I have very strong confidence in the administration’s economic team; they have been very meticulous in scrutinizing such partnerships. If there is any delay in executing the MoUs, it is not from this administration but with just a little patience we will see these projects starting. Some critics of the administration say the present government has not embarked on any five star projects, how do you respond to them? Do you call a project five star based on the gigantic nature of the project or the one that impacts on the masses? How do we categorize a five star project? For me, the youth empowerment programme is a five star project because over 3000 youths have been engaged; we know the multiplier effect of engaging 3000 youths. It is a five star project that we are engaging an airport that is not fully functional and the government is pursuing it resolutely. The storm drain project in Asaba, the state capital,   is a five star project because flood have ravaged the city over the years and nothing was done by past administrations .That project is expected to gulp over N30billion.The impact of the storm drainage on the lives of Deltans is unquantifiable. Even now, when the project has only just commenced, we can see the impact; when it rains, the devastation has abated; imagine what will happen when it is completed. What about the Maryam Babangida Way that was abandoned, but this government has commenced its construction. This administration is not in the habit of starting projects that looks gigantic only to abandon it. Government is a continuum; so we have completed projects that were not completed by past regimes. The new state secretariat is being built to house all MDAs. The state pays billions yearly to landlords for accommodating the various MDAs, the cost of  administering government will be reduced if the central secretariat currently being embarked on is completed; these are legacy projects? What will you consider the Okowa administration’s biggest achievement in the last three years? Firstly, Okowa has stabilised the polity, fiscal discipline, health through the contributory health insurance scheme and he is a master in economic management. He has been able to pick a good team that has implemented a robust economic plan. When this administration assumed office, new pay deducted from source was over N4 billion, but through his good management we were able to restructure the state’s debt and now pay back a little over N2billion, these are old debts: but today we are not owing salaries, we are able to build roads and build schools; you can see the type of man we have, a thorough bred administrator. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.