The appointment of Barrister Festus Keyamo, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria as the Director, Strategic Communications for President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2019 presidential campaigns is already causing ripples in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as some party leaders who felt shortchanged are kicking against the appointment. The letter informing him of the appointment was signed by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, who also doubled as the Director General, President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organisation By the appointment, Keyamo becomes the official spokesperson for Buhari’s campaign for the 2019 presidential poll. According to DAILY INDEPENDENT findings, though the appointment generated mixed reactions among Nigerians, it  came as a surprise to many chieftains of the ruling party, who didn’t consider Keyamo suitable for the job. It was however nothing new to some Nigerians who have been following the lawyer turned activist on social media with his defence of the President’s policies and the performance of the ruling party of which he is a member. Though Keyamo joined APC on August 2013, he has not held any elected position since. He sought to represent Delta Central Senatorial district in the bye election held in October 2013 but lost the ticket to Olorogun O’tega Emerhor. Speaking exclusively with DAILY INDEPENDENT yesterday, a member of the party’s NWC who spoke on condition of anonymity said many of them are not happy over the appointment because they were not carried along. He added that from information available to him, the appointment was not from the president, but  Amaechi who only took the letter to the president to sign. He said “Question is, what is the role of the political party in all this. President Buhari  told Asiwaju Bola Tinubu that Amaechi typed the letter and he just signed it, adding that the appointment did not originate from him” . “So is Amaechi independent of the party? Is the President Buhari’s campaign structure independent of the party? . All this points to a party not together.  This was how the Jonathan campaign was run and therefore easy to undermine by party leaders, party structures etc. We are just looking at them” he said. On why he took the appointment, Keyamo said ““Upon the offer, I wholeheartedly and proudly accepted the challenge to do this for the good of my country and for posterity. For in President Buhari I have found an approximation of the lofty values I cherish and have fought for all my life.” He said further, “I know millions of Nigerians have never seen me in partisan politics, this is because for the past two and half decades, I have been under intense public scrutiny while engaging successive governments (military and civilian) in the most critical way possible”. In his reaction, the National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, Yinka Odumakin said it was hypocritical for the president to tell the British prime minister Terisa May that he was not interested in politics for now, but only in the economy and security, and the next day appoint people into his campaign team even when he was not yet the candidate of his party. However, Odumakin, said the president was free to contest, but it was left for Nigerians to decide if they want to continue with the current administration which could not curtail the current killings in the country. “Buhari was talking in Britain yesterday; that he was not interested in politics for now and that the economy and security was his concern; how come he is appointing people today? It shows he is a hypocrite and cannot be trusted even when has not been given his party ticket.” “It is left for Nigerians to decide if they want to continue with this kind of government, if they want to continue to bear the killings and bloodshed,” Odumakin said. 1 comments