Makurdi – The Senate on Thursday resolved to invite President Muhammadu Buhari to address a joint session of the National Assembly over the rising level of killings in the country. The resolution followed a motion by Chairman, Senate Committee on Navy, Sen. George Akume, at plenary. Presenting the motion entitled, ‘Continued Killings in Benue State’, Akume expressed concern over the continued destruction of lives and property, particularly in the seven local government areas of Benue North West Senatorial District. He noted, with concern, that despite the presence of the military in the state, the killings and destruction of properties had continued unabated. “In the morning of Tuesday, April 24, while some Christian faithful were gathered at St. Ignatius Catholic Church in Ayar town, Gwer East Local Government Area, they were ambushed by armed gunmen. “They opened fire indiscriminately on the worshipers resulting in the death of two Reverend Fathers, a catechist and 17 others. “This latest attack on a worship centre, which is unprecedented, has grave implications for the security and unity of our dear nation. “The monumental refugee situation now estimated at over 200,000 is being faced by the entire state,” he said. The lawmaker prayed the Senate to urge the Federal Government to evaluate the entire security architecture of the country and for the identification, apprehension, and prosecution of the perpetrators of the killings. Contributing, Adamu Aliero (APC, Kebbi) decried the wanton killings, saying there was need for concerted efforts by relevant stakeholders to nip the problem in the bud. According to him, if care was not taken, it would lead to religious crisis in the country. “I do not think those perpetrating the crime do not have a religion. They can attack Muslims and Christians, so we should treat them as criminals.” Sam Anyanwu (PDP, Imo) said if not nipped in the bud, the continuous killings in the country would also lead to food scarcity. “If nothing is done urgently, there will be food scarcity because the people in the places that are attacked are predominantly farmers. We must fight this as a country. “The service chiefs should be engaged to know what is happening. We should also seek foreign aid. I think some people are gaining from this development,” he said. In his remarks, the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, said the continued killings across the country were worrisome. “We were talking about herdsmen and farmers, now we are talking about herdsmen and religious leaders. “The dimension this is taking will lead to a serious problem if not urgently tackled. “We need drastic action, we must say no to the wanton killings. “We cannot continue to say we are leaders; this is a failure and we must look at what we can do differently. “We cannot continue like this, we have to take a decision that will show we are serious, given the enormity of the situation,” he said. The lawmakers observed a minute silence in honour of those who lost their lives in the latest Benue killings and in other parts of the country. Again, Seven Killed In Herdsmen Attacks In Benue About seven persons were feared dead in another attack on communities in Benue State by suspected Fulani herdsmen on Thursday. This time the attacks took place on communities in Logo Local Government Area (LGA) of the state. The herdsmen have for four days in a row, beginning Sunday night, attacked and killed defenceless and innocent men, women, and children in Benue. The Thursday killings bring the number of persons hacked down by the marauders in Benue, this week alone, to over 80 persons. The latest attack was on Mbamondo clan in Ukemberagya Gaambe-Tiev of Logo LGA of the state. According to a former Senior Special Assistant to the Governor in the state, Chief Joseph Anawa, the residents were caught unawares by their attackers. “The herdsmen terrorists arrived Mondo settlement about 12.22am (Thursday) and started shooting sporadically at displaced persons who were asleep in a church and primary school building in the area,” he said. Even though he was not certain of the number of houses that were set ablaze by the herdsmen, he confirmed that “many houses were also burnt.” Anawa explained that scores sustained gunshot and machete wounds from the attackers. He added: “Seven people are confirmed killed; among them, men, women, and children. “Many were wounded, others are missing, and several houses have been burnt. “Even though seven corpses have been recovered so far, we are yet to ascertain the total number of casualties. “After the marauders killed the people and sacked the entire village, they proceeded to Zaki Biam/Wukari road, mounted roadblocks and began to collect motorcycles and other valuables from travellers. “As I speak with you, they are still there but we are yet to see or hear that security personnel have gone there.” He further stated that the entire area where the attacks took place were deserted as at noon on Thursday. Also speaking with newsmen, the Logo Council Chairman, Richard Nyajo, who confirmed the incident, said several persons were killed during the attack. “The casualties may be high but, so far, we have recovered about seven corpses and we are still searching. “These killers have taken over the entire area and we are living by the mercies of God. “I want to use this medium to call on the Federal Government to intensify efforts and bring these mindless killings to an end.” DAILY INDEPENDENT was unable to get the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Moses Yamu, and the Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni, did not pick calls put through to him. They did not respond to text messages sent to their phones either. Don’t Play Into Hands Of Agents Of Disunity, Buhari Urges Benue People Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday said repeated acts of mass killings and destruction in parts of the country and Benue State in particular, point to the evil design of enemies of peace and unity who have desperately been trying to bring the country to this sorry point: a brother killing brother, a neighbour killing a neighbour and a community attacking and killing members of another community. In a statement by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, President Buhari strongly warns citizens against playing into the hands of the agents of disunity. Buhari said those behind the church attack that left 19 people dead, including two priests, did not mean well for Nigeria and peaceful coexistence. “The revenge attacks that followed in which 11 members of the Hausa communities were killed are part of the agenda of the bandits and their sponsors to turn Nigerians against one another. We must resist all temptation to fall into this laid out plan. Shehu said the president is greatly pained by this persistent violence and the total disregard for the sanctity of life by those he called “these hideously evil people who have no iota of respect for humanity, decency and civilisation.” Ogbeh Insists Nigeria Under Siege From Foreign Herdsmen As killings occasioned by differences between farmers and herdsmen continue unabated, Audu Ogbeh, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, on Thursday raised the alarm that Nigeria was under siege by foreign herdsmen, who, he said, walk in through grazing routes to commit heinous crimes. He said only recently about 10,000 cattle were intercepted around the border communities as they tried to make their way into the country. Ogbeh also attributed the herdsmen menace to the shoddy implementation of the ECOWAS Treaty, which gives the herdsmen unhindered access into Nigeria. Ogbeh said, “We were at the ECOWAS meeting this morning. The minister of interior and myself arranged ministers of interior from the ECOWAS sub-region …to tell them that we may not be able to abide by the ECOWAS Protocol which says that men, goods and animal should be able to move freely within our borders. “I was in Katsina one night when the governor told me that he was there and they told him that 10,000 cows had just arrived from somewhere in West Africa. He had to send troops to stop them, they just arrived with their families and looking for grass in the process they cut down everything they can find. “Now by the Protocols of ECOWAS you can’t stop them but we told the ministers today and for your information I spoke in French that we cannot allow this matter to continue because those killed in Benue, the deputy governor told us they look like Mauritanians. “Before in Benue they arrive with AK47 and as far as they are concerned there is war going on in Nigeria”. But Ebonyi State governor, Dave Umahi, who briefed State House correspondents on the outcome of the National Economic Council (NEC) meeting chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, said in as much as government condemns the spate of killings in the country, there was need for more incentives for the herders’ community. He said the technical committee on the farmers and herdsmen conflicts set up by the Federal Government which he chairs at the sub-committee level identified three sets of herdsmen to be at the core of challenges bedeviling the country. First, he mentioned foreign herdsmen, nomadic and migrant herdsmen. Umahi also took a swipe on the media which he believes were unnecessarily hyping the crisis between farmers and herdsmen. He said, “Today, NEC took briefing from the same NEC technical committee on the farmers and herdsmen conflicts in the various states of the federation. “NEC sometimes this year came up with a committee being disturbed by the constant conflicts between herdsmen and farmers. We came up with the committee of nine governors with the VP as the chairman, and the committee went into deliberations. “After a couple of meetings, they decided that the most affected states should be visited. “So, they came up with a sub-technical committee of three governors, chaired by governor of Ebonyi State, with the governors of Plateau, Adamawa as members. “We were constituted to visit the five core states. Later other states like Plateau and Kaduna states were also added. But we were able to visit only five states such as Benue, Nasarawa, Taraba, Jigawa and Zamfara states. “The core causes of the conflicts we were made to understand were perception and of course our media friends, competition for scarce resources and banditry or what you can call pure criminal activities through cattle rustling, kidnapping. “Today, we looked at three categories of herdsmen in Nigeria. We looked at the foreign herdsmen that come in due to the treaty and we continue to say that the treaty is not being properly implemented. “For any herdsman to come into Nigeria from outside, there should be a kind of certification, there must be a letter, even though you are not coming in with a visa, you have to travel with ECOWAS documentation. Animals that are coming into the country are required to be quarantined, but this is not being done. “So, this is one category of them. Secondly, we have the nomadic herdsmen, who during the dry season, travel from up North to the Middle Belt down to the South. This creates conflict. Also foreign herdsmen coming all through the way from neighbouring countries and traveling through the farm lands also cause conflicts.” 0 comments