Abuja – What appeared to be a suicide mission played out on Tuesday when embattled Senator Dino Melaye jumped off a police vehicle which was conveying him to court in Lokoja, Kogi State. The senator was said to have jumped off a moving police vehicle when he sensed that the police were taking him to Lokoja, contrary to the assurance he received that he was being taken to police headquarters from the facility of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). Melaye was consequently taken the Zankli Hospital in Mabushi District where he was admitted for varying degrees of injuries he reportedly sustained in the process. He was admitted to the emergency unit of the hospital at about 4:25p.m. It was gathered that heavy security was built around the convoy of vehicles that was conveying him to Lokoja. The senator representing Kogi West had told the police that he would prefer to face trial in Abuja instead of Lokoja, adding that his life would be in danger in Kogi, his home state. Melaye was on Tuesday morning arrested by operatives of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Monitoring Unit in Abuja, after driving himself to the office of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). The police had laid siege to his house, leading to a hide and seek game. The lawmaker had been detained and later released at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, on his way to Morroco on Monday morning. In a statement later on Tuesday, Gideon Ayodele, Special Adviser to the embattled senator, queried the police reason for forcibly taking Melaye to Kogi when the case had been transferred to Abuja. Ayodele accused the police of carrying out the bidding of the governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, in order to effect the senator’s assassination. Entitled ‘Today’s Incident Involving Senator Dino Melaye: A Last Resort,’ the statement suggested that the lawmaker undertook the suicide mission as a last resort. Part of the statement reads: “Sequel to the avalanche of calls by well-meaning Nigerians and supporters of Senator Dino Melaye for enquiries about the well-being and safety of the senator and against the backdrop of baseless rumours being spread on the social media, we are constrained to make the record straight as follows: “Earlier in the morning, Senator Dino Melaye as a law-abiding citizen voluntarily submitted himself to the operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) who had laid siege to his private residence since around 3.35p.m of Monday, April 23, 2018. “He, along with his lawyers and personal aides, was driven in his private car to the SARS office in Guzape district of Abuja, sandwiched among the numerous police vehicles earlier deployed to his house. “For the avoidance of doubt, he had never evaded police invitation before now because there was none extended to him in the first place. Rather, what the Police FPRO, Mr. Jimoh Moshood, had been doing was to summon the senator through media briefings, a practice which is unconventional. “But given the media hype the whole saga had generated especially his unwarranted travails in the hands of Immigration officials at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja on Monday, April 23 and the attendant but dramatic police siege to his private residence thereafter, where family members and political associates were subjected to traumatic experience for hours, it became necessary for Senator Dino Melaye to end the drama, hence his choice of appearing before the police today. “Later on they moved to take him to Lokoja in Kogi State. The public will vividly recall that the case involving Senator Dino Melaye had already been transferred to Abuja by the Chief Justice of the Federal High Court after Senator Melaye expressed worry about his safety in Lokoja. “Now, the question is why will they want to forcefully take him to Lokoja? The senator believes they are doing the Kogi governor’s bidding in order to assassinate him. “Today’s incident was the last resort by Senator Dino Melaye in order foil attempt to kill him by agents of Kogi State governor in connivance with the police.” Police Re-Arrest Melaye At Hospital Meanwhile, Senator Dino was re-arrested by the police on Tuesday at the Zankli Medical Centre in Abuja where he was receiving treatment after he jumped out of a moving vehicle in the afternoon. In a statement later in the day, the police said unknown thugs had blocked their vehicle while the senator was being taken to court. The statement issued by Jimoh Moshood, Police Spokesman, read: “At about 12pm of today (Tuesday), Sen. Dino Melaye, while in lawful custody of the Nigeria police force and being taken for arraignment in Federal High Court, Lokoja, from Abuja, escaped from lawful custody when hoodlums and miscreants in two Toyota Hilux vehicles blocked the police vehicle conveying Senator Dino Melaye around Area 1 roundabout, Abuja, and in the process the senator jumped out of the police vehicle through the window and was rescued from the policemen by hoodlums and miscreants to an unknown destination. “The police team re-enforced and trailed Senator Dino Melaye to Zankli Hospital, Abuja, where he was re-arrested. “The senator would be arraigned in court without further delay. “Meanwhile, one of the Toyota Hilux vehicles used by the hoodlums and miscreants in aiding the escape of the senator has been recovered by the police investigation team. “The Inspector General of Police has, therefore, directed a thorough investigation into the circumstances leading to the rescue and escape of Senator Dino Melaye from lawful custody.” As at press time, Melaye had not been taken from the hospital since he was still undergoing treatment, but reports claimed that the police had occupied the senator’s hospital room. 1 comments