The armed robbery attack on five commercial banks in Offa, Kwara State on Thursday, April 5, 2018, leading to death of over 30 innocent citizens including some police officers and last week’s invasion of the Senate in Abuja, may have once again exposed the lack of discipline and commitment in the force as well ignited calls for state police. Although some suspects have been arrested as well as the Mace recovered, analysts are yet to come to terms with the manner the bandits carried out their actions without apprehension. This has made most Nigerians to think that the incident in the second most populous city after Ilorin as well as the nation’s capital city,  may be likened to be an acts of ‘terrorism,’ developments, they argue may have continued to decimate the score card of the Muhammadu Buhari administration with the cardinal objectives of tackling security, economy and insurgency. Sunday INDEPENDENT’s interactions with some stakeholders, including Abubakar Tsav, former Lagos State Commissioner for Police; Professor Seyi Fabiyi, Osun State governorship aspirant under KOWA  Party; Monday Ubani, second vice president of Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) Ikeja branch; Emeka Okereke, Director General, Enugu Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ECCIMA); Garba Yedimakudon, Adamawa based activist; Wale Adeoye, Executive Director, Journalists for Democratic Right (JODER) and Suraj Olanrewaju, anti-corruption activist, revealed that the respondents were unanimous in their submissions that Nigeria Police Force has left no body in doubt that it has and continues to perform below expectations as well as compromising standards under the rule of engagement. “For the Nigeria Police funded by tax payers’ money to be around and armed robbers would operate for more than one hour in a town or for thugs to carry the Senate’s symbol of authority, the Mace, leave much to be desired as well speak volume about the competence of the Inspector General and the leadership of the force,” says, a source, who preferred anonymity. Consequently, they warn that if the government fails to look into the ethics and code of conduct of the force and rationale for their posting in the country, Nigeria may continue to suffer from menace of gross insecurity, which may hinder its economic, socio and political growth. Tsav blamed Nigeria Police for compromising standard as well as indiscipline within the force. “There is no gain saying that Nigeria Police has compromised standard. The officers don’t take their jobs seriously any longer. A trained officer should know that he needs to hide his identity during such operation and when in such locations. But you find some of these officers speaking vernacular and eating groundnut together while on assignment. They are distracted.” He also noted that the dastardly act may be a conspiracy with bank officials. “Then, what happened also suggest that there could have been certain collusion with bank officials. It is a routine that under normal condition, when officers are sent to a location, the head of the team visits them twice in a day without notice so that they can be at alert. But what do you see today, senior officers playing with their juniors discussing their girl friends. There is absolute dishonesty in the Force. Everything in this country has gone bad. If government is sincere enough to the security of this country, it will do something about the trend of this menace.” Professor Fabiyi said Nigerians should be ready to vote out incompetent and insensitive government come 2019, now that Nigeria has become a haven of death and doom. He noted that killings in Nigeria may have been ordered by the leaders judging by the way they handle security of lives and property. “Our country is gradually becoming an haven of death, disaster and doom. How did they operate for about an hour without police or even army intervention? Why did they allow the innocent public to be subjected to this horrible ordeal as if there is no government?  Less than a month that the  police issued order for Nigerians to surrender their arms and the Federal Government frowned at General Danjuma’s call for self defence, the herdsmen, the kidnappers and armed robbers have taken over and stepped   up their attacks on us. I sense a conspiracy by the power that be to kill us all.” Fabiyi, Osun State governorship aspirant under KOWA Party and senior lecturer at the Kampala International University, Uganda noted that Nigeria is under siege, even as he recommended armed vigilantes for all state governments. “If by chance you escape Boko Haram, you may not escape killer herdsmen. If you escape the duo, you may not escape dare devil armed robbers, ritual killers or kidnappers. The security architecture of this country is in disarray and our country is under siege. We need to use our vote in 2019 to vote out incompetent, ineptitude and insensitive government. In the short term, let all the state governments establish armed vigilantee team since the two legislative houses have refused to allow state police and the Federal police has proved inefficient,” he said. Yedimakudon said Nigeria Police lacks the capacity to secure Nigeria. “Of course, it has exposed the shortcomings of the police. If anybody has ever been in doubt about the incapability of the Nigerian Police Force to secure the country, I think what has happened these past days especially the incident that happened in Offa, has finally exposed the failure of this government in the area of security. “I agree with the Senate President on that issue because I have said sometimes ago that the way you even put the entire leadership of the security apparatus of a country into the hands of people from the same geographical area and from the same religious incrimination, I don’t think it is even safe for the security of the president and the country at large. This is to be restructured in such a way that let us have people from other parts of the country occupying the leadership of some of these security apparatus.” But Ubani said with this trend of insecurity, there will be need to restructure the security apparatus. “It has exposed the shortcomings of the Nigerian Police because the way they cooperated and left without any arrest within the time they operated for hours, it really exposed them. Yesterday (Wednesday) we also saw what happened in the senate, how people gained access to the senate and made away with the mace. We really need to restructure our security apparatus; we have issues with our security. Nobody is feeling safe in this country. It is only God that is guiding; we really need to do something about securing lives and property more efficiently.” Okereke said if thugs could break into the senate chamber and carry away the mace, the state of security of this country calls for caution. “The entire architecture of the Nigerian security needs to be reworked. There are no two ways about that. We need to take security back to the grassroots. Unfortunately, this recent armed mop up, that they have to surrender their arms. The ban on vigilante groups having arms is deceptive. Look at what happened at the senate. If thugs or criminals can force their way into the National Assembly and carry away our mace, there is insecurity. It can also happen in the presidential villa with the way things are going on in the country. We need to rework our security architecture, and I believe we need to go back to the grassroots. The grassroots security has to be encouraged where they are existing. Neighborhood watch, our Chiefs, Igwes, Kings and Emirs will be involved in the security architecture at the grassroots. We know ourselves at the grassroots so that if we have strange things that are happening we can equally report to the appropriate authorities who are empowered to take care of that. In fact, instead of withdrawing the services of the vigilantes and neighborhood watch, we need to reinforce them because the conventional security has totally failed Nigerians. Everyday people are being slaughtered. It is so unfortunate and it depicts the total collapse of our security network in the country.” Olanrewaju said it is an act of hypocrisy for Senate President, Saraki to have called for restructuring of the police. “I think the highest level of hypocrisy is what we are experiencing from people who had the opportunity to do things and out rightly failed to do it and they are now crying woe as if they seem to have forgotten the past and also their issues. Saraki was not only the governor of Kwara State for eight years. He was equally the chairman of the governors’ forum where they had all the powers, the connections and they are not only empowered and economically empowered but they out rightly failed to lift a finger. It is not just about the police only or the failure of the police, but the fact that how do we get to the state that we are for youths to be involved in that feared devil robbery in Offa? “So it is not just about giving arms to people, it is also about empowering people granting them all that they need economically so as to assist them not to take into criminality and crime. Saraki, as the Senate President superintends over a parliament where each of the senators get about N13.5million allowance not including salary. This is on the side on a monthly basis, that N13.5million going by the minimum wage of the N18,000 would employ about 750 persons. So 750 young people would have been taken off the street, off the unemployment and off the criminal part, if such amount of money have been utilised for the purpose of wealth creation, employment generation and social safety measures of the youths. Like I said it is the highest level of hypocrisy for Saraki to be calling for the restructuring of the police  as regards to what happened in Offa.” However, Adeoye said Saraki’s proposed agenda for restructuring of security apparatus is an empty statement. His words: “The tragedy in Offa indicated a complete lack of internal security by the police. It also indicated a lack of internal security mechanism by the town leaders and community icons. Traditional rulers should take security serious. They can assist in information gathering because people trust them more than the police. I am saying this because some indigenes of Offa were involved, meaning there was a kind of connivance by internal saboteurs. “The bank is located on main city highway. If the police were effective, the force would have cordoned off the entire city to prevent escape of the masterminds. Many are still skeptical about the arrests because Nigerian police investigations are usually not thorough. It’s unfortunate that less than one week after the Offa incidence, another robbery of First Bank, Ifaki Ekiti took place less than 40 kilometers away from Offa “Saraki should not be talking of restructuring of the security apparatus. That is an empty statement. He should act the talk. As Senate President, he can initiative a bill to this effect, but he has failed to do that.” 0 comments