FBNInsurance has released its financial report for the year ended December 31, 2017 as approved by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). The company’s Profit Before Tax (PBT) grew by 37 percent from N3.11 billion in 2016 to N4.26 billion in 2017, while the gross premium written (GPW) grew from N9.9 billion in 2016 to N19.6 billion in 2017, a massive 98 percent increase. While commenting on the financial statement, Val Ojumah, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, FBNInsurance, credited the strong performance to a combination of factors including continued penetration of the retail insurance space, strong cost optimisation culture, consistent and efficient service delivery across available touch point, exploitation of new service channels, disciplined risk management, and a well-motivated-staff. “Our overall performance once again reinforces our strong earning capacity and robust capital base which have put us in better stead to accommodate and sustain future growth. Our Return on Equity (RoE) rose to 34 percent (up from 29 percent, 2016) and achieved a post-tax Return on Assets (RoA) of six percent,” he said. It would be recalled that FBNInsurance was last year recognised for the third time in four years- as the Best Life Insurer in Nigeria by World Finance, while Sanlam Emerging Markets (SEM) awarded her the prestigious Nations Cup for a glowing performance all round amongst SEM companies. At the home front, the beat association of Insurance journalists, National Association of Insurance and Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO), awarded the company as the fastest growing insurance company in Nigeria. An FBNHoldings company associated with the Sanlam Group SA, FBNInsurance was incorporated in 2010 to transact life insurance business in Nigeria and currently operates out of 42 sales outlets and three branches nationwide. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.