Lagos – Hope of making an impressive impact in 2019 general elections has come the way of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) after of a successful outing at a general assembly where over 95 percent of the people present were discovered to be card carrying members of the party. Alh. Moshood Salvador, The chairman of the party in the State could not hide his feelings when he joyfully announced to the large crowd that he would ensure that PDP win 20 seats in the state house of assembly, 40 in the federal house of assembly and 3 senatorial seats. He said that the daily increase in the membership of the party in the State had shown that victory was already sure for the party. He however said that he would not rest on his oars yet because his target was 1.2 million members for the party in the State. “The target for PDP in Lagos is 1.2 million members. You can see that victory is already sure for us with the crowd that you see here today. We have over 30,000 people on this ground and almost all of them are card carrying members of the party. You saw them displayed their membership cards. This gathering today has just given a sign to All Progressives Congress (APC) that their time was up in Lagos. We have given them a red card. We are just waiting for 2019 for them to leave so that our people will begin to enjoy the dividend of democracy. “The people who have told Ambode that he is performing are only deceiving him. They are just postponing the evil day for him. The streets of Lagos are filled with filth. APC has rendered Lagosians jobless. The job of clearing refuse which was done by Lagosians through PSP has been contracted out to Visionscape, a South African firm. Ambode claimed that he spends N13million every week to clear the streets of refuse but if you go out there you will discover that every where is filthy. They are only using Visionscape to siphon money out of the country and render our people jobless. Please tell everyone to get his or her permanent voters card (PVC) and ensure they come out to vote so that we will join hands, use our votes and send this evil government packing.  Those who have not yet registered as members can just go to our website: www.pdplagosstate.com and register so that we will use our number to deal a blow on APC come 2019. ‘The government that said that our youths are lazy and uneducated is not worthy to continue to lead us. We will use that to send them packing. They have embarrassed us enough outside the shores of this nation. Our lives are not even safe. They said that the herdsmen that are killing us were trained by Gaddafi of Libya and the same government is asking for land to build cattle colonies for the same people they claimed were foreigners. APC is a confused government. We must show them the way out with our votes” he said. 0 comments