Abuja – The Senate on Wednesday suspended its plenary session in solidarity with its member, Senator Dino Melaye (APC, Kogi West), who was said to be in critical condition at the National Hospital, Abuja. To this end, Senate President Bukola Saraki led a host of other senators to the hospital to ascertain Melaye’s state of health. The upper chamber also summoned Ibrahim Idris, the Inspector General of Police, to appear before it by 11a.m today to give explanations as to why the police had chosen to violate the rule of law over a matter that was currently before a court of competent jurisdiction. The resolutions followed an amendment to prayers of a motion moved by Senator Sam Anyanwu (PDP-Imo East), under matters of urgent public importance. The motion was debated in-depth by senators who condemned, in strong terms, how Dino Melaye, a serving senator, was being treated by the police over an allegation that was before a court, before which the lawmaker had made a legal appearance. Before ruling on the motion, Senator Mao Ohabunwa (PDP, Abia North) moved that the Senate should suspend all items on the order paper and move to the hospital to see their colleague who was said to be in a critical condition. On getting to the hospital where the lawmaker was said to be receiving treatment, only the Senate president and a few other senators were allowed to see their ailing colleague. The visit to the National Trauma Centre of the hospital was led by the Chief Medical Director. The Senate Deputy Majority Leader, Bala Ibn Na’Allah (APC Kebbi), had briefed the Senate at plenary that he and his team were prevented from seeing Melaye by the police and hospital management, based on an “order from above”. He said the team was told that only Senators Abu Ibrahim and Kaka Ladan from Borno State were authorised to have access to the patient. Briefing journalists after the visit, Saraki stated that Melaye was out of coma and had opened his eyes even though he was still under intensive care. He said the team of specialists detailed by the hospital and assisted by Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of medical has assured them that the situation had been brought under control. Asked if Senator Melaye was still in cuffs on his hospital bed as earlier rumoured, Saraki said, “there was nothing like cuffs on him.” But what would happen to the controversial senator when he regains his health remained unclear as the Senate had resolved to summon the nation’s police chief. The Senate is miffed that the police would seek Melaye’s arrest despite the fact that the case against him was before a competent court of jurisdiction, more so that the said arrest was without any valid warrant signed by a judge. Senators who contributed to the debate expressed concerns that a serving senator would be so “dehumanised” and treated like a common criminal by the police. Recall that Melaye after escaping arrest at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja on Monday by men of the Nigerian Immigration Service who barred him from travelling out of the country, had his house surrounded by heavily armed policemen. The men laid siege to his Maitama residence until Tuesday morning when the lawmaker caved in and handed himself over to them. But while trying to take him out of Abuja for arraignment in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital, the senator, according to a police statement, allegedly jumped out of the vehicle, having planned an escape with some unidentified men. The men were said to have taken him to his private hospital at the Mabushi area of Abuja for treatment of the injuries said to have been sustained by the senator. But the police, led by an AIG in charge of medical, upon learning about his location, moved in and reportedly took him to the National Hospital in cuffs. Access to the embattled senator was also restricted as attempts by his Senate colleagues were resisted by police, prompting the Senate leadership to suspend plenary for a visit to their colleague. The IGP is expected to appear before the lawmakers today for explanations on the manner in which he has handled the issue and the rising spate of killings across the country. 0 comments