In compliance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2007 (FRA 2007), the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), remitted N49.7bn to the Federal Government Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) within the first four months of 2018. This figure represents ‘Payment on Account’ in respect of operating surplus for the year 2018. Tony Ojobo, Director, Public Affairs in a statement yesterday, said that according to the FRA 2007, such payments were to be made every year after preparation of audited accounts. Ojobo noted that the NCC had taken the initiative to be making payments on account as it generates revenues. He quoted Section 22, Sub section 1 of the Act, which states that: “Notwithstanding the provisions of any written law governing the Corporation, each Corporation shall establish a general reserve fund and shall allocate thereto at the end of each financial year, one fifth of its operating surplus for the year.” He added that Section 22, Sub-section 2 of the Act was clear about this: “The balance of the operating surplus shall be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) of the Federal Government not later than one month following the statutory deadline for publishing each Corporations Account.” On the funds remitted, he said were besides Spectrum Assignment fees, which were remitted 100 per cent to the Federal Government in line with Section 17, Sub section 3 of the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA 2003). Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, the Chief Executive of NCC, enumerated how telecommunications had impacted the Nigerian economy positively. During a courtesy visit to Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) recently, Danbatta quoted figures released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) to justify this impact. For instance in the first quarter of 2017, telecommunications contributed N1.45trn to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) while the figures rose to N1.549trn in the second quarter of 2017. “This performance at a period of recession is very remarkable”, Danbatta explained, adding that “we are keeping dates with the NBS to identify and track how these trends continue” In general terms, telecoms industry contribution to GDP in Nigeria stands at 10 per cent yearly in the last four years, Danbatta submitted. The EVC said these figures may not tell the entire story, because investments in human and material resources were on the rise daily. From a paltry $50m investment in the sector in 2001, the figures stand at $70bn as at September, 2017. Value Added Services segment of the sector investment was over $200m and estimated to hit $500m by the turn of 2021. The industry has provided direct and indirect employment to millions of Nigerians and over 150 million subscribers are connected to various networks with broadband penetration currently at 22 per cent according to the UNESCO/ITU Sustainable Development Goal (SDG). 0 comments