Dr. Paul Okorie and Mr. Eze Nwachukwu, both chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State, have applauded the declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari to run for a second term, saying that the decision would benefit all Nigerians. The chieftains who spoke on Monday in Abakaliki noted that the outstanding performance of the President qualified him to run for re-election to consolidate on the achievements recorded in his first term. Dr. Okorie,  a governorship aspirant in the 2019 election, said  the decision was welcome. He hailed Buhari for his courage and decision to present himself for a second term and urged party faithful and Nigerians to support the President for the re-election bid. Okorie who served at various times as Commissioner for Works and Transportation and Environment said the re-election of Buhari would deepen democracy and enhance economic growth and development. He listed among the achievements of the president, the growth of the foreign reserve from $30 billion to about $47 billion, road infrastructure, anti-graft campaign, job creation, youth empowerment, defeat of Boko Haram and fiscal discipline. “Though he has performed creditably well in his first term, more needed to be done and four years obviously is not enough for him to fully accomplish his programmes and policies. “Again the South-East will have brighter opportunity to produce the next Nigerian President by 2023,” he said. Mr. Nwachukwu, Acting chairman of the party in Ebonyi, said that the declaration has put an end to uncertainties on whether the President would offer himself for a second term. He praised the President for taking the bold decision,  saying that the second term of Buhari would stabilise security concerns, enhance political, economic and industrial growth in the country. He said that the government had fought corruption and had redeemed the country’s image previously battered by corruption. He urged all eligible voters in the state, who have not yet registered in the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR),  to ensure they register to avoid  disenfranchisement during the election. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.