Sterling Bank Plc., while creating awareness for agent banking, declared that the initiative was the bank’s way of creating wealth among Nigerians. It took the lender less than a year after the CBN unveiled the scheme’s guidelines, to launch its agent banking model at the Asejere market (Makoko fish market) Yaba, Lagos. The immediate past governor of the CBN, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, who was at the event, described it as a “fantastic initiative” by Sterling Bank, stating that the move can deepen the penetration of banking services across the country. He said: “We have about 39 per cent of the adult population still unbanked and we hope to reduce it to 20 per cent by year 2020. If you consider the figures closely, there is huge disparity by regions and by gender. You’ve got about 80 per cent of rural dwellers unbanked; you have about 70 per cent of the North East and North West unbanked and under banked and you have a large proportion of women unbanked compared to men. “So the focus is how to bring the rural poor, women, the North-East and the North-West into the banking fold. If other banks join Sterling Bank, we will make huge progress,” he added. Mr. Yemi Adeola, the Managing Director/CEO, Sterling Bank Plc, said the initiative was the bank’s way of creating wealth among Nigerians. “There are more than 70 million Nigerians who are living below the poverty line. As a bank, we owe it a duty to play a role in creating wealth across board. “It is not enough to embark on corporate social responsibility of charity initiatives. We must remember that progress in the poorest parts of the country will benefit all of us in the long run” he said. A source at Sterling bank disclosed that the lender now had over 600 agents and that it was training some new agents to enable it reach out to the unbanked and under banked. The source said that features and benefits of the Sterling agent banking initiative include, zero opening balance and no daily minimum balance. First Bank in its efforts to empower individuals without bank accounts and bridge the gap between high-tech service and low literacy customers, FirstBank Nigeria has launched a an agent banking services tagged-  FirstBank has just launched its Agent banking service tagged- Firstmonie Agent. The Firstmonie Agent is the FirstBank ‘Human ATM’ empowered to reduce the reliance on over-the-counter transactions while providing convenient personalized services. The Firstmonie agent is equipped to carry out the following services – Account Opening, Cash Deposit, Airtime Purchase, Bills Payment, Withdrawals and Money Transfer. Becoming a Firstmonie Agent in your community is another way to make extra income from your thriving business. FirstMonie Agents are owners of small businesses within communities with limited or no banking penetration, who have been enlisted on the FirstBank network which cuts across all 36 states in the country. To find out more details about the Firstmonie Agent channel, simply visit https://www.firstbanknigeria.com/personal-banking/ways-to-bank/firstmonie-agent today! The Firstmonie Agent market activation train is currently making its rounds in Lagos, having already made stops at Alaba International Market and Ikorudu. To find out the next stop closest to you, follow FirstBank social media or join the conversations using the hashtag- #FirstMonieAgent & #MonieMatas. In addition, another lender, Ecobank Nigeria, had early last year inaugurated an agency banking outlet at Mowe Ofada, Ogun state. The lender explained in a statement that the development was in line with its strategy to convert Airtel franchise locations to agent banking locations. “Ecobank’s agency banking service is aimed at offering affordable access to financial services to promote and deepen financial inclusion in the Nigeria economy,” it said. According to Tunde Kuponiyi , Head, Consumer Distribution, Ecobank Nigeria, agency banking was a part of the bank’s distribution strategy to take banking service to the door-step of the customer, adding that, it offers greater convenience and accessible financial services in a cost effective and secure manner. He stated: “Banking services provided by the agent banking locations include opening Ecobank Quick Account, cash withdrawal and deposit into Ecobank accounts; funds transfers into any bank account in Nigeria, bills payment (utilities, cable subscription), mobile phone airtime top up amongst other services. “Some of Ecobank agent partners already offering this service in Lagos are Buymore Supermarket chain (in Agungi-Lekki, Kilo Surulere, Ikeja GRA), Kenzo Retail Supermarket chain (in Lekki, Festac and Apapa) and Save-a-Lot Supermarket in Egbeda, among others,” he added. Keystone Bank Partners NIPOST Keystone Bank also launched ‘KeyServ’ (An Agency Banking Proposition) to serve customers outside its conventional brick & Mortar mode of banking. The initiative in partnership with Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) and i-OneC (A FinTech Firm) is in line with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Financial System Strategy (FSS2020) goals to increase Financial Inclusion uptake in Nigeria. According to Mr. Obeahon Ohiwerei, the Group Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of Keystone Bank Limited: “Enabling Financial Inclusion is our core area of focus and we have partnered with other industry players to deploy Digital Financial Solutions/ Platforms for improved access to finance; leveraging data to improve the product offerings, personalised & predictive customer service, and uncovering new customer segments. “The recent reports on adult Nigerians (according to EFInA) that are financially excluded is 40.1million (41.6% of 96.4million adults). “To this end, we are partnering with NIPOST and i-OneC to offer financial inclusion services to under banked Nigerians especially in the rural and less urban areas.” Under this partnership, KeyServ (Keystone Agency Banking Services) offers services such as Account Opening, Bills Payment, Cash-In, Cash-Out, ATM Services, Fund Transfers, Balance Enquiries, ATM cash withdrawals, Mini Statements and a whole lot more. “One landmark feature of KeyServ (Keystone Agency Banking Services) is that it offers affordable access to financial services than the traditional banking methods” the MD/CEO also reiterated. Also, speaking at the launch, Yemi Odusanya, Executive Director Corporate Banking & South, Keystone Bank, added that “with this scheme, customers, especially in the rural areas will enjoy unfettered access to banking services. As at today, we have about 106 approved agents across the country and already, the services are available at Sabongida-Ora (Evbiobe)-Edo State,  Sabon Gari (Kano), Mirinjibi (Kaduna), Barnawa (Kaduna), Yaba (Lagos) and Ikoyi (Lagos)”. It’s simply convenient, affordable and several NIPOST locations nationwide have been earmarked to feature actively in this initiative. Nigerians now have the opportunity to take full advantage of this partnership to enjoy the bouquet of Financial Services across the country. Heritage Bank Plc last year restated that its target was to bring onboard 1, 000 agent partners by the end of this year. In a statement, the lender said that as at June 2017, its agent base had grown at an average rate of 50 new agent sign ups monthly, bringing the total number of active agents to about 450 and growing. The lender further stated that at a steady growth rate of approximately 17.5 per cent new agent per month, its objective of having 100, 000 active agents in five years was well within reach. Heritage Bank had in March 2016 launched its agent banking scheme with the opening of what it tagged the “Corner Shop” bank in the Gbagada Plank Market, Lagos. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.