To a discerning mind, a growing population should be a blessing considering the fact that more people will be added to the workforce to increase productivity and consequently increase Gross Domestic Product (GDP). But, for Nigeria, it is not so because of the fact that apart from relying solely on oil as a major source of our foreign exchange, our productive base is weak coupled with decayed infrastructure. What it will then means would be more mouths to be fed and more pressures on the infrastructure. So, when  Eze Duruiheoma, the National Population Commission (NPC) chairman, recently put Nigeria’s current population at 198 million, many Nigerians say the country could be at risk if nothing is done to control the population explosion. Duruiheoma, while delivering Nigeria’s statement on Sustainable Cities, Human Mobility and International Migration, said the urban population was growing at an average annual growth rate of about 6.5 per cent. “Nigeria remains the most populous in Africa, the seventh globally with an estimated population of over 198 million. The recent World Population Prospects report predicts that by 2050, Nigeria will become the third most populated country in the world. “Over the last 50 years, the Nigeria’s urban population has grown at an average annual growth rate of more than 6.5 percent without commensurate increase in social amenities and infrastructure. “It grew substantially from 17.3 in 1967 to 49.4 percent in 2017. In addition, the 2014 World Urbanisation Prospects report predicts that by 2050, most of the population – 70 per cent – will be residing in cities. The 2010 Human Mobility Survey report revealed that 23 per cent of the sampled population was of more females than males,” he said. Since revelation, experts have been discussing not only the declared figure but also the implications of the huge increase in the number of Nigerians for economic growth and development. While some think the figure is a mere assumption, others seek to know how NPC arrived at it. Virtually all who spoke with Sunday INDEPENDENT on the issue are of the view that population is a blessing but that in Nigeria, it seems to be a curse. This is because, according to them, there is no corresponding economic growth as the population grows. They argue that unless there is commensurate economic growth, uncontrolled population growth will put the country into a serious problem. As pointed out by them, social and infrastructural facilities must expand as the county’s population increases. Also, a greater percentage of the people must be engaged for the population growth to be beneficial according to them. This, according to them, must be pursued vigorously by the government rather than paying lip service to the people. According to Bolade Agbola, Lagos based analyst and MD/CEO LAM Agro Consult Limited, “We know we are close to a population of 200million. It’s sad that about half or 100million people are living in abject poverty .They are practically living on about $1per day or N360. These are people earning just N60,000 per month for a family of six people (husband ,wife and four children). We need to focus on inclusive growth. The government must fight corruption practically through processes and procedures that creates incentive for corruption. Our government revenue collection system is opaque and prone to corruption. We must put the corrupt ones behind bars to serve as deterrent so that our common wealth can be used for the good of all. Those who have made so much money from the weak system must start to give back to the society .Our taxation must be progressive taking much from the rich and less from the poor. We need to build a more equitable society otherwise both the rich and the poor will be victims of the anarchy that will follow the highly unequal society we are building today.” Emeka Okereke, Director General, Enugu Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ECCIMA) says correct population figure is critical as it enables us to plan well and execute well. However, he added that “Part of our problem is that we don’t have forward looking plan so that we will be able to provide infrastructure and basic facilities that will be able to carry the population. The implication for us in the sense that the Nigerian population is a big asset there is no doubt about that, but when you have a very redundant population, it becomes a problem. As it were, we are looking forward that we will use the advantage of increase in population to add more productivity to our GDP that is the interesting thing and that when we produce we will have the population that will have the capacity to consume these goods.” Suraj Olanrewaju, anti-corruption activist believes that higher population should give positive implication for the economy but it depends on how we harness it. The number is supposed to create an opportunity for us to be economically independent to a large extent. With our population, it should encourage local creation of wealth. It is supposed to be an opportunity for every entrepreneurs and business men to explore, to have a ready market for your product.” Wale Adeoye, Executive Director JODER, says “we do not have effective planning mechanism. There is also no population control mechanism. The country needs a national framework to respond to the population boom, if not there is going to be a complicated economic and cultural crisis.” Garba Yedimakudon, Adamawa based activist says it “will have a lot of impact on our resources and that is why we need people who will manage our resources very well so that they will be able to harness our resources and be able to do the best they can to our teeming populace.” Rotimi Ogunleye, a chartered accountant expressed worry at the astronomical growth of the country’s population, saying if care is not taken, the implications for economic growth and development would be grave. He said as the number of people in Nigeria increased, the meaning was that there would be need to expand social and infrastructural facilities in the country. Ogunleye said there was nothing bad in population increasing if the country could plan its economy very well. He added that a situation where the population was left to grow without commensurate economic growth would wreck a serious havoc for the country. Yemi Adetoyinbo, a legal practitioner and national publicity secretary of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) was of the opinion that Nigerian government should take the issue of population growth seriously. He said lack of proper planning in the face of growing population would create serious social and economic problems for the country. “The country’s population is growing and there are no efforts to deal with it in terms of food supply, infrastructural development, education and employment creation. We are not growing the economy. We are not growing anything. But the population is growing in an alarming rate. “There must be corresponding expansion of infrastructure as the population grows. Job must be created to cater for the upsurge in the number of the people in the country. Government should create new hope and new vision for the country. “If not, over population will turn the country into a disaster zone. It may result to famine. It may even result to war when the existing facilities are over stretched and overwhelmed,” he said. Ifeanyi Odili, national secretary of the Campaign for Democracy (CD), who described Nigeria as an unproductive country, wondered how it would cope with the uncontrolled population rise. He urged the federal government not to handle the rise in the number of the people living in Nigeria with levity. The CD national secretary said it was a disturbing situation if population was growing and the country remained underdeveloped. He said: “What is happening in the country in terms of population growth and lack of commensurate economic growth can be likened to a man whose monthly income is N10, 000 and has 20 children. How will he cope? How will he feed them? How will he educate them? Definitely, most of these children will turn to the dregs of society. “That is what will happen in Nigeria if our leaders are not responding well to the astronomical population growth. We rely on petroleum. We are not manufacturing anything. We abandoned agriculture which used to be the mainstay of the nation’s economy,” he said. Davis Oluwasuyi, Ondo State chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP) said government should find ways of turning the rise in the population of the country from a deficit to an asset. He said the population growth appeared to him as a curse instead of blessing. 0 comments