Lagos – Team Nigeria got on the medal table at the ongoing Commonwealth Games by winning two silver medals won Monday. Table Tennins team won the first silver medal in the men’s team event following the Segun Toriola led team 3-0 loss to India in the final. Segun Abiodun lost the first match 3-1 (4-11, 11-5, 11-4, 11-9) to Sharath Achanta, while Toriola also suffered a 3-1 (10-12, 11-3, 11-3, 11-4) loss to Sathiyan Gnanasekaran in the second match. In the doubles event, the pair of Bode Abidoun and Olajide Omotayo lost in straight sets of 11-8, 11-5, and 11-3 to Harmeet Desai and Sathiyan Gnanasekaran. Chukwuebuka Enekwechi won the second silver in the shot Put event by setting a new personal best of 21.14m. New Zealand’s Tomas Walsh won gold in the event, setting a new games record of 21.41m. Tim Nedow from Canada won bronze with a distance from 20.19, which was his season’s best. In athletics, Seye Ogunlewe was not lucky as he finished fourth in the men’s 100m final also on Monday. Ogunlewe recorded a personal season’s best time of 10.19 seconds in a photo finish with Jamaican athlete, Yohan Blake, who placed third. Akani Simbine from South Africa won the gold medal with a time of 10.03 seconds while his compatriot, Henricho Bruintjies won silver in 10.17secs. Meanwhile, the coach of the Table Tennis team, Nosiru Bello, has blamed fatigue and injury for their loss to India. “We were fatigued as we only rested 40 minutes before the commencement of the final against India. Toriola had a muscle injury but still gave his best. The Indians played their semi final in the morning and rested better than us. We played our semi final and hardly rested before the final. That lack of rest affected us badly,” Bello said at the Secretariat of Team Nigeria. Tennis star Aruna Quadri who did not play in the Team Events explained that he was below the weather and decided to skip the Team event. “I was not feeling fine. I decided to recuperate and play the singles,” Quadri said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.