The Dapchi girls are back! Nice move and congratulations, Mr President. That should draw the curtain on the drama and we can turn and face the hunger in the land. They were released unconditionally, according to President Mohammadu Buhari. I mean (sorry, the president means) that Boko Haram did not request for anything at all… they simply repented of this particular deed (not other more terrible ones) and decided to make restitution – send back the girls and hold one back for refusing to switch religion. For the records, the girls were abducted unconditionally and they were released unconditionally. Three hearty cheers to Nigeria. We (the president and I) mean Boko Haram did not give them any condition when they were loaded into trucks and taken out of town on routes that checkpoints had earlier been conveniently and inexplicably cleared for the VIB’s (very important Boko Harams) convoy with their captives. Buhari is a truthful man – he never lies. His secondary school certificate is intact and if the busybody who sued him over it had persisted, the beloved president would have produced the document through the fourteen Senior Advocates of Nigeria that he hired to defend him. He is a no nonsense fighter of corruption with a quixotic complex. When the girls were kidnapped, he remembered his days in the secondary school and all the nice girls who were his classmates and he was deeply touched. He almost wept if it were not that he was distracted by that “nasty” Governor Ortom who is always talking about the death of few of his peasant farmers at the hands of aristocratic herdsmen. Well all has turned out well. It appears Boko Haram abducted the girls or rather took them for a ride in the forest to show them practical geography. They were still conducting them around the forest when they were distracted by a call. A negotiator, who happens to have obtained their number in a dream, called on behalf of the Federal Government. The negotiator sang a familiar song to them, “They were two black birds sitting on the wall/ One named Peter, one named Paul/ Fly away Peter, Fly away Paul/ Come back Peter, come back Paul/ Oh come back black birds and sit on the wall.” Boko Haram do not have time for nursery rhymes because to them Western education is sin. But they have seen black birds before, particular the vultures, which feast on the people they kill. They love black birds for this. Anyhow the negotiator explained to them that the black birds were the Dapchi girls who should be sent back to sit on the “walls of their school.” Boko Haram were impressed with the metaphor. The negotiator further explained to them that the parents of the girls were missing them and the Government was crying for them. Boko Haram was not impressed with the angle of the Federal Government, “Why is the government more impressed with little girls than with their parents? Fulani herdsmen have killed thousands including some of them parents of schoolgirls and there has been no expression of outrage by the government. So what is the matter with a bunch of little girls?” The negotiator retorted, “Well, simply because a man does not like ripe plantain does not mean he does not eat unripe plantain. It is a matter of choice.” The negotiator was not done. He retorted that returning the girls would show Nigerians that the Federal Government was working. It would give the nation a basis to compare the “bad” government of Goodluck Jonathan with the “good” one of Buhari. “Let us show the world that Buhari is a much better man than Jonathan.” The Boko Haram fighters were so deeply touched that they began to cry. They remembered when that fellow (Jonathan) sent soldiers after them and a kind-hearted statesman rebuked him “for sending soldiers after our boys.” So they asked the negotiator, “So what do we do so that we do not break the heart of the president? He is a good man.” The negotiator told them to load the girls into the same truck and take the same route they took out of town and come back with the girls. So they did. No airplane saw them from the sky. No policeman, soldier or security man saw them come into town. No Boy Scout or Girls Guide saw a thing. Not one of the many security men and women who run in circles around our country saw a thing. They came in carefully unseen by those who should see – and dropped the girls. You are wondering whether we are talking about the same bloodthirsty, cold-blooded Boko Haram who bomb markets and churches and kill and maim babies, men and women? Of course we are. The same Boko Haram, the same serial killers who have wasted the lives of tens of thousands of Nigerians. So what changed? Ask those you voted for. Some have said that this was a Nollywood-style drama orchestrated by the Federal Government. We understand and disagree! We understand because it is only if you think this way that all the parts of the jigsaw puzzle fit. This is the only way to explain the checkpoints not being there at the point of abduction, and the military top brass “prophesying” that the girls would soon be released and their prophesy came to pass. It is the only way to explain the girls being brought back and those who brought them were not intercepted. It is the only way to understand the script and the film. But like one said earlier, the girls were released unconditionally… and they were. I have this on good authority. What ever the Federal Government paid for the “release” should be retired as artiste fee or production fee for the telemundo. The actors (all of them) deserve to be appreciated for their role in the “film.” The girls should not be paid because they were simply extras and were not the main actors. It may not be fair to use someone else to act a film without the person’s consent – but then some things in this world are not fair and we have been living with it. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.