Lagos – President Muhammadu Buhari’s comment on Nigerian youths has been attracting criticisms from members of the public who were dissatisfied with the President’s stance on the nation’s youths. Buhari while speaking at Commonwealth Business Forum in Westminster, England was quoted as saying, “More than 60 per cent of the nation’s population is below 30 with a lot of them haven’t been to school yet they are claiming that Nigeria is an oil producing country, therefore, they should sit and do nothing, and get housing, healthcare, education for free.” Shortly after the President’s comment, expression of anger flooded in from different sections of the society, mainly from associations and individuals who felt that Buhari was unfair to the nation’s young population in his remark. Not even the clarification from the Presidency could stop the gush of criticisms that Buhari’s comment on Nigerian youths elicited. The Presidency had in a statement by Mr. Femi Adesina said that Buhari’s comment was distorted by mischief makers and manipulators who interpreted the remark to mean that Buhari had taken all the Nigerian youths to the cleaners. Adesina’s clarification, however, could not convince those who felt that the junior citizens of this country have been portrayed wrongly before the international community. Different associations and individuals that reacted to Buhari’s comment were undivided in their opinions that the Nigerian youths did not deserve such a remark in far away London. Among those who expressed disappointments were Arewa Youths Consultative Forum (AYCF); the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS);  Youth Development and Empowerment Foundation (YODEF); The Action Democratic Party, (ADP); Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and Presidential hopeful, Dr Kingsley Muoghalu. Others that rose in defense of the youths were former presidential candidate of National Conscience Party (NCP) in the 2015 general elections, Chief Martin Onovo; Co-convener of BringBackOurGirls, (BBOG), Aisha Yesufu; former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode and a presidential hopeful, Fela Durotoye among others. On the other hand, a former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank; the Senator, representing Kaduna Central in the National Assembly, Comrade Shehu Sani and the founder/ convener of New Nigeria Movement and Vice President of Nigerian Young Professional Forum, Dr Chima Anyaso urged Buhari to tender an apology to Nigerian youths. AYCF, through its President, Malam Yerima Shettima said that Buhari’s comment has been eliciting complaints and grudges from youths across the Northern part of the country. He regretted that the present administration has not accorded the youths the recognition that they deserved. “I am not surprised to see that kind of statement because the government does not believe in Nigerian youths from inception. If you look at the arrangement, the appointment, and how the government relates with the youths of this country, you will see that they do not have respect for the Nigerian youths despite the contributions of the youths. We are completely disappointed in Buhari and we will never make this mistake again.” According to him, the Presidency’s effort at explaining Buhari’s remark does not make any difference as the youths are biding their time till 2019 to let Buhari know whether they are actually jobless and lazy. In the same way, YODEF’s President, Comrade Uche Udungwor, described President Buhari’s comment as most uncharitable. He told DAILY INDEPENDENT that Buhari was not fair to the youths in his comment. He said, “With due respect to Mr. President, that’s the most uncharitable statement on the Nigerian youths. And it is most unfortunate that such is coming from the President himself. How can he say that the youths are lazy? The Nigerian youths I know are very intelligent, hard working, very creative and innovative. May be, there is a different Nigeria that he is talking about but if it is the same Nigeria that has Abuja as the capital, then it shows that Mr. President has lost touch with reality and it is an indictment to both his person and government. The YODEF leader further said, “Most Nigerian youths are struggling to survive on daily basis because the environment is not encouraging. The system itself is an apology compared to other countries even in Africa. Infrastructure is almost zero. It is a failure on the part of government because these are the same youths that have distinguished themselves in various careers and endavours in other climes and Mr. President will sit down somewhere and label them lazy. Well, posterity will judge.” Similarly, NANS through their National President, Aruna Kadiri, said that Nigerian youths are not lazy but are victims of the nation’s leadership failure. He expressed misgivings that Nigerian youths should be portrayed as lazy despite their commitment, doggedness and perseverance. According to NANS, Nigerian youths are the same people who have to work, suffer, sacrifice and go through hell, and after sacrificing to pay their school fees at the end of the day, they graduate without a job. “So, who is lazy between our generation and their generation?” Meanwhile, the Action Democratic Party (ADP) has described Nigerian youths as the most industrious in the world. The party said that exploits of Nigerian youths in sports and entertainment; education, business and other endavours speak volumes of their resilience. ADP said that it is proud of the Nigerian youths and what they have been able to achieve even without the least support from the government, adding that the youths of Nigeria are shining examples in Africa and the world. The party’s position was made know by its Lagos State chapter through its spokesman, Prince Adelaja Adeoye. PDP in its reaction wondered why Buhari could describe the Nigerian youths as lazy. In a release by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, the party described Buhari’s comment on Nigerian youths as shocking and questioned the motive behind such a statement. “How can President Buhari describe Nigerian youths as lazy, when they have proven, without doubt, to be one of the most industrious sets of individuals across the world? Nigerians find it extremely shocking that President Buhari could make such a false, derogatory and unpatriotic comment against our citizens at a time the nation was looking up to him to properly present our potential to the global business community. It is alarming that at every international event, the President makes it a favorite past time to de-market, paint and denigrate our dear nation and her citizens in very negative light.” PDP further said, “Here is a President, whose administration has in its three years of governance, contributed nothing towards providing opportunities for our youths and who has not initiated or implemented any project or set up any industry to provide jobs for our aspiring youths. This is a President who daily watches Nigerian youths sweating on menial jobs under very strenuous conditions on the streets of Abuja, Jos, Lagos, Ibadan, Kano, Kaduna, Maiduguri, Bauchi, Calabar, Port Harcourt, Enugu, Onitsha and other major cities, yet he unsympathetically described them as lazy. “These are the same set of Nigerians who, upon being afforded the right opportunities in other countries of the world, are known to have excelled in various fields of endeavour. Most disheartening is that these are the same young persons who form the highest demography of voters that put their confidence in him in 2015. Now they are receiving the short end of the stick from the President.” In his reaction, former Vice President of Nigeria, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar said Nigerian youths are very hard working and should be seen as the country’s greatest asset. Atiku said, “I will never refer to Nigerian youths as people who sit and do nothing. They are hard working. I should know; I have thousands of youths working for me all over the country who have been the backbone to our success. Our greatest asset is our youth who created Nollywood out of nothing, an entertainment industry that is second to none in Africa. Our youths are charting new frontiers; creating industries on their own. Their entrepreneurial spirit, work ethic, and creative abilities are things of pride and should be applauded, encouraged and nurtured.” 0 comments