Joseph Beti Assomo, the minister delegate at the Presidency of the Republic of Cameroon in charge of defense, said he would discuss with Russian leadership the threat posed by militant Islamist group Boko Haram as well as cooperation between the two countries on combating terrorism during his Moscow visit. “We have serious problem of terrorism in our country. “We have there what we call the terrorist group Boko Haram. “I will have bilateral discussions with some officials, from the government of the Russian Federation and we will discuss specific anti-terrorist and bilateral cooperation between our two countries. “So our participation and our presence here in Moscow is very important for us, Cameroon. “We will have meetings with high-rank officials in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,’’ Beti Assomo, who is taking part in the Moscow Conference on International Security (MCIS), said. According to the official, Boko Haram is part of international terrorism as its leaders are receiving funds from places far away from Central Africa. “It is an international problem and that is why we appreciate the Moscow Conference on International Security because it is permitted to discuss. “And to look at ways and mean to fight better this matter of international terrorism,’’ Beti Assomo added. Boko Haram is a terrorist group, operating in the Central African region, which has pledged allegiance to the Islamic State (IS, terrorist group banned in Russia). The group is infamous for numerous attacks and abductions on mostly Nigerian soil and in the neighbouring African states such as Cameroon. Along with Nigeria and Cameroon, Niger and Chad are also engaged in military operations to defeat Boko Haram. The group’s insurgency has resulted in displacement of millions of people and their acute malnutrition. The seventh MCIS is being held in the Russian capital from Wednesday to Thursday. The conference is an annual event, which brings together defence ministers, representatives of international and non-governmental organisations and military experts. This year, it is focused on the defeat of terrorists in Syria. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.