Calabar – The Cross River State Police command has paraded seventy eight persons suspected to have committed various crimes in the state, among them a 48-year-old pastor who defiled his 12-year-old housemaid. Similarly, the Police also paraded 25-year-old Michael Emmanuel Okon of No. 2 Ikot Effa Street, Calabar for defiling nine-year-old Destiny Uduak Sunday after dragging her into his living room. According to the State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Hafiz Mohammed Inuwa, Pastor Dominic Udo John forcefully defiled his housemaid, Enobong John Etim and following the victim’s cry for help, the Police arrested him. “On March 11, 2018, at about 2200hrs, one Pastor Dominic Udo John (48) of Ikot Ekpo, 8th miles Calabar was arrested for forcefully defiling his 12 years old housemaid, Enobong John Etim.  Following the victim’s outcry, the suspect was arrested and admitted to committing the crime,” Inuwa said. The CP added that “medical examination has been carried out by a qualified medical practitioner to ascertain the health status of the girl and that the suspect will be charged to court.” Inuwa, who also paraded 76 other suspected criminals and cultists, told journalists during a press briefing in Calabar on Wednesday that John, who lives at Ikot Ekpo, near 8th miles, has admitted to committing the crime. Among the other suspects also paraded by the Police is a 27-year-old woman, Veronica James Usim of Ekong Anaku village in Akamkpa local government area of the state for carrying in a sack bag, 14 packs of live cartridges, he said she could not explain the source. Meanwhile, the commissioner has said about 324 firearms of different categories, either English or locally made, have been recovered from various groups and individuals in furtherance of the instruction by the Inspector General that all unlawful arms should be mopped up. He advised the public to report anybody with arms in the state, promising to reward any genuine person who exposes illegal arms anywhere in the state. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.