Lagos – Nigeria last night swept to an unprecedented four gold medals and took a giant move to number eight on the medals table, 24 hours to end the Games. Nigeria with eight Gold, five Silver and five Bronze medals is the second African country on the medal table with South Africa that placed fifth with 13 gold, 10 silver and 12 bronze medals  the only African country ahead of Nigeria. Blessing Oborodudu started a night to remember for Nigeria with a stunning victory in the 68kg freestyle against Daniella Lappage of Canada winning 3 – 1. When Odunayo Adekuroye stepped on the mat, the hall exploded with sporadic applause against her India’s opponent, Pooja Dhunda. As they tried themselves for size, tension soared as Odunayo was warned and a point deducted from her. She did not look perturbed. When she finally got a real hold on her, she pinned her to the mat, turned and twisted like a Crocodile overwhelming its prey. The Nigerian garnered 5 points. As they continued with victory moving towards Nigeria, the Indian in a flash produced a stunning move that saw her amassing 5 points. Odunayo, however, took victory beyond her and ended the glorious night on a victorious note beating her 7 – 5 to take the gold. In another feat, Oluwatobiloba Amusan picked the gold medal for Nigeria in the women’s 100m hurdles in a time of 12.68 seconds.The 20-year-old becomes the first Nigerian to win a hurdles title. The gold rush was not over as Suwaibidu Galadima, a Para athlete, capped the night with yet another gold medal in the T47 100 m final. Galadima led the field from beginning to finish 11:04secs. The 4 x 100 m Relay men got a bronze medal with a time 38:52secs. Amos Daniel also won a bronze in the Men’s 65 kg Freestyle. However, the wrestling event will be wrapped up today, with reigning Commonwealth gold-medalist, Aminat Adeniyi (62kg) and two-time African champion, Mercy Genesis (50kg) expected on the mat, while Melvin Bibo (86kg) and 2010 champion Sinivie Boltic (125kg) will also be in action as Team Nigeria continues its quest for more medals in the sport. Gold or two from any of the four wrestlers would see Team Nigeria climb up on the medals table at the end of the wrestling event today. Team Nigeria is presently 8th on the table with eight gold, five silver and five bronze medals to garner 18 medals and Africa’s second best overall behind South Africa, who are 5th on the table with 13 gold, 10 silver and 12 bronze medals. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.