Abuja – No fewer than 160 firms of professional estate surveyors and valuers participated in the bid to provide the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) with valuation and land acquisition services. This was disclosed by the Group General Manager (GGM), Supply Chain Management, Mr. Shehu Liman, during a public bid opening exercise conducted by the corporation in furtherance of its commitment to transparency in its procurement process. According to a statement signed by Ndu Ughamadu, Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Mrs. Sophia Mbakwe, the General Manager, Supply Chain Management, , who was represented the GGM,  stated that NNPC was desirous of engaging reputable and competent firms of estate surveyors and valuers that could provide unparalleled and exceptional valuation and land acquisition services to the Corporation in order to sustain its drive towards excellence in service delivery. Speaking in similar vein, the General Manager, Group Administration Services (GAS), who was represented by the Deputy Manager, Valuation and Acquisition, Mr. Chuks Ogbunude, explained that the bid opening was in compliance with the Public Procurement Act. He assured bidders of a level playing field to guarantee the emergence of the best firm. Representatives of some of the bidding firms who witnessed the exercise expressed satisfaction, describing NNPC as a transparent company. Daily Independent also recalls that NNPC said arrangements were underway for the historic groundbreaking of the 40inch x 614km Ajaokuta-Kaduna–Kano (AKK) gas pipeline and stations. The Corporation’s spokesman, said this followed successful execution of contract agreements for the engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning and financing for Lots 1 & 3 of the over $2.8 billion trans-Nigeria gas pipeline project. The AKK pipeline has been described as the single biggest gas pipeline project in the history of oil and gas operation in Nigeria. ”Upon completion, 24 months from now, the AKK gas pipeline would enable connectivity between the East, West and North, currently non-existent. ”It would also enable gas supply and utilization to key commercial centres in the Northern corridor of Nigeria with the attendant positive spin-off on power generation and industrial growth” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.