Kaduna – Few days after Abdulrahman Dambazzau, Minister of Interior, led a Federal Government delegation to troubled Kaduna communities, at least 10 people were reported killed in different attacks across the state on Thursday. Sources claimed that armed men shot ten people in the attacks which also claimed the life of a village head. In Asso village, Jama’a Local Government Area, the gunmen shot at their victims at about 10am when they were returning from a visit to a sick relative at a hospital in Kafanchan. Also gunmen invaded Sarari, a village in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area about 2pm and went on a house to house rampage. A resident of the village gave an account of the shooting. He said: “They were well armed and they went from house to house shooting at people. “Everybody was running for safety. Our village head and eight other people were killed. “Those wounded were taken to a Primary Health Centre in a neigbouring town.” Nicholas Garba, a member of House of Representatives, representing Jema/Sanga federal constituency, confirmed the attack in Asso and said it was the third in the community. “This will be the third time that an attack will be carried out from the uncompleted Asso Bridge,” he said. The lawmaker called for the intervention of the state governor, Nasir el-Rufai. “I am also appealing to the military task force based in Kafanchan to work harder to fish out these agents of darkness,” he said. He added: “Until the state is able to fish out, expose and punish the perpetrators of these heinous crimes, for so long will these criminals continue on their path of perfidy.” 10 Feared Dead In Fresh Herdsmen Attack In Benue Meanwhile, about ten persons were feared killed in an early morning attack by suspected Fulani herdsmen on Thursday on Mbakyondo, Mbakpa and Sengaev communities in Agagbe district of Gwer West Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State. Residents told DAILY INDEPENDENT that herdsmen attacked the communities from all directions about 2a.m and were shooting sporadically. Some of them were said to have been murdered in their sleep while others were killed as they rushed out of their homes. Many others who survived the attacks were badly injured in the confusion that ensued. A source explained that the invading herdsmen set several houses ablaze during the attack. One of the survivors, Basil Aondokaa, explained that they were woken up by gunshots and screaming of people. He said, “We were sleeping when we heard sudden screaming and gunshots. I immediately woke up and grabbed my two children and my wife followed me and we escaped through the bush. “We could not carry anything because the attack was sudden, there was confusion everywhere because of the sporadic shootings by the herdsmen.” DAILY INDEPENDENT also gathered that in some communities in Guma and Agatu LGAs there has been mass movement of people for fear of impending attacks. Confirming the attack, state Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni, said the attack was carried out by bandits who attempted to abduct some persons. He said what is happening in the state was an infiltration of criminals who were using farmers/herdsmen crisis as a smokescreen to perpetrate crime. The commissioner pointed out that only two persons lost their lives during the attack, adding that the bandits who were highly mobile and specialised in cattle rustling may have been chased out of Zamfara where they were operating before now. According to him, “We have not witnessed any case of attacks on Gwer West communities (recently) by herdsmen. What we have is abduction in which two persons were killed by some armed bandits. “From intelligence report we have, armed marauders who have connections, are highly mobile and involved in cattle rustling and trans-border criminal activities who are operating in the state. “We have been monitoring the group of bandits that has a network of informants within the state, among the locals and of course herders who specialise in rustling. “Some of them are criminal elements chased from Zamfara and of course some foreigners.” Awoseni advised herdsmen and farmers to be wary of criminal elements who he said usually dress in black attire to perpetrate crime. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.