Nigerian lawmakers are about to make history. This is because the House of Representatives few days ago commenced moves that may lead to the possible impeachment of President Muhammadu Buhari. When a motion to that effect was tabled, the legislative chamber was thrown into in a rowdy. This arguably was the first time there was a formal call for the impeachment of a Nigerian President in the National Assembly. Buhari’s Offence The President’s alleged offence was his unauthorisation for the withdrawal and spending of $496,374,470 million on war planes, to be bought from the United States of America, without permission from the National Assembly. According to reports, the House was sharply divided over the decision by Buhari to expend the unbudgeted $496,374,470 million from the Excess Crude Account (ECA) on the procurement of 12 super Tucano aircraft from the United States of America (USA). The President, in a correspondence to the lower chamber, dated April 13, 2018 and titled “Supplementary input to the 2018 Appropriation Bill: Purchase of Supper Tucano Aircraft from the United States Government”, had argued that the approval for the procurement was taken by the 36 states governors and the National Economic Council (NEC) on December 14, 2017. Reps In Rowdy Session Trouble started immediately after the Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, read out the President’s communication on the money approximately put at about N151,394,421,355. Kingsley Chinda (Rivers-PDP), while raising a Point of Order, said President Buhari’s action was tantamount to anticipatory approval since the National Assembly was yet to appropriate such money in the 2018 budget. Chinda called for the impeachment of Buhari over the breach, maintaining that the House must not sit down and allow the President usurp the powers of the lawmakers as the watchdog over the purse of the country. Amidst deafening chants of “Yes, No,  Yes,  No” by antagonists and protagonists of the Point of Order, Chinda, the Chairman of the House Committee on Public Accounts, argued that such infraction could only be tolerated in an autocratic government. Emmanuel Orkev-Jev (Benue-APC) called for caution, arguing it was needless “putting the cart before the horse” on the issue since it had not been slated for deliberations in line with the House Standing Rules. An attempt by Dogara to corroborate Orkev-Jev’s position was met with stiff resistance, with a screaming of “No, No No” by a section of the House, mainly Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members. Ali Madaki (Kano-APC) drew the attention of the House to Section 11 and 13 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), which prescribes that no rule shall supersede constitutional provision. Sunday Karibi (Kogi-PDP), who spoke in support of Madaki, insisting on punitive measures against President Buhari over the purchase of the warplanes without appropriation by the National Assembly. Both the House Deputy Minority Leader, Chukwuka Onyema and Tajudeen Yusuf (Kogi-PDP), urged their colleagues in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) not to take partisan position over a matter that was a clear impeachable offence. Yusuf wondered why the President gave anticipatory approval for the procurement of the warplanes that would be supplied in 2020, even when he knew that the 2018 budget was yet to be passed into law. “We should jettison the idea of being partisan in all situations. This is about the Nigerian people. This is a mere communication that the money has been spent in anticipation of approval. This is not a budget bill. The issue of procedure does not arise. This is a clear impeachable offence,” he argued. Sergious Ose Ogun (Edo:-PDP) also pushed for the impeachment of Buhari since anticipatory approval was used as a basis for the impeachment of the late former Senate President, Chuka Okadigbo. A renewed effort by Dogara to intimate the House that the President wanted the expenditure incurred to be included in the 2018 budget was fiercely resisted by those opposed to the request. Samson Okwu (Benue-PDP) said the issue remained a serious one, adding the President Buhari should be told in clear terms to return the money to the federation account. Shehu Nicholas Garba (Kaduna-PDP) said beyond the issue of the anticipatory approval, there was the need for drastic action against the president for allegedly spending over N4 billion daily without approval by the National Assembly to subsidise the price of fuel. Kayode Oladele (Ogun- APC), Munir Agundi (Kano -APC) and Yakubu Balogun (Lagos-APC) argued that the anticipatory approval was not unlawful since it was necessitated by the exigency to tackle the security challenges in the country. Dogara, who sought the views of his deputy, Sulaimon Yussuff Lasun and Orkev-Jev, eventually doused the tension when he ruled that the standard procedure on the issue remained to slate it for debate at an appropriate date on the floor of the House. Following the move for the impeachment of President Buhari, analysts have been wondering if the lawmakers’ action was right. A cross section of Nigeria wonder if the President should be impeached for breaching the constitution in the purchase of $496 million 12 Tucano jets from USA. Senators, Reps Members Collecting Signatures? However, by weekend, there are insinuations that the lawmakers might indeed go ahead with the plan to impeach the president. Unconfirmed sources allege that some members of the two chambers of the National Assembly were united in the move to impeach President Buhari. Sources cite the issue of the purchase of the war planes and the continued killings by herdsmen, which also made the Senate to issue an invitation to the President. The lawmakers were piqued that the Federal Government had not been serious in tackling the herdsmen’s menace, while the military and Police seemed not to be doing much about the killings. The lawmakers had already passed a vote of no confidence on the Security Chiefs over the matter, even as they also called on Buhari to sack them. So far, the Security Chiefs are still occupying their offices. It is believed that Some Senators and House of Representatives members had been collecting lists for the purpose of commencing the President’s impeachment. Section 143 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) deals with the removal of the President and Vice-President from office. It is a very long process, which may take op to three months to complete. How far can the lawmakers go in this regard? ‘Lawmakers Should Issue Buhari With impeachment Notice‘ Andy Omodamwen Isehimwen, a Benin-based computer engineer and public commentator, said: “There is a constitution in operation in the country. If the National Assembly discovered that a section of the constitution has been breached by the president, impeachment process should commence immediately. “The president has sworn to an oath to defend the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and if he is the one breaching the same constitution he sworn to defend and uphold, then he should be reminded of his oath by sending him impeachment notice immediately. “I am not surprised that President Muhammadu Buhari is behaving this way. He was a military Head of State of this country and if you x-ray his attitude and utterances since assuming office as a democratically elected president, you will discover that he still believes that he is a military man and everything should still be done with military fiat and unknown to him that there is difference between military head of state and an elected president. “Besides, I also discovered that the President is no longer in tune with the modern reality and everything about him is archaic and that is why three quarters of the appointments he made were all obsolete and all the advice his is getting from them are all obsolete also which is why he is finding governance very difficult especially in the areas of security and economy. “I will not be surprise if the president is impeached because he has no good advisers or if he has they are not giving him good advice or on the other hand he is not prepared to take any advice.” Yes, Buhari Deserves To Be Impeached – Political Scientist Joel Uwem, a Minna-based political scientist, said: “I hate to talk about this present government because each time issues about this All Progressive Congress (APC) government is raised, it aggravates my anger about the pains Nigerians have been going through all in the name of trying to recover looted funds or in the name of fighting corruption. “But, I have always wondered if there is no other way to fight corruption without necessarily plunging the entire citizenry into excruciating pains and untimely deaths. I have also wondered why government will look the other way while Fulani herdsmen kill and maim innocent citizens unchallenged yet her we have a government that wants us all to continue to clap hands for them, they wants us all to swallow their shit hook and sinker, very unfortunate. “I will try, in answer to your question: Should President Muhammadu Buhari be impeached for breaching the constitution in the purchase of $496 million 12 Tucano jets? I will readily vote for his outright impeachment. “I will suggest that the lawmakers consult the relevant portions of the constitution and act accordingly. Even though the President himself doesn’t respect the constitution, yet he wants to force his policies and programmes even as archaic as they seem. “Nigerians are afraid to criticise his government, else they will send EFCC after you to claim that you are one of the looters they have been hunting for. I have since realised that there are political looters and genuine looters. But, this government keeps confusing Nigerians to distract their attention from asking vital questions about what the Federal Government has done in the past three years and how much looted funds the government has been able to recover since inception.” 0 comments