Chief Willy Akinlude, is the Founding Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State as well as two-time Executive Chairman of Mushin Local Government. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, the frontline PDP chieftain spoke on President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti-corruption war and his party’s readiness for the 2019 general elections, among other issues. Excerpts: The All Progressives Congress (APC) backed Federal Government and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), recently released looters’ lists. How do you feel about this development and what it tells of the anti-corruption crusade? What is going on is good for the country. Both parties will check their excesses and past mistakes. Nobody knew that things would be like this. But, there are some areas that are not right. If someone is not convicted by a competent court, you should not say he is a robber or looter. You need to convict someone first before he is termed a looter. The country’s democracy is moving. They should allow democracy to survive. However, I wish to add that in any country where they are battling with corruption, it is always a revolution. It can never be perfect. For example, PDP members is said to have looted the treasury. Now, some former PDP members are now with the Federal Government after defecting to the APC. Some states, where they served earlier when they were in PDP, have accused them of corruption. However, Nigerians are watching and some eminent lawyers are also looking at what is happening. Would you say the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has been fair in the prosecution of the anti-corruption crusade? Would you agree that it has been lopsided? That is what I am saying. The anti-corruption crusade is lopsided. How can you mention 29 names without a single APC member? The Federal Government should readjust because the anti-graft war is really lopsided. Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan recently stated that the APC government has delivered more corruption than the promised ‘Change’. How would you react to his assertion? I cannot comment on what was attributed to the former President. But, I am aware that very many corrupt people are working with Buhari. Many people who were said to be corrupt in PDP crossed over to APC and now they are no longer seen as corrupt. That is why I said that the fight against corruption is a revolution. It is not easy. Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah recently wrote to President Buhari, saying that ethnicity and nepotism have been at the peak during his administration. How would you react to Bishop Kukah’s letter to the President? It is a very good advice. But, I learnt that it was not the Bishop who made the letter public. But, the content of the letter has been made public. What Bishop Kukah said could be likened to what Lt. General Theophillus Danjuma said recently. Bishop Kukah has been an upright commentator for a very long time. The way he practices his religion, he does not support any administration. This is the first time I am hearing Gen. Danjuma speak in this manner. Danjuma is a military man and a northerner. Kukah is also a northerner. I think the Federal Government should go to the drawing boards and do the right thing not minding whose ox is gored. How do you see Gen Danjuma’s call that people should defend themselves against attacks? The lawyers say that it is constitutional for people who are under attack to defend themselves. People cannot slap me and I will just stand and be looking. Though the Bible stated so, 95 percent of people cannot be like Jesus. I think, having the vigilante people is right because people cannot come to a community, kill everyone and ransack everywhere. If they have the vigilante people to defend them, I do not see anything wrong in that. Since the emergence of Prince Uche Secondus as the PDP Chairman, would you say that the party will make strong impact in the 2019 general elections? So far, so good. We still have time. Both Secondus and the Bayelsa governor, Seriake Dickson, Chairman of the party’s Reconciliation Committee, have been going around to people, reconciling people and they are doing very well. But, some people are aggrieved and have gone to the Social Democratic Party (SDP). There is every likelihood that some will go to former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s group. But, I think that Obasanjo’s coalition will likely go registration as a political party. Obasanjo has also told Nigerians not to accept the recent apology issued by the PDP for its past mistakes. So, some of the aggrieved PDP members will likely go to other parties. In the same way, a lot of people have been coming into the PDP, even before this April. So, PDP is getting ready for the 2019 elections. We are optimistic that PDP will recover its losses and return to its former glory. Definitely, we made some mistakes, like Secondus said. But, we shall correct them this time around. A cross section of Nigerians believe that both the APC and PDP have not performed and that power should shift to another platform and possibly to the younger generation. What is your take on this? The youths in this country? How many people between 60 and 80 years have been arrested? We have to be careful. The youths cannot do it alone. But, I agree that the elders should leave the stage. They should pilot the youths. There is no way the youths can just take over. With PDP and APC, when it comes to party democracy, there is no way you can take this country from them. They have strong structures. It is not easy to govern. For now, it will not be easy for a young man to govern this country anyone going to govern this country should have real experience. The youths are filled with exuberance. We need experienced people to deal with the problems of health, education power and other infrastructures facing this nation. The only point is that if elderly people have been handling these sectors and we are where we are, it does not mean that all the elders are not performing. Some elders are still performing. But, some advanced countries have youths as their Presidents and Prime Ministers. Are you saying that this is not possible in Nigeria? It is possible to have youths as leaders. But, such youths must have passed through the elders. It is not just possible to shove off the elders for the youths in the leadership of this country. As a major stakeholder in Lagos State, how do you see Gov Akinwunmi Ambode’s performance so far and the vote of confidence he has been receiving for his second term? The clamour for Governor Akinwunmi Abode to go for second term is understandable. We understand what is happening. Ambode is performing very well,. But, the PDP can do better. By the time we get there, PDP can do better. What is your view on the Lagos Land Use Charge? I have no view on it. The lawyers know better. It is affecting me also. The Lagos State government had a reason to bring it out. Now, the people are saying ‘no’ to it. So, the government should review it. If we have a listening government in Lagos State, the governor and the state government must listen to the people. But, the APC chieftains have been giving the impression that there is no other party in Lagos. How then do you think PDP can win to be able to perform better that Ambode? Is it possible that no other party exists in Lagos? Even when former Governor Bola Tinubu was there, nobody knew that Babatunde Fashola cold do what he did. When Fashola was there, nobody knew that Akinwunmi Ambode could do what he is doing now. So, when PDP gets there, we shall perform better. So far, the party does not seem to have a credible candidate that can challenge Gov Ambode in 2019. Why is it so? As at now, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said that real politics for 2019 may not start until June or July this year. But, the Lagos PDP has elected new executive under Mosheed Salvador. He is now bringing everybody together for future elections. Very soon, somebody will emerge definitely. Even within APC they will challenge Ambode for the 2019 governorship election. But, the PDP in Lagos State still have some pockets of crises here and there. How is the executive, headed by Hon. Salvador confronting the situation? So far, the new PDP executive in Lagos has brought all the stakeholders together under Hon. Salvador. The PDP is moving forward, better than before. Under Salvador, the stakeholders are working together to see that they move the party forward. The Lagos APC Chairman, Henry Ajomale, was recently quoted as saying that PDP stalwart, Chief Olabode George, would soon cross over to APC, even as George said he remained a staunch PDP member. How would you react to this? Commodore George has voiced his support for Uche Secondus. If Commodore George has said that, let us believe him. I am aware that his boys are working with Hon. Salvador in Lagos. Hon. Musliu Obanikoro has been silent of late. What do you think of his silence? Obanikoro is now in APC. He and his sons are no longer seen as corrupt. I will not know why he is silent. The Federal Government or the EFCC can bring up any case any time and withdraw it any time. You have remained a staunch member of the PDP although it has not been able to rule in Lagos as well as the party’s electoral loss in 2015. Why do you believe so much in the PDP? I believe in the Peoples Democratic Party because of its name. I believe n democracy.  May be, Nigeria will be better when PDP will be in power. The economy was better under PDP administration. Now, people are crying of hunger and poverty. There was nothing like that during the PDP. People were not as hungry as they are now. Look at this man who just left my office, he is from the North. He told me in 2015 that he would vote for Muhammadu Buhari for President and Agbaje as governor (PDP). Now, in 2018 he told me that APC is ‘banza’ and he will no longer vote for Buhari. He stated this because he knows what is happening in the North. I believe in PDP. When we search out people who will perform better, we will correct the mistakes of the past. We are courageous to accept our mistakes and apologised. But some people cannot apologise or say ‘sorry’. We need to commend PDP and not to castigate the party. What is your view on the earnings of the members of the National Assembly? The National Assembly? People are saying that the amount they are taking are not commensurate with the law they are making. Their earnings and maintenance are too exorbitant for this country. They should review their allowances. The Federal Government should do something about it. But, having said that, I wish to stress that we need experienced people at the National Assembly. The Federal Government should look at the reports of the National Conference. The government should not throw it away like that. The Federal Government should take part of the National Conference report and make use of it. There is nothing bad in that. The National Conference made recommendations on this issue of the lawmakers. But, the lawmakers do not seem to agree with the National Conference on this. But, the members of the National Conference were drawn from different parts of this country and they were experienced people. So, the National Assembly and the Federal Government should look at the National Confab report and take those things that will be of benefit to Nigerians. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.