Ado-Ekiti – Dr Kayode Fayemi, Minister of Mines and Steel Development, on Saturday declared his intention to contest the Ekiti State July 14-governorship election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Fayemi who stormed the Ajilosun office of the party in Ado-Ekiti with a crowd of supporters promised to reenact good governance that would benefit all and sundry. Accompanied by his wife, Mrs Bisi Fayemi, his former deputy, Professor Modupe Adelabu and other members of his defunct administration, he claimed that his records of achievements as governor were unbeaten. The Minister used the occasion to highlights his achievements as the governor, saying no fewer than 12,000 youths were engaged within a spate of four years into Youths Volunteers Corps, Peace Corps, Ambulance and Traffic Squads. Fayemi also disclosed that teachers welfare given due attention as their salaries were increased more than three times within four years. On why he is seeking the party’s ticket despite holding a pivotal position as a Minister, he said: “Yes, I am holding an important position in this government through the grace of God and by the magnanimity of our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari and I am satisfied with it if politics that I play is for me and my family alone. “But there is an unfinished business in our State. We have to complete and bring back those projects we initiated when we were in the saddle. Politics to me is not about title but about service and sacrifice.” On the rising acrimony among the aspirants, the Minister urged the State Working Committee to set out a code of ethics to regulate the conducts of every contestant, describing the tirades against his person as unacceptable. The Deputy Chairman of the party in the state, Mrs Kemi Olaleye, said the party would ensure a free and fair primary, warning aspirants and supporters to operate within the rules governing the primary. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.