Ado- Ekiti – Ekiti State, dubbed as nation’s ‘Fountain of Knowledge’, is about to make another history in the nation’s political history as the state with the highest number of governorship aspirants. Already about 80 people have shown interest in the plum job. Thirty-seven of the aspirants are running on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). So far, 30 have obtained the Nomination and Expression of Interest Forms from the APC National Secretariat in Abuja. More people are still expected to pick their forms before the expiration of exercise. The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has three aspirants, the incumbent deputy governor, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, reportedly anointed by Governor Ayo Fayose; Prince Dayo Adeyeye, former Minister of State (Works) and ex-Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, and serving Senator Abiodun Olujimi, a former deputy governor. Other former aspirants in PDP have dumped the party for parties where they hope to realise their ambitions. Fayose, while adducing reasons for preference of Prof Olusola, said the agenda is expected to addressed a number of unresolved nagging issues in Ekiti. He hinted that Olusola, who hails from Ikere-Ekiti, would assuage the feelings of the people of Southern Province, who had been yearning for power shift. Ekiti South Senatorial District has not produced governor since the creation of the state in 1996.The North and Central Senatorial Districts have had governors on two occasions each. Segun Oni and Kayode Fayemi, Otunba Niyi Adebayo and Fayose hailed from the Central Senatorial District. Fayose argued that for Ekiti to witness rapid infrastructural development there must be a sustainable succession plan. He explained that Olusola has the requisite knowledge and experience and can fit into agenda. He also noted that Olusola, coming from a community with second highest voting strength in Ekiti, would be an added advantage. Among those who left the PDP as result of Fayose’s succession plan are, Dr Sikiru  Tae-Lawal, a former council chairman and deputy governor. He is now seeking his ambition under the Labour Party (LP). Also, the pioneer secretary of PDP in Ekiti, and former Nigerian envoy to Canada, Amb. Dare Bejide and Bisi Omoyeni, an ex bank chief executive, are running under the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Both Bejide and Omoyeni are former Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and deputy governor respectively. Also, son of the former governor of Old Ondo State Muyiwa Olumilua, an ICT expert, Kola Alabi, and a retired Permanent Secretary, Sedan Fatoba, have obtained nomination forms under APC. In the Mega Progressives Peoples Party (MPPP) are Senator Bode Oloworopoku, a Second Republic Minister and Abiodun Aluko, former deputy governor and surveyor. Dr Kayode Fayemi and Eng. Segun Oni, two former governors, are also in the race. Fayemi is current Minster of Mines and Steel Development and Oni is the immediate-past Deputy National Chairman (South) of APC. Senator Ayo Arise, who was credited as being largely responsible for siting of a Federal University in his community, is an aspirant. Former Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Barrister Michael Opeyemi Bamidele alias MOB is also in the race. Bamidele, after spending over 12 years in Lagos cabinet, returned to Ekiti State, where he contested and won the House of Representatives seat for Ado -Ekiti, Irepodun-Ifelodun Constituency. Babafemi Ojudu, a former Senator, is the Special Adviser on Political Matters to President Muhammadu Buhari, is also in the race. He defeated Fayose in a Senatorial election in 2015. A former Speaker of Ekiti State House of Assembly, Rt Hon. Femi Bamisile, was the first to indicate interest for governorship in APC. Others, who are running from the central area, are Barrister Victor Olumuyiwa Kolade, Mr. Ogunkoyode Oladipo, Oluomo (Dr.) Oluwole Oluleye, Prince Olatunji Tosin Olofinluyi, Engr. Kayode Ojo, Dr. Adebayo Orire, Bodunde Adeyanju, a former aide of former President Olusegun Obasanjo. Bimbo Daramola is another strong contender. A former member of Federal House Representatives, he built a 32-seater bed hospital for his constituency. Gbenga Aluko, son to late renowned economist, Professor Sam Aluko, is also contender. Among the aspirants are Wole Oluyede, a medical doctor, Sunday Adebomi; a retired US Marine, Bisi Aloba and Debo Ranti Ajayi. Another  Ekiti-based medical doctor, Bayo Orire, is also on the race. Other less popular parties such as Accor Party, Alliance for Democracy (AD), Independent Democrats (ID) and the Young Party of Nigeria (YPN) are also fielding candidates. A popular Pastor in Ado-Ekiti, Rev. Tunde Afe, is also among the aspirants. He is running under the platform of Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP). Tosin Ajibare is running under ID. The 36-year-old student activist cum politician is believed to be the youngest contender. Akogun Banji Ojo is with Accord Party. Otunba Femi Adewale is running under running under Africa Democratic Party (ADP). Ambassador  Ayodeji Ayodele, the immediate-past Nigeria’s Ambassador to Greece and governorship aspirant, said his party, Mega Party, has a ‘Strategic Economic Development Plan’ for the state. The Mega Party Chieftain claimed that there was no genuine internal democracy in the two dominant political parties in Nigeria. The former Director in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that many of his friends and development partners had waiting in the wings till he emerges as the state chief executive. Commenting on increasing number of aspirants, Oladeji Fasuan , an elder statesman and Chairman, Standing Committee on Ekiti State Creation, said there was no cause for alarm, as far as they all have the interest of the state at heart. He called on politicians to play the game according to rules, saying that only one person would emerge as governor at a time. He said: “Isn’t everybody qualified to be governor? We shall end up having one. Hopefully, the one nobody knows. In a near perfect democracy, nobody will know the state chief executive until the last minutes when figures and results are tickling in. “There could be guess work, there could be competition and permutations. As somebody who has more stakes in Ekiti project than anyone, I say that with all modesty. Because, I knew the load I carried for six and half years. “So, I want Ekiti to succeed. Let us pray that the next governor would be one that would relate with the environment and make the society a better place. And that there would be less recrimination and less self-serving chief executive. Let us pray that we will continue to have peace in Ekiti. We would have our arguments anyway, but we should pray that such arguments would not be against the interest of our society. 0 comments