Politicians and analysts are sharply divided over the ability of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to emerge as the Third Force to wrestle political Power from both the ruling All Progressives Congress Party (APC) and opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). While some believe that the Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM), the Third Force advocated by former President Olusegun Obasanjo and those behind the resuscitation of SDP are part of the people that created the current problems for Nigeria, describing their actions as distractions, others say the current breakdown of security infrastructure resulting in increased rate of killings and abductions may be panaceas to the expected change. This is even as some analysts said at the weekend that President Mohammadu Buhari’s claim that he is more concerned about security and economy of the country more than the 2019 elections as admittance of failure on the promised change in those areas as promised in 2015. Bolade Agbola, Lagos based Analyst and MD/CEO LAM Agro Consult Limited said, “The President is just playing politics with his second term bid .What he has indirectly told the world was that given the state of the economy and his performance as at date he might not have done enough to win his party nomination or the election proper. His focus on the economy for now is to create basis for the electorate to elect him again. Its plausible because the economy is just coming out of recession and a lot is bound to happen between now and August when primaries will take place and February 2019 when we will go to the polls. The field is open and its 50:50 for the candidates of the two leading parties. We will only know where the pendulum will tilt to when we know the other candidate .President Buhari have a lot to do in rebuilding the economy now that the recession is over and in fixing the parlous infrastructure. How far he can go in the limited time available will either make or mar his reelection bid.” But Uche Secondus, National Chairman of PDP at the party’s emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting in Abuja last week said the party was consulting various interest groups and political stakeholders for synergy to enable regain power in 2019 elections. Secondus said that the consultation with the groups was useful, and that in coming days, a broader platform would be raised to wrestle power from the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Our consultations have taken us to meet with various interest groups, who are willing to do business with us. I can report to you that it has been very fruitful. “We expect in the coming days to have a broader political family, working hard to rescue this democracy and our beloved country from the hands of APC,” he said. But, Omolade Oluwateru, former Nigerian Ambassador to Uganda and Deputy Governor to late Dr Olusegun Agagu of Ondo State said “I do not believe in third force agenda of former President Olusegun Obasanjo because it is a sham. “We need to strengthen our existing structures that will help our nascent democracy and not causing multiple problems in the country.” Comrade Lekia Christian, Niger Delta Activist said, “give it to Baba any time, any day. When it comes to politics, you cannot ignore or undermine the former President. You ignore him to your peril. You undermine him to your disaster. When Obasanjo is against you, he must see to your end. He does not hate Buhari. Nigerians have come to underscore the fact that this government is a disaster. And we cannot afford another four years of waste, hunger and killings in this country. “With his position as the chairman of association of world’s former Presidents, Obasanjo has the clout and the reach to change the political equation of any country, including Nigeria. This is where the fear lies. First, there is fear in some quarters that he may soon commence the campaign of calumny against President Buhari at the international stage to frustrate his second term bid. Nigerians had seen that before. “The quartet of Generals Obasanjo, Babangida, Abdulsalami Abubakar and Theophilous Danjuma will be too much for a weak and tired Buhari to handle as next election beckons.” Infact, when Obasanjo mooted the idea of a third force to wrestle power from the APC led government , little was heard about SDP and even then, not a few believe in the idea. But few months after, the third force seems to have appeared and come alive in the hitherto unknown SDP led by Chief Olu Falae, former Secretary to the Government of the Federation. Already, the party has started receiving defectors from the ruling APC and PDP, the dominant parties, with Gen Ibrahim Babangida, ex-military leader asking Nigerians to embrace the party, which he has also registered as member. But the question in the minds of Nigerians is, can SDP upstage the dominant parties? But many Nigerians have come strongly against the party, describing it as comprising of people who contributed to the woes of the country. Yomi Obadina, public affairs analyst, Hon Miriki Ebikibina, former youth leader of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), Chief Emmanuel Okotie-Eboh, founder Progressive Alliance Movement (PAM), Comrade Justice Udo-Akpan, chieftain of the APC in Akwa Ibom State, Miriki Ebikibina, Special Adviser to Governor Seriake Dickson on Inter-Party Affairs, Yinka Odumakin, spokesman for the Afenifere, said Nigerians should look elsewhere, as the party’s acceptability as alternative to the PDP and APC is still a major challenge, which may affect its chances in the 2019 elections. Obadina said he did not see the SDP as the third force that could wrestle power from the ruling APC saying the party comprises of former political office holders who brought the nation to its knees. He berated Gen Babangida for canvassing Nigerians’ support for the party, saying he was the same man that murders the fortune of the party in 1993. He said: “My candid view is that Babangida should pocket his advice urging Nigerians to support a particular political party, and miraculously the party that won the election he (Babangida) conducted and annulled at the end. “In Nigeria politics of today, IBB has lost his credibility due to annulment of June 12, 1993 Presidential elections believed to have been won by late Chief MKO Abiola and SDP.” Hon Miriki Ebikibina fears that the party lacks the needed financial muscle to face the challenges of the next election. “SDP is a party to watch in 2019, but my greatest fear is that they don’t have the kind of money that will enable them face the ruling APC at the national level. The party has the content, I mean human capital. Election in Nigeria is all about money.” He further said that SDP could make a ‘serious’ mark in the southwest irrespective of the influence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, national leader of the APC, but not so soon in other geo-political zones of the country. According to him, “The party came out slowly. It is now that they are beginning to put structures in place, like the setting up of secretariat and all that. To me, it is a bit too late. I do not see the possibility of the party making any serious impact in the south/south, southeast. These are all core PDP zones apart from Edo, Imo and Anambra States. “The only advantage SDP has is that there are old generals involved in the game. They have the money. They have the international and local contacts. Obasanjo alone can turn the table against any party. But the party itself needs to do more than relying on an individual. This is so because there is also a certain Tinubu in that same zone who is a chief beneficiary of the APC government in the southwest. He will not also want his party, APC to go down the drain having tasted national power.” Chief Emmanuel Okotie-Eboh, son of Nigeria’s former Finance Minister, Chief Festus Okotie-Eboh, said the present political space in the country is in a sorry state. It is sad that those dictating the political space are the moneybags in the society. “Nigerians now see politics as a money-making venture. That is the only money-spinning business that we have. That is why you see politicians leaving one party for another without ideological conscience. They cannot wait to nurture the party even if they are not in power. “It will be difficult for the SDP to gain ground immediately except maybe with proper public awareness campaign. What Nigerians will notice in the next few months is coming together of political undertakers and vultures from both APC and PDP to fight SDP because they will reason that the third force is threatening their empire. “They are very sensitive. Those at the federal level are working to get strong forces to join them in the epic battle of 2019. It may not be so at the state level because the governors at the grassroots are working assiduously on how to capture their own states. “My take is that, we should stop the zoning principle. The zoning system is one of the methods that are destroying our political system thereby promoting tribalism. It makes the wise to be led by fools and it encourages laziness.” Okotie-Eboh believes that the present political space is big enough to accommodate various political parties and interests. But the political institutions in the country were in a state of comatose. Those who dictate the pace are moneybags who are careless about the interest of the electorates. On the issue of the prospect of SDP in this present dispensation, “I make bold to say that with the caliber of people like OBJ and IBB just to mention a few who are involved in the party, SDP will have a strong footing.” He said that the only problem he envisages in the party was whether the National Executive Council (NEC) of the SDP would be sincere enough to respect the principle of internal democracy, which has been the bane of most political parties in the country. The politician however called for proper awareness campaign, which should be made to change the tide of ideas, saying that round pegs should be put in round holes and square pegs in square holes. “Let men and women of integrity be put in their proper positions, SDP could possibly be the beautiful bride. “In addition, the zoning process of selecting candidates from various regions of the country does not at any time bring out the best of candidates. Usually, it makes the good and better candidates to be led by questionable characters in the name of zoning. It brings tribalism, nepotism and encourages laziness. The best should be allowed to take over the mantle of leadership. Much work needs to be done in SDP for the people to see the party as the best alternative,” he said. Comrade Justice Udo-Akpan, a political stalwart of the APC in Akwa Ibom State is convinced that the power of incumbency would see Buhari through to 2023. He owns up to the “gang-up” against the President. “No man can play God. It is God who gives power. He is the one who can take it,” he said. He added, “Obasanjo or anybody else in this country cannot continue to play God. PMB is also a retired general as they are. He also ruled this country as a military Head of State as they did. So, what can anybody be afraid of? Let them come to the poll, we are waiting. “I don’t see the possibility of SDP taking over power from us. If you talk of the PDP, well, one can consider that. PDP has been on ground for 16 years. But definitely not SDP. There is no magic they can perform now that will make that party to win the presidential election in 2019.” Miriki Ebikibina said he foresees an alliance between the PDP and SDP to produce a formidable force that can edge out the ruling party. “The two parties share the same ideology in terms of restructuring and true federalism. Chief Olu Falae was in the 2014 national conference and he is a strong voice for restructuring and true federalism. He is the national chairman of SDP. PDP believes in restructuring. That is the link. “If these two should come together, APC will have no hiding place. And there is no amount of witch-hunting that can change the tide. I will advise the two parties to come together. APC is a party of strange bedfellows. They won the election because of the alliance. That is why they don’t seem to have a unified ideology because of their differences. I want to see PDP and SDP come together and it will be good for Nigeria.” Odumakin said it is too early to access the party, saying “we should allow them to organise themselves and sell themselves to Nigerians before we can truly say they are the third force.” Adeoye said, “I think the SDP is an old name, it is the party that was used by MKO Abiola in the 1993 elections. It has its own psychological strength but that remains solely psychological and sociological. “In terms of structure across the country, the SDP has no structure across the 36 states of the federation and I think Chief Obasanjo is making the mistake that he could re-enact what he did in 2015. He is over rating his capacity to build a political party, he has forgotten that what assisted him in 2015 was the public momentum against the existing government of Goodluck Jonathan and that momentum was basically motivated by the lack of performance on the part of the PDP, but  most importantly ethnic configuration. You know because Jonathan was from the minority and then religious configuration, but in the case of Buhari these elements that happen within the purview of his poor performance will still command respect from the religious community and ethnic community in the north, definitely Obasanjo may not be able to perform that magic. “The joining of OBJ and IBB is going to create a momentary attraction and that momentary attraction is not going to go beyond the red lines. In Nigeria there are power blocks, in the Southwest there is a power block represented by Tinubu, the Northeast power block is represented by Atiku, in the South South there are fragments of power block, in the Southeast there are also fragments of power block, and in the North West there is the power block represented by Buhari.  So, Obasanjo will not be able to get the power block in Southwest, he will not be able to get the one in the East, he will have to scramble for the one in the South South and the one in Southeast and middle belt. I don’t see how SDP is going to make a remarkable outing.” Despite different opinions as to whether the SDP can wrestle power from the ruling party, Chief Olu Falae, Interim National Chairman, National Working Committee of SDP, which has lately been gaining ground with the defection to it of political heavyweights like Dr Junaid Mohammed, Professor Rufai Ahmed Alkali, Professor Jerry Gana, Senator Fatima Raji Rasaki and Dr Tunde Adeniran, believes that party will enjoy the confidence of Nigerians in 2019 elections and favoured to win power at the centre. He said the failure of the APC and PDP in government is responsible for the traction the SDP has been gaining, as notable members of the PDP, especially, have been dumping that party for membership of the SDP. 0 comments