Asaba – A stalwart of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State, Dr. Henry Ofa has said the Chief James Ibori Under-19 football competition no doubt was one of the many efforts at casting the good name of Chief James Ibori on the beautiful marble of history and ensuring that his good works, especially in sports development, are forever remembered by the present generation and posterity. He also commended Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for paying optimum attention to sports and youth development in the State. In a statement made available to newsmen in Oghara, Ofa identified the physical presence of the Governor at the final match of the competition and the ongoing infrastructural project at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba as some of the indications that Okowa was a lover of sports and youth. He noted that the successful completion of the competition on March 31st showed that the leadership of the SYDA could be trusted with great responsibilities in the sporting world. “Governor Okowa has consistently established his interest in youth and sports development. The ongoing massive infrastructural project at the Stephen Keshi Stadium in preparation for the 2018 African Athletics Competition holding in Asaba clearly show his readiness to consolidate on the achievement of Delta State in the sporting world”, he said. Ofa also hailed the Sports and Youths Development Academy (SYDA) for successfully organizing the competition, which was won by the Oghara Team. According to him, the competition was a right step at immortalizing the name of the former Governor who, he said, made spirited efforts to develop all sectors of the oil rich state and place it on the path of sustainable growth. Ofa, who was visible at the fore front of mobilizing support for the Oghara Team that won th competition, also thanked the players and technical crew of the various teams for embracing peace and right demeanor throughout the contest and applauded them for shunning the lure of age cheat which, according to him, is posing a serious challenge to the round leather game. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.