The Lagos East Senatorial District apex leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have endorsed the senator representing Lagos East Senatorial District at the Senate, Senator Gbenga Ashafa for another term in the upper chamber. The apex leaders of the APC Lagos East Senatorial District under the leadership of Otunba Bushura Alebiosu met on Tuesday 17th of April, 2018 to streamline issues as they affect the fortunes of the APC in the district in a build up to the 2019 General Elections. In a communiqué signed by the Secretary to the Lagos East Senatorial District, Rt. Hon. Joko Pelumi, the Apex leaders stated that “after deliberations, leadership considered the performance of our current elected officers at the National Assembly, undertook a careful scrutiny of their loyalty and support to the government and the party APC, a forensic exercise of sort of their activities since the last elections to date, and took the decision to re-present the sitting and incumbent Senator representing the Lagos East Senatorial District, Senator Gbenga Ashafa in the coming elections in 2019, for another term of four years” The decision of the leadership of the group arrived at its decision after considering the quality of representation Ashafa has provided the District in the upper chamber of the National Assembly. Since the inception of the 8th Assembly, Senator Gbenga Ashafa has successfully sponsored several motions touching on national issues, issues affecting Lagos East and Lagos State as a whole. He has also sponsored a total of 7 bills including the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act Amendment Bill and the City University (Lagos) Establishment Bill. His contributions on the floor of the Senate, his relentless and consistent protection of the interest of the people of Lagos East Senatorial District coupled with the various evident empowerment programs for the benefit of the people of Lagos East, all culminated in the decision of the Apex Group. He was also instrumental in the recent award of the Ikorodu – Shagamu road rehabilitation project by the Federal Ministry of Power Works And Housing. Amongst those present at the meeting were Otunba Bushura Alebiosu, Sen. Gbenga Ashafa, Prince Abiodun Ogunleye, Sen. Anthony Adefuye, Asiwaju Olorunfemi Basorun, Omo Oba Sosanya, Rt. Hon. Joko Pelumi. Also in attendance were Chief Denrele Ogunsanya, Rt. Hon Ayo Odeyemi, Alhaji M.A. Gafar, Hon Tunde Isiaq and others Just few weeks ago the Executive and members of the Ibeju Lekki Local Government also passed a vote of confidence on Senator Ashafa and endorsed him for another term. 1 comments