In other to reduce medical tourism in Nigeria, Diamond Bank in partnership with Medical Credit Fund (MCF) and Enterprise Development Centre (EDC) are training some selected group of health practitioners on the business aspect of healthcare. The first phase of the training was conducted at the Lagos Business School’s EDC and it aimed at helping the health practitioners strike a balance between healthcare and business. Enlightening on Diamond’s bank involvement, Chioma Kema Ogwo, Head, New Financial Services, Emerging Businesses, Diamond Bank Plc said having realised the importance of knowledge in building businesses, the bank had decided to focus on certain sectors in the country with the health sector being one of them. According to her, the Health Management Programme (HMP) was carved out of Certificate of Entrepreneur Management (CEM), a general programme for people in business. A different curriculum was developed for the sector upon recognising their distinction from other forms of businesses. Her words; “This is called Health Management Programme (HMP), for people in the business in the health sector and the first of the series we are having. “We decided to create HMP from a programme called Certificate of Entrepreneur Management (CEM) which is for people in business generally. “We discovered that people in the health sector are different, and cannot be put together with other sectors, because they are kind of specialised so we decided to develop a different curriculum for them.” On what the bank tends to gain, Ogwo said “we are very interested in developing the health sector and reducing medical tourism which is prevalent in Nigeria by improving what we have here. “We have set aside some fund for the health sector, and we want to be recognised as a business partner for those in health sector.” Corroborating her, Mr. Fisayo Okunsanya, Business Development Director, Medical credit Fund said as an organisation in partnership with Diamond bank to give loan for healthcare, they found out that many of them like to focus on the clinical aspect of the business. “This programme will therefore help them understand the business side of healthcare and make their business more attractive.” Some of the health practitioners sponsored by Diamond Bank confessed that they have gained ample fresh knowledge they wished they had from the onset of their careers. Those who spoke to Daily Independent included, Dr. Rowland Saseun, Medical Director, Saseun Hospital & Maternity, Apapa; Pharm. Chisom Maduekwe, Managing Director, De-Elbon Pharmaceuticals Ltd, and Mrs. Tinuola Akinremi. Dr. Saseun, who described the programme as a rare one said, “I have learnt so much that I wished I had learnt before I started my hospital 15 years ago. “If I had this opportunity beforehand, am sure I would have done better both in record keeping, account keeping and even customer care. “Customer care means how you pacify patients when they are sick. They come to the hospital with pains and still have to pay, so if you are not good to them, they are not going to come back.” While Mrs. Tinuola Akinremi, told Daily Independent that she was a better person and more informed in terms of human resource management aspect of the business. They both appreciated Diamond bank for the opportunity and affirmed that they have gained new knowledge and will be passing it to others in their facilities so that together, they can reach out to the larger society. The five participants who were sponsored by the bank were chosen from divergent specialties in the health sector, including Health Monitoring Organisations(HMOs). 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.