Chief James Ibori, former governor of Delta State, has revealed that leaders in Delta Central and South Senatorial Districts have resolved not to take Delta North Senatorial District for granted in 2019 governorship election. Ibori who stated this on Saturday during the Anioma Grand reception in honour of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in Asaba, maintained that only through equity and fairness would peace exist in the state. He said since Anioma people had agreed that Okowa should continue to represent them till 2023, he promised to mobilise the Ijaws, Isokos, Itshekiris, Urhobos and others to support the governor’s second term ambition in 2019 election. “I have one vote, my family shall vote for you. I am from Oghara. Majority of the people in Oghara shall vote for you. It is impossible in a democratic setting for everybody to vote one way. We all have our PVCs to vote for the governor in Delta State,” he said. Ibori said: “My mother is an Itshekiri. I am part of Itshekiri. Former Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan, the highest political office holder from there, has spoken to support him. Ijaws have spoken. I am a titleholder there too. Isoko leaders have spoken in support of the governor. I am an Urhobo man, a titleholder there. We shall all join them to actualise the mandate.” Also speaking, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, governor of Rivers State, said Nigerians would not allow any form of political robbery in 2019. He said: “I used to be a gentleman.  But when I saw these mad people, I said let me keep my gentleness aside. “These political armed robbers cannot succeed in Rivers State. We are prepared for credible elections and we shall remain vigilant “. Governor Wike thanked the Anioma Nation for their overwhelming endorsement of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for reelection.  He said the Delta State Governor has no opposition because of his outstanding performance. “Okowa should be preparing for the next swearing-in ceremony.  I have not seen any other political party in Delta State.  There is no other political party to contest against Ifeanyi Okowa,” he said. Chief Philip Asiodu, the Chairman of the Organising Committee, said the decision to receive the governor three years into office was deliberate as the office came with lot responsibilities. He stressed that no one deserved to be given a reception for attaining the exalted office of a governor, but one who not only attained the position, but also made remarkable achievements within the shortest possible time. 0 comments