It has been said that, “since the onset of the Great Recession, doing more with less” has become a policy mantra. However, the mantra has not translated into actual implementable policies in most segments of the public service in Nigeria. Echoing this sentiment, Daniel Egbunu, in an online article published on March 12, 2017 noted that, the “impact of today’s rapidly changing economic and technological landscape has made government’s task of delivering public service more complex. More than ever before, governments all over the world have increasingly come under serious public scrutiny and fiscal pressure to deliver better outcomes to citizens, and to do so more efficiently. As is evident, Nigeria has not been spared from this in recent times.” It is delightful to note, however, that the Lagos State Civil Service has come a long way-and has led the way-in reducing waste while increasing productivity. This is partly the result of the extensive investments in knowledge and skills by the administration of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. For these investments, the Lagos State Civil Service remains grateful. The importance of eliminating waste cannot be overemphasised. Countless studies have shown that with good and sound processes relating to management of time and resources, one finds that meagre resources can be extended to produce outstanding results. In other words, organisations and individuals can achieve more with less. Explaining the rationale for such an objective as described above, an article by McKinsey & Company states as follows: “Governments around the world want to deliver better education, better health care, better pensions, and better transportation services. They know that impatient electorates expect to see change, and fast. But the funds required to meet such expectations are enormous—particularly in the many developed economies where populations are aging and the public sector’s productivity hasn’t kept pace with that of the private sector. The need to get value for money from governments at all levels is therefore under the spotlight as never before. But cost-cutting programmes that seek savings of 1 to 3 percent a year will not be enough and in some cases, may even weaken the quality of service.” The author of the article then stated that, in order to “address the problem, public-sector leaders are looking with growing interest at ‘lean’ techniques long used in private industry. From the repair of military vehicles to the processing of income tax returns, from surgery to urban planning, lean is showing that it cannot only improve public services but also transform them for the better. Crucially for the public sector, a lean approach breaks with the prevailing view that there has to be a trade-off between the quality of public services and the cost of providing them.” I fully agree with the viewpoints expressed above. Indeed, it would be a great achievement if the Lagos State Civil Service is able to import the principles of lean operations from the private sector and apply them, mutatis mutandis, to the operations of the public sector. It has been rightly noted that the lean management and production techniques have their roots in the manufacturing sector. In this vein, the author earlier cited also stated that, “on a more pragmatic note, there are private-sector-inspired systems, strategies, know-how, processes and measures that can be learned and applied in ways that are adaptive to the public sector environment. These models and principles are generic and adaptive to different scenarios that pursue an end of effective and efficient service delivery. This is a shift from the old style wherein one lone technocrat is plucked from the private sector and planted as head of a government project.” With respect to copying and domesticating systems, the car manufacturer, Toyota, has been singled out as demonstrating the profitability of the techniques over the years. This is why, according to the article cited, many “businesses have followed Toyota’s lead and undergone a lean transformation. The question, of course, is whether any of this is relevant to the public sector. As noted, it is not surprising that the concept and language of lean, rooted as they are in manufacturing, spark cynicism among many civil servants. Some feel that their priority should be matters of policy, not operations; others resent the notion that they are somehow part of a production line. Moreover, without the incentive of the profit motive, these government managers may believe they have neither a reason nor the levers to pursue a lean approach. Yet practical experience suggests that they can. A study has shown that in a UK government office processing large volumes of standard documents, lean techniques achieved double-digit productivity gains in the number of documents processed per hour and improved customer service by slashing lead times to fewer than 12 days, from about 40 days, thus eliminating backlogs. The proportion of documents processed correctly the first time increased by roughly 30 percent; lead times to process incoming mail decreased to 2 days, from 15 days; and the staff occasionally attains the nirvana of an unprecedented zero backlog. Also, in a UK Military Armored-Vehicle Repair Shop,8 a lean transformation generated a 44 percent increase in the availability of equipment, a 16 percent reduction in turnaround times, and a more than 40 percent increase in “right the first time” production. This achievement puts about 40 more vehicles into operation at any one time. Moreover, the repair shop progressed from constantly missing its vehicle delivery deadlines to never missing them. Now, I will be the first to acknowledge that, as has been well documented, persuading people to embark on the lean journey, where the last stop may be their own removal or reassignment, is not easy. To succeed, public-sector organizations must find a way to align their growth strategy—providing new and better services at limited cost—with a regard for the interests of their workers. Although lean programmes may cut the number of public-sector jobs, the goal is to make the remaining ones more rewarding. Incentives come from the prospect of more meaningful work, potentially with room for greater autonomy or a chance to develop new skills. In the final analysis, we find that there is much to gain from embracing a lean operational model in the Lagos State Civil Service. I am certain that the facilitators, Messrs. Vitech Consultants will do a tremendous job at realizing the objectives of this seminar. Given the firm’s track record and the faculty available for this training, you can all look forward to days of in-depth treatment of this topic. Dr.  Benson Oke, FCGP., FNIM, FCArb is Honourable Commissioner, Lagos State Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.