Aliko Dangote Foundation at the weekend donated an equipped secondary school building with laboratories and conducive for learning environment valued at N120 million to Nawair-Ud-Deen Comprehensive College in Lagos. Speaking at the commissioning and handing over of the College building, Alhaji Alik Dangote, President of Dangote Group, said: “the Aliko Dangote Foundation, apart from donating the school building worth N120m to Nawair-Ud-Deen College, it will be sponsoring 250 students who are unable to afford the school fees yearly, provide 3.5kg sound proof generator in ensuring constant electricity and furniture for both the teachers and the students”. He added that the four major goal of the Foundation, which started in 1993 with the principle of ‘to whom much is given, much is expected’ and looking at the less privilege ones among have compelled the Foundation to provide some relief are Education, health and Nutrition, Economic Empowerment and Disaster Relief. He noted that the mission in education is targeted at reducing the number of out of school children, supporting talented and underprivileged young children to achieve their full potentials as well as educating girls and women on health related issues. According to him, “I have already authorsed my Foundation to come up with a strategic plan to implement a scholarship programme for desiring less privilege children in this community” He pointed out that over the past five years, the Aliko Dangote Foundation have actually spent well over N4 billion in the following areas, building of classrooms , scholarship programme, upgrading infrastructure across various University, behavioural change communication programme targeted to girls and women among others. “We have recently commissioned the Dangote Business School in Kano, the only Business School in Nigeria that is well equipped. We will also be commissioning similar projects in University of Ibadan, we have done quite a lot in the education system and we are looking to do more. “Investing in the young people to us means, we are all working together to build a better Nigeria. In equipping Nigeria youths and prepare them for the 21st century challenges, we established the Dangote Academy in Kogi State, which provide specialised training and management skills for the youths particularly considering the large man power needed in the manufacturing industries,” he said. He promised to continue to support Nigeria government in its quest for providing quality education to the population; this is the only way we can secure and guarantee the future of the country. Also, Alhaji Ola Yussuff, the chairman of Nawair-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, commended Aliko Dangote for the great donation, saying that Dangote single handedly opted to undertake the construction of the college building. In line with Bill Gates recent call for human capital development and in line with the sustainable development goals of the Nation, Yussuff called on other Nigerians to emulate Dangote in donating towards educational and health programmes of the society in order to contribute our quota towards the achieving of the sustainable development goals in Nigeria. 0 comments