Abuja / Lagos – Prince Tony Momoh, a former Information Minister and chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), said on Tuesday that he made President Muhammadu Buhari to review his decision not to recontest after the 2011 elections, adding that the president never at any time promised to run for a single term. Momoh, who was the national chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressives Change (CPC), the party under which candidate Buhari contested the 2011 presidential election, however, said even if the president ever said so, he still has a right to change his mind, which he has done, as the constitution allows him to seek re-election. Speaking in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT in his Abuja residence, Momoh said what President Buhari said after the 2011 presidential election was that he will not vie for the presidency again. He stated that he, however, cautioned him against saying so, as only the party can decide for him his next line of action. “Buhari never said he will only contest for a single term. The Buhari I know will never say so. In fact, he said he will not contest again after the 2011 election,” he said. “I was the national chairman of CPC and I said, ‘Shut up! You are a member of CPC. It is the party that decides where you go to. You are only an individual.’ And so, he bowed to the wishes of the party. “So, he never said he will do a single term. But even if he said so, can he not change his mind? But I am saying that he didn’t say so. He is constitutionally qualified to contest twice.” Also reacting to the letter written by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, asking Buhari not to seek re-election, Momoh said such a call is unacceptable since Obasanjo is not a member of the APC. “We have people who fought for third term in this country. This man has not even contested for second term and you are saying he should not contest,” he said. “If you are a member of the party and you are telling people not to contest, it will be understandable.” “But you belong to other parties and you are telling someone in a party of which you are not a member not too contest. People should respect themselves; otherwise some people will take issues with them.” On the leadership crisis that has plagued the APC in the last few days, Momoh, who said the incumbent national chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, is qualified to seek re-election, said a lot of things that happened in the party were exaggerated. He added that the party has put the incident behind it and is poised to win the 2019 presidential election. “The fact is that he (Oyegun) is entitled to seek re-election. On his handling of the party affairs so far, I am not to judge him,” he said. He stressed that Oyegun “can contest and if he wins, he continues to be chairman. But I know a lot of things people are saying are exaggerated.” “We know there are lots of hiccups in political parties all over the country. That is what it should be because democracy is a talk-shop. If you really want to achieve in a particular polity, then look for that quantum of freedom that will ensure maximum achievement and that is why I say democracy is the luxury of development.” He added, “When you are developing, you look at the form of government you want to take, you call it democracy. Take that quantum of freedom that will drive development and lead to growth.” Why Nigerians Shouldn’t Re-Elect Buhari – Ozekhome Meanwhile, Mike Ozekhome, constitutional lawyer and human rights activist, has implored Nigerians to vote against President Muhammadu Buhari at the February 2019 presidential election. His reason: President Buhari has performed “abysmally and disastrously below average” in his first term. Ozekhome expressed his opinion in reaction to the president’s announcement on Monday of his intention to seek re-election. In a statement on Tuesday, the lawyer observed that the evidence of Buhari’s dismal performance “was all too glaring, admitting of no ambiguity.” According to him, the economy is at an abysmally low level. He noted that from an over $500 billion rebased economy which Buhari met, Nigeria went into recession from which the present government claimed to have rescued the nation. Ozekhome noted that Nigerians were hungrier now than they were three years ago, adding that they had now been rendered destitute, impecunious, and forced to embark on an unadventurous journey outside the shores of the country for greener pasture. He said: “Where PMB and APC promised three million new jobs per annum, they have caused Nigerians to, paradoxically, lose about 3.5 million jobs annually, according to his own Federal Government Bureau of Statistics. “Price of fuel alternates between N145 per litre and N400, whenever available. “He met it at N87 per litre. A bag of rice now sells for between N15,000 and N20,000 per bag. He met it at N7,500. Prices of goods and consumables have gone out of the reach of the common man, with Nigerians literally feeding from dustbins. “So, on the economic front, one of his tripodal promises, he has failed Nigeria and Nigerians.” He also said President Buhari had not done enough to fight insecurity in the land as part of the campaign promises of the ruling party. He pointed out that the Boko Haram terror group was stronger today, more potent, and more deadly than it ever was with the attendant blood-letting, maiming, and destruction across the North East. He remarked that Chibok had been re-enacted in Dapchi, where over 110 secondary school girls were viciously abducted, adding that they were later “released in a Hollywood, Bollywood, and Nollywood style, in broad daylight, by the same Boko Haram after mind-bungling sums were said to have been paid to them as ransom. “If Boko Haram, regarded as one of the four leading terrorist groups in the world, were considered deadly enough, the rampaging herdsmen have become more murderous. “Day-in-day-out, they kill innocent Nigerians in their homes, their farms, burn others, lay siege on whole communities, rape their wives and daughters, and kidnap their males.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.