As the students are no longer allowed to bring their wristwatches to the exam with them in order to make it as independent as possible, the room where they will be passing exams should also be equipped with a significant number of wall clocks. These wall clocks have to be visible to all the students so they can track time. All the CBT centres, the cables in the centre have to be covered: exposed ones are forbidden for the safety of students. The centres should be maintained for the whole year, and not working only during the examination season. Also, the area of examination, which is the rooms and halls, has to be covered properly by the signal jammer. If there are rooms that are not covered by it, it should be fixed before the exam time comes. Speaking on the effective deployment of Information Communication Technology (ICT), Muideen Subair, an Abeokuta, Ogun State-based auditor told DAILY INDEPENDENT that whatever shortcoming observed during the conduct of the test were not in any way the fault of the board. “Candidates were more relaxed because the examination halls were more relaxed than what obtains in the past. There are no disturbances and candidates were not in any under pressure of sudden blackout. The generators were quite in good condition and the atmosphere was safe devoid of influences and disturbances. As the public continued to praise JAMB and the level of partnership that exists between it and the CBT Centre, proprietors in the conduct of a seamless examination, the owners of the centres have commended the board for providing a platform to be part of the successes recorded so far in the conduct of the examination. It has been a wonderful development. CBT has woken Nigeria up into seeing what happens in the last two weeks of assessment and what happens to the classroom on how the students learn. Talking about the introduction of the CBT, it has been one of the phenomenal developments in the education sector. It has saved a lot of issues. It has also saved the government papers and money and also save the schools a lot of money and commitment that would have ordinarily go into the purchase of paper and ensuring that the scripts are safe before, during and after the conduct of the paper exam. It has saved the rigours of printing large volumes of papers and printing. Also is the disposal aspect of the papers after use for the test. It was cumbersome. Introduction of the CBT has contributed to the sanity of the environment. I must add that it is not about JAMB alone because it involved a lot of other organizations,” Mr. Austin Ohaekelem, the National President, CBT Centre Proprietors Association of Nigeria told Daily Independent. He described the examination as a phenomenon in the education sector that came with several challenges that are presently being managed by the board and other stakeholders. There is no life-changing phenomenon that does not come with challenges and has it comes we will continue to perfect the situation. The challenges no doubt will continue to come even until the next 20 years. There can never be a perfect situation. It is a new test mode prompted by a situation that forced the board to look in that direction. He added: “It came because the board made up its mind to fight examination malpractice to a standstill and conversely the perpetrators too are fighting back with vigour”. Ohaekelem appealed to the JAMB Registrar, Prof Ishaq Oloyede to consider an upward review of the N600 paid per candidate for the examination, saying that meeting the stringent conditions by proprietors of CBT Centres should be adequately remunerated. Justifying the need for consideration, he stated that maintenance of the centres that are strictly built for the examination preparatory for the examination runs into several thousands of Naira. “The systems are maintained every year, the generators are serviced and put in good condition, some of the laptop batteries could easily run down without notice, the hard drive could crash and must be replaced, you will also need to keep the furniture in place and paint the walls to make it look neat and install air conditioners, there networking cable to maintain, lots of structures and programmes you need to upgrade from time to time, switches and cable must be in good condition they are consumables that could get damaged without notice,” he added. All of these, I must mention, is outside the professionals and other personnel that keep the centre working and ensure all challenges and enquiries are attended to and promptly resolved. The recurrent and capital expenditure are quite huge to sustain a CBT centre. Asked if the centre can be put to others uses after examination, Ohaekelem said: “We can’t use it as a training centre. The JAMB specification does not give room for the deployment of the halls for other purposes because the hall is structured in such a way that there is no provision to put an instruction board for training. “By JAMB specification it just one hall arrangement with cubicles that does give room for further demarcations. It does not have an arrangement of a classroom. Looking at the structure further it cannot use as a functional classroom or training centre. The sitting arrangement patterned in such a way that students can’t face the teacher for learning. It cannot be converted into a business centre. To restructure a centre for training will cost a lot and reversal for JAMB exam is also tasking and costly. On the demands of the proprietors, he stated: “What the association is asking JAMB to do is not just about money. The CBT Centres should be trusted enough to be part of the stakeholders of JAMB in policy formulation and helping to build infrastructure, especially in applications that are used for the examination. “I understood the fears of JAMB in the areas of putting trust on some of the centres that have compromised. As an association and I as the President of the association, I remembered having reported sharp practices by members of the board. We want JAMB to trust us and bring us in as stakeholders. It will not be out of place to say the inability to adequately remunerate could be part of the pressure that pushes centres to give in to malpractice. He listed other challenges of the association to include the introduction of applications that are not well tested, saying that the use of centres as guinea pigs also exert pressure on the system and the personnel. He added: “At the end of the day a particular application was not used. The one that was used as a new one introduced 24 hours to the mock examination”. “The non-involvement of CBT centres give a lot of challenge and it may interest you to know that some of the CBT centres are Hitech and IT companies. What we are driving at is that the association has technical units that are CBT centres but by default also run Hitech companies separately and as such tell JAMB the workability of an application. He added: “It will not be out of place to bring in CBT Centres as collaborators and work with our technical team to troubleshoot the application before calling out CBT Centres to test run it as this will save lots of costs”. 0 comments