Lagos / Abuja / Owerri / Ado-Ekiti – President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday announced his intention to seek re-election and thus set the stage for the flurry of electoral activities that would culminate in the Saturday, February 16, 2019 presidential and National Assembly elections. His final declaration which did not come as a surprise to many political observers in and outside Nigeria, nevertheless, stirred deep-seated feelings of disappointment across social and political stratifications in the country. Regardless, President Buhari took time to explain why he was taking another shot at the presidency in defiance of old-age and health challenges. The president said he was bowing to pressure from stakeholders in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He said he had consulted widely with Nigerians concerning his chances, hence his decision to re-contest the number one seat in the country. The president made the declaration formally at the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the APC where he also granted waivers to the John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Working Committee (NWC) to seek re-election. According to the president, he decided to declare at the APC NEC meeting as a mark of honour for the party officials. He said his suggestion that waivers be granted the party executive members at the local, state, and national levels was informed by the need to avoid court litigations that might jeopardise the chances of the party in retaining power in 2019. He expressed satisfaction at the report submitted by the Plateau State governor, Simon Lalong, who led a technical committee to resolve the contentious issue of tenure elongation for Oyegun and other NWC members. The president stressed that it was important that the party towed the path of unity, legality, and cohesion and not that of division. He said: “I want to specifically thank members of the Technical Committee for a job well done within the limited time frame. “It shows a great sense of commitment to the ideals of our party with a view to consolidating and positioning the party to continue delivering good governance in the overall interest of Nigerians. “With the present state of the party and, based on the report submitted by the Technical Committee, it is important to focus on how to move the party forward by avoiding actions detrimental to the interest of the party. “Considering that politics is a game of numbers, we must not be a house divided against itself and must try to note, appreciate, and accommodate our differences as far as the law permits. “Upon my review of the report, my position is to ensure that the party tows the path of unity, legality, and cohesion and not that of division. “Therefore, I am stressing that we should strengthen our internal democracy by organising the party’s congresses and convention where election of National Executive Committee members would be held. “This will automatically end the cases filed by members seeking orders of court compelling the party to hold its congresses. “I also believe that the current executives should be free to vie for elective positions in the party if they so wish as permitted by our party constitution. “However, considering the provision of Article 31(1)(iii) of the APC constitution which requires any serving officer desirous of seeking re-election to resign from office 30 days before election, I am not sure of the practicality of present serving officers’ ability to meet this condition. “Accordingly, the party may consider granting waivers to party executives at all levels so that they are not disenfranchised from participating in the elections should they wish to do so, provided this does not violate our rules.” Buhari had, at the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of March 27, in Abuja, said NWC’s tenure extension decided at NEC’s meeting on February 27 was illegal and unconstitutional. The NEC had extended the tenure of the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led NWC and other executive committees of the party across all levels in the country by one year, starting from June. The president had explained that the decision was causing acrimony within the party as some of its members who were not comfortable with the decision had gone to court. Following the president’s rejection of the extension, he had called a closed-door meeting with the APC governors last week, Tuesday, at the Presidential Villa, but the governors emerged from the meeting divided, a development that necessitated another NEC meeting by the party’s leadership. Buhari’s Position On Tenure Elongation Sacrosanct – Oyegun On Monday, Odigie-Oyegun, National Chairman of the party, pointed out that he was not averse to congresses that would elect substantive executives for the ruling party so long as it was in the interest of peace and cohesion of the party. He said having considered Buhari’s position on waivers for the NWC members, he came to the conclusion that Buhari was a true democrat and meant well for the party. He said based on the fact that Buhari, as the party leader, had taken a decision regarding the fate of the party, it would be foolhardy to go against his wish. Oyegun also took a swipe at the media which, he noted, feasted on the contentious issues in the party to malign his person. He described the development as most regrettable. Why President May Not Back Oyegun’s Re-Election Sources in the party told DAILY INDEPENDENT on Monday that while key stakeholders in the party were lobbying President Buhari to support Oyegun’s re-election, the president may be reluctant to do so owing to the position of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu who wants him (Oyegun) out at all cost. According to our source, the president seriously needs the support of the South West in his re-election bid and he would not want to do anything that would upset key politicians in the region led by Tinubu. “Yes, the best the president can do is to grant them waiver to seek re-election, but it is very unlikely that he will support them for another term. “Now that he has indicated interest in seeking re-election, the president needs the support of the South West and he knows he cannot get it if he backs Oyegun for another term. Tinubu and his loyalists will never accept that,” he said. Nobody Will Defeat Buhari, Says Shettima Speaking on Buhari’s second term ambition, Kashim Shettima, Borno State governor, said it would be difficult for President Muhammadu Buhari to be defeated in 2019 as he remained a kinetic force in Nigeria’s current political dispensation. He said now that the president had declared, APC governors would rally behind him to enable him succeed. The following conversations ensued between him and State House reporters, shortly after Buhari declared. Reporters: What do you make of Buhari’s decision to contest? Shettima: We are fully in support of his decision and its part of democratic culture. Traditionally, the president has the right of first refusal of the candidature of their party, so it is not something that is unusual or unwarranted or unconstitutional. He has done the right thing, he is going to contest, and we are solidly behind him. Reporters: Did the President consult with you governors? Shettima: He is not under any obligation to consult governors or anybody; he has been under tremendous pressure to make that pronouncement, so we should heave a sigh of relief since he has finally announced his intention to contest. Reporters: How supportive will governors be this time around? Shettima: We will give him the kind of support we gave him in 2015. Reporters: Would this not be distracting government? Shettima: Certainly, it is not distracting government; it will even calm down governance so that people will concentrate on the real act of governance and deliver the dividends of democracy. Reporters: Can you evaluate his chances of winning? Shettima: Certainly, he is the single kinetic president in Nigeria’s political life till date. Any Candidate PDP Fields Will Win, Says Babatope Nevertheless, in his reaction, Chief Ebenezer Babatope, a former Minister of Transport and Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said his party was waiting for APC at the polls, adding that any candidate presented by the PDP will defeat President Buhari or any presidential candidate presented by the ruling party. “If his party accepts him to run for another term, we in the PDP are waiting. We will contest the presidential election, defeat the APC and give Nigerians a very good government. “I am very confident that any candidate we field in PDP will defeat President Buhari or any candidate that flies APC’s flag. We are waiting for them at the polls,” Babatope said. On his part, Alhaji Ahmed Makarfi, former National Caretaker Committee Chairman of the PDP, reacted in a text message. He said: “It’s no news that he is contesting, it would have been news if he had announced the opposite.” Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, Niger State governor, on his part, said the president’s decision had rekindled hope and reassured Nigerians that the restoration agenda, the war against corruption, and enthronement of good governance for the country would sail safely to coast. In a statement signed by his Coordinator, Media and Publicity, Mr. Jide Orintunsin, the governor commended the decision of the president, stating that the president’s pronouncement had rekindled the hope of the average Nigerian for a better tomorrow. He stated: “It was so heart-warming when Mr. President today told members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of our great party of his intention to seek re-election. This is the brightest moment for our country. “A moment that has rekindled the hope of our people. A moment that has reaffirmed that all the good works, the good initiatives of Mr. President that saw us out of economic recession the country was plunged into by mismanagement of past administrations will now be sustained to take us to the desired enviable position among the community of nations. “By this pronouncement, President Muhammadu Buhari has exhibited a high sense of a good leadership. “He has shown that he listens to the yearnings of millions of Nigerians who called on him to continue the good work he started since 2015. “He would have dashed the hopes of teeming Nigerians, especially the younger ones who are looking up to him if he had turned down this call to serve.” I’m Not Surprised With Buhari’s Declaration – Yakasai Elder statesman, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai, says he is not surprised with President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to seek re-election in 2019. Yakasai said in Kano that he was not surprised at the announcement because the president’s body language had already indicated that he would re-contest for the office. The statesman, who was a Special Adviser on National Assembly Matters to former President Shehu Shagari, said the Buhari’s decision was much-awaited. Don’t Shut Out Other Presidential Aspirants, Chieftain Advises APC An APC chieftain in Bayelsa, Austin Febo, said President Buhari’s declaration to seek re-election should not stop presidential primaries in the party ahead of 2019 polls. He said on telephone shortly after the president’s declaration was announced that it was good and welcomed as it had ended speculations on the issue. Febo, who was a governorship aspirant in Bayelsa in 2015, said “it is expected that the president will like to complete the projects before him. “However, his declaration should not close the door for some people who will like to contest the position of the president on APC platform in 2019.” Buhari Has Right To Contest – APGA, IPAC National Chairman of All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Victor Oye, said President Muhammadu Buhari was qualified to present himself for re-election. Oye, in a statement in Awka on Monday said as a Nigerian, Buhari had the constitutional right to seek another term in office. “He is qualified, so, we have no problem with his declaration to run for second term.” Similarly, Chairman of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) in Anambra, Chief Bartho Igwedibia, said it was inalienable right of Buhari to seek re-election if he wished. Igwedibia said only the Nigerian masses had the final say on who would preside over their affair. He called for free and credible elections that would yield outcome reflecting the wishes of the people. Buhari’s Declaration, Response To Clarion Call — Okorocha Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo has described Buhari’s declaration on Monday to run for a second term as a response to a clarion call from Nigerians of goodwill. Reacting to the declaration in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, in Owerri on Monday, Okorocha said that the president had performed very well in his first tenure. He said that Buhari’s second term bid was a “right choice in the right direction”. Nigeria Does Not Need Buhari In 2019, Says Fayose Ekiti State governor, Chief Ayodele Fayose, has said Nigeria does not need President Muhammadu Buhari as her leader in 2019, noting that Monday’s declaration bid by the president is an ambition that is dead on arrival. The governor also noted that if Buhari is reelected, he will kill the country. Fayose, who spoke to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti on Monday on the president’s intention, through his Chief Press Secretary, Idowu Adelusi, said if Buhari was unable to read the handwriting on the wall and know when to call it quit, Nigerians would show him the exit door in 2019 by voting him out of office. Fayose opined that Buhari was not only too old to lead the country well, he had bungled the opportunity given him by his woeful performance. “That ambition is dead on arrival. We don’t want grandpa as president anymore. Nigeria does not deserve a Buhari as president in 2019. Buhari is old and tired. When people don’t know when to take their leave and say bye, Nigerians will show them the exit door.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.