Revd. (Dr.) Peter Olusegun Oyebanji, who has been in the ministry for about two decades, is the Senior Pastor, First Baptist Church, Oko-Oba, Lagos and Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Oko-Oba West in Orile Agege. In this interview, he speaks with Gbenga  Agunbiade, on the errors of modern churches, practices and the way forward for Nigeria. Excerpts: How would you describe your journey into the ministry? My journey into the ministry was heavenly motivated by God himself. I received call into the ministry in the year 1998 when I was actually planning to cross over to University of Ilorin from Kwara State Polytechnic. God revealed himself to me that he has chosen me to go and win souls for him which I did not object. Although, there were different challenges, difficulties and setbacks but to the glory of God, He gave me breakthrough to overcome all various attacks that were coming on my ways. I can say I am blessed with His call. Some of the assignments God has directed me to do is to prepare souls for kingdom of God through teaching, prayers and evangelism and these have been done courageously energetical. I can say my journey into the ministry was a divine one. As the CAN chairman, Oko-Oba West Orile Agege, how far has this body influenced the growth of churches and gospel at large? To the glory of God, I was appointed as the CAN chairman Oko-Oba West  last year 2017 and we have been trying to unite the body of Christ because that is the ultimate. If the churches are not united, there is no way we can impact lives in the community, that is the first step we embarked on. When you are talking about CAN, you are talking about different denominations of churches, so we are trying to promote unity, also pray for our leaders in our community, local, state and Federal Government because that is one of the assignments given to us by God to always pray for our leaders. We have a special day and time we do that. We also educate our members on issues of national importance like politics which we always encourage them to register and get their PVC to make them eligible to vote, pay tax, security issues, noise pollution and religious tolerance. It is not about spiritual things alone. We had an Easter rally not long ago where we preached the gospel to people and also celebrated Easter with them. All these put together has changed the face of CAN in Oko Oba West in Orile Agege. As a man of honor, how do you cope with the excess of the unbelievers coming your ways? The truth is that there is no saint without past and there is no sinner without future but above all the major thing is that one must be able to relate with them with love which is the ultimate. Jesus did the same when he was on earth, we have example of Zacchaeus in the book of Luke Chapter 19. Zacchaeus was a sinner but at the same time Jesus entered his house. Even when people were complaining, Jesus accepted him, so this is what we have been doing to show agape kind of love to unbelievers in our environment. I believe that there is nobody God cannot change or accept because God died for the sinners and this is the ultimate price He has paid for us. So the excess of the unbelievers will not be seen as a distraction but attraction to prepare them for the kingdom of God. What distinguishes the modern churches from ancient churches? Let us look at it from two different angles, one from positive and other from negative angle. Modern churches have developed to what is known as mega churches whereby young ministers are being raised to promote the gospel through social media unlike in the past churches where preaching of gospel is been done from house to house alone. Other areas we cannot rule out is the area of hymns singing. In the modern churches, choirs are now giving time in the service to sing praises in different dimensions with various instruments unlike the past churches where singing of hymns prominently dominated the services. Another area is of the time factor. The modern churches are known to be time conscious unlike the ancient churches when services can be prolonged unnecessarily. What are the errors you have noticed in the present day churches? There are a lot of errors that one can actually observe in the present day churches. One cannot rule out the love of money which has majorly dominated the present day churches. It has grown to the extent that the poor don’t have a comfortable seat in the church anymore. The love of materialism has also dominated the present day churches where bringing vehicles to church has now become issue of competitions and also ministers’ cars, suits, shoes, “big” sanctuary are now used to determine the level of anointing and how people can be treated in the church. Congregations are not well rooted in the word of God any longer. The present day churches are also after titles like Prophets, Dr, Professor, Bishop, Most Superior and so on and finally, the present day churches are building cathedrals not believers or disciples. It is good to have comfortable sanctuary; but it is pity that modern day churches are building cathedrals and empires not God’s ‘generals’. These are some of the errors noticed in the present day churches. There are calls for Christians to go into politics, if you are opportune, what will be your approach? Politics is not dirty but that is the way many Christians usually see it. I believe that politics is scriptural. In the Bible, God participates in the affairs of men by leading and instructing men on how to lead their nations. If you don’t participate in politics, you don’t have right to complain about the type of leaders that are presented by political parties. Christians should participate in politics. So if I have opportunity to be involved in politics; I will allow God to lead me because it is not enough for someone to just say I want to go into politics, there must be a mandate and you must be directed by God. Then there is need for adequate preparation for that office you want to occupy and also change your mindset that politics is for people who are not serious or people that want to steal public fund. Going into politics, will also give me another platform to let people know that righteousness is the key because it is righteousness that exalts the nation. I will ensure that people are served, protected, empowered and necessary facilities that will bring comfort and eradicate poverty will be provided. How has it been pastoring a church in this vicinity? Pastoring a church in Oko-Oba community definitely is very awesome and demanding. Sincerely speaking there are challenges and God has been given us wisdom and spiritual power to overcome them. Yes, the environment has other religions, even idol worshippers too are inclusive but I believe that location plays a major part in every success story. Location plays a major part in ministerial fulfillment. When you are at the right place you will be celebrated and not tolerated. John the Baptist was in the wilderness and his ministry prospered. We are at peace with everybody and also trying to communicate with them in the language they understand has so many of them are not too good in official language. Above all, God is backing his words and work with signs and wonders. You have been described to have passion for youths; can you speak more on this? I believe youth are the leaders of tomorrow and if any organisation would continue to exist, the lives of youths must be a priority to them. In our church, we prepare our youths to be leaders of tomorrow; we challenge them to move from local to global. We let them, know that they must have vision and mission which must be discovered, documented, developed and demonstrated with determination because determination determines ones’ destination. We encourage them to see the future now and prepare for it. We also believe that if the youths are rooted in the word of God it will not be difficult for the gospel to go far. On this note we prepare them spiritually, physically, materially, mentally and financially. We also have a live changing annual program tagged ‘Yes’ Young Minds Empowerment Summit.” We invite resource people to educate the youths to be empowered in every core area of lives. We also have annual ‘Royalty’ program when we invite Kings and also promote our culture. The program is to tell our youths that they are princes and princesses. All these are my passion to have respectful and oriented leaders of our dreams. CAN President, Revd. Dr. Supo Ayokunle is a Baptist President, how can you describe his leadership style? To the glory of God, Revd. Dr. Supo Ayokunle is our president in CAN, also our Baptist President in Nigeria. His performance since he has assumed office has been very remarkable and outstanding which of course we all know his efforts to promotes the unity of this great country with wisdom of God. He has also show that great quality in him to make use of his office to address the issue of Nigeria unity. He has made his office accessible and approachable. Without being economical with the truth, his leadership style has been the best so far and encouraging. What is your advice to other ministers or people planning to go into ministry? They should be called by God, depend on God, be faithful, be committed, be trained theologically and understand their mission or calling. The understanding of your mission in life will help you to discover who you are, what you have and where you are. Every man on earth has divine, ordained and specific mission for existing which must be achieved through the help of God. They must know that God’s work is a commission not competition. Divine instruction should be followed, their spiritual gifts should be used to propagate God’s work not self and heaven should be their focus. As Nigerians move gradually towards another election year, what is your advice to them? As general election is around the corner, my advice to every eligible Nigerian is that they should make sure they have their Permanent Voters Card (PVC) collected as this remains a powerful tool to decide and choose their representatives without any sentiment or prejudice. The electoral body should conduct free and fair election without giving room for rigging. The political parties and candidates should embrace peace, shun corruption and accept the outcome of the election to avoid rebellion.  To the youths, they should make room for peace and not allow themselves to be used as instrument of destruction or electoral violence. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.