In many Nigerian families the women are major economic players; they are contributing to the income of their famines in many ways. If they are not doing petty trading, they are working office or doing whatever they can to contribute to increasing the income levels of the families. In these, when the rate of unemployment is very high and many are out of work, and those who working do not earn enough to meet the needs of the family; many women are doing their bits to make sure that the family does not suffer by bringing more income. Deaconess Felicia Oke (Iya Tunde) is one of those hard workingwomen who are contributing to economic wellbeing of their families. She sells eggs, drinks, bottled water, sachet water, noodles, provisions, and recharge cards. In this interview, she told OLAMIDE FALOBI her entrepreneurial journey. Excerpts When did you start this business?
I started in 2001, so I have been doing this for about 17 years. How did you start this business?
Well, there was a day I sat down and thought, “What am I going to do?” Actually, I was a hairdresser before. But I don’t like the work again because of God. When I read the Bible and knew the word of God very well about some things, I didn’t have any other option because it’s only God that I have and he is my helper.
I didn’t want to disobey God, so I quit hairdressing, and then I jumped to selling provisions. And I thank God that people are patronising me and my business has not collapsed. I’ve been expanding the business little by little. In fact, before I was selling only crates of drinks, but later, I added other things like recharge card and eggs. During the holidays, like Christmas, I even sometimes sell chicken and turkey. God has been blessing me. Where did you get the money you used to fund your business?
It was my husband that gave me the money I used to start. He built my shop as an extension outside our house, so I did not need much money. I am not paying rent. What challenges have you had so far?
Well, sometimes the money I want to use to buy goods would not be enough because I would have used it to buy some other things, and I would be worried about where I would get money to buy more goods. But then God would provide the money in an unexpected way, and I would buy my goods. Another problem I had was that people that came after I opened my own shop would see what I am selling and start selling them too. They would call customers that were coming to buy things from my shop and lure them to buy from them, and the number of people that bought things from me started reducing. I wasn’t seeing many people to buy from me. But I always talked to God that he should do my own for me too and bring people for me, and God did it. What else do you do about competition?
Well, you know how people are in an area like this. Many people were patronising me before, but when people see what you’re selling and how people are buying it well, all of them will rush to the market and buy it to start selling too. But, I thank God that even with the little I’m doing, he has been helping me. People were not patronizing me as much as before, but then God brought people for me; loyal customers who would always buy things from me, no matter what. What sets your business apart from others?
The major thing that makes me different from others that are selling what I am selling is that my “minerals” are always cold. Even when there is no light everywhere, people can rest assured that whenever they come to my shop, they will always get chilled drinks and cold water. Even during power failure everywhere, I switch on my generator so that my drinks will be cold for customers to buy. What is the strangest or funniest experience you’ve had with a customer?
Well, there are many that I cannot remember, but let me mention one. There was a day a man came to me and bought a crate of eggs. When he got home he gave his wife the eggs that he’d bought them for her.
The next thing I knew, the woman came to my shop with the eggs I sold to him. She said the eggs were too small. I tried to explain to her that the eggs were not small, that it was the size of eggs everywhere, and even if they were small, I sold them for her husband at a very cheap price, but she refused to listen. In the hassle, as she was trying to drop the eggs on the floor, one of them fell and broke.
I just looked her, and told her, “See what you have done.” But there was nothing I could do because I don’t like fighting or abusing people. I am not a violent person. The next time I saw her husband, I reported his wife to him, that “see what your wife has done, she broke my egg.” He was begging me not to get angry. But he still didn’t refund my money for the egg she broke. That is how anyone that is selling things will see problems and challenges. We’ll see some customers that will just do anyhow to us, that will just say anything to us without thinking. But, I just took it as an experience, cleaned up the egg that broke, and forgot the matter. Do you get support from your family and friends?
My family supports me very well. My husband and my children will always support me, but for friends; actually, I don’t tell any of my friends that I need support or help with my business, so it doesn’t happen. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.