Events in Nigeria are beginning to look like an action-parked cartoon film, when the projector has gone haywire. You cannot have a hang on the conversation because the topic changes too fast. Not too long ago the national conversation was about Boko Haram and the rampaging, murderous Fulani herdsmen, now it is about the controversial looters’ list and some on the list going to court. Movie time! The law says that everyone is innocent until he is proven guilty. But when the law took that position it did not know of the existence of Lai Mohammed, a lawyer. Now there is a paradigm shift in the country and a man is presumed a looter (or guilty) until he proves his innocence in court. Jumbo, my pal and veteran soldier shared a joke about this. The antelope was running scared. The elephant asked him, “Why are you running?” The desperate antelope replied, “They are arresting goats in Nigeria!” The elephant was amused, “But you are not a goat!” The antelope replied, “It would take at least twenty years in the SSS or police detention for that fact to be established in Nigeria.” The elephant took off at full speed in the other direction. But one has the matter all figured out. What is the difference between a looter and a member of the ruling party? A looter is a member of the opposition party, who was close to the former president, Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, and stubbornly refused, ignored or/and declined to decamp to the All Progressives Congress. These are not sufficient reasons to be named in the list but they are the necessary conditions for inclusion. A few of Jonathan’s close allies who are still in the PDP missed the list – at least for now. However, such indiscretions as refusing to decamp, like failing to move with the times and flowing with the stream, ought to be sanctioned.  Even cultists know when to change allegiances to new and stronger cult groups in order to stay alive. Precisely why your grandma should have told you “self preservation is the first law of nature.” The ruling party, when it was in opposition, had opened its arms to welcome members of the PDP to its fold; “Come unto us all ye that do labour for Goodluck Jonathan, and we will give you rest. Take our broom and, like a witch, you would soar to new heights while the nation sleeps… and sweep the nation.” Like the Pied Piper of Hamelin, who led the children out of the city, Rotimi Amaechi led a motley crowd of PDP members on this flight of the broom and they are now settled in APC. APC? Good party. If I were a politician, I certainly would have joined the APC. APC is the only party that does not loot, neither do their members loot. Of course some misguided Nigerians have raised a lot of storm about the looters’ list. They have argued that the non-inclusion of the members of the APC in the list is a clear and unambiguous proof that the list is a political gimmick designed to ridicule the PDP. The man who released the list has a good reputation as a man who speaks the truth when he does not open his mouth. He has claimed that he brought out the list because the PDP challenged him. It was foolhardy of PDP to challenge a masquerade. Remember that the man involved in this list was the same one who posited that Nigerians could make a lot of money from dressing masquerades. As a prospective pioneer professor of the science of masquerade dressing, such a man thinks like, behaves like and talks like a masquerade – and should not be dared. I never dare a masquerade because it is supposed to come from another world and the standard expectation is to flee from one. PDP should learn to fear a masquerade when it sees one. PDP loots, and from the days of Chief Olusegun Matthew Obasanjo until now the party has suffered looting and the looters take the party by force. My pal, Jumbo has gone through the list of looters and he is impressed. Most of the persons in the list have national honours. It was a compelling list of persons in whose company you would crave to be in. Jumbo, personally would not have minded being included in the list. That would have earned him a lot of respect in the village and he would have been officially certified as the first man in the village to loot the Nigerian treasury. More so Jumbo would have been seen to have friends and connections in high places. But ever since Jumbo resigned from the military, he has not occupied any political office and you are not supposed to stay home and loot. Looting comes with a high office of public trust. Of course APC does not loot – they sweep. Their symbol is the broom. They sweep money. They sweep ideas. They sweep people – ask Benue State and all the other states where Fulani herdsmen have “swept” the people aside. They do not loot the economy – they just sweep the treasury. Which is why we have had this biting economic downturn in this country, and why Bill Gates is crying foul. Poor Bill, he does not even know how to sweep anything at all! Of course we have to hope that someday, someone would come up with a sweepers list and it would include the names of those who are sweeping the country dry at the moment. Until then it is only fair to sympathise with the sweepers, that the looters did not leave them with as much to sweep as they would have wanted and hence their ire. No one whose name is there should complain that it is a “Lai.”  You can pacify “Lai” by becoming a member of the ruling party or being a masquerade dressing consultant. Lai is a good man at heart and easy to please. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.