Osogbo – Recent claims by the leadership of Osun All Progressives Congress (APC) that it is still searching for appropriate candidate to fly the party’s flag in September 22nd 2018 governorship election in the state is causing fresh ripples within the party. Daily Independent reliably gathered that about 22 governorship aspirants have signified interest to succeed Ogbeni Rauf Adesoji Aregbesola whose tenure of two terms of eight years will lapse by November 2018. The gubernatorial election in the state is just about five months away and most aspirants are indignant over the continued delay in lifting ban on political activities placed on aspirants more than two years by the party executive. The ban had restricted the aspirants and recent statement credited to Gboyega Famodun, state Chairman of the party further caused confusion among members of the party and has since been generating controversies. The meeting held last month where the ban was to be lifted by the party leadership was inconclusive as party elders and leadership at the meeting including Governor Rauf Aregbesola could not agree on the main agenda and therefore deferred the matter till when the former Governor of the state and pioneer National Chairman of the party, Chief Adebisi Akande who was away on foreign trip will return. It was gathered that Chief Akande had returned to the country and the meeting could not hold because of the alleged disagreement among the party elders on lifting of ban. A reliable source within the party told Daily Independent that the disagreement among the party leadership is tearing them apart because some major stakeholders and elder caucus of APC had refused to change their mind that Osun West Senatorial District should be allowed to produce Aregbesola’s successor in the spirit of fair play and justice. It was further learnt that Aregbesola’s preferred choice, Gboyega Oyetola, his Chief of Staff and junior brother to his boss who is also the former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, hails from Iragbiji in Osun Central Senatorial District of the state. Since the creation of Osun State in 1991, Osun West Senatorial District has had the opportunity to rule the state when late Senator Isiaka Adeleke was governor for just 22months before the military juntas sacked his government; whereas Osun Central had ruled for more than 11years while Osun East where Aregbesola hails will complete her 8years by November this year. Despite the fact that ban still subsists, the campaign team of  Oyetola has hit the ground running and gone on air soliciting for support, cooperation and understanding of his choice without attracting sanction from the party while others still grudgingly observing the ban. Gboyega Famodun’s statement where he reportedly said party leadership is still searching for appropriate aspirant also compounded anxiety within the party. Famodun in the statement made available to newsmen through the Party’s Director of Publicity, Research and Strategy, Barrister Kunle Oyatomi appealed to residents of the state and party members to completely discountenance speculations spreading in the state that one aspirant or the other is either going to be imposed or has been particularly favoured to be the candidate of the party for the next governorship election in the state. He hinted that party leaders have begun rigorous process of consultation to identify appropriate and capable governorship aspirant to fly the flag of the party at the poll. Famodun declared that the party’s candidate will emerge through constitutional process that the party had agreed to. The statement read, “the All Progressives Congress in the state of Osun has announced that the public should completely discountenance speculations and rumours spreading in the state that one aspirant or the other is either going to be imposed or has been particularly favoured to be the candidate of the party for the next governorship election in the state. Nothing of the sort has happened or is contemplated. “Currently, party leaders and elders are engaging in a rigorous process of consultation about how to identify the appropriate aspirant, capable of representing the party, preserving its heritage and continuing with the development agenda and programmes of the party. “That candidate will eventually emerge through the constitutional process that the party has agreed to. The public is hereby reassured that only the best will be presented as a candidate of the party. Since then, members of the party have begun to ask themselves some salient questions whether the party leadership is searching among the 22 governorship aspirants that had shown interest to succeed Aregbesola or still not comfortable with any one of them and looking elsewhere? Members of the party who are not confortable with Famodun’s statement and do not want their names in print told Independent that it was tactical ploy by the party to further put members in a state of confusion to pave way for allegedly hatchet job. Among the aspirants that have shown interest are, Deputy Speaker of House of Representatives, Hon. Lasun Yusuf, Speaker of Osun State House of Assembly, Hon. Nojeem Salaam, Secretary to Osun State Government, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, Chief of Staff to Governor Aregbesola, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, Elder Peter Babalola, Chairman, Osun State Local Government Service Commission, Engineer Ayodele Lawal, Barrister Kayode Adegoke popularly called KRAD and Engineer Oriolowo. Others are Dr. Isiaka Owoade, Barrister Bashir Ajibola, member of House of Representatives representing Ejigbo federal constituency, Professor Mojeed Alabi, former Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Sunday Akere among others. Majority of the above aspirants, it was gathered, are taking their time and do not want to rock boat of the party so that the current anxiety and state of confusion do not snowball into full crisis. Political watchers in the state have issued several warning to leadership of APC reminding them to be very careful of defeat in the forthcoming governorship election over the choice of candidate. They argued that history has it that the three bye elections lost by the party in the last two to three years was as a result of selection of wrong candidates. The latest was the last concluded Osun West Senatorial election won by Senator Ademola Adeleke of PDP. Ademola was expected to contest the election on the platform of APC but because he is junior brother to the immediate past occupant of the seat, he was disowned by the party. The State Secretary of APC, Rasaq Salinsile while addressing members of national officers of the party who came to the state to supervise the primary claimed that Ademola Adeleke was not a member of APC, a development that force Ademola out of APC and was embraced by PDP and eventually made candidate and won election by 9 to 1. The APC’s candidate in the bye election, Senator Mudashir Hussein was not popular and members find it difficult to sell him to voters. Some of the voters were worried that Hussein was picked because of his personal relationship with Aregbesola and this earned the party protest votes even by members. A political watcher, Lanre Latinwo while speaking with Independent said Aregbesola must watch it so that he would not embark on venture that will further divide the party or its total collapse. “It is a known fact that a good leader must have interest in who that succeed him or her, but such move must not be do or die and it must be done with utmost care” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.