The audio recording of  a sex-for-marks conversation between a lecturer at Obafemi Awolowo University, (OAU) Ile Ife and a female student that recently went viral on the social media has again ignited debate on the lingering issue of sexual harassment in the nation’s tertiary institutions. The lecturer in the eye of the storm, Prof.  Richard Akindele of the Department of Management and Accounting, who is also  a reverend of the Anglican Communion, had been heard  negotiating five sex sessions with a female student in exchange for  upgrading her marks in a failed  course. The university, which set up a committee for a preliminary investigation into the matter, stated that a prima facie case has been established against the lecturer and has accordingly suspended him, indefinitely. The incidence of sex-for-marks is a major moral issue that has dogged the nation’s universities and other tertiary institutions, for quite some time. The rapid increase in the number of tertiary institutions, the upsurge in  enrolment of female students, many of them in their teenage years, the lowering of entry qualification requirements and a rather defective examination grading system, have all combined  to bring about  many ills in academic communities. Sex-for-marks, one of such ills bedevilling tertiary institutions, attracts more public interest because of its titillating and salacious nature. The Akindele alleged tryst  is more confounding and has elicited much rage and derision, especially on the ubiquitous social media, given his status as ‘a man of God’ who should be an epitome of morality and a mentor to students. We consider it a case of moral indiscipline for such highly placed academic to create a situation that brings him and his reputable institution to public ridicule. If a full investigation should find him guilty of gross moral misconduct, as alleged, then  the Professor should be dismissed as being someone not fit to be a member of a tertiary institution where moral discipline is expected to complement  academic discipline. However, that Prof (Rev.) Akindele, considering his high academic status and his expected role as a moral guardian could find himself  engulfed in  a moral maelstrom is symptomatic of deeper rot in tertiary institutions in this country where it would appear that rules and regulations are not diligently enforced. Confidence building between management and students is also largely non existent. There is a general perception of pervasive  sex-for-marks on campuses and that students are generally helpless  because they believe they cannot get justice from permissive managements which treat occasional formal reports by students with levity. Increasingly low and discriminatory cut-off marks by JAMB, admission quotas, varying cut off marks by institutions, concessional admissions, combining two school certificate results to meet admission requirements have brought into higher institutions, especially universities, students who lack the mental capacity to cope with the rigours of academic. It is important that university admission should be for the most brilliant, not the average or below average. That will be a significant step to curb sex-for-marks as it is generally students with poor academic standing who are often involved in sexual harassment cases. In some cases, it is even such academically poor students who harass lecturers. Managements of higher institutions should enforce the requirement  that lecturers provide marking guides for examinations and encourage aggrieved  students who felt marked down by a lecturer to seek a cross-check of their examination scripts through a blind review using the marking guide. It is important that frivolous allegations of sexual harassment, which dent the image of institutions, are not entertained, especially where a student has not availed himself or herself of the opportunity to seek review of the examination scripts. It must be noted that it is rare to find female students on first class or even second class (upper division) status complaining of sexual harassment. There is therefore a nexus between under- performing students  and sexual harassments. The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has a responsibility to constantly orientate its members against immoral dalliance with female students so as to maintain the integrity of their role as mentors. ASUU should not be  agitating for members’ financial gains  alone but partner with university managements in restoring moral health on campuses.   The OAU management should take the sex-for-marks allegation against Prof. (Rev.) Akindele as a test case. It should be guided by transparent fairness, not  by social media hysteria or undue camaraderie with the accused. 0 comments