Lagos – Nigerian oil firm, Famfa Oil, owned by the second richest woman in Africa, Folorunsho Alakija, is making serious moves to acquire prolific fields of the Brazilian oil giant, Petrobas. It was gathered that Famfa Oil plans to knock its rivals out of the picture for the bid. Petrobras Oil & Gas B.V’s advisors for the sale of its Nigerian assets, Scotiabank etEvercore, have lined up very specific potential buyers. “With the exception of Russia’s Lukoil, only Nigerian firms approached the Brazilian firm’s deal brokers with offers. They spoke with Lekoil headed by Samuel Adegboyega and operator of the Otakikpo field. Seplat directed by Ambrosie Bryant Chukwueloka ‘ABC’ Orjiako, a close friend of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Ibe Kachikwu, also showed its interest in purchasing the assets”, African Energy Intelligence said in its latest edition. It said among the other two firms competing for the blocks, Famfa has the right of first refusal, having already being a shareholder of Petrobras’ block OML 127, which encompasses the giant Agbami field operated by Chevron. According to African Energy Intelligence, Alakija was said to have expressed her intent to provide $2 billion for a further 8% stake in OML 127 as well as a 16% share in OML 130, on which the Akpo and Total operated Egina fields sit. Famfa has built up its war chest through Agbami, which has produced over 200,000bpd since 2008, it said. It added that Petrobras Oil & Gas B.V, a joint venture between Petrobras, Brazilian bank BTG Pactual and American investment fund Helios Investment Partners, is shopping for nearly $4 billion for the sale of its entire Nigerian portfolio. This figure, according to the Brazilians, reflects the fact that production is scheduled to start at Egina, which should reach 250,000bpd at plateau. Famfa is said to be on the lookout for a financial partner to be able to buy the assets that would add a sizeable source of revenue to its belt. Alakija is pulling strings within her Nigerian and continent-wide network to raise the funds needed to achieve her goal. Meanwhile, the company has said that minority shareholders had named new candidates to represent them on the board, replacing those announced last month. Shareholders Fundo de Investimento em Acoes Dinamica Energia and Banclass Fundo de Investimento em Acoes, as well as individual shareholders nominated Marcelo Gasparino da Silva and Jose Pais Rangel to represent them on the board. According to a statement, on March 26, the company said shareholders Leblon Acoes Master FIA, Leblon Icatu Previdencia and Ataulfo LLC had nominated Marcelo Mesquita for re-election to represent ordinary minority shareholders and Sonia Julia Sulzbeck Villalobose to represent minority preferred shareholders. The reason for the change was not immediately clear, but the board’s elections will take place on April 26. Last month, Petrobras also proposed to increase the number of board members to 11 from 10 currently. Of eight representing the government, Petrobras’ controlling shareholder, five would remain: CEO Pedro Parente, Francisco Petros, Segen Farid, Jeronimo Antunes and board president Nelson Carvalho. The new nominees to represent the government are Jose Alberto de Paula Torres Lima, Clarissa de Araujo Lins and Ana Lucia Poças Zambelli. Christian Queipo was named to represent Petrobras employees following an internal vote. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.