Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has approved the construction of 60 roads across the state’s 18 local government areas to bring development closer to the people and open up rural communities for business activities. Obaseki said infrastructure development being pursued by the government would engender job creation and poverty alleviation, as 7,000 youths would be engaged during the roads construction. Obaseki, represented by Taiwo Akerele, his Chief of Staff, during the inspection of ongoing road construction at Ogunmwenyin community, Lucky Way, Osayande Ize-Iyamu Drive and Nneka Street in Ugbor Village, said, “The roads to be constructed are semi-rural/urban roads, ranging from one kilometre to 1.5 kilometres. The effort is geared towards deepening the spread of economic enablers to engender development.” The inspection train also got to Amagba Community, where the governor assured of the re-construction of the major road, noting: “We don’t talk too much, but we assure you that the construction of Amagba Road will commence soon. “In road construction, there are procurement processes and procedures that are involved and must be followed. By the time these processes and procedures are completely addressed, the construction of other roads will commence, as contractors will be mobilised to site.” Obaseki explained that the focus on constructing rural roads was to open new areas for enhanced economic activity and improved livelihoods for the people, especially agrarian communities, from where people need to move agro-produce to cities. “The road construction will reduce the level of poverty in rural areas, as the construction of roads will open the areas for economic activities,” he said. He said the inspection exercise was to ensure that contractors handling the projects work in accordance with specification. “The communities where roads are being constructed must ensure that the projects are protected. The state government will sign a Community Action Agreement (CAA) with communities where projects are sited, and failure to ensure the protection of projects will mean no additional project will be sited in such places. “We are not only interested in building infrastructure in the state, but also developing human capacity. One hundred and eighty-eight direct jobs have been created through the construction of the one kilometre road project in Ogunmwenyin community,” he said. 4 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.