Namibia and the South African government on Monday voiced their opposition to the airstrikes conducted by the U.S., British and French military on Syria. In separate statements, they noted with grave concern the airstrikes against a sovereign state,. As a state party to the United Nations Chemical Weapons Convention, Namibia welcomes a statement issued by the African Union on Sunday, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah said in a statement. “For the sake of the people of Syria and peace in general, we call on the UN Security Council to live up to its charter obligations and find a lasting solution to bring about peace in Syria, through peaceful means,” she added. Nandi-Ndaitwah said unilateral action is incompatible with the UN charter and risks undermining the effectiveness of the very institution created to resolve conflicts. “The UN Security Council must remain united and pursue common justice, peace, security and stability through dialogue and diplomacy based on the principles of multilateralism,” she said. Also, the South African Department of International Relations and Cooperation said the alleged use of chemical weapons in Syria cannot be a justification for military airstrikes in a territory of a sovereign state without the authorization of the UN Security Council. In the same vein, South Africa condemned the use of chemical weapons by any party in the Syrian territory,. “We remain steadfast in our principled position that the issue should be resolved in the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and the UN security council,” the government said. In its statement on Sunday, the African Union Commission called on world powers to undertake international efforts to solve the Syrian civil war that respects the territorial integrity of Syria. The AUC chairperson Moussa Mahamat said while he condemns the use of chemical weapons, primacy should be given to international efforts to find lasting political situation for the Syrian civil war solely based on the interests of Syrian people. “Africa expects the UN Security Council members, especially those that are permanent, to put aside their differences and spare no efforts in the pursuit of global peace and humanity’s common good, in line with the responsibilities conferred upon them by the UN Charter,” Mhamat said. “AU is strongly committed to multilateralism, underlines that any response to such acts ought to be based on incontrovertible evidence gathered by a competent, independent and credible entity and comply strictly with international law, including the primacy of the UNSC for any recourse to force,” Mahamat said. On Saturday morning, the U.S., France and Britain conducted airstrikes on Syrian government targets following reports of alleged chemical weapons use in Douma, near the capital city Damascus, on April 7. The Syrian government has strongly denied the allegation, calling for the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to send a fact-finding mission for investigations. However, the three nations carried out the strikes on the day the mission just arrived in Damascus. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.