South Sudan on Monday urged the Australian government to rescind the recent decision not to host any more refugees from countries like South Sudan, Somalia and Iran. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman, Mawien Makol, stated this in Juba. Makol urged Australian officials to continue hosting refugees from South Sudan after they were excluded from the community support programme, which is an element of Australia’s broader humanitarian migration programme. “We don’t want to talk about Australia’s national interest but refugee status should not be discriminatory. I think refugees are protected by international law including South Sudanese,” Makol said. South Sudanese in the past benefited from the Australian resettlement scheme which is offering this year up to 1,000 places taken from within the broader programme of 16,250 places. The programme which was previously the Community Proposal Pilot started in 2013 and will now focus only on eight countries in which community groups, businesses, families or individuals are allowed to sponsor and support a refugee to come to Australia. The beneficiaries under the ongoing programme include Syrian and Iraqi (women, children and families located in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey) and Myanmar (Karen and Chin in Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia). Others are Afghans only in Pakistan, Bhutanese in Nepal, Congolese in Kenya, Malawi, Uganda and Zambia, Ethiopians in Kenya and Eritreans only in Ethiopia. Makol disclosed that although they don’t have strong diplomatic relations with Australia, he hopes South Sudanese and other affected people are allowed to stay in Australia. “We don’t have strong diplomatic relations with Australia but we wish South Sudanese be given chance to stay as refugees,” Makol said. South Sudan descended into violence in December 2013 after President Salva Kiir sacked his former deputy Riek Machar, leading to fighting between mostly Dinka ethnic soldiers loyal to Kiir and ethnic Nuer soldiers loyal to Machar. The violence has killed tens of thousands leaving four million people living as refugees in neighbouring countries. The efforts by regional leaders to revive the 2015 peace agreement shattered in the wake of renewed violence in July 2016 are yet to bear fruit as they have been indefinitely suspended after the warring parties failed to make headway. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.