ABUJA – No fewer than 6,512 detainees,including infants linked to the terrorist group,Boko Haram, are believed to still be under detention facilities of government. The detainees were uncovered, following profiling and categorisation carried out by the Presidential Committee on Special Detainees inaugurated in 2016. The findings were contained in a 5 chapters, 47-page report which has been submitted to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha for onward transmission to the presidency. “The committee was inaugurated in December 2016 with the mandate of profiling and categorising the Boko Haram detainees in the various detention prisons across the country. A total of 6,512 detainees were identified including toddlers who followed their mothers into detention, some detainees had spent up to nine years awaiting trial, chairman of  the Presidential Committee on Special Detainees, General Abdullahi Bagudu Mamman announced. Olusegun Adeyemi Adekunle, Permanent Secretary, General Services Office, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, received the report on behalf of the SGF. The SGF commended the committee for their painstaking efforts, and for doing a good job. He lauded the Minister of Interior, Lt General (rtd) Abdulrahaman Danbazzau for initiating the committee and the idea of looking into the welfare of  the unfortunate citizens. He noted the urgency expressed by the chairman of the committee on the aspects of international relations, inadequate infrastructures, and human rights of the detainees, and promised that the report would be forwarded swiftly to Mr. President for action. Gen. Mamman (rtd) also called for justice for suspects who might be innocent. He lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for taking the plight of Nigerians seriously, adding that they would always make themselves available for future assignment. Earlier, Gabriel Tanimu Aduda, Permanent Secretary, Political and Economic Affairs Office, Office the Secretary to the Government of the Federation,   also commended the Committee for its patriotism, passion and doggedness in carrying out the assignment. 0 comments