ADO-EKITI – Dare Bejide ,Nigeria’s former High commissioner to Canada,has urged the leadership of Social Democratic Party (SDP) to take advantage of the crises in the two dominant political parties in Ekiti State to exposition the party for victory. Bejide, a governorship aspirant on the platform of the party,who spoke in Ado Ekiti when he paid a courtesy call to the leadership of the party at its Secretariat, maintained the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) are bedeviled with internal scuffle
“We must know that it is not an easy task to defeat an incumbent. My government will respect party leaders, promote farming because the reason why our people are not ready to farm anymore is because there is no patronage from government. We will change this system.
“I will generate employments for our youths by removing the embargo placed on it by government. My government will pay the arrears of salaries and pensions because we are people-oriented and we won’t be in government and allow ourselves suffer unduly’’.
He commended the former head of state, Gen Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) for openly supporting the Social Democratic Party(SDP),adding that the development has made it a credible and national platform for Nigerians to realize their dreams and push the country to greatness.
He advised Nigerians to reject the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2018 governorship poll in Ekiti and the 2019 general elections, having disappointed Nigerians in many spheres.
Bejide urged the leadership of the SDP to give the ticket to him because of his experiences in party and government’s administrations as well as strong political network that can defeat the PDP in Ekiti
He promised to revamp agriculture sector and make Ekiti the food basket of the nation, saying : “This ticket must be given to someone like me, who has people across parties. Some APC and PDP members are ready to work with me if you give the ticket.
“Within the first twelve months in office, I will establish three skill acquisition centres in the three senatorial districts where our youth can get additional skills apart from their certificates, because vocation is very essential.
“So, it is necessary that you don’t pick a novice as a candidate, so that we can profit from the crises in both PDP and APC, because they are all in disarray. If you pick a minnow, he will mess the party up and disrespect the party top hierarchy, because he has no experience about how a party should be run”, he said. comments