Osogbo – Authorities of Anglican Church, Moremi Estate, Ile-Ife has raised a team of 21 prayer warriors to intercede and seek God’s intervention on behalf of one of their Reverends, Professor Ricahrd Iyiola Akindele of the Department of Management and Accounting, Obafemi Awolowo Univerity (OAU), Ile-Ife. Professor Akindele is the eye of storm of scandal of allegedly demanding for sex five times from one of his female students of the institution. Investigation conducted by CRIME TRACKER revealed that a 21-member prayer warrior of both men and women from the church has been raised to intercede on behalf of the embattled lecturer who has been battling to redeem his image from the scandal of his alleged sexual urge. CRIME TRACKER also gathered that some friends of his wife have also raised another team of prayer warriors in their different churches, to help her husband get out of his trouble waters. Some friends of his wife who pleaded anonymity described the as a “nice and a gentle person.” It was also gathered that the embattled teacher had also gone to prayer mountain put off his phone number. One of the students who pleaded anonymity, and is in Faculty of Arts studying English Language and said, the allegation came to her as a surprise and shock, stressing that, “most of us in the church were helped by this same man that was accused of sex scandal. He is one of the clerics in the church and well known. He is gentle and easy going. His wife is always close to him on most occasions at church programmes and it is indeed a big surprise to me.” Another member of the church, Mrs. Toriola Adebayo, who is a non-academic staff of the university, expressed shock on the allegation and, pleaded for a thorough investigation to determine the true position of things on the allegation. Mrs. Adebayo disclosed to CRIME TRACKER that Professor Akindele assisted most students seeking admission into OAU and other institutions of higher learning. She is optimistic that the end of the investigation would vindicate the professor. “It is wicked to accused a .man of God who is assisting others. He is our man and God’s servant; he has never been found wanting like this before.” His neighbour, Dr. Titi Adesola, a staff of the OAU Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC), Ile-Ife enjoined God to safe from the crisis insisting that he has been nice to all to a fault and has been like that since we knew each other. The Chairman, Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), OAU branch, Dr. Niyi Sunmonu condemned the act if it was true. Speaking shortly after the congress of the union he said, “if it is established that the alleged victimisation is true, then the perpetrator is not qualified to be part of the academic environment” “We are supposed to mould lives of our students both males and females and not to mar them,” he noted The scenario has however attracted the attention of the upper legislative chamber with Vice Chairman, Senate Committee on Women Affairs, Senator Stella Oduah condemning the act at the floor of the senate calling for probe into the sex scandal. Senator Oduah said the conversation between the Professor Akindele and the female student, Enitan, must not be swept under the carpet. According to her, “the university management must investigate the issue and deal decisively with the accused if guilty” “Female students in our different campuses should be encouraged to speak up if they are facing victimisation like this so that mechanisms to guide against it might be put in place” she said Menawhile the authorities of the university have set up probe committee to look into the issue and report back to the management within 14 days. Members of the committee have called for the submission of claims from members of the university community over the matter and other related cases. The Vice Chancellor of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede while setting up the probe committee in a statement issued assured members of the university community that the professor alleged to have committed the offence would not go unpunished if fund guilty According to the Vice Chancellor in a statement issued, “The attention of the authorities of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife has been drawn to an audio recording, now trending on the social media, of a telephone conversation ostensibly between one Professor Akindele and a female student of the University. The recording suggests that the lecturer was demanding sex in return for grade which clearly amounts to sexually harassing the lady. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.