Lagos / Abuja – Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC); Chief Goddy Uwazuruike, Lawyer and President of Aka Ikenga; Malam Yusuf Alli (SAN) and Malachy Ugwummadu, President of the Committee for the Defence of Human Right (CDHR), on Monday condemned the police siege to the Abuja home of Dino Melaye, senator representing Kogi West at the National Assembly, describing the development as unfortunate. The lawyers, who spoke with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the development is indicative of a friction between the National Assembly and the executive. Sagay condemned the confusion trailing the arrest, release and laying siege to the residence of Melaye. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Sagay said having declared Melaye wanted, the police should have charged him to court following his arrest instead of allowing him to go then laying siege to his residence. “They arrested him, released him and he has gone home to do what? This is nothing but confusion because the man (Melaye) has been invited several times but he did not go. Wherever he went, he was being protected by the Senate President and the security men around him. “He shunned all invitations and they declared him wanted. When you arrest people like that, you keep them and then take them to court so the court can make an order whether they should release him or be remanded in custody. But arresting him, releasing and later laying siege to his residence to me is just creating unnecessary confusion”, he said. According to Chief Goddy Uwazuruike, the Dino narrative is not isolated, as other frontline lawmakers are being embattled in a similar fashion. He believes that the development is politically motivated with the aim of taking the man out of circulation, adding that the situation can only be resolved by the intervention of the presidency. He said, “What is happening to the embattled senator is indicative that the friction between executive and the legislature is getting out of hand. “Nigerians must denounce what is happening. You will discover that apart from Dino Melaye, many of the outspoken senators are having one issue or the other with the nation’s security operatives, which as you know is controlled by the executive. “These frontline senators seem to be having problem with executive, and so I will advise President Muhammadu Buhari to call his men to order. “It appears that when they want to get you, they will bring allegations of murder, kidnapping, armed robbery or even rape against you. “This is because those offences are not easily bailable. When they bring such allegation against you, all they’re simply saying is, ‘Lock him and throw away the key.’ Nigeria is under a siege.” Ilorin-based senior lawyer, Malam Yusuf Alli (SAN) is equally exasperated with the development, saying it shows the nation itself is embattled. According to him, “Nigeria is an interesting country. We don’t know how things are working in the country again. “We have enough criminal activities taking place in the country like the incessant bloodletting by herdsmen and what not. But we are not seeing any spirited activity by the security operatives to rein in the carnage. “The bandits and killers are having a field day. But all we are seeing is security operatives showing a determination to arrest one politician or the other. “To be honest with you, I am short of words. Nigeria is being portrayed as a lawless country. And it is quite unfortunate.” President of the Committee for the Defence of Human Right (CDHR), Malachy Ugwummadu, says the police showmanship in their bid to effect Melaye’s arrest is indicative that the institution is dysfunctional. He explains: “Why did the police earlier declare Melaye wanted when they know where he resides? So the police knew all the while where he resides and yet declared him wanted? “Today they decided to effect his arrest and went to his house. Why didn’t they do that all the while before declaring him wanted? “This clearly shows how dysfunctional the Nigeria Police is. Today’s showmanship just shows the police is very dysfunctional.” He stressed, however, that the attempt at arresting the lawmaker is not unlawful because it is a follow up on a criminal allegation that had been lodged against him, adding it is part of ongoing investigation in respect of the charge against him. According to him, “The report I got is that Interpol had flagged his name and contacted Nigeria’s security operatives. “Being that he was already airborne, it was men of the Immigration Service that could readily reach him for an arrest. That is why they were the first to pick him. “Note that section 308 of the 1999 constitution does not extend to members of the National Assembly like Dino. To that extent, he like every other Nigerian is not above the law. “There is a pending charge against him that has yet to be discharged. There is a plethora of judicial authorities to the effect that the process of investigation could involve an arrest. “You will recall that Melaye had earlier been invited by the police, but we hear that he failed to honour the invitation.” Police Place Melaye Under House Arrest Melaye has been placed under house arrest by men of the Nigeria Police. The controversial senator was said to have eluded men of the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport on Monday morning. His house was surrounded by heavily armed mobile policemen after they learnt that he had escaped arrest at the airport. Speaking to DAILY INDEPENDENT, Melaye’s Spokesman, Bode Gbadebo, said the lawmaker was actually prevented from travelling out of the country as opposed to the widely circulated report that he had been arrested. Gbadebo, in a telephone chat, said his principal was barred from boarding a Morocco-bound aircraft by men of the Nigerian Immigration Service at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja. He said: “The immigration officials had claimed they were acting based on police directive that Mr. Melaye should not be allowed outside the country because he is on police watch list.” However, the police were said to have denied that they placed the controversial lawmaker on a watch list. Having been denied the right to travel, Melaye, according to Gbadebo, went back home only to have his house surrounded by operatives of the police. Recall that Melaye had earlier – on Monday morning – posted on his twitter handle saying that he had just been arrested at the Abuja airport while trying to board a plane en route Morocco. “Myself and the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, and others were to be on an official trip to Morocco but while some have gone through the Lagos airport today, others are to depart tomorrow. “I got to this airport, I was checked in and was already in the lounge waiting for departure. “Immigration officers invited me that there is a directive from the police that I can’t travel; that I am on their watch list. “And I said it was not true, that the INTERPOL said they had not issued an alert on me. “I opened INTERPOL’s website and showed them the denial. But they insisted that it was based on the directive from the police. “I was disembarked and asked to go to their office (at the airport). They snatched my passport but I snatched my thing back from them. “I got it back! I’m still here with them. They circled me and said they were waiting for further instructions from the police.” DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that before the police could get back to the immigration officials at the airport, the controversial senator had made his way out of the office and away from the airport. It was gathered that the police on learning about his escape from the airport then mobilised and stormed his Maitama residence, placing him under house arrest. According to his spokesman, Gbadebo, the lawmaker was still held up at his residence as at press time. Senator Melaye tweeted news of the occupation saying over 30 armed security personnel had surrounded his residence. According to him, “Over 30 heavily armed fierce looking mobile policemen have just stormed my residence in Maitama, Abuja. “All roads leading to the house has been cordoned off as heavy mobile policemen blocked entry & exit of the road. “They currently laid siege on, in and around the house.” Reports claimed that the armed officers prevented his colleagues who had trooped to the place to sympathise with him from entering his house. Among the senators were Abiodun Olujimi from Ekiti; Philip Aduda, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Isa Misau from Bauchi and Atai Idoko, Kogi. Melaye was believed to be in his residence when the security men arrived. It would be recalled that Senator Melaye had had a longstanding faceoff with security men in the last few months. In March, he was declared wanted in connection with a murder case. The police claimed that some crime suspects confessed that he supplied arms to them, an allegation the senator denied. Also in March, the Federal Government filed a suit against him for allegedly framing Edward Onoja, Chief of Staff to Yahaya Bello, governor of Kogi State, whom he had accused of being behind an assassination attempt on his life. In a suit pending before a high court of the FCT, the Federal Government, through the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), said the police found out that Melaye’s claim was false. Meanwhile, a group of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) besieged the residence of Senator Dino Melaye on Monday. The protesters defied armed policemen stationed in the house and arrived in a large number chanting solidarity songs in support of Melaye. They vowed not to leave until the police would vacate the house. The protesters said they would resist any attempt to arrest the senator and sat on the floor in front of the house. The entire street was thrown into pandemonium as residents were not allowed to have free movement on the street. The protesters did not clash with the police as at the time of this report. But efforts made to know the whereabouts of the senator proved abortive as one of his lawyers, Ajayi Samuel Jaiye, said he had not been able to contact his client. He said the action of the police to invade and lay siege to Melaye’s house was a gross violation of his fundamental human rights. He noted that the police neither invited him formally nor issued a warrant for his arrest to warrant the harassment. Addressing journalists at the scene, the Chairman of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), Kushigoro Camp, Philemon  Emmanuel, said Senator Melaye had been their only benefactor who came to their camp once in a month to give them food, drugs, and other items. “We heard that they have arrested Senator Dino Melaye because of the truth he has been speaking. We have not seen any senator that can speak the truth like Dino. “So, anything that will happen to him should happen to us. We have more than 36 camps in Abuja and Nasarawa. It was only Dino Melaye that could visit the IDPs. “He gave us food items, drugs, and books for our children. We will not allow anything to touch him,” Emmanuel vowed. 1 comments