Lagos – Gbenga Ashafa, Senator representing Lagos East Senatorial District and the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Land Transport,  has commended  President Muhammadu Buhari Babatunde Raji Fashola, Minister for Power, Works and Housing for approving the sum of N20bn for the rehabilitation of the Ikorodu –Sagamu expressway. In a statement issued at the weekend, Ashafa stated that: “On behalf of the good and hardworking people Lagos East Senatorial District in general and the good people of Ikorodu in particular, I seize this opportunity to commend His Excellency, President Muhamadu Buhari and the Honourable Minister for Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola on the recent approval of the sum of N20 Billion for the rehabilitation of the Ikorodu – Shagamu road. We called and you answered.” “I also thank His Excellency, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode our dear Governor for the role he has played at the executive level in ensuring the approval of the funding for the construction/rehabilitation of this project.” Noting the efforts and the role that the lawmakers of the Eastern District of Lagos State, ably led by himself, Ashafa stated further that “Having observed the perennial strain and discomfort that the above stated road project has caused our teeming constituents, I led the clamour of other legislators from the Lagos East Senatorial District via my letter dated 24th July, 2017 in urging the Hon. Minister for Power, Works and Housing to prioritize the award of the said project. The Honourable Minister graciously directed the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry to respond vide a letter dated 18th October, 2017 with Reference Number: DDHMS/CR/62/NASS/111/409 confirming that the said project has been prioritized and that the procurement process for the project had indeed commenced. Yesterday’s approval of funding by the Federal Executive Council therefore marks the end of the award process.” In conclusion, Ashafa therefore expressed his excitement with regards to the positive effect of the road construction on the people of Ikorodu as well as his confidence in the Federal Government to ensure the speedy completion of the project “I am deeply excited because, the completion of this project would greatly improve the quality of life of our constituents, by easing the stress they currently face commuting that route while also easing the stress on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, by serving as a viable alternative to commuters. I am confident that work would commence in earnest towards the speedy completion of this important infrastructural project soonest.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.