The House of Representatives and the Minister of Mines and Steel, Dr. Kayode Fayemi are currently locking horns over plans to  again  concession the  ‘stillborn’ Ajaokuta Steel Complex in Kogi state  with a view to breathing life to the over five decades’ project.  Both parties in dispute appear not to be ready to shift ground on the modus operandi that would be employed to ensure the completion of the project MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR, write on the intrigues, challenges and prospects of the project Over 50 years when the idea of the Ajaokuta Steel Complex was conceived by the government of Nigeria, the project has continually remain a pipe dream for the country which inarguably has  one of the hugest deposits of iron ore in Africa. Perhaps one of the undoing of the project which sits on 24,000 hectares of land was the serial controversies over the cost of the award of the project which spans about 40years There were heightened concern, most pathetic  that the project which has consumed over $5 billion and required just about $650 million to be completed, reached about 98% technical completion before work was stopped on it in 1992. Before the election of Goodluck Ebele Jonathan as president in 2011, he had asserted during his campaign then that “One thing that is dear to Nigerians is the Ajaokuta Steel Complex, and until we revive that complex, we cannot talk about Vision 20:2020. This is because for you to play big globally, you must industrialise and for you to industrialise you must produce steel. The Ajaokuta complex must be revived.” Sadly, noting much was done by his government towards the revitalisation of the abandoned national treasure because zero allocation was given to the Ajaokuta Steel in the annual budget. A former Senator, representing Kogi Central Senatorial District in the seventh Senate, Nurudeen Abatemi-Usman, for instance, who noted that the outgoing President did not demonstrate enough zeal towards steel development in Nigeria, flayed the zero allocation for capital projects in the budget for Ajaokuta Steel Company in 2014. He had asked: “Where is the place of Ajaokuta Steel in our bid for industrial revolution? Do we seem to understand the importance of steel and the significant role it can play in enhancing our economy? If you ask me, I will say Mr. President (Jonathan) is just paying lip service to the issue of Ajaokuta Steel and steel development in general. The Ajaokuta Steel project, sitting on 24,000 hectares, out of which only 800 hectares have been built, should provide 10,000 skilled direct jobs, and another 500, 000 unskilled jobs. The project that can produce 55MW electricity, also has a 10,000-housing units residential estate, out of which only 4,000 have been completed. Phase One is expected to produce 1.3 million tonnes of liquid steel per annum. Phase Two should double production to 2.6 million tonnes of flat iron and steel products, while Phase Three would expand production to 5.2 million tonnes of various steel products, including heavy plates. The project has been executed up to 98 per cent since 1994: Between $8 and $10 billion has been spent to complete 40 of the plants. Another $2 billion to complete the three remaining plants was provided in the 2017 Budget. Why Ajeokuta Steel Was Delayed Philip Atanmuo, the erstwhile General Manager/Project Director of the moribund Ajaokuta Steel Complex, Ajaokuta, Kogi state said tribal sentiment, corruption and financial recklessness killed both the multi-million Naira Ajaokuta He said the Ajaokuta steel complex was originally proposed to be sited in Onitsha, Anambra state but due to ethnic sentiment and political motive, it was moved to Ajaokuta. He said: ’’As an obedient servant, I went to Ajaokuta with an open mind and settled down for work. By then, we were importing bloom and working at a low capacity with the expectations that in time to come, we should have 20,000 direct employees and 150,000 or close to 200,000 indirect employees. ‘’Based on such an expectation, I assembled some senior staff and led them on a delegation to General Ibrahim Babangida, the then military President and appealed to him to release at least 1 billion as lifeline for us to expand. After some persuasions and contacts, Babangida released a cheque of N500 million as part payment and promised to release another N500 million in due course, depending on our efforts to revamp the industry. ‘’To my greatest surprise, the moment I called a meeting and showed the government officials the cheque from Babangida, they collected the cheque from me, retired me instantly and replaced me with someone else. The unfortunate aspect of it all was that they just shared the money after I had left and folded up the company. ‘’Another unfortunate thing was that most of my assistants who were Northerners, were fresh graduates. Some of them had only one or two years working experience after the National Youth Service, yet because they were Northerners, they were placed on levels 14 to 16 as assistant general managers for each department. “To crown it all, they brought some money to my house here after the cheque had cleared and told me it was my own part of the N500 million shared among themselves. But I drove them away with the money and told them I was not interested in their corruption. ‘’So, it would have taken about N1 billion as far back as 1992 to put Ajaokuta into full capacity production, but now it will take billions upon billions of Naira to start from somewhere because for the government to start from somewhere, the dilapidated water supply plant must be resuscitated, trained personnel must be assembled, the corroded electrical switches must be serviced and a lot of other things. The Buhari Dangles Hope On Ajaokuta Steel Complex Most Nigerians believe that the coming of Muhammadu Buhari as a democratically elected president of the country would mark a turning point in the history of the Ajaokuta Steel Complex because of his hunger to develop the nation’s economy through non-oil sector The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), the umbrella body for all Nigerian workers, emphasised the need for the administration of Buhari to focus on the revival of the Ajaokuta Steel Complex located in Kogi State at this year’s May Day celebration. President of the Congress, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, in his address maintained that the revitalisation of the steel complex would spur industrialisation and pave way for job creation. Buhari vowed to resuscitate ASCO if elected president of Nigeria during his electioneering campaign in the build up to the 2015 presidential election, adding that the revival of the company which has remained moribund for years will generate employment for the country’s teeming youth population and create wealth for Kogi State and the nation as a whole. According to him, the fortunes of the steel complex will change for the better the moment he assumed office. Since his victorious outing in the presidential poll, several calls and appeals have gone to Buhari not to renege on his promise to make Ajaokuta steel work. comments