ENUGU – Mr. Ben Nwoye, the Enugu State Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), on Tuesday, said President Muhammadu Buhari would do well in the South-East in the 2019 general elections. Speaking with journalists at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, on returning from the APC National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting in Abuja, Nwoye said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rigged the election in 2015 across South-East but APC made sure that President Buhari was not rigged out. He said the circumstances have changed since 2015 when APC seized power, adding that the era of PDP writing results was gone. Nwoye maintained that with the circumstances on ground, President Buhari would perform better in the South-East in 2019. He explained that the dogged fight put up by APC in 2019 across the South-East, stopped PDP from rigging out Buhari. On the botched tenure elongation of John Odigie-Oyegun, APC Chairman, and other party officers at the federal and state levels, Nwoye said there was no tenure elongation per se, but some people went about misrepresenting the party in the media. “Some people wanted the party leadership to stay as caretaker committee. Some people are saying it violated the party constitution. They were saying the same thing. “There is a provision in the Nigerian constitution that allows the President to continue in office, if election is impracticable. There is a provision that anybody running for office should resign unless the party grants him waiver. The National Working Committee (NEC) can grant waiver.” The NWC recommended waiver and NWC approved it,” Nwoye said. A large crowd of APC supporters who thronged the airport as early as 9 a.m. to receive him received the Enugu APC Chairman at the Akanu Ibiam Airport. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.