Lagos – Asisat Oshoala, the Super Falcons top striker, will miss Friday’s international friendly match between Nigeria and France. While officials of her club, Dalian Quanjian FC of China, are said to be unhappy with the three-time African footballer of the Year winner for returning late for pre-season training, the former Liverpool and Arsenal striker said that she was missing the high profile friendly to sort out her work permit in China. “Asisat Oshoala was in (Nigeria) and is in Coach Thomas Dennerby’s plans but her Chinese club was not ready to release her because she overstayed in Nigeria,” a top official of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) said. But in her defence, she insisted that she was missing the high-profile friendly to sort out her work permit in China. Oshoala was in the original squad of 23 for the game in Le Mans on April 6 alongside Onome Ebi, Rashidat Ajibade, Alaba Jonathan, Chinwendu Ihezuo and Uchechi Sunday, who have also been omitted. “Some players had visa and passport problems, another complained that she was unwell,” the NFF official added. Experienced quartet of Desire Oparanozie, Rita Chikwelu, Francisca Ordega and Ngozi Okobi, who helped the Super Falcons to an eighth Women’s Africa Cup of Nations title in 2016, have been included. DAILY INDEPENDENT learnt that after the friendly, focus will switch to securing a qualifying spot at the 2018 Africa Women Cup of Nations in Ghana as they aim to retain their continental title. The biggest challenge in Ghana will be to seal qualification for the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup in France – in what could be Nigeria’s eighth record appearance at the tournament. Nigeria is the only African team to have played in all of the Women’s World Cup tournaments since 1991. However they have failed to translate their continental dominance on the world stage, their best performance coming in USA in 1999 when they reached the quarterfinals. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.