Lagos – The presidency on Thursday said mischief-makers were twisting the statement credited to President Muhammadu Buhari about Nigerian youths on Wednesday at the Commonwealth Business Forum in Westminster. The statement is still generating ripples from Nigerians who accused President Buhari of de-marketing Nigerians whenever he is abroad. In a statement issued on Thursday, Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, said Buhari, as father of the nation, couldn’t have categorised all Nigerian youths as lazy. In a related development, Tony Momoh, former Minister of Information and a national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), said Nigerian youths could not be united in their quest to produce a president in 2019. Buhari had said in London: “More than 60 per cent of the population is below 30 (years of age); a lot of them haven’t been to school and they are claiming that Nigeria is an oil-producing country, therefore, they should sit and do nothing, and get housing, healthcare, education free.” According to Adesina, who was speaking for the presidency, the fact that the president said “a lot” of youths does not imply he meant all Nigerian youths are indolent and are depending on government for freebies, instead of working. The statement reads: “At the Commonwealth Business Forum in London on Wednesday, April 18, 2018, President Muhammadu Buhari gave a keynote address on Making Business Easier Between Commonwealth Countries. “The presentation was followed by a discussion, and question and answer session. “Responding to a question, President Buhari had cause to talk about some Nigerian youths, and he said: ‘We have a very young population; our population is estimated conservatively to be 180 million. More than 60 per cent of the population is below the age of 30. A lot of them have not been to school and they are claiming that Nigeria has been an oil-producing country, therefore they should sit and do nothing and get housing, healthcare and education free.’ “Typical of their stock in trade, manipulators and twisters of statements of Mr. President, who lie in wait to make mischief, interpreted the comment to mean that President Buhari had taken all Nigerian youths to the cleaners. But elementary English recognises a wide gulf between ‘a lot of’ and the word ‘all’. How can ‘a lot of them’ suddenly transmogrify to mean ‘all of them’? Mischievous and unconscionable! “There is no way President Buhari, father of the Nigerian nation in every sense of the word, who equally has biological children of his own in the youths age bracket, pass a vote of no confidence in all youths. It can only exist in the imagination of those who play what the president has described as ‘irresponsible politics’ with everything. “President Buhari has always applauded and celebrated Nigerian youths who excel in different areas of endeavour, from sports to academia, and other realms. And he will continue to do so, because he values the youths and knows that they are the fulcrum on which the future of the country [revolves]. “Indeed, every country has its share of idle population, and it is the bounden duty of government at all levels to create an enabling environment for them to actualise their potentials. That is what President Buhari is committed to doing. “The focal areas of the administration – securing the country, reviving the economy and fighting corruption – are actually intended to give youths a future and a hope. This much was emphasised in an April 5, 2018 comment by President Buhari, while receiving Letter of Credence from the Head of Delegation of the European Union (EU) to Nigeria, when he said: ‘Our insistence on probity is to encourage people to be accountable and accept honesty as a lifestyle, so as to secure the future of our youths.’ “The president also said more than 60 per cent of Nigerians fall into the age category of youths and deserve to inherit a stable and prosperous country that they can be proud of, adding that the government will work assiduously to prevent waste and the depletion of resources by corrupt Nigerians.” Momoh, who claim to be in support of youth presidency in 2019, if the youths have what it takes to remove President Buhari, however, said the ruling elite would continue to divide the youths with money, hence making it impossible for them to forge a common front. “The youths cannot be united. And the women cannot be united. Nigerian youths cannot be united because they will be in demand by those who have money and then youths will be against one another fighting themselves on behalf of old men that they claim they want to drive away. These are very practical issues. “I am in support of youth presidency, but I am also a supporter of President Buhari. It is now left for Nigerians to decide. It is whoever they vote for that will win. If the youths fulfilled all the necessary requirements and they have what it takes to president, so be it. “Yesterday, I hosted someone who came from the United States here for about four hours. He said he wants to be president. I gave him the respect he deserves as a presidential aspirant but I gave him the bare facts. “As a president, your party must have presence at least in 120,000 polling units. This guy has not even been introduced to his ward by his political party. It is one thing to dream, it is another thing to be realistic enough to know how far you can go. I like his vision but I told him the plain truth,” Momoh said. 1 comments