A private funeral for former United States (U.S.) first lady, Barbara Bush, the only American woman to see her husband and son both sworn in as president, will be held on Saturday at a Houston church where her family has been members since the 1950s, officials said. Bush, the wife of the 41st president, George H.W. Bush, and mother of the 43rd, George W. Bush, died on Tuesday at the age of 92. Barbara and George H.W. Bush were married for 73 years, and the widower “of course is heart-broken to lose his beloved Barbara,” his chief of staff Jean Becker said in a statement. “He held her hand all day today and was at her side when (she) left this good Earth.” The ex-president, who is 93 and has been in ill health in recent years, is “determined to be there” for his family while in mourning, Becker added. After the funeral at St. Martin’s Episcopal Church in Houston, Bush will be buried on Saturday on the grounds of the George H.W. Bush Library and Museum at Texas A&M University in College Station, about 100 miles (160 km) away, the university said. She will be buried beside her daughter, Robin, who died at the age of three after battling leukemia, the university said in a statement late on Tuesday. First lady, Melania Trump, will attend the funeral, her office said on Wednesday. The White House has not yet said whether President Donald Trump will attend. Flags flew at half-staff at the White House and the U.S. Capitol in Bush’s honor. On Friday, she will lay in repose at St. Martin’s, which will be open to members of the public wishing to pay their respects, the Houston church said on its website. Reverend Russ Levinson, senior pastor at St. Martin’s, told the local Fox affiliate in Houston that the church had about 250 members when the Bushes began attending services there, and would often serve coffee on Sunday mornings. “Both of them taught in our Sunday school program. Both of them have been involved in our outreach ministries,” he said. The church has grown to about 9,300 members to become the largest Episcopal church in North America, according to its website. The Bush family had said in a statement on Sunday that she was in failing health and would not seek further medical treatment. 1 comments