Akure – Not a few people regard Olusegun Mimiko, the immediate past governor of Ondo state, as an enigmatic politician. Mimiko is known for keeping his cards tightly to his chest and whenever he wants to take any serious political decision, he moves like a crab just coming out of its hole, making it difficult to predict the direction of his movement. Since he exited the Alagbaka Government House more than a year ago, after spending eight years to superintend over the affairs of the Sunshine state, the former governor has not been active on the political tulf. In the last couple of weeks, there have been speculations that Mimiko, popularly known as Iroko, is planning to jump off the wagon of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He has distanced himself from PDP since the convention of the party produced Uche Secondus as its national chairman. Mimiko is said to be uncomfortable with the seemingly overbearing influence of Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti state and Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state on the party. The two governors were believed to have ensured the emergence of the present PDP national leadership. The speculated destination of Mimiko is the Social Democratic Party (SDP), which is gradually emerging as the third force in the politics of the country. In recent time, a number of national political figures have joined the party and this has shored up its fortunes. Korede Duyile, the Ondo state SDP chairman, declined to confirm or deny the rumoured plan of Mimiko to join the party. Duyile, however, disclosed that the former governor is a member of a group that is mulling the idea of using the SDP platform to achieve its political aspirations. “The truth is that there is a forum of middle belt, South-South, South-East and South-West. We call it Southern and Middle Belt Forum where we meet. It has been on for quite some time. Governor Mimiko is a member and we have been meeting since he left governorship seat. That group is considering to use the SDP to get their political agenda right. “So, to that extent he is a member of that group. The group is yet to formally adopt SDP but members of the group are vocal. The leadership of SDP are also leaders of the group. In politics, there is free entry and free exit. You can’t bar someone from entering your party, more so an ex-governor. So we don’t drive away anybody here. He is welcome,” Duyile said. Kayode Akinmade, former Commissioner for Information in the Mimiko administration, debunked the rumour, claiming that his boss is still a PDP member. He said: “It is in the realm of rumour. Rumour will always be rumour. But as far as Dr Mimiko is concerned today, he is still in PDP. He is not moving to SDP. Those who are peddling the rumour are just rumour mongers. There is no iota of truth in that.” But curiously, Akinmade justified the defection of politicians from one political party to another, saying there was nothing wrong with it. “What is permanent is change. People change from time to time. So seeing people moving from one party to the other is in order. Some people may have some interests to protect. And when they see that their interest could not be met in a particular political party, they ‘port.’ But as far as we are concerned, Dr. Mimiko is still a bonafide member of PDP,” said he. A source close to the former governor, however, said Mimiko is already on his way out of the PDP. The source revealed that Mimiko had confinded in him that he was no longer comfortable in the major opposition party. But he could not say which party the former governor will join. It was also learnt that Mimiko had approached the leadership of the SDP in Ondo state. But his demand for the dismantling of the party’s structure in the chapter for the accommodation of his followers at the leadership level was said to have been rejected. This, according to a source, is why Mimiko is still dragging his feet. Another source disclosed that Mimiko was already looking beyond the SDP. “You know that Mimiko always keeps people guessing about his political moves. Don’t be surprised if he joins a party that you don’t think of,” said the source. Only those who don’t know the trajectory of Mimiko’s politics will be surprised if he finally dumps the PDP. Since the country returned to democracy in 1999, Mimiko has been moving from one party to another, making him one of the mobile politicians in the present political dispensation. He started with the Alliance for Democracy (AD) and was appointed Commissioner for Health in the administration of the late Adebayo Adefarati. While he was in the Adefarati government, Mimiko was eying the Alagbaka Government House. In 2003, Mimiko contested the AD gubernatorial ticket against his boss. But he was schemed out of the race. The ticket was zoned to the Northern Senatorial District of the state, a day to the shadow election, thereby depriving Mimiko, who hails from the Central Senatorial District, of participating in the nomination process. Since he could not stomach what he considered as an act of injustice, Mimiko pulled his structure out of the AD and defected to the PDP, less than three weeks to the 2003 general elections. Former Governor Olusegun Agagu defeated his immediate predecessor, Adefarati, in the year’s governorship poll. Against the zoning of positions in the party, Mimiko was appointed Secretary to the State Government (SSG). The position had earlier been zoned to the Northern Senatorial District. Mimiko and the then deputy governor, Omolade Oluwateru, come from the Central Senatorial District while Agagu was from the Southern Senatorial District. In PDP, Mimiko did not give up his gubernatorial aspiration. Why Agagu was trying to build the state, Mimiko was building his political structure with a view to wrestling the governorship seat from Agagu. He was able to expand the structure to include the then PDP state chairman, Ali Olanusi, the state secretary, Boluwaji Kunlere, and other prominent members of the party in the state. Mimiko was appointed Minister of Land and Housing by former President Olusegun Obasanjo after relieving Mobolaji Osomo, the representative of the state in his cabinet, of her post. He deployed the position to win a number of PDP national leaders to his side and enlist their support for his governorship ambition. It was time for Mimiko to move again in 2007 when he realized that clinching the gubernatorial nomination of the PDP was a tall order. About five months to the year’s general elections, Mimiko pulled out his structure and joined the Labour Party (LP), a relatively unknown political party in the Sunshine state then, to realize his dream of ruling the state. When Agagu was declared winner of the 2007 gubernatorial poll in the state, Mimiko headed for the State Election Petitions Tribunal. He was victorious at the tribunal which declared him the authentic winner of the contest. The tribunal verdict was subsequently upheld by the Appeal Court, Benin Division. Despite that he was in LP, Mimiko was able to draw a considerable amount of support from PDP in Abuja and the defunct Action Congress (AC) in Lagos. For about two years, he successfully ran with the hare of PDP and hunted with the hounds of AC. But he had to chose where he really belonged ahead of the the 2011 presidential election when he declared his support for former President Goodluck Jonathan. In November, 2014, Mimiko retraced his steps back to PDP after using the platform of LP and exhausting the usefulness of the party. Since his exit, LP has been rendered comatose in the state. He was chosen as the Southwest Coordinator of Jonathan/Sambo campaign in 2015. But he failed to deliver the zone for PDP. Mimiko tried to determine his successor in 2016 but was unable to achieve the feat. He supported his Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Eyitayo Jegede. But Jegede lost to the incumbent governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who was the All Progressives Congress (APC) standard bearer in the November 26, 2016 governorship poll in the state. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.