Golf to many people, especially in Nigeria, is a sport for the elitist, who take it for leisure and exercise rather than a profession. Honestly, the facilities for the sport –coaches, golf courses and kits are so expensive for the ordinary man as compared to sport as football, table tennis, handball among others – it is capital intensive to manage. But in recent times, some state governments are beginning to wake up from their slumber and thinking outside the box realising that at this period of the nation’s economic downturn, golf is one sport through which investment could be attracted – tourism. To this end, the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir Ahmad el Rufai, recently in its annual economic forum tagged “Kadinvest” saw the game (Kadinvest Open) as a major bait to assemble all the “who is who” in Nigeria and beyond to tap from the economic opportunities that abound in the state. The championship, which held from March 27-30, 2018 at the Kaduna Golf Club was a Pro-Am which had N6.5 million purse, just as there were other lucrative prize items for the amateurs. Otherwise, Kadinvest Open was said to be the first professional golf tournament since 20 years in Kaduna State noted for golf activities in the time past. Interestingly, the state government has said, “Kadinvest Open will throw up more golf tournaments and golf activities for the economic growth of the state.” Golfers across the country will benefit even as a “Governor’s Cup” is in the offing for the professional too. It was also on the basis of the opportunities that flourish from the sport that the Commandant of the Armed Forces Command and Staff College (AFCSC), Jaji, Air Vice Marshal Lawal Alao had earlier promised to make Ola Sa’ad Ibrahim Golf Club Jaji Kaduna a hub of golf tournaments. Alao is the Grand Patron of the Ola Sa’ad Ibrahim Golf Club and he made the pledge during the Ola Sa’ad Ibrahim Golf Club send-off tournament in honour of Senior Officers. To justify the importance of golf, he said: “I am impressed that it (golf) also boosted military/civilian relationship, because we had 80 per cent of golfers that participated as civilians.” In this regard he took into cognisance the need to put facilities in good shape and assured that very soon, the Ola Sa’ad Golf Club house would be given a facelift to ensure it remains one of the top golf clubs in the country. Samson Lawal, the PGAN Director also relishing the success of Kadinvest, charged the other states governments particularly from the South to queue into the process of developing the sport. “This is a challenge for other states because golf is a huge investment. The South is the economic hub of Nigeria and they should emulate the North in the drive to develop the game,” Lawal said. Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, however, has made a pledge for “Edo Mega Open” earlier in the year; the Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu is a golfer – it is hoped he could facilitate the tournament to fruition. It would be recalled that Plateau State, Kawara State and the Otukpo Club of Benue State have major tournaments for the PGA of Nigeria and they have been regular; it is only hoped that the sport will be taken to the public for grassroots development as well to groom a pool of future stars. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.