Lagos – Dr. Bernard Aliu, President in Council of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) has said that the slow implementation of Yamoussoukro Decision (YD) by African Governments had a negative impact on the development of aviation practice on the continent. He stated that this limited aircraft movement and connection on the continent by about three decades while critical investors refused to invest their resources in aviation industry. Speaking at the just concluded 59th Airport Council International (ACI) Africa held in Lagos, Aliu observed that the recent launch of the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia and African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA) which was newly established by African Heads of State in Kigali, Rwanda earlier in the year would improve aviation business in Africa. Aliu, however, said that with the signing into law of SAATM and AFCFTA, there would be concerned on safety and security on the continent, stressing that efforts should be geared towards averting crashes and serious incidents. He said: “We must also jointly recognize that the slow implementation of the Yamoussoukro Decision (YD) was for many years, a limiting factor on the number of flights many African airports managed and this made the financial situation quite precarious for many airports here, due to low utilization lot and therefore, poor returns on nvestment. “With creased focus on air transport liberalisation, many African hub airports are now expected to exceed their capacity by 2020, with a new set of attendant challenges relating to the safety and efficiency of operations. Additional activities have been pursued under ICAO’S No Country Left Behind initiative, specifically aimed at assisting African States to address aviation safety, security and facilitation, as Well as persisting skilled manpower challenges.” Besides, Aliu explained that several initiatives like the ICAO Comprehensive Regional Implementation Plan for Aviation Safety in Africa (AF 1 Plan), Comprehensive Regional Implementation Plan for Aviation Security and Facilitation in Africa (AF I SECFAL Plan) and the establishment of a dedicated Human Resources Development Fund (HRDF) for Africa developed by ICAO were already delivering positive results leading to a significantly reduced accident rate on the continent. He insisted that airport facilities were much more than just impressive new terminal buildings and called on airport managers on the continent to continue to pay attention to airside safety priorities. He added that ICAO remained concerned that many African airports were accepting international flights without requisite certifications, stressing that in order to address this significant deficiency, the AFI Plan included a specific project championed by the ICAO Dakar and Nairobi-Regional Offices to assist the continent in Aerodrome Certification. He posited that with the continuous cooperation and collaboration of ICAO, ACI and other stakeholders in the sector, the economic benefits of aviation to the public would be easily showcased while also mobilsing more resources for sustainable and environmentally responsible airport infrastructure. 0 comments