Lagos – New Horizons Nigeria, the nation’s top private information technology training company private sector players are set to x-ray how information technology governance and risk management impacts on their business productivity in the digital age. At the 2018 leadership and technology summit with the theme: Leading for Optimal Performance in the Digital Age, holding on April 19, 2018 at Four Point by Sheraton Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigerian businesses understand the future of learning and integrating new innovations in leadership and change management for maximum business productivity. In partnership with Logical Operations, a leading global publisher and certification company from Belgium, the summit will look at situational leadership, IT governance, risks and compliance amongst others and expose top decision makers, training directors, human resource directors, CIOs, CTOs to the latest technology innovations driving maximum business productivity. The Managing Director, Logical Operations at James Varnham, said top on the bill is the unveiling of the Center for Leadership and Development to facilitate IT Governance, Risks, Compliance and the five most important technology innovations driving business productivity. Other facilitators include Myles Runham (UK), a global expert in digital learning, integration and development would speak on Leadership, Change Management and the future of Learning in a Digital Age. Runham was a one-time head of interactive learning and digital academy, BBC, and former CEO of Ask.com Europe while Michael Smith (USA), Group VP, International Operations and Franchise Development, New Horizons International would anchor the topic, Center for Leadership and Development: A powerful tool for growth for you and your organisation. Mr. Tim Akano, Managing Director, New Horizons Nigeria, said: “in this digital age- the quest for quality and revolutionary leadership skill across every strata of the corporate world cannot be overemphasised. Thus the reason why New Horizons is introducing new paradigm in the teaching of leadership courses both for ICT professionals and non -ICT professionals”. “It has been discovered that 80 per cent of the time when projects fail in an organisation, including government agencies- it is not due to lack of technical competence but mostly as a result of poor leadership skills. Therefore, we would like all business managers and senior government officials to take the New Horizons opportunity and get empowered with the new set of skills required to thrive in the new normal world of uncertainty and constant change”, he added. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.