BENIN – Former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan was among prominent Nigerians that attended the burial of the late Chief Anthony Anenih, former Minister of Works and Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Saturday. President Muhammedu Buhari was represented by Dr. Osagie Ehanire, the Minister of State for Health. Anenih, who held the title of Iyasele of Esanland, was‎ laid to rest at his residence in Arue-Uromi, headquarters of Esan North East local government of Edo State after a funeral mass at St. Anthony Catholic Cathedral, Uromi. Also at the funeral were Governors Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State and Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, the chief host. Others were former Vice President and presidential candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar, who was represented by Peter Obi, his running mate and former governor of Anambra State; ex-governors James Ibori and Emmanuel Uduaghan of Delta State, business mogul, Aliko Dangote and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), among others. In a homily led by the Archbishop of the Benin Diocese, Augustine Akubeze, the Cath‎olic Bishop of Uromi Diocese, Most Rev. Bishop Donatus Ogun, said the life of a man is short and defined by God, adding that the day man will return to God is uncertain. He, therefore, urged Nigerians to get close to God, saying “let us work hard to make the eyes of God see us as His own.” He described ‎ Anenih as a good Christian and a man of his word, who stood by his conviction irrespective of political affiliation. “He was called ‘Mr. Fix it’ not because he could solve all problems, but because he believed any problem can be solved if people are ready to shift ground,” he said. Speaking on c‎campaigns for 2019 general election, the Catholic Bishop urged politicians to campaign on issues. According to him, “Nigerians are tired of hearing rubbish. Give us something fresh where we will go. Chief Anenih was a man who believes there is heaven, and as such all things must be done to glorify God so that when the time comes, you will not be afraid to go there.”