Nigeria has enjoyed a relatively accident-free years period in the past three years, but players in the sector said efforts should be placed on implementation of accident reports by the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) for the tempo to be sustained. OLUSEGUN KOIKI, OYENIRAN APATA and CHRIS EBONG write. The Nigerian aviation industry had witnessed several unpleasant and possibly avoidable air crashes in the past and the Federal Government through its agencies in the sector put measures in place to prevent recurrence. But, after thorough investigation of major incidents or accidents, their safety recommendations were never in the public domain. The absence of some of the publication of safety recommendations to the public by respective authorities, made recurrence of such incidents, serious incidents and accidents inevitable, thereby makeing air safety to continue to receive low safety rating in the global aviation industry. Nigeria is at the moment enjoying three years of no fatal accident to commercial airplane, a situation, which stakeholders in the sector attribute to collective cooperation of various agencies and organisations saddled with maintaining safety in the system. However, while Nigeria may be celebrating three years of safety without accident, the United States of America (USA) has not experienced fatal crashes on any of its scheduled airline in the past eight years, an astounding record considering that more than 30,000 flights take off every day from that part of the country. Players in the sector in that country said that flying is reliable in the US partly because previous accidents triggered crucial safety improvements via recommendations that helped in no small measure to make flying safe. But, in Nigeria, the reverse was the case, until recently when the leadership at the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) decided to take up the challenge of prompt release of major incident and accident to the public. Players in the sector argued that delayed reports of accidents have done so much damage to the system because the lesson that must have been learnt becomes no longer useful – especially when the airline or operator of the airplane is extinct or has ceased to operate. Many of the reports are released years after the accidents, making it no longer totally useful to the sector or the operator. For instance, AIB in one of its releases of safety recommendations in October, had published to the public the report of an accident, Pan African Airlines Nigeria Ltd Bell 412 EP Helicopter with the registration number 5N-BDZ, which occurred near SEDCO Energy Platform on July 26, 2004 few minutes after takeoff. The accident had occurred on July 26, 2004, while the report was released 14 years after the crash. However, apart from the slow release of incident and accident safety reports to the public, almost 40 per cent of the released reports are not implemented by various concerned organisations, including agencies and airlines. AIB releases 154 safety recommendations in almost two decades As at September, 2018, AIB had released 154 safety recommendations to airlines, agencies and aircraft manufacturers since it came onboard, which have had some impacts even in the international arena, but just above an average of the recommendations had been implemented by the respective authorities. For instance, its investigations into the Bristow Helicopter crash, which occurred in Lagos on August 12, 2015 led to the United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and Sikorsky, the aircraft manufacturer, taking global safety actions to prevent similar accidents in their operations. Besides, Diamond Aircraft manufacturer also took safety action following the bureau’s investigations into the serious incident involving Diamond DA 42 with registration number 5N-BKS, which occurred in Benin, Edo State, in July 2012. So far, 73 of the safety recommendations have been released by the current management in less than two years while the other 81 were by previous managements in the bureau. Statistics released by Engr. Akin Olateru, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), AIB indicated that the bureau had achieved 52.1 per cent on publication of accident and serious incident reports and 47.4 per cent of safety recommendations since coming onboard in January, 2017. The statistics further indicated that between 2007 till date, AIB had released 39 final reports while 20 of such reports were released in the past 22 months. The statistics indicated that that 52.5 per cent of the final reports were issued by Olateru since coming onboard while the other 47.5 per cent were issued by the previous managements in the bureau over the years. He said: “This administration has been able to release a total of 21 final reports since January 2017, which makes up 52.5 per cent of AIB’s total of 40 final reports released since inception (2007). The 73 safety recommendations issued since 2017 account for 47.4 per cent of the total 154 issued since inception. “I would like to appreciate the tireless efforts of AIB staff in achieving this monumental milestone by turning out a total of 21 incident reports in the last 20 months. They are still working hard to clear the backlog of uncompleted reports this administration inherited. The support of the supervisory ministry and particularly the Honourable Minister of State for Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika cannot be underestimated. “Of the 37 outstanding reports inherited by the present administration, 10 reports were released in 2017 and another 10 in 2018. With one serious incident occurring in 2017; two accidents and three serious incidents in 2018, AIB now has 23 outstanding reports. As we work assiduously to clear the backlog of reports, we are equally ensuring that new occurrences are resolved promptly.” Besides, stakeholders in the Nigerian aviation industry said that apart from early release of accident and incident reports, it was necessary for the reports to be implemented by concerned authorities to further contribute to safety in the industry.