with agency report – Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has  said  the ECOWAS Protocol on Democracy and Good Governance forbids  President Muhammadu Buhari from  signing the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill. The All Progressives Congress (APC) lawmaker gave this insight   in a phone interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Friday night. Article 2 of the protocol forbids member countries from making “substantial modification” to their electoral laws less than six months to elections “except with the consent of a majority of political actors”. Omo-Agege, who is a staunch supporter of the President, noted that with the elections less than three months away, signing the bill would violate the ECOWAS instrument. NAN reports that the presidential and National Assembly elections are slated for February 16, 2019, while those of governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections will hold on March 2. Omo-Agege said, “I have yet to see the president’s letter to the Senate, but this bill means so much to Mr President. On a good day he would want to sign it. “However, without even seeing the reasons he has advanced so far, I am aware of the challenges posed by the ECOWAS protocol. “I don’t know if that is part of the reasons he has advanced, but with the bill coming two months or thereabout before the election, assenting to it will breach the protocol.” President Buhari did not mention the ECOWAS instrument as part of his reasons for declining assent to the bill for the fourth time. The president’s latest decision came in a letter dated December 6, 2018 and addressed to both chambers of the National Assembly. He said signing the amendment bill with elections close by could “create some uncertainty about the legislation to govern the process”. “Any real or apparent change to the rules this close to the elections may provide an opportunity for disruption and confusion in respect of which law governs the electoral process,” he stated. Buhari, therefore, asked the National Assembly to specifically state in the bill that the amended Electoral Act would come into effect after the 2019 general elections. Reacting to the development, Sen. Peter Nwaoboshi, who represents Delta North on the platform of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said the reasons given by the president were “untenable”. “It is not a good reason for him not to sign the bill because the Senate worked with INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission) in preparing that bill. “If INEC felt otherwise, they would have advised us when we were working on it. “You are aware of the controversy that this issue of amendment of the act has generated, with people accusing the Senate of not wanting to amend the act. “We amended it, but he declined assent the first, second and third time; he made certain observations, which we agreed with. “We sent it again, and the reason he is giving now is that it will disrupt the election. It is really unfortunate,” he said. An Abuja-based lawyer and civil rights campaigner, Mr Frank Tietie, said the credibility of the 2019 elections was at stake without the compulsory use of card readers as proposed in the bill. Although, INEC has been using the card reader for elections since 2015, there is no provision for the technology in the extant electoral law, making its use optional. Tietie said, “Without the card reader and electronic transmission of results, our elections have been subjected to might, brute force and the power of money. “Card readers and electronic transmission of results have totally eliminated that, and there is need for a legal force to that. “This is what the amendment seeks. Buhari’s refusal to allow the card reader and electronic transmission of results will only lead to electoral compromise,” he said. In September, Sen. Ita Enang, Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant (SSA), said the president had no problem with the use of the card reader contrary to allegations by the opposition. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has continued to receive hash criticism over his rejection of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill presented for hid assent by the two arms of the National Assembly, Dr Sina Fagbenro-Byron, the Presidential Candidate of KOWA Party, has said the bill will not a guarantee free, fair and credible elections in 2019. Fagbenro-Byron said this at a news conference in Lagos to announce his campaign and political agenda. President Buhari said he “principally” declined assent to Electoral (Amendment) Bill 2018 as it would “provide opportunity for disruption and confusion” to electoral laws ahead of the 2019 general elections. “It would have been beautiful if Mr President signed the Electoral Act because it would have been an improvement on our electoral process as certain new modernisation were included in that Act. ”Having said that, I know that it is not the Act that will guarantee whether the 2019 elections will be free, fair or credible. ”There are two major things that determines whether elections will be free or fair – the electoral management body which is the independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies. ”The standard of fairness and objectivity in the conduct of INEC in terms of prompt deployment of material to announcement of results without any form of bias. ”Also the enforcement of law and order by security agencies as well as ensuring that people do not breach electoral processes. ”These are the two major pointers that guarantee electoral success not the Electoral Act. ”The fact that Mr President did not sign the bill will not stop history and will not refuse us free and fair elections in 2019. ”Where we should be looking at is the proper monitoring of INEC and the security agencies to ensure they perform their duties as should and then a free and fair election will be guaranteed, ” he said. On restructuring, Fagbenro-Byron, said there was an urgent need to restructure the country to decentralise power, ensure adequate resource control and increased state accountability. ”By the special grace of God, when we get into government, at the transition period, between being elected and being sworn in, will be used to prepare a refreshed constitution that will meet the desires of Nigerians. ”That is what we will take in as the first executive bill, ” said the KOWA party flagbearer. On addressing the problem of insecurity in the country, Fagbenro-Byron, said that restructuring the country with establishment of state and community policing could be a panacea. He also said that the Economic Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) should be brought in to resolve the problem of terrorism. ”The EFCC can help trace what we call ‘Terrorists Financing’ through BVN because insecurity is being funded the same way security is funded. Somebody is paying somebody to cause problems. ”With their techniques, they can help capture those funding insurgents in the country. ”We also need to strengthen our intelligence gathering and motivate security personnel with equipment, training and good welfare, ” he said He said that KOWA party was “shocked” by the purpoted   endorsement of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as sole candidate of Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) for the 2019 presidential poll. ”CUPP endorsement of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, came to us as a shock but we are in talks with our party leaders and very soon we will announce our position,” he said.