IBADAN – Prince Felix Awofisayo, the Southwest Coordinator of the Buhari Support Organisations (BSO) on Friday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, declared that the group will deliver millions of votes for President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 election. Prince Awofisayo made this promise in his welcome address at the inauguration of BSO in Southwest geopolitical zone, which took place at the Banquet Hall of Premier Hotel, Mokola, Ibadan. The Southwest Coordinator of the Buhari support group stated that the 2019 Presidential election will be the most pivotal election “because it is going to be a contest between the forces of retrogression and those of progress.” He, however, enjoined Nigerians to join the BSO in protecting the future wellbeing of generations yet unborn by voting for President Buhari, who he described as “a man of unblemished honour and integrity.” Awofisayo revealed that the group will carry out the door-to-door campaign across the Southwest and that the central theme of the campaign across the region will resonate the resolve of the government to implement policies that will benefit the majority of hard-working people and their families. According to him, the decision to support the re-election of President Buhari rests on the historical current of thought and political action in Yorubaland, saying that “the predominant political position in Yorubaland has always been progressive as well as social democracy.” His words: “In our considered opinion, the government headed by Muhammadu Buhari is a continuation of this tradition, a tradition that has benefitted the majority as opposed to ministering to and just pampering a privileged few. We have a historical necessity as well as a moral obligation to defend that worthy tradition. “The Southwest has benefited from the progressive intervention of the Buhari’s administration. The social intervention programmes such as the home-grown school feeding programme are in line with our tradition. It has not just led to an increase in school enrolment; it is led virtually to the development of human capacity and ensuring that no child is left behind”. Dr. Mahmud Abubakar, National Chairman of BSO, in his presentation appealed to Nigerians to give the President one more term to complete the good works he has started. Dr. Abubakar assured that BSO will give necessary support to President Buhari to remain in the office till 2023, saying that members of the group will go to every nook and crannies of the country to campaign for the President. He maintained that despite the President’s inheritance of an economy that was on a life support machine from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in 2015, he has been able to turn the economy around within three and half years. The BSO’s National Chairman insisted that any  Nigerian who objectively analyse the PDP days in power will appreciate the good works that the President has been doing since 2015.