Asaba – The ugly activities of Yahoo-boys, who now indulge in ritual activities have prompted Delta State Ministry of Women Affairs and Human Rights groups to protest and sensitize females in the state to be wary of these ‘criminals’ who target female folks for rituals. Investigations by Crime Tracker reveal that, the yahoo boys normally deceive young girls to clubs and other social activities, and later lure the unsuspecting victims to secret places where they murder them and severe their sensitive parts for ritual money making. They have now resorted to another strategy by buying female pants between N300,000 and N500,000 for ritual purposes. They also apply crude ways of kidnapping them at night or at quiet areas and order them to pull off their pants at gun-point. In some cases, they steal women pants from their homes or where it is hanged in the sun. Recently, a 300 Level female student of Delta State University DELSU Abraka, Miss Elozino Ogege was kidnapped and killed, while her eyes and other sensitive organ of her body were severed. Her gruesome murder prompted the sensitization and protest on Tuesday. Reverend Omatsola Williams, Commissioner of Women Affairs, Delta State during Civil Societies and Human Right Stakeholders in Delta State sensitization tour and a peaceful protest in demand for justice for the killing of Miss Elozino raised an alarm that women and female child are not safe in the state. Represented by Mrs Gladys Puegerem, the Commissioner, while condemning the act, and decrying the increase in incessant killings of the female gender across the state gave the civil society the full backing of the ministry in its bid to eradicate Yahoo killings in the state. During the protest, the Civil Society Organisation visited the Police Command headquarters in Asaba, where the National Coordinator, Ambassador Caroline Usikpedo through a charter of demand on behalf of the Civil Societies in Delta requested that the Police should launch an operation to flush out ritualists called Yahoo- boys. They also demanded that the Police carry out audit on the number of police escorts detailed out to private individuals as some of this yahoo boys use police as security purposes. According to Usikpedo, “The killing of Elozino is just one of the numerous that have been recorded, campuses is no longer conducive for the girl-child to learn. Criminality now abounds that even the good children sent to school come back with a degree in ritualism.” Responding, the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Investigation, Mr Wale Abas revealed that the case cannot be rushed, stating that, it is important that the police undergo further investigation as the victim is just one of the many who have lost their lives to such inhumane acts, assuring to apprehend individuals involved in the act. Also, Secretary to the Delta State Government, Barr Ovie Agas referred to the protest as a wakeup call for the state government, assuring the Civil Society that the government would work with the Police Command to fight against such killings. “During the security council meeting we directed the Attorney-General and the Commissioner for Justice to come up with a draft bill to strengthen government in ensuring that offenders are brought to book.” The State Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, DSP Andrew Aniamaka affirmed that, “the police will apprehend all those involved in the act, but parents have a big role to play because these people lived among us. We should stop encouraging them, and be courageous enough to report any suspicious movement. Imagine a 22-year-old driving exotic cars without doing any reasonable work,” he added. Meanwhile, Isoko Advancement Network (IAN) has set up a five-man legal team to ensure justice for late Miss Elozino, the 300 level student of Delta State University DELSU, Abraka who was allegedly murdered for ritual purpose. Hon Sam Idise, National Chairman of the group stated when he led members on a condolence visit to the family of the deceased in Irri, Isoko South Local Government, explaining that the essence of raising the legal team was to ensure diligent prosecution of those implicated in the killing and to achieve justice in the matter. The IAN chairman condemned the gruesome killing of the deceased whom he noted was a potential first class student and expressed joy that the key suspects have been arrested by the police. “It is disheartening that your daughter, Elozino was murdered in such a brutal way by alleged ritualists parading as yahoo boys. Members of the IAN and the entire Isoko nation are with you in this moment of grief. You are not alone.”