Osogbo – The leadership of Christ Apostolic Church (CAC) Worldwide has predicted divine support for the new government in Osun State headed by Governor Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola. The General Evangelist of the CAC Worldwide, Prophet Hezekiah Oladeji, made the prediction in Osogbo, Osun State capital, during a courtesy visit to Governor Oyetola at Bola Ige House of Osun State Government Secretariat. Oladeji noted that the new government in the state will receive divine support because of the circumstances that surround its emergence. Evangelist Olajide who affirmed the readiness of the CAC to support the new government in the state said considering the powerful evangelical revival crusade being proposed by the church to be taken round the country which is to begin soon in Osun State as this divine visitation of God is coming at the beginning period of the new government in the state. Speaking at the Exco Lounge of the Governor’s Office, Prophet Oladeji, who was accompanied by some of the leadership of the Church during a courtesy call on the Governor, said this was a sign that God was with the new government. Prophet Oladeji, while quoting the scripture to buttress the prophecy of God for the new government and the state, enjoined the new government to continue to seek the face of God in the management of affairs of the state. “This new government should know that God has always been with the state and you should not leave God behind. You should continue to do his will in all you do,” he said. The CAC General Evangelist who recalled the powerful revival crusade of the 1930s by the late Apostle Joseph Ayo Babalola which began in Oke-Ooye in Ilesa, held that since then the state has been noted for God visitations. “Do not feel relaxed and whenever there is any challenges, this new government should seek God first,” he added. He then committed the new government in the hands of God. Speaking on the coming general election, Evangelist Olajide urged the youths not to allow themselves to be used as a political thugs. He said they should desist from any act capable of causing crises before, during and after the general election. Responding, the governor of the state, Mr Gboyega Oyetola said that Osun must have been a dwelling place for God considering the large number of worldwide great evangelists and apostles of God that have come out of the state using the Gospel of Christ to shake the world. Governor Oyetola, who spoke through his Deputy, Mr Gboyega Alabi, recalled that some of the powerful men of God the day have at this time with the likes of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, Pastor W.F Kumuyi of the Deeper Life Bible Church, to mention but few, are from the state and are highly revered men of God with which the state is blessed. Oyetola, who vowed to continue to deliver the dividends of democracy across the nooks and crannies of the state, said they would build on the progress of the immediate past administration. Describing Osun as one of the most peaceful state in the country, Oyetola reiterated the commitment of APC-led government to ensure that the people of the continue to enjoy good governance. In the same vein, the Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun, appreciated Evangelist Oladeji and his entourage for counting Osogbo worthy, saying they should continue to pray for the progress and growth of the ancient town and entire Osun. Represented by High Chief Gabriel Ojo Oparanti, Oba Jimoh promised to support Evangelist Oladeji during the crusader period. Evangelist Oladeji had earlier visited the palace of Ataoja to inform him about the three days revival which was said to have commenced since on Monday.