Lagos – Prior to the final of the just concluded 2018 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations in Accra, Ghana between defending champions, the Super Falcons of Nigeria and the Banyana Banyana of South Africa, Sport Editor of Independent Newspapers, Peter Edema in column of Saturday, December 1 titled: “There is nothing Super about these Falcons”, narrated how the team has wobbled and fumbled to the final. According to him, elements of luck played major parts in the team’s qualification to the final stage and how lack of solid preparations from the part of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) had affected the team’s performance. As he (Edema) and many others that have been following the team expressed their fears in the final match against the South Africans, luck, again smiled on the faces of the Super Falcons and by extension, Nigerians as a whole. We struggled to win the match 4-3 via penalty kicks and won the title for the ninth time in 11 championships. But while the team’s superiority in the continent of Africa is not in doubt, the same cannot be said of the team during FIFA World Cup and next year’s edition in France unless all hands are on deck for the team’s solid preparations. Nigeria has over the years dominated the African scene and the icing of the cake will be excelling at the global stage where unfortunately the country has not been able to impress. Desiree Ellis, the Bayana Bayana of South Africa coach, while reacting to the defeat of her wards in penultimate Saturday’s final by the Super Falcons, concluded that the gap between the once most feared women football country in Africa and the rest of the continent was closing fast. Ellis, a former player of the Bayana Bayana, noted that but for luck on the side of Nigeria, the now nine-time African champions would not have defeated South Africa, who are still searching for their first title on the continent. “It was a tough game (against Nigeria); we did our best. My players played to every instructions, they did all best they could but unfortunately luck was not on our side. “We kept the ball all through like we always did but we couldn’t break the Super Falcons. I must commend the efforts of my girls for holding it down to the very end, thought it wasn’t an easy game. “Things are actually changing; the margin between Nigeria and other African teams is getting closer than what we used to have before and they are not really invincible unlike before. Looking at the last two games you could actually see that as well,” she said. Apart from good preparations which tends to include series of friendly matches for the team, both locally and internationally, there is also the need to inject some new players into the team while the technical crew’s ability also need to be reviewed. For instance, if our local coaches have won the title eight times for the team with ease and less tension, one then wonders the technical input of the foreign coach, Thomas Dennerby with the team. Dennerby and his players struggled throughout the championship to win this year’s title. These and other loopholes were noticed in the team and as they look forward for the global event in France next year, a lot of things need to be put in place. NFF President, Amaju Pinnick while congratulating the players for their ninth title victory, urged them to look beyond the continent of Africa and step up their game for a good outing at France 2019. Pinnick further promised that the NFF will support the programme of the team to ensure that the team was prepared for the 2019 World Cup in France. “We are already working with the coach who has submitted his plans for the World Cup. Also, I am talking to some European Federation presidents and the President of European Union Football Association (UEFA), Aleksander Ceferin to secure friendly matches for the team in preparation for the World Cup”. In the same vein, NFF first Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi revealed that the team would be fully backed to excel at the FIFA World Cup. “The NFF has always had confidence in the Super Falcons and we are happy we got this World Cup ticket. It was not easy and it could not have been easy. “The FIFA World Cup is the FIFA World Cup, and we must put in place a proper and comprehensive preparatory programme for the team. We must utilize all the available FIFA windows for the team to play friendlies”, he said. In their review of the Championship in Ghana, the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) applauded the resilience of the team for overcoming all odds to win the 2018 African Women Cup of Nations (AWCON). “We are happy that the team despite the numerous challenges, also reaffirmed the never say die spirit of an average Nigerian. “This success which has taken the nation’s haul in the continental championship to a record nine times underscores the strength of Nigeria when it comes to women’s football in Africa. SWAN, however, challenged the NFF to keep afloat its promise by immediately kick starting preparation for the World Cup. SWAN notes that the time to beef up the team was now going by the fact that, apart from losing to the Bayana Bayana of South Africa in the opening group game, the team equally had to face extra time to win the championship through the lottery of penalty shootout. “It is instructive to recall that the African champions struggled to defeat Cameroon in the semifinals, which was also achieved after penalty kicks. “All these are indicators that we must go back to the drawing board if we must continue to excel in the championship, as other African nations are beginning to catch up with us. “The foreign coach must be made to be on top of his game, because the output of the Super Falcons in the AWCON was arguably the poorest and we must not allow the victory to give us a false sense of strength,” said SWAN in a press release. SWAN also urged the NFF to work towards avoiding the embarrassing situation two years ago, where the girls had to protest before getting their entitlements after winning the championship in Cameroon. SWAN expects that every promise made to them must be fulfilled without much ado; just as it hopes that relevant authorities will be more visible at the preparatory stages for championships the country is participating in, rather than at the end. Osita Okeke, the Chairman of Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC) in South Africa, has also called for the injection of new players into the team. Okeke remarked that there was the need for the team’s handlers to reorganise the team. “We rejoice with Nigerians on the spectacular victory by the Super Falcons. Winning the African women’s football title nine times is not easy. “But we appeal to the handlers of the team to take stock of the tournament and reorganise the team,’’ he said. Okeke said Nigeria would achieve success in France if the handlers introduce young and talented players into the team. “We observed during the tournament that some of the Super Falcons players are no longer young. “So, it is important to introduce new players into the team before the World Cup,” he said. The chairman also urged the NFF to start early preparation for the World Cup by organising friendly international matches for the Super Falcons. He, however, commended the NFF for paying the players their bonuses throughout the tournament in Ghana. Sports Minister, Solomon Dalung also expressed his views on the team’s performance in Ghana and what is expected of them at the FIFA World Cup in France. Dalung said he was expecting the team to get their best global outing next year’ at the FIFA Women’s World Cup in France. Although Dalung admitted that the Super Falcons struggled to beat South Africa in the final, he is thinking big for the Mundial. While promising that the federal government and ministry of sports would help the team get sound preparations, Dalung urged the team to look beyond Africa and make a strong impact next year in France. Dalung, who pledged unflinching support for development of women’s football, admitted his responsibility to ensure the team gets adequate preparation before the World Cup next year. “Though the victory was a difficult one, it was a sweet revenge against South Africa who they lost to in the opening match. “Your supremacy in African football has been reaffirmed with this victory over South Africa and winning the competition for a record ninth time. “They have participated in all the editions of the championship but it’s now time to take another giant leap as you prepare for the World Cup.”