Prince Kassim Afegbua is one of the newly appointed Spokespersons of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign. Afegbua, who was a former chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) was also the Publicity Secretary of the R-APC, before he defected to the opposition PDP. In this exclusive interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI in Abuja, he speaks on issues that will shape the 2019 presidential election, expressing optimism that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the PDP would emerge victorious. Excerpts: Congratulations on your new appointment as we prepare for the 2019 Presidential election. As a former chieftain of the APC, why did you abandon the ruling party for the opposition? Well, there is nothing really to celebrate about until we are able to displace this non-performing and incompetent leadership, a leadership that has become provincial and ethnically based rather than being one of nationalism and altruism. We have on our hands for a long time, a president that doesn’t understand the dynamics of modern leadership but one who promotes nepotism, favouritism, cronyism and selective amnesia to ridiculous height. Nigeria has never been this divided in terms of our national objective. This government is one that is heavily lacking in coordination and synergy to get the task done. There is too much of trial and error and too many subterfuge and lies being bandied about as the achievements of a failed leadership. It got to a point that I couldn’t bear the contradictions and hypocrisies anymore, I then decided to politically adjust my membership. Where does that leave the National Chairman of the ruling Party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, under whom you served as a commissioner for information? Well, what is at stake here is not about the interest of one man captured in Adams Oshiomhole, it is about the interest of the nation at large. I still maintain my relationship with Comrade Oshiomhole, but the issues are beyond the personal relationship of anyone. It is about the place of Nigeria in a 21st century world, and where we intend to be in another 10, 20,30 years from now. It has nothing to do with Oshiomhole as an individual, but it has all to do with my country in the hands of this present leadership and a president that is apparently at sea with respect to understanding the real issues of development. What the APC promised in 2015, they haven’t been able to fulfil 20% of them. Rather, they have been rotating on the same axis and expecting a different result. How possible? They have perfected the act of election rigging in a manner that beats Guinness World records. Their capacity for vote buying under a government that preaches anti-corruption has become legendary. At Osun, they literarily arm-twisted the voters and the umpire just because of desperation to make a statement, and brought the entire country to political shame and ridicule. To them, in sofar election results are announced in their favour, everyone can go to hell. They do not care about the process. Their interest is just the outcome, whether purchased or procured by highest bidder doesn’t matter to them. They have injured the sanctity of the ballot boxes. That also reflected in their primaries. I am sure you heard of all manner of purchases and money exchanging hands. That’s what APC has become. Why do you think President Buhari hasn’t done enough to deserve re-election? It is not about doing enough to seek re-election, it is more about having the capacity to deliver on his campaign promises. There are too many pretenses and failed promises. They preach anti-corruption only when the subject matter concerns an opposition party man. A lot of the front roll friends of President Buhari are individuals who have one query or the other to answer with the anti-graft agencies. They cannot pass any anti-corruption test. The simple primary elections of the APC alone, exposed their hypocrisy and double standard. The level of imposition and impunity is unparalleled in the history of party politics in Nigeria. The president has taken away prosperity and gave us hunger, poverty, malnutrition, deprivation and impoverishment. He preaches too much of anti-corruption, but it doesn’t manifest in his transactions. When you fight corruption, the expectation is that you save so much to promote better life and prosperity. But President Buhari’s anti-corruption has shown the opposite. He makes more money, recover so much, yet 88m Nigerians are suffering from extreme poverty. We have become the poverty capital of the world. There is too much of tokenism in the country just to win election. Just imagine, the president reduced jamb and WASC enrolment fees, when he should be talking about revamping the whole educational infrastructure in the country. Our universities do not lack candidates. In fact, our universities are over-subscribed. What we need as a nation that wants to get things right, are universities that can compete with other universities in the global space. But for a president whose understanding of education is limited to the contentious school certificate, what do you expect? I really can’t see his achievements and capacity so far. But the APC has been accusing the PDP of corruption, of plunging the country to recession and the economic gloom we are witnessing presently. How do you react to that? You see, when a child fails to pass an examination, he will give an excuse. It is either that the invigilator doesn’t like his face, or he tells you the lecturer is wicked, or that the aspect he was examined wasn’t what was taught in class. What else do you expect to hear from a clueless president and his team of self-serving ministers who can’t think outside the box to improvise solutions to our problems. Is it PDP that stopped him from overhauling the security architecture? Who does not know that the present service chiefs are already tired and need retirement? Was life not better under PDP? You are a journalist, and I am sure you can do your comparative analysis. Haven’t you seen that most of what the government prides itself of achieving are actually PDP programmes and policies. Has corruption stopped or reduced in Nigeria? Didn’t you hear of the NNPC illicit withdrawals, broadcasting Commission fraud in billions, the NEMA fraud of N5.8b, and another N33b? What about individuals who were accused of corruption in this government, what have they done to them? All those empty narratives of calling PDP corruption is just a matter of shifting blame for failed leadership and one that lacks the creativity to respond to situational crises in the country. Is it PDP that has made the fight against Boko Haram this unabating? The number of casualties on a daily basis and the ferocity of the attacks. As a Nigerian, are you not worried about the level we have descended? Why has it become convenient for the APC to accommodate those who they earlier accused of corruption, but who now have defected to their party? Does that not speak of double standard and grand hypocrisy? The nation stinks everywhere. Corruption is everywhere and when this government leaves, they will be further exposed. What is Atiku Abubakar bringing to the table? It is not about what Atiku is bringing to the table, it is about the desires of a people and what they want to see happen in their country in a 21st century world. The contest is between Nigerians in their millions against the APC and their musketeers who think they can rig everyone out using the Police and the Army. For the first time in Presidential contest, a candidate came up with a document that contains some of his ideas on how to make Nigeria work again to further the narrative of development, economic prosperity and political stability. The APC came up with its own document called “NextLevel” whatever that means. As a party that came on board on the change mantra, I thought its agenda should be on how to consolidate on the change mantra, but since they have failed woefully in critical sectors of our national economy, they are now ashamed of their change mantra. Atiku has encapsulated his policies in a document that can be accessed and assessed by Nigerians in order to draw up a roadmap out of our present logjam. We want a private sector driven economy, where government will be vested with the responsibility of building the critical infrastructure and provide an enabling environment for businesses to flourish. We need to build factories and industries that would provide employment for our teeming youths across the country. We need to find quick win solution to address our present rating as the poverty capital of the world. Atiku has the political experience of a team player, of an employment creator, of wealth creator and prosperity builder, to jump-start an ailing economy. A man who presently has over 50,000 employees under his conglomerate of businesses will be better to serve the interest of Nigerians than one who is said to own 150 unproductive cows in many years. The difference, as they say is 7-UP. How do you react to the claims in government quarters that Atiku is corrupt? Those are convenient narratives by government supporters to hoodwink the unsuspecting members of the public, yet they haven’t raised one corruption case against him. Does that not sound funny and ridiculous? You say a man is corrupt, you have the EFCC and ICPC, yet you cannot unleash them on him? When Atiku Abubakar was in the APC, he provided a lot of funding for the campaigns of President Buhari in 2015. At that time, he was eulogised as a great man, a philanthropist of unequalled rating, a great party man who meant well for the country. He was praised by President Buhari and other chieftains of the APC. That time, they didn’t remember this corruption allegations. As soon as he pulled out of the APC and complained of sufferings of Nigerians under this present government, they suddenly came up with this self-serving narrative, ‘Atiku is this, Atiku is that’. No evidence has so far been put forward. I am not surprised anyway. If they are not scared of Atiku, they won’t be running those empty rhetorics to distract him, but we all are committed to ensure we vote out this non-performing, clueless, tired and archaic leadership in 2019. Nigerians have a great choice to make in 2019 between Atiku’s prosperity and Buhari’s poverty initiatives, between actualities and mere pretenses, between patriotism and nepotism, between nationalism and provincialism, and of course, between performance driven governance process and one that has shown manifest incompetence and cluelessness. It is about where we intend to be in the 21st century, whether we want to remain under a man that has become a byproduct of nepotism, cronyism and favouritism, or one that cuts across the country in the number of people who work with him presently as a private employer of labour. We will not be distracted by that unholy commentary of corruption, Nigerians are suffering, they are poor and hungry, they need a man who understands prosperity to bail them out, and Atiku fits the bill. But the APC-led government has told its critics that they have reduced foreign imports and also created opportunity for home-grown productivity to stimulate enterprise and employment, do you agree with this initiative? I can tell you, one thing the APC is reputed for is the inordinate capacity to tell lies and sheer propaganda. First, there is nothing to celebrate in a party that promised millions of job but ended up creating unemployment. At the last count, about 11 million jobs have been lost due to absence of creative policies to drive businesses. Companies are folding up. Workers are being eased out of work on a regular basis both in the public and private sectors of the economy. The statistics from the National Bureau of Statistics are not the type that would stimulate anyone’s appetite. They are a damning verdict on a government that cannot think outside the box to create solutions to address our problems. How do you then encourage local production of goods and services when the companies that should engage in that are folding up and sacking workers everyday. Power situation has not improved. The Works Minister, Babatunde Fashola says Nigerians should stone them if in six months the power situation is not fixed. We are three and a half years on, yet no concrete investment in the power sector. What we have are the projects commenced by the PDP in so many sectors and now being driven to completion. You can say, in the spirit of continuity, that’s good, but we are yet to stone Fashola for failing in his six months benchmark. We came 2nd in world importation of rice in 2017/18, yet we are told we have stopped importation of rice. There is so much deceit in all that they do. There is nothing wrong in developing home-grown economy. In fact, that is the way to go in this modern world, but it should go beyond mere sloganeering and backed by action. Do you have confidence in INEC with respect to the conduct of the 2019 elections, and also considering the fact that the president has not assented to the Electoral Bill amendment? What are your fears, if any? It shouldn’t be about me, it should be about us as a people and what we desire to see for our country in the 21st century. We must be resolute in our mission and vision towards building a stable polity and a prosperous country with opportunities for all. Talking about INEC, they are part and parcel of the Nigerian system. They live with us, socialise with us, work with us and are part of the society that find ourselves. The PDP National Chairman, our party, has raised alarm over the leadership of the INEC and the Police. Presently, that is the position of the party with respect to preparations for the 2019 general elections. The INEC chairman must as a matter of urgency be transparent and open to all forms of criticisms that would help to promote a robust relationship amongst parties and the outcomes of her engagements. The confidence building process must be consciously tailored that a substantial percentage of people and partakers would have confidence in the system before, during and after the elections. There is no alternative to credible and transparent elections. If we go with the standard we have seen in Ekiti and Osun, then we have every reason to raise dust over the 2019 elections. The partisan role of the Police, the armtwisting we saw in Osun over a little above 500 votes, and even the declaration of inconclusive election. INEC must come clean and help to promote credible election instead of being the punching bag. INEC has no business going to privately see the president or whosoever in the presidency. The presidency should come to see INEC and not the other way round. On the Electoral Act and the delay in signing it, that tells you of the mindset of this present leadership in the presidency. On the one hand he talks about transparent, free and fair credible elections, on the other hand he refuses his assent to the bill that would make credible election possible. That’s why I said there is too much of double standard, hypocrisy and pretenses. The president knowing the closeness of the 2019 elections should quickly sign the bill so we can move to the next stage of preparations for elections. This delay is dangerous. CONTINUED FROM P.13 ¢