ABUJA – A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on Tuesday declined to grant an application filed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Chief Great Ogboru, asking the court to strike out a suit filed by Honourable Victor Ochei against the trio. Ochei, in suit number FHC/ ABJ/CS/1085/2018, is challenging the outcome of the party’s Delta State gubernatorial primaries held on September 30. He had joined INEC, the APC and Chief Ogboru, APC’s Delta State governorship candidate, as the first, second and third defendants in the suit, respectively. All the defendants filed notices of preliminary objection opposing the suit, urging the court to dismiss it. However, delivering judgment in the suit, Justice Nnamdi Dimgba, the trial judge, held that the court has jurisdiction to entertain the suit. Dimgba said rather than challenge the court’s jurisdiction to hear the matter in Abuja, the proper prayer the defendants should have sought is the transfer of the case to Delta State. The court noted that there had been an agreement among the party members which resulted in a consent judgment delivered by Justice A. I. Chikere of the Federal High Court, Abuja on June 19. The plaintiff had argued that the subsisting consent judgment contemplated that the list of delegates brought before the court was the one to be used in the Delta APC gubernatorial primaries. Having used a different delegate list, which produced Ogboru as the APC governorship candidate, the plaintiff argued that it was at variance and derogated from the delegates’ list. He, therefore, urged the court to order a rerun of the party primaries. In its preliminary objection, the 1st defendant, INEC, had urged the court to strike out the suit because the five main reliefs sought by the plaintiff amounted to sitting on appeal over the consent judgment. However, Justice Dimgba held that INEC’s contention was “highly misconceived,” insisting that the complaint does not mean extending the scope of the consent judgment. The court opined that by virtue of section 287(3) of the 1999 constitution as amended, “this section makes a decision of a High Court enforceable,” adding that the court has a primary obligation to enforce its orders. Consequently, Dimgba ruled that the objection lacked merit and dismissed it. The court noted that the facts and circumstances of the case arose from the party primaries, which is an Electoral Act, and that section 87(4) of the Electoral Act provides for use of delegates’ list. However, by not using the list sanctioned by the consent judgment, the court was of the view that a political party cannot desecrate the orders of court. Consequently, in accordance with section 87(9) of the Electoral Act, “this suit is meritorious,” the court ruled. It maintained that there was no merit in the 1st defendant’s contention in its notice of preliminary objection to the effect that the suit disclosed no reasonable cause of action. The court also added that there was a prima facie case against INEC, which conducted the said controversial primaries. “There was a reasonable cause of action, and in summary, the notice of preliminary objection fails and is dismissed,” Dimgba ruled. In APC’s notice of preliminary objection challenging the order for accelerated hearing made by the court in the absence of the 2nd and 3rd defendants, the court held that the argument was “unlawful, holds no water, and summarily dismissed.” Consequently, the court refused APC’s plea to set aside the order of abridgement because of the time-sensitive nature of the issue. On APC’s argument that the issue was an internal affair of the party and that its constitution says nobody should go to court, Justice Dimgba said, “That submission is a proposition that deserves summary dismissal.” He held that Order 22 Rule 4 of the Federal High Court rules does not apply to the case as relied upon by APC, saying, “They should have come by way of seeking transfer of the case and not to challenge the court’s jurisdiction to hear the matter.” The objection raised by Ogboru and that of the other defendants were virtually the same, forcing the court to equally dismiss same. The only ground of objection sustained by the court was the defendants’ argument that the suit was wrongfully commenced by way of originating summons. Dimgba agreed with the objection because he noticed conflicting depositions in the various affidavits filed by parties. Therefore, the court held that the matter was not to be determined based on material affidavits but by way of writ of summons. The court thus directed parties to file their pleadings and claims within the stipulated time and adjourned to January 23 for continuation of hearing.