Abuja – As police continue to lay siege to the Abuja residence of Senator Dino Melaye, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised the alarm over the senator’s safety. The party said with the continued lockdown on the residence of Melaye by the police, the Muhammadu Buhari presidency was turning Nigeria into a police state where those opposed to President Buhari’s re-election were treated like enemies of the state. The PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, in a statement by its Director of Media & Publicity, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Sunday, said: “The continued siege, which has been widely condemned as unwarranted and provocative, shows that the police under President Buhari has become an instrument of oppression to subjugate dissenting voices ahead of the 2019 general election.” The party called on Nigerians to note that the only sin committed by its Presidential Campaign Director of Civil Societies, Senator Melaye, was his return to the PDP and his forthright stand against the misrule of the Buhari administration, which were all well within his rights as a citizen. Part of the statement reads: “Since Senator Melaye left the APC, the Buhari administration has continued to hound and harass him, as well as the members of his family with trumped up charges, all aimed to silence and put him out of circulation ahead of the 2019 general election. “The PDP has become extremely worried about the safety of Senator Melaye and his family members under police lockdown and charges Nigerians to hold President Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) responsible should any harm befall him or any member of his family. “This is particularly against the background of Senator Melaye’s outcry that the police planned to arrest and inject him with poisonous substance. “The PDP hopes that opposition figures such as Senator Melaye will not suddenly become victims of ‘accidental discharge’, unexplained assassinations or mysterious motor accidents as we move on to the general elections.” Meanwhile, the police have again intensified manhunt for Melaye two days after storming his house. The police on Sunday intensified their search for the lawmaker with a reinforcement of security within and around his residence along 11 Sangha Street in Maitama, Abuja. The police had arrived early Sunday with more officers and at least nine patrol vehicles to seal off all the entry and exit routes to Melaye’s house. The police officers also occupied the entrance to an uncompleted building directly behind Melaye’s house, near the Chadian embassy on Mississippi Street.