OWERRI – A traditional ruler in Amagbor Ihitte in Ezinihitte Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo State, Eze Ndudiri Orji, has called on Nigerians to shun rancour and to play politics of maturity. Ndudiri gave the advice during the community’s wrestling match competition, known as “Mgba Amagbor Cultural Festival 2018”, while fielding questions from newsmen. He noted that nation, having gained independence since 1960, should show maturity in politics. The monarch called on the politicians seeking elective positions not dictate for electorates what to do even as he advised the electorates to ensure their votes counted. Ndudiri also urged the politicians who would emerge victorious in the forthcoming elections to work in the interest of the people. Speaking about the wrestling event, the traditional ruler explained that there was nothing fetish about the Dimgba Amagbor festival. According to him, it connotes an educative, recreation and entertainment festival that instills vitality and healthy lifestyle to the people as bequeathed to them by their fore fathers. Ndudiri used the occasion to introduce the “Dimgba Foundation”, which he said would cater to the needs of widows and curb youth restiveness through empowerment programmes. He called on well-meaning Amagbor indigenes to support the programme as he wished his people a merry Christmas and a prosperous New Year. Earlier, the chairman on the occasion, Prof. C Ekennia, of the Abia State University, Uturu, said the event was a landmark event in the history of Amagbor. He advised members of the community both home and in Diaspora to put heads together to ensure the legacy of the festival was sustained. DAILY INDEPENDENT reports that the event witnessed tough performance in wrestling match by youths of the community and cultural dances by different dance troupes. Wisdom Unaga, winner of the wrestling match competition,”the 2018 Dimgba Winner” in an interview said he did not participate in the wrestling contest because of the prize, but was propelled by the need to preserve the cherished custom. He enjoined youths of the community to always play active role in communal activities in order to continue to uphold the Igbo culture and heritage.