The year under review witnessed a league season so many Nigerians would wish it never happened. The Nigeria topflight was marred by incessant crisis-induced stoppages, making the players redundant in the greater part of the year. The ugly trend started with a World Cup break, where top members of the League Management Company (LMC) ‘abandoned’ the NPFL for the World Cup in Russia, even when their inputs would be rarely required for Nigeria’s progression at the Mundial. On coming back after Super Eagles crashed, the league suffered another very lengthy layoff due to the NFF leadership tussle between Amaju Pinnick and Chris Giwa. NPFL never recovered from the postponement as the league finally ended in week 24 with then leaders, Lobi Stars, declared winner. As if that was not enough, the new season, which supposed to start on December 1 in response to CAF’s directive that all national leagues on the continent should start in December and end in May in order to conform with the European calendar, was postponed indefinitely following issues arising from how many clubs would be promoted from the lower league. Meanwhile, the Nigeria National League (NNL) maintained that since there was no relegation in the topflight due to the abrupt ending, all the eight clubs that qualified for the playoff from where four of them would be promoted, should advance to the NNL. The issue pitched club owners and managers of the lower league against the NFF and the LMC. Generally, the Nigerian domestic league witnessed a very poor handling in 2018. As a consequence of the whole development, stakeholders blame the failure of continental clubs on the inability of players of various clubs to play actively. For instance, when Enyimba lost 0-3 to Williamsville AC of Cote d’Ivoire in one of the group stage matches of the 2018 CAF Confederation Cup, their players begged the LMC to review the suspension of NPFL, arguing that their performance in Abidjan was as a result of their domestic inactivity. Also, a lot of players deserted their clubs for greener pastures in some relatively unknown and obscure leagues, thereby denying the domestic league of quality players. This led to widespread condemnations as well as appeals for the organisers to consider the interest of the players and the development of football in the country. For example, Austin Eguaveon, former Bendel Insurance player, stressed that players not participating in the league would put Nigeria football development in jeopardy. He added that national team coaches should have been sourcing for younger players to be injected into the U-17 and U-20 teams from the league. “Players need to be continuously active to be at their best. The suspension of the league is not a good omen for a country. With the current crises in the NFF, there is no way football can develop,” Eguaveon said. Taking it further, the Nigerian football administration came in for mentioning for bad reasons in 2018, which did not equally helped the league. On a couple of times, it took the intervention of the presidency for normalcy to return to the leadership of the game in the country. For instance, at a point in time and due to leadership crisis between Pinnick and Giwa, the football house was under siege from the operatives of the Department for State Service (DSS). It won’t be out of place to say that in 2018, the nation’s football lacked direction. Several players who spoke to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT at that time bemoaned the deplorable state of the nation’s football, even as so many of them expressed willing to ditch the NPFL for wherever they could find succor. Meanwhile, after what looked like a decade of inactivity in the domestic scene, which was further aggravated by the discordant tune in the NNL, the Nigeria Football Federation reach an agreement with the leadership of NNL as well as the eight clubs for Super 8 that the lower division’s mini-tournament will start on January 3 and end few days later with the topflight scheduled to start on January 13. Mixed Continental Fortunes For Clubs (Plateau United, MFM, Enyimba, Akwa United, Lobi Stars, Rangers) 2018 marked the reduction of Nigeria’s slots for continental club competitions from four teams to two. In the last couple of years, Nigeria have had two clubs each for CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup, but all that changed, albeit for now, after the poor showing of some of these clubs. However, some of the clubs performed and are still performing well in the year under review. CAF League Plateau United The Peace Boys promised so much after unassailably winning the 2017/2018 Nigeria Professional Football League but delivered virtually nothing after they failed to make any appreciable impact in the CAF Champions League. After overcoming Eding Sport of Cameroon 4-0 on aggregate in the preliminary round, Plateau United failed a North African test against former champions, Etoile du Sahel of Tunisia, in the first round. Requiring a two-goal cushion to see of Etoile du Sahel after going down 4-2 in Sousse in the first round first leg, the Peace Boys only managed to beat the Tunisians 1-0. Meanwhile, commentators believe that so many factors worked in Plateau’s disfavor. For instance, their ground, Rwan Pam Stadium in Jos, failed to meet CAF standard, prompting the club to prosecute their matches at Agege Stadium in Lagos. They were denied the support of their teeming fans and analysts believe that they could have roundly defeated Etoile Du Sahel had they played the match in Jos. Dropping down to the second-tier CAF Confederation Cup, they fell 5-2 aggregate to Algerian giants, USM Algers, thereby ending their continental campaign in a rather regrettable note. MFM It was no different for MFM, the second Champions League campaigners, as they relegated to the Confederation Cup following a first round loss to Algerian side, MC Algers. They defeated AS Real Bamako in the preliminary round to set up a challenge against the Algerian side in the first round. Dropping down to the second tier championship, they were pitched against Djoliba of Mali and, just like Plateau United, they were bungled out of the continent on a 0-1 aggregate. Observers believe that the Odukoya Boys suffered from loss of their key players and the management’s inability to recruit quality legs for the club. Coach Fidelis Ilechukwu was severally quoted as lamenting that he had no quality personnel to prosecute the Champions League but his cries were allegedly not heeded to. Confederation Cup Akwa United Akwa United made it to the playoff where losers at the first round of the Champions League come against Confederation Cup campaigners. Dropping from the Champions League, Al-Hilal of Sudan were pitched against the then Nigerian cup winners. After an aggregate score of 3-3, Akwa United were eliminated because they defeated Al-Hilal 3-1 in Uyo after the Sudanese had beat them 2-0 in Omdurman. Enyimba For another dropper from the Champions League, Bidvest Wits of South Africa, it was expectation taking too far as they found Enyimba difficult to overcome.  Enyimba edged them on away goal rule following a goalless score in Calabar after having been held 1-1 in South Africa. Thus, Enyimba became Nigeria’s sole survivor in the continent. They defeated Rayon Sports of Rwanda 5-1 aggregate in the quarter final but bid the Confederation Cup goodbye following a 3-1 aggregate loss to Raja Casablanca of Morocco in the semifinal. Lobi Stars Lobi Stars benefitted from Nigeria’s poor season to become the country’s champions and candidate for the 2018/2019 CAF Champions League. After the league ended on week 24 in order to give room for submission of continental representatives, then league leaders, Lobi Stars, were declared winner. Doubts were, however, raised on the preparedness of Lobi to compete with the best on the continent but the Ortom Boys thrashed bookmakers’ predictions by qualifying for the group stage of the 2018/2019 CAF Champions League against all expectations, overcoming Gor Mahia of Kenya in the first round after dumping out UMS de Loum of Cameroon 2-1 in the preliminary round. Rangers Rangers defeated Kano Pillars in the Federation Cup to emerge Nigeria’s representatives in the 2018/2019 CAF Confederation Cup. Just like Lobi Stars, there were doubts on the ability of Rangers to represent Nigeria well because of the continued suspension of the domestic league. But the Flying Antelopes have not been found wanting after qualifying for the playoff at the expense of a North African side, USM Bel Abbès of Algeria, 2-0. They had earlier defeated Defence Force of Ethiopia 5-1 aggregate in the preliminary round. Consequently, analysts believe that but for Enyimba, as well as Lobi Stars and Rangers, it was a very bad year for Nigerian clubs on the continent. Flying Eagles And Golden Eaglets After missing the last FIFA U20 World Cup, the Flying Eagles upped the ante this year. Even though they are yet to qualify for the 2019 edition in Poland, they have qualified for the Africa U20 Cup of Nations, which will also serve as the qualifiers for the U20 World Cup. This they did by qualifying for the final of the just concluded WAFU U20 tourney where they lost to Senegal. Golden Eaglets, Nigeria’s U17 national team, also went past the hurdle of the WAFU Zone B tournament to qualify for the 2019 CAF U-17 tournament in Tanzania where they will face the hosts, Tanzania, Angola and Uganda in the group stage. Salisu Yusuf Bribery Scandal The year in review marked a sad commentary for Salisu Yusuf, the long-standing Super Eagles chief coach, who was caught in the web of bribery. A video footage went viral sometimes in the year, showing the home-based Super Eagles and the Olympic coach allegedly receiving a cash gift from investigative journalist, Ghanaian Anas Aremeyaw Anas. In a video filmed in September 2017, the coach was shown meeting with Anas’s Tiger Eye agency and accepting cash, noted in the footage as being $1,000, ostensibly to ensure that two players are selected for the African Nations Championship tournament. Super Sand Eagles/Amputee Eagles Super Sand Eagles Qualify For Paraguay 2019 after reaching the final of the CAF Cup of Nations. Even though they lost to Senegal 1-6 in the final, their World Cup qualification eclipsed the loss. Nigeria’s amputee football team took part in the 2018 Amputee World Cup held in Mexico after three failed attempts in the past due to financial constraints. Guinness PLC brand ambassador, Goodluck Obieze, captained the Amputee Eagles.