ENUGU – Gbenga Hashim, the People’s Trust (PT) presidential candidate has assured South Easterners of an additional state if elected as the President of Nigeria in February 2019. Hashim gave this assurance in Enugu during interaction with journalists after consultations with some stakeholders in the South East geo-political zone. Stressing the need for equity in the Nigerian federation, the 49-year old presidential hopeful lamented that only South East has five states, out of the six administrative zones in the country, whereas others have at least six states. Hashim said if elected president, he would create a legislative framework within six months for the creation of one more state in the South East so that the region would be in the same footing with the rest of the country. “2019 elections is going to be an unusual election, in the sense that it is almost a referendum on the future of Nigeria, on its peace and stability, on its security, on its continuity and of course, most importantly, about the prosperity of Nigeria. “The South East zone is very crucial. The way we handle issues that affect and are germane to the people would determine whether we will continue to live in unity and peace as an indivisible entity. “And of course, there have been a lot of wounds in this part of Nigeria. People carry a lot of wounds. Just like a lot of communities in Nigeria and states also carry some kinds of wounds. But there is no other place in Nigeria where these wounds are so deep as we have it in the South East of Nigeria,” Hashim said. He said their ticket was committed to uniting Nigeria and reconciling the people so that they could face the task of national development without any handicap. Hashim noted that as long as any section in Nigeria feels they were conquered people, so would the difficult task of nation-building become more challenging and assured South East people of a presidential candidate that is irrevocably committed to healing the wounds of the region. The young presidential candidate equally assured that his administration would decentralize power in the country within six months by amending the exclusive and the concurrent legislative lists to ensure that states have a greater role in resource mobilize. Apart from the South East, Hashim noted that Nigeria is dire need of renewed commitment to the safety of live and security as exemplified by the by five of the 19 northern states held captive for years by the insurgent. “From Zamfara to Kaduna, to Benue, to Taraba, you can see the killings going on. We will stop the killings in the land. From day one, it will be very dry, the way we mete out punishment to those who take the lives of other Nigerians. There will be a very high premium on lives and property. “One of the reasons why killings go on endlessly in Nigeria is the fact that nobody is brought to book when they commit murder. That is why some say the lives of Nigerians have become so cheap. Under our presidency, the life of every Nigerian will count equal,” Hashim said. Blaming the upheavals in the country on the parlous state of the economy, joblessness and hopelessness, he promised that Nigeria under his watch would grow the GDP to N4 trillion dollars in four years by leveraging on infrastructure funds that are available globally. Hashim said he would make the ease of doing business a thing that everyone who intends to do business in Nigeria could take for granted. “We will issue out the requisite SOPs to make licensing for business activities to be as rapid as possible.