President Muhammadu Buhari has once more declined assent to the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, 2018. Senator Ita Enang, the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the President on National Assembly Matters, disclosed this last Monday through a statement titled, ‘Presidential decision to decline assent to Electoral (Amendment) Bill 2018.’ The development came less than six months after the President rejected the first one, even as the elections are few months away. According to Enang, the President has already communicated his decision in letters sent to the two chambers of the National Assembly. He said the President was declining assent to the bill due to some “drafting issues that remain unaddressed following the prior revisions to the bill.” The statement added: “There is a cross-referencing error in the proposed amendment to Section 18 of the Bill. The appropriate amendment is to substitute the existing sub-section (2) with the proposed subsection (1A), while the proposed sub-section (1B) is the new sub-section (2A).” The President’s aide said there was also an issue with the conduct of primaries by political parties and the dates they should submit names of their candidates to INEC. Enang said if signed into law as it is, INEC would have only nine days to collate and compile lists of candidates in the 91 political parties. He said: “The proposed amendment to include a new Section 87 (14) which stipulates a specific period within which political party primaries are required to be held has the unintended consequence of leaving INEC with only nine days to collate and compile lists of candidates and political parties as well as manage the primaries of 91 political parties for the various elections. “This is because the Electoral Amendment Bill does not amend Sections 31, 34 and 85, which stipulates times for the submission of lists of candidates, publication of lists of candidates and notice of convention, congresses for nominating candidates for elections.’’ He noted that Clause 87 (14) “states that the dates for the primaries shall not be earlier than 120 days and not later than 90 days before the date of elections to the offices” which is at variance with Section 31 of the Electoral Act 2010. Section 31 of the Electoral Act 2010 states, “Every political party shall not later than 60 days before the date appointed for a  general election submit to the commission the list of candidates the party proposes to sponsor at the elections. Section 34 of the Act adds, “That the commission shall at least 30 days before the day of the election publish a statement of the full names and addresses of all candidates standing nominated.” Citing Section 85 (1) of the Electoral Act which states that a party shall give the commission at least 21 days’ notice of any convention, congress, etc., for electing members of its executive committees or nominating candidates for any of the elective offices, Enang said this was at variance with the bill proposed by the National Assembly. He said since the constitution did not empower a President or governor to whom a bill was forwarded by the legislature to edit, correct, amend or in any manner alter the provisions of any such bill to reflect appropriate intent before assenting to same, Buhari had no choice but to return it to the National Assembly. Enang called on the National Assembly to quickly rectify the necessary sections and return the bill to the President for assent. It would be recalled that the President, had in March refused to sign the Electoral Amendment Bill. In a letter to the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, he explained why he did not sign the bill. According to him, the bill usurped the constitutional powers of INEC to decide on election matters, including fixing the dates and the order they would be held. He also stated that he was complying with the requirements of Section 58 of the 1999 Constitution, particularly sub-section 4, by refusing to sign the bill. Buhari’s letter in March read, “Pursuant to Section 58(4) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), I hereby convey to the Senate, my decision on 3rd March, 2018 to decline presidential assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2018 recently passed by the National Assembly. “Some of my reasons for withholding assent to the bill include the following: the amendment to the sequence of the elections in Section 25 of the principal Act may infringe upon the constitutionally guaranteed discretion of the INEC to organise, undertake and supervise all elections provided in Section 15(a) of the Third Schedule of the Constitution. “The amendment to Section 138 of the principal Act to delete two crucial grounds upon which an election may be challenged by candidates, unduly limits the rights of candidates in elections to a free and fair electoral review process. “The amendment to Section 152 Subsection 325 of the principal Act may raise constitutional issues over the competence of the National Assembly to legislate over local government elections.” A new Section 25 in the Electoral Act, which states that the sequence of the elections will commence with the National Assembly, to be followed by governorship and state Houses of Assembly, while presidential poll will come last, had polarised the All Progressives Congress Caucus in the National Assembly. Following the refusal of the President to sign the bill, the National Assembly removed the controversial section, where the lawmakers fixed dates of elections and resent the bill to Buhari on August 3. With the refusal of Buhari to give assent to the bill, Nigerians are worried if his action would not adversely affect the 2019 general elections. PDP Asks N’Assembly To Override Buhari In its reaction to President Buhari’s withholding of assent to the bill, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) urged the National Assembly to override the President by vetoing the Electoral Act 2010 (Amendment) Bill. The PDP said Buhari’s refusal did not come to the party as a surprise, alleging that his commitment to a free and fair 2019 elections was mere lip service. Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, said in a statement that it was now manifestly clear to Nigerians that all the reasons adduced by President Buhari for withholding his assent in the past were lame. He said: “The clerical and drafting arguments put forward by President Buhari could not in any way outweigh the importance of amendments meant to engender free, fair, credible and transparent elections in 2019. “The PDP therefore charges the National Assembly to stand with Nigerians in the overall quest for credible elections by immediately overriding President Buhari on the bill.” APC Keeps Mum Several attempts to get the APC’s reaction to President Buhari’s refusal to assent to the Electoral Amendment bill were unsuccessful. Calls to the mobile telephone number of the party’s acting National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, were not picked or returned. Buhari Betrays Nigerians By Declining Asset To Bill – Secondus Prince Uche Secondus, the PDP National Chairman, in his reaction, scolded President Buhari for not signing the amended Electoral Bill into law. Secondus described the President as an excuse giver, saying that he had yet to shed the toga of a military dictator. Secondus said that the President was used to denying Nigerians. He said it was unfortunate that the President,  who he said just gave an assurance that he was committed to free, fair and credible elections, would refuse to sign a law aimed at strengthening democracy. Secondus asked Nigerians and the international community to hold the President responsible if “the next general elections failed.” He added: “We have said it on many occasions. This President is not a democrat.  He is a pretender. He never believed in democracy. He is a dictator to the core. “Here is a man who just told the world that he was not afraid of credible elections.  Yet, he is busy working openly and secretly against the interest of the nation. “His renewed rejection of the bill is an indication that he is either myopic about the tenets of democracy or against the workings of the National Assembly.” Secondus appealed to the National Assembly to either veto the President or “make sure in whatever way, that the law is passed.” APC, Not Ready For 2019 Polls – Labour Party Abdulkadir Abdulsalam, National Chairman of Labour Party  said the APC and its government were not ready for elections. He said: “It seems the APC and this government it leads is not prepared for the (2019) elections. In fact, they want to scuttle it and give an impression to the international community that we are running a military dictatorship. If not, how can a National Assembly consisting of 109 senators and 360 members of the House of Representatives pass a bill and one man throws it out? If there were errors like he said why didn’t he cite those errors, get them corrected and sign if the errors are that serious?” Buhari’s Action Will Adversely Affect Elections – Politician Tasiu Maliki, a Minna-based agriculturist and grassroots politician, said: “The implication of President Buhari’s refusal to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law few weeks to the elections is that the 2019 general elections cannot be without hitches. “This is due largely to the delay or battle for supremacy between the Executive and Legislative arm of government. “The Executive and the Legislative arm of government have been locked in battle of wits instead of seeing themselves as partners in progress, living by democratic norms and principles. They are locked in battle of wits to the detriment of the Nigerian masses who are at the receiving end of this tussle which is against democratic norms of separation of power. “The Executive and the Judiciary appear to have teamed up to fight the Legislature in the current dispensation. I suspect that there are more than meets the eye in the fight between the Presidency on one side and the Senate and House of Representatives on the other hand. That is why everything seems stagnated. The Independent national Electoral Commission (INEC) will always have reasons to mess up in the 2019 general elections and you cannot blame them if they come up with such excuses for failing in conducting free and fair elections because monies to be used in the election is part of the approvals that is yet to be signed by President Buhari. “Again, there could be other logistics, including of course, security votes. But, I see the area of security as mere formalities because, he who pays the piper dictates the tune. The Federal Government approves and pays salaries of the entire Nigeria’s security apparatus, though with our collective wealth. But trust me, they will work in favour of the APC and Buhari. “So, you can see it is going to be a whole lot of excuses for doing bad job in the coming elections by the INEC. Except the intervention of international bodies, the situation of the country, if this government continues beyond next year, will be worst than what we are seeing today.” Buhari’s Action Endangers Democracy – Orbih, Edo PDP Chair Chief Dan Osi Orbih, Edo State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said: “The delay or refusal by Mr. President to assent to the Electoral Act Amended Bill passed by the National Assembly less than 80 days to the general elections call for concern and the near silence of the Nigerian public on the president’s action is also lamentable. “It has become course for concern that Mr. President is carrying on as if there is nothing at stake by refusing to assent to the bill. “The issue here is what law is INEC going to use in conducting this all important election that Nigerians are looking up to? “Are we going to use the card reader? Or, are we going to be at the mercy of presiding officers who will use incident forms at will depending on what their intention are and who they are working for? “These are very serious issues. Are they going to transmit results from the polling unit to save the agony voters go through when they watch and read in pain the results of their units that has been changed at the collation centre? Or, are we going to go through this same process? Or, could the nation have wasted so much resources, time and resources in the National Assembly to bring about this amendment that the President has refused to assent to? “I am aware most of their earlier concerns were addressed in this final amendment, what exactly is the reason for the Electoral Act Amendment, which was passed by the National Assembly, not signed into law by Mr. President? “Unfortunately Nigerians are not asking questions. Unfortunately too, the President is carrying on as if there is nothing important about assenting to the Electoral Act as passed by the National Assembly to enable INEC to put in play the process that will lead the specific location in the conduct of the election. “I believe very strongly that these are not good sign for our democracy. The President withholding the assent to the Electoral Law is a danger to having a free and fair elections in Nigeria because members of the National Assembly are representatives of the people who did not just interact with the people, but based on their own experiences from their various constituencies, they come together to address the problems we have with the current Electoral system. “That the President, who is one man, can withhold the assent from the final result of that wonderful exercise put together by members of the National Assembly, the direct representatives of the people, is not only an affront, but constitutes a danger to our democracy.”