ABUJA – A former Chairman of the defunct Skye Bank, now Polaris Bank, Dr. Tunde Ayeni and  a former Managing Director of the bank, Timothy Oguntayo, were arraigned on Monday before Justice Nnamdi Dimgba of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja. However, the suit were granted bail to the tune of N50 million each in a money laundering suit filed against them by the Federal Government. Ayeni and Oguntayo were docked on an eight-count charge bordering on money laundering charge amounting to N4.75 billion and $5million. Both men denied any wrongdoing, a situation that made the prosecuting counsel, Abba Mohammed to request for a date to commence trial. Mohammed equally prayed the court to remand the defendants in prison custody pending commencement of trial. Reacting, counsel to Ayeni and Oguntayo,  Chief Wole Olanipekun SAN and Tola Oshodi, SAN respectively, told the court that there were pending bail applications filed on behalf of their clients which had already been served on the prosecution. The defence counsel informed the court that the defendants are on administrative bail by the EFCC, and that they have been on their own keeping their dates with the anti-graft agency for over a year now. Effort made by the prosecution counsel to kick against the bail application was futile as the court  demanded to know whether the offence was bailable, of which the prosecution answered in the affirmative. Having been convinced that the matter is bailable, the court asked parties to meet and agree on bail condition. After standing down the matter down for 10 minutes, the parties came back, with the prosecution asking the court to decide on the matter judicially and judiciously. Consequently, Justice Dimgba, granted the duo to bail in the sum of N50 million each and two sureties each in like sum. Justice Dimgba gave the defendants  36 hours to perfect the condition and ordered that any of the sureties should be a civil servant, who must be an assistant director and if a private citizen, must own landed property in Abuja or Lagos. They sureties are to present to the court, evidence of ownership of such property. The court ordered that the defendants must deposit their international passport with the registry of the court, and should not travel out of the country without the consent of the court. He later adjourned till  February 13 and 14 for commencement of trial. Part of the charge reads in part: “That you Mr Tunde Ayeni whilst being the Chairman Board of Directors of Skye Bank Plc and Timothy Oguntayo whilst being the Managing Director and Chief Executive of Skye Bank between  2014 and 2015 conspired at different times to do on illegal act. to wit: caused cash delivery to you Ayeni of the sums of money totaling N4.75 billion and $5 million belonging to Skye Bank Plc contrary to the provisions of Section 1(a) of Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act 2011 (as Amended) read together with section 18(a)of Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act 2011 (as Amended) and punishable under Section 16(2) (b) of the Money Laundering  (Prohibition) Act 2011 (as Amended). “That you Dr. Tunde Ayeni whilst being the Chairman, Board of Directors of Skye Bank Plc (now Polaris Bank Plc) on or about the 23” January, 2014 at Abuja within the Abuja Judicial Division of this Honourable Court did accept cash payment in the sum of N1, 000,000,00000 (One Billion Naira ) from staff of Skye Bank Plc being money belonging to Skye Bank Plc, contrary to the provisions of section 1(a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act 2011 (as Amended) and punishable under section 16(1)(d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 (as Amended) read together with section 16(2)(b) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act 2011 (as Amended).