P/HARCOURT – The political atmosphere in Rivers state was electrified on Tuesday following the announcement of Governor Nyesom Wike’s campaign team for his re-election in the 2019 governorship election. Political analysts in the state are of the opinion that the Governor is likely to have an easy ride over his arch political rival in the race in the mold of Architect Tonye Cole of the All Progressives Congress, APC, who is being supported by the Transportation minister, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi. For obvious reason, Rivers people believe that the major opposition political party in the state which is the APC, is yet to be deeply rooted in the political landscape of the state. That is even beside the fact that Tonye Cole, its flag bearer is a relatively unpopular amongst the electorate having lived his entire life as an astute business mogul. To millions of the residents of the state, Wike’s projects signature which sprouts all over the entire twenty three local government areas should make his re-election a walk in the pleasure park. Besides other sectors of the economy, the Wike administration has made so much impact in the area of road construction connecting virtually all parts of the state to the capital, Port Harcourt. Having access road from the hinterland to the city has improved the economy of people in the state and crashed high cost of farm produce. From the beginning, it was not so. Life was practically unbearable in the state as occasioned by its huge mineral resources like oil and gas thereby hiking the standard of living to a record high. Rural dwellers who are mainly peasant farmers can now afford to move their goods to the urban areas where demand is in the increase thereby impacting their lives in a positive dimension. However, it is not just the sterling projects the governor has executed that will single handedly eased off his race to victory in 2019. Beyond the signature projects, his assemblage of a team of technocrats and diplomat to pilot the affairs of his campaign organization is what the opposition should be more wary of. Governor Wike is one leader who believes in what he wants. He knows the choice of people to make him achieve what he wants. And he goes for such people. This played out during the inauguration of the PDP campaign Council in Port Harcourt on Thursday, December 27. The enlarged Campaign Council has as its Chairman, Chief Ferdinand Ngogo Alabraba an astute bank administrator who served as the chairman of the United Bank for Africa Plc who transited from the board of Standard Trust Bank Plc to United Bank for Africa after the merger of both banks in 2005. He is undoubtedly a technocrat of note who also handled such state assignments as the Chairman of the Golden Jubilee organizing committee which recorded a huge success. That feat later prompted Governor Wike to promise a 50-year development plan for the state. Because he craves for success in all his endeavors, Wike’s choice to make a woman his running mate in the 2015 governorship election was a political step taken in the right direction to the overwhelming applause of the womenfolk in the state. Dr Mrs Ipalibo Harry Banigo was the First Female Indigenous Principal of Rivers State School of Health Technology; first female Director of Public Health Services; First Female Head of Service; First Female Secretary to Rivers State Government; First Rivers State Indigene to be appointed Executive Secretary/ Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency. Thus, on 29th May, 2015 history was made when Dr. (Mrs.) Ipalibo Harry Banigo was sworn-in amidst a mammoth crowd at the Liberation Stadium as the First Female Deputy Governor of Rivers State. Above all of the aforementioned, the choice of the Director General of the PDP Campaign Council and the former Nigerian Ambassador to South Korea, His Excellency, Ambassador Desmond Akawor, fulfills Governor Wike’s knack for success as a political leader. It confirms the leadership tenet of the former American President, Theodore Roosevelt that “The best leader is the one who has sense enough to pick good men to do what he wants done, and the self-restraint to keep from meddling with them while they do it”. And that closely speaks volume of Warren Bennis’ postulation that “Leadership is the capacity to translate vision into reality”. Of course, this can only be achieved by virtue of the quality of men one can assemble to get the job done. It is at this point therefore that Governor Nyesom Wike did not need to think twice in his choice of Ambassador Desmond Akawor, who is currently the Administrator of Greater Port Harcourt Development Authority in Rivers State as his Campaign DG for 2019. Akawor is among the few notable politicians in Rivers State that has experienced robust, systematic and steady rise in the political horizon over the years with tact for strategic planning and administration. Akawor obtained his HND in Metallurgical Engineering at Federal Polytechnic Idah in 1988. He later bagged MBA in Project Management. He has attended various courses within and outside the shores of Nigeria to up the ante of his academic prowess. The former Ambassador started his job career as the Commercial Manager with First Aluminum Nigeria Plc in Port Harcourt. He was saddled with the responsibility of overseeing sales, Marketing, Production, Planning and Administration of the company. He later became the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Niger Delta Basin Development Authority (NDBDA) in August 1999 to October 2003. As a loyal, committed Party faithful and political strategist, Ambassador Akawor, rose up to become a global diplomatic pedigree as a former Nigerian Ambassador to South Korea where he held sway for over eight years carving a niche for himself as the Dean of African ambassadors due to his enviable record of competence and administrative prowess. He has a compelling work record. The diplomat served as the executive director in the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) and was in Charge of Engineering and Technical Service; comprising five departments of Sea view Properties Ltd. As the Executive Director, he superintended the Engineering and Technical Services for the day to day running of the Authority; all land leases and other properties of NPA at Abuja. Ambassador Akawor was later appointed Minister of State, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja by the former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. In the late President Musa Yar’ Adua administration, Akawor was appointed an Ambassador to South Korea, where he served as Diplomat representing Nigeria in that country for over eight (8) years. Ambassador Akawor is a man with accumulated political experience and exposure over the years. With a high sense of humility and comparative regards to instituted authority, the political icon has traversed virtually all spheres of human endeavor with delight. There is no doubt that with other quality men and women who are notable politicians, administrators and technocrats in the campaign team whose depth can never be in doubt, Akawor’s appointment for the second time as the DG of the Wike campaign council can only leave the opposition parties in a state of jittery. Given the fact that Governor Wike believes so much on job delivery only presupposes that he has confident and trust in the ability of Ambassador Desmond Akawor as the engine room of his campaign team to deliver on the job and make 2019 a reality for the PDP.