U.S. President, Donald Trump and the Republican legislators in Congress boost an accelerated plan to open Alaska to oil companies. Despite the opposition of the environmentalists, alerted today The New York Times. With its over 7.6 million hectares, the National Refuge of Wildlife of the Arctic is home to numerous species like caribou and the polar bear, while their protection is backed by 70 percent of all U.S. citizens, according to a survey carried out by the universities of Yale and George Mason. The period shows that the zone, which analysts consider as the richest in oil deposits of North America, is at the center of the government’s energy policy. Now Trump’s administration, backed by republicans in Congress and an Alaska corporation, is clearing the way for crude exploration along the coast, it stresses. Approved for decades, the laws in favor of the environment disappear now at an extraordinary speed before the haste of the red party which fears a change after the elections of 2020, it adds. The New York Times highlights its analysis is base don interviews to dozens of persons and the review of federal documents and copies of deliberations in the Executive, to which it had access. As part of that strategy, it says, the White House is about to end an evaluation of environmental impact in half the usual time. Although the daily clarifies that the production of oil could take about a decade or more, the change represents an advance in the campaign of this administration to exploit the fossile fuels and bury restrictive policies protecting the environment. The Department of the Interior, with jurisdiction on the refuge of the Arctic, was fundamental for the regulatory retreat in Alaska to please the desires of the big companies of simplifying the rules on how to use federal lands, indicates the newspaper. The publication clarifies that refuge is not the only objective of the government, but also gives a boost to the accelerated search for crude in another zones of that state. In that sense, it remembers that last December, the Capitol approved opening the region to oil exploration under the pretext of generating income for the Federal government. The battle to open the National Refuge of Wildlife of the Arctic to the energy companies is half a century old, when crude was discovered around Prudhoe Bay. UIn 1995, Republicans that controlled both chambers of Congress, sanctioned a legislation in that sense, but was vetoed by the then president William Clinton.