ADO-EKITI – The Police command in Ekiti State has deployed men to maintain peace at the popular Ado Grammar School, Ado-Ekiti after a student dropped dead in a voodoo fight with his colleague. Saturday Independent learnt that  16-year-old  Mathew Favour died after he engaged another student, Kehinde Timilehin in a fight for supremacy over potency of charms. According to sources, the duo had a disagreement over an issue that remained shrouded to their colleagues during school hours which led to fisticuffs. A source added that the two parties closed for the day as the issue remained unresolved only to return to the school field later in the evening apparently well prepared to slug it out finally. However, Favour, a Senior Secondary School II student was said to have died in the scuffle that ensued having been overpowered by his enraged colleagues who account said hacked him to death. He later died at the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital(EKSUTH), Ado Ekiti. However, threat of reprisal attack by both the family of the deceased students and his supports led to the invitation and deployment of police to the school. “The  suspect had since been arrested and taken to the Criminal  Investigation Department (CID) at the Police Command shortly after the deceased was confirmed dead,” the source revealed. In his account, the School Principal, Mr Ebenezer Falayi and his Vice, Mr. Olurotimi Olaoluwa, explained that the incident occurred around 2.15pm at an unoccupied section of the school after the school had closed for the day. According to the Principal the school had closed and student have dispersed shortly noise from the desolate section of the school attracted the attention of the teachers who rushed to thescene where the victim had already been stabbed and was subsequently rushed to EKSUTH. “This incident really saddened us because it could have been avoided. What I gathered from students who were at the spot of the gory incident was that the duo had argued over who possessed a superior charm. The deceased was said to have rushed home to fortify himself with charms for the fight. “I was told that the suspect later overpowered him, seized his amulets and later stabbed the victim in the chest having neutralised  his charms. Our teachers including myself, my Vice and Registrar alongside other teachers who were resident on campus rushed him to EKSUTH. We even took the suspect along. “At the hospital, the victim was put on life support, but that could not help the situation, he died in the hospital. I had to quickly call the DPO of Odo Ado Police Station who reinforced his men and contacted the station at Oke-Ila to prevent the suspect  from being lynched by the enraged deceased’s family members. “The hospital insisted on conducting an autopsy before releasing the corpse but the family resisted it. They later released the corpse to the family when it nearly caused trouble in the hospital.”