ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari has again stressed the need for Heads of Government and leaders of the continent to be united in wiping out terrorism which has dealt hard blow on the people. He said the fight against terrorism assumed an alarming dimension in the last 8years robbing the sub-regions of critical development and growth. Buhari gave the charge on Saturday at the extra-ordinary summit of Heads of State and Government of the Lake Chad Basin Commission taking place in Abuja, Nigeria. According to the President, the infiltration of the terrorist group by foreign bodies, including the resurgence of attacks, particularly on the military, and the abduction of civilians for ransom across our borders has necessitated the need for collective efforts in tackling it. While giving his welcome remarks, he said, “I thank you for your presence today in Abuja to yet another Extraordinary Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC). ” Today’s Meeting is in continuation of our joint efforts to address the prevailing security challenges in our sub-region after our meeting on 29th November, 2018, in N’Djamena. “Your participation in today’s summit, in spite of your tight schedules, is a clear demonstration of the resolute commitment that we all attach to the fight against our common enemy, Boko Haram, and the restoration of durable peace and security to our sub-region. “Your Excellencies would recall that during our Summit in N’Djamena, the need to overhaul our current strategy and concept of operations in the fight against the Boko Haram Terrorists took the Centre Stage of our discussions. “Our meeting today will consider the report of the Committee we set up during our last Summit on the way forward. I thank the Committee for meeting the deadline assigned to it and I hope that their recommendations will bring a new dynamism in the fight against Boko Haram and their international affiliates. “The Lake Chad region has suffered decades of neglect and poor infrastructural development, the Boko Haram crisis in the last eight (8) years has worsened its already bad situation. We must take cognizance of the fact that sustainable growth and development of the sub-region is dependent on the quick attainment of peace and stability in the area. “We must put an end to the crisis in the sub-region to enable meaningful development for its people. We must remain resolute and committed in our collective efforts at attaining peace as well as eradicating terrorism and violent extremism from the sub-region. “The time has come for the evil of Boko Haram to be brought to a definitive end. I am sure that this summit will take the right decisions in this regard. This is a fight to the finish. We must, and we will, by the grace of God, wipe out terrorism from our sub-region.” In an address, the Executive Secretary of the Lake Chsad Basin Commission, Mamman Nuhu, called for accelerated action on the implementation of the regional stabilisation strategy in areas within the Lake Chad region affected by terrorist activities. The African leaders attending the meeting include President Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger Republic, Prof. Faustin-Archange Touadera of the Central African Republic, Idriss Deby Itno of the Republic of Chad and Patrice Talon of the Republic of Benin.