A young musician, Emmanuel Idolise, popularly called, “Mr Jack” has urged youths to always live decent  lifestyles and stop  exhibiting  immoral behaviours  behind the curtains. The hip-hop artist spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Lagos in connection with his recently released single album, titled: “Holy Mary”. Mr Jack, the best performing artist who garnered the 2017 Top Naija Music Award, said that the trend of immorality  had resulted into most youths living deceitful lifestyles. He said that some youths were fond of being good children at home but putting up a complete opposite of such good lifestyles while with their peers. He said  that  youths living immoral and deceitful lifestyles  in public were those he described as  “ Fake Holy Mary’’ in his latest song . He said, “This craze by young boys and girls exhibiting wrong impressions about themselves to their immediate families, homes and churches has become the order of the day. “In trying to please their parents that they are good children, they had turned the world into a pretentious one. “This dangerous youthful exuberance needs to be checked before it affects the future of our youths.” According to him, such ungodly lifestyle comes to play whenever youths gain freedom from parental guidance. Mr Jack, who had produced 11 tracks, said that he was inspired to record his latest song based on his perception of youths, especially, from the tertiary institutions’ campuses. He said that he noticed that some female folks, and even guys from responsible homes, had to join some secret cults just to fit in. “They tend to betray their origin by doing so. I call such people: `Fake Holy Mary’’ because they are trying to be holier-than- the-holies in public,” he said. The artist, who released his first studio album in 2017, therefore, urged the youth to have a change of attitude so that they could be addressed as future leaders of the country. He also advised parents to draw their children close to themselves; especially in this Yuletide by monitoring  the friends they would keep and where they would likely visit. “The best way to solve this problem is for parents to make their children their best friends; that way, the children would open up on their activities and plans to their parents,” he said. NAN reports that Mr Jack’s most recent stage show held last month at Marwa Beach, Victoria Island, tagged, ‘The Return of Mr. Jack’ showcased the dynamism of the Nigerian culture through dance, music and comedy.