The Nigerian Army said its troops have dislodged Boko Haram insurgents from their hideout in Gamboru Ngala Local Government Area of Borno. The Army said on its Twitter handles that on November 29; the troops launched offensive on two fronts against the insurgents and successfully dislodged them from their hideout in the area. It disclosed that the insurgents who were preparing for attack, fled on sighting the troops leaving behind their ammunitions, food items and other consumables. “In compliance with the directives of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai; that commanders in Operation LAFIYA DOLE, to carry out massive attack and offensive mission to the Boko Haram terrorists’ suspected locations, hideouts and enclaves, troops of 3 Battalion, 22 Brigade, embarked on an exploration mission on November 29, 2018. “The gallant troops carried out offensive patrols on two fronts: Ngala Bridge and Gamboru town along Wurge village, northern Borno. On sighting the troops, the terrorists who were massing up for a possible attack abandoned their logistic stores, equipment and fled. “The equipment captured includes one AK-47 Rifle with registration number 819044; two AK-47 magazines, 443 rounds of 12.7mm ammunition, 94 rounds of PKT ammunition, 16 rounds of 7.62mm (NATO) ammunition and 4 RPG Bombs,” it stated. The troops also recovered one Rocket Propelled Grenade (RPG) charge; one Anti-Aircraft telescopic sight, one Anti-Aircraft top cover, clearing rod, one Hilux GT van, two motorcycles, one flag, two blankets, one praying mat, one mosquito net and 10 motorcycle spare tubes. Other items include one tools’ box, one towing cable, one camel bag, three water melon, three cans of milk, two bottles of Maltina , two sachets of sugar, three jerry cans, one MP3 player,  groundnut and a First Aid kit. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Army has warned again about the fake news fabricated to demoralise troops, cast aspersion and discredit the military in its operations against the Boko Haram insurgents in the northeast. Brig. Sani Kukasheka Usman, the Director, Army Public Relations, in a statement said that such publications aimed to misinform and mislead the people; aid the insurgents cause and scuttle the 2019 election. Kukasheka disclosed that some elements had continued to publicise inaccurate casualty figures despite the clarifications by the Army Headquarters on casualties recorded at Metele and other military locations in the northeast. “The Nigerian Army has noted with great concern the deliberate and concerted efforts to mislead the public by some people through misinformation, thus create erroneous impression of the Nigerian Army through inaccurate and false publication of casualty figures on the unfortunate attacks on some of its locations in the northeast. “The latest of this worrisome development was the attack on our troops’ location at Metele, Borno, in which some persons and media outlets continued to circulate various wrong accounts and inaccurate casualty figures of troops without efforts to verify from the military. “This is coming on the heels of our release on November 28, 2018; which gave accurate details of the attacks and casualty figures in a bid to set the records straight and inform the public true account of things. “We also promised to continuously carry the public along through accurate and timely information dissemination on operations and other activities of the Nigerian Army. “However, it was observed that the trend continued unabated, most of these inaccurate, false reports and fake news was aimed at denigrating the leadership of the Nigerian Army”. “Regrettably, the rate at which some mischievous persons ignorantly attack the Armed Forces especially the Nigerian Army is very alarming and unfortunate. “This is a deliberate attempt to demoralise the Nigerian Army which would have devastating consequences on troops’ will to discharge their constitutional duties especially in the fight against terrorism and insurgency, thus affecting national security”. Kukasheka warned ‘mischief makers’ to keep the Nigerian Army out of politics and mischief, and urged journalists to ensure accurate reportage as well as adhere to professional ethics. He noted that the feat achieved by the Nigerian Army  in the counter insurgency campaign in  the past three years was ‘glaringly obvious’, adding that recent temporary setbacks experienced in the course of the fight against insurgency should not be the yardstick for condemning its accomplishments. According to him, the Nigerian Army has identified those perpetrating the fake news on the Metele attack, adding the army would take appropriate legal actions against them. Kukasheka explained that the measure was necessary to ensure that the Nigerian Army is insulated from propaganda and ulterior motives of destabilising the country, stressing that the perpetrators were covertly supporting terrorists and their activities in Nigeria with a long-term objective. 2019 Elections: Primate Church Of Nigeria Allays Fear Of Bloodshed Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the Primate of Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Rev. Nicholas Okoh, has allayed fear of possible bloodshed. Okoh gave the assurance in Abuja at the 2018 Carnival for Christ and Thanksgiving of the Diocese of Abuja, held on Saturday. He said Nigerians should expect a peaceful general election in 2019, having scaled similar processes in the past. “There is huger fear about safety, just like before the last elections when people were terribly afraid. “Some people are even thinking of relocating, that they don’t know what politicians will do. “In the light of this, we are encouraging our people to trust in God who helped us before now,” he said. He also appealed to Nigerians to make God their refuge, adding that those entertaining fear of relocation ahead of 2019 elections should desist. He reminded Nigerians about the promise of God that he would rescue Nigeria from any form of blood bath. The Primate therefore encouraged Nigerians to participate in the elections and never lose hope in the nation’s election process. He said, “Nigerians should have hope because things are getting better and anybody who believes in God can never lose hope.” The vicar of Our Saviour’s Anglican Church, Durumi Abuja, Ven. Syrenius Okoriko, said the carnival was a very important event for the church. Okoriko who is also the Education Secretary of the Anglican Girls Grammar School said the event was to celebrate and thank God for all he had done in the outgoing year.