Dan Abia, Gbemiga Abegunrin and Samuel Ogidan One major challenge facing the Muhammadu Buhari administration has been the issue of lopsidedness in political appointments. Not a few had accused the government of contravening the federal character principles in all the appointments made by the president since the inception of this administration While some regions have expressed concerns that they are not being carried along, others have waved it off, with the excuse that the President has not done anything wrong. The composition of the security service chiefs and other sundry appointments in this administration since it came on board in 2015, may have given credence to accusations of nepotism, where it was alleged that the president’s employments and gestures favour his kinsmen more than others, especially in the Aso Villa. Aside the Villa, key offices, agencies and ministries like the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have been reported to have the presence of Buhari’s relations. For instance, the issue of appointments of heads of security agencies were not only criticised but also vehemently opposed by southeast zone for being left out. The south-south had felt compensated by the appointment of the Mathew Seiyefa as the acting Director General of the Department of State Security (DSS) following the sack of Lawal Musa Daura by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo when he acted as president. No sooner president Buhari returned from his vacation abroad that he dropped Seiyefa from Bayelsa State and replaced him with Yusuf Magaji Bichi from Kano State. Presently, with the exception of General Gabriel Olonisakin, Chief of Defence Staff, who is from Ekiti State in the southwest and Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas, Chief of Naval Staff, (Cross River State) from the South, almost heads of security agencies are from the northern part of the country. While the current Minister of Interior, Lt.-Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazau (retd.), under whose purview are the Nigeria Prisons Service, the Nigeria Immigration Service, the Federal Fire Service and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, hails from Kaduna State, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai, is from Borno State. The National Security Adviser, Maj-Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd.) is also from Borno State. Also from Borno State is the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC) Mr. Ibrahim Magu. The Minister of Defence, Brig.-Gen. Mansur Dan Ali (retd.), hails from Zamfara State, while the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, is from Bauchi State. The Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, hails from Niger State. Also from Niger State is the Commandant-General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Abdullahi Muhammadu. Also from the North are the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Immigration Service, Muhammed Babandede, (Jigawa State); the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs Service, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (retd.) (Bauchi State); the Controller-General of the Nigeria Prison Service, Ja’afaru Ahmed (Kebbi State); and the Federal Road Safety Commission boss, Corps Marshal Boboye Oyeyemi, is from Kwara State. Apparently frowning at the obviously lopsidedness in appointments and non-compliance with the principles of federal character, the Senate last week stepped down confirmation of appointments into boards of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). President Buhari had sought legislative approval for Moses Ndasule, Lawan Mamman, Galadanci Najib, and Adeleke Rafiu to serve on the board of the EFCC. The nominees were screened by the Committee on Anti-corruption and Financial Crimes, which presented its report on the floor of the chamber during plenary. Senator Chukwuma Utazi (PDP, Enugu North), chairman of the committee, had in his report said the committee recommended their confirmation on the basis of their “qualification, experience and suitability” for the job. He, however, said the committee observed that the nomination excluded other geopolitical zones. According to him, “The committee observed that three out of the four nominees were from the north central, northeast and northwest geopolitical zones, with only one nominee from the southern part of the country, which is southwest. “The committee notes that this is not in strict compliance with the Federal Character Principle as provided for in Section 14 (3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The committee makes this observation to guide the executive in future nominations,” Utazi said. Senator Victor Umeh (APGA, Anambra Central) who opposed the nomination, said it would send more wrong signals about the fight against corruption. Addressing the Senate President, he said, “Mr. President, we have continued to say that there is need to accommodate all parts of Nigeria in activities of government, particularly in appointing people into agencies of government. That has been the practice in this chamber, and on this issue of fight against corruption, the EFCC is a very important commission because the fight involves all parts of Nigeria. “People are investigated in all parts of Nigerian and the commission cannot fight corruption to the satisfaction of all Nigerians if some parts of the country are not represented on it,” urging the Senate to be “bold enough” to step down the consideration of the report and return the nomination to the presidency. Senator Mathew Urighide (PDP, Edo South), who supported Umeh, said the exclusion of the south-south and southeast painted a picture that people from the zones were the “real criminals” in the country. He also called on the Senate to step down the consideration of the report until it reflected federal character. Reacting to the development, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, former governor of Kaduna State, Eze (Dr.) Alex C. Anozie, Ezendigbo of Ibadan and Oyo State, Comrade Lekia Christian, coordinator of Niger Delta Coalition Against Violence, NDCAV, Emmanule Okotie-Eboh, son of Nigeria’s foremost Minister of finance, Festus Okotie-Eboh, Auwal Ibrahim Musa (Rafsanjani), the Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) submitted that the lopsidedness could affect the cohesion of the country. Christian said that the federal character principle clearly states that federal appointment must be allocated in a way that it must reflect all the tribes, religion and the ethnic nationalities that make up Nigeria. “It is constitutional that every appointment must be based on the principle of federal character. As a federal state with multi-ethnic nature, all the states, tribes, religion and nationalities in Nigeria must have representatives in the central cabinet. But what we are seeing today in this government does not reflect any sense of belonging. Lekia noted that the President does not need to worry himself so much about compensating his political loyalists with appointments thereby denying other tribes the opportunity of having equal representation in the federal cabinet. “Such lopsided appointments cannot promote national unity. You don’t sacrifice national interest on the platform of politics. The appointment you would have given to other tribes for equal representations, you take to your cronies or political loyalists in form of compensation. This is unacceptable. By so doing, you are deliberately balkanising Nigeria the more,” Lekia added. Okotie-Eboh said the decision of the senate was most commendable. He said it would checkmate further suppression of the other regions of the country by the ruling government. “I may not be surprised that the Senate is now paying the president back haven almost forced Magu on them for confirmation. In the eye of the Nigerian Parliament, Magu is not recognized. So, it will amount to irresponsible action should the senate which rejected the confirmation of the acting chairman to now confirm the nominees who will now be working directly with the man they had earlier rejected. “Secondly, why should this government take so much for granted by undermining the unity of this country? Where is the principle of fairness, equity and those good qualities that make Nigeria one? Why should Buhari concentrate appointments so much in one place to the detriment of other regions? It is important that the National Assembly should override the executive, particularly the President on some of these things”, he said. Anozie called on President Buhari to urgently address the lapses noticed by the Senate, in order to give every region of the country a sense of belonging. The head of the Oyo Igbo community commended the Senate for defending the oneness of the country by calling for equal and adequate representation of all geopolitical zones. Anozie specifically maintained that Southeast should not be shortchanged in federal appointments again, as the region has already been marginalised. According to him, Igbo people are brilliant, enterprising and patriotic, and should be given opportunities to contribute their quota to the socioeconomic and political development of Nigeria. Also some political analysts and concerned Nigerians have frowned at the happenings in the executive, where it was noted that the ministers that resigned recently have been replaced by people from a particular zone(s). For example, Kemi Adeosun (South West) resigned as Minister of Finance, she was replaced by Zainab Ahmed (North West); Kayode Fayemi (South West) resigned as Minister of Mines and Steel, he was replaced by Bawa Bwari (North Central); Ibrahim Jibril (North Central) quit, he was also replaced by Minister of State, Suleiman Hassan (North East). All these developments have been said to be the trademark of this administration and this would have made people like Ango Abdullahi and other progressive Northerners and their southern counterparts to criticise this administration. Reacting to this development, former governor of old Kaduna State and the National Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Balarabe Musa, who declined comment on the issue of lopsided appointments in this government on the ground that it is not a fundamental national issue, said that his party is committed to national unity. He said that if his party happens to win the presidential race, it is not expected to do otherwise but to do justice to all and sundry. “Of course the nature of our political party is such that nobody expects us to do otherwise. We are a political party that is committed to justice, national unity, democracy and even progressive development  of the country, so nobody will expect us to do such a thing that will be questioned,” Musa said. Also speaking on this development, Auwal Ibrahim Musa (Rafsanjani) said, “I think one of the problems we have is that the people that are working with Mr. President are not doing a thorough job for him because it is their responsibility to help him. “The President cannot know everybody and cannot know everything, so, it is the responsibility of the people he appoints to assist him to be able to ensure that there is federal character. There should be fairness in terms of appointments and distribution.” The CISLAC boss noted that recommendations for the nomination of members into the EFCC actually came from the commission, adding, “recommendations are actually coming from the agencies for example, the EFCC would have made recommendations for their approval.” Ezendigbo of Ibadan and Oyo state, Eze (Dr.) Alex C. Anozie, said such lopsidedness in federal appointments is not good enough for the unity of Nigeria.