Lagos – The Executive Chairman of Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC), Dr. Kweku Tandoh has charged the newly inaugurated boards of sports associations to ensure that their tenure in office positively impacted on the development of sports in the state. Forty boards of sports associations were inaugurated on Monday at the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Surulere by Tandoh, on behalf of the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode. He charged all the boards members’ to go down to the grassroots in their bid to develop their various sports. “I have no doubt that chairmen and members are people of proven integrity. I am happy that even before this appointment, many of you have been actively involved in the activities of these associations. “This shows the genuine passion you all have for these sports and I believe you would not fail in these duties. This is a called to serve to all of you today. LSSC Director General, Mr. Babatunde Bank-Anthony enjoined the new boards to reach out to corporate world in injecting funds into their various associations. “While the Government is pleased to take the lead role in support of sports, I wish to encourage you all to engage Corporate Nigeria in your efforts to promote your sport. “Sports all over the world is private sector driven, and as Lagos is the commercial nerve centre of West Africa, we expect to leverage on this and successfully incorporate the private sector into sports. “Sport is a global business that yields vast returns for Corporates the world over. We need to get our thinking caps on, begin to speak private sector language and persuade them to join with us in boosting Lagos State sports. “Sports sponsorship in Lagos should be a viable marketing and business investment, and more than merely a CSR exercise. It is up to us as a team to create an enabling environment to convince Corporate Lagos of the value in sports and persuade them to invest”, he said. To Lagos State Head of Service, Mrs. Folashade Adesoye, the calibre of people in the sports associations shows that sports in Lagos will be taken to the next level, adding that “successful implementation of sports policies in Lagos State is now rested on the shoulders of all the chairmen and board members. “There must be synergy between the boards of sports associations and the management of LSSC”, she said.