Lagos – Mixed reactions have trailed the reported escape of 190 policemen who were undergoing military training at the Nigerian Army Special Forces School, Buni-Yadi, Yobe State. The 190 escapees were among 2,000 mobile policemen deployed last month by the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, to complement military fight against the Boko Haram insurgents in the North-East. Some senior police officers do not agree with the deployment of policemen to fight war, but they do not, however, see anything wrong for them to undergo military training. Former Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Marvel Akpoyibo, who retired as Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG), said, “Section 4 of the Police Act says the statutory duties of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) include other duties and all that. “It means it includes military duties. We are aware some police stations had been attacked by the terrorists, and if the policemen are not properly trained, how can they effectively repel the insurgents? That is why we have the anti-terrorists unit (CTU) in the police.” Akpoyibo does not see anything wrong for the policemen to undergo military training “because the weapons of the terrorists are more sophisticated. The society we are now is becoming more volatile.” He, however, condemned the deployment of policemen to war front. “Deploying policemen to fight war in this time we are is not proper. If there is war, policemen can be drafted to places after the military had taken over such places. The police are to maintain peace, law and order.” Akpoyibo further argued that “the fact that they attended military training is not enough to be on the forefront of war. That is wrong.” According to him, “Nothing wrong attending military training but the military should be on the forefront, then the police can assist. “Because of the kind of sophisticated weapons the insurgents are carrying, the military should be more equipped.” Also speaking in the same vein, retired DIG Yakubu Mohammed said: “The Police Act empowers only the president to draft policemen to war and not the Inspector-General of Police. “A policeman is not trained to fight war but to quell riots. The military training is different from police training,” he maintained. He, however, explained that during the Nigerian civil war, policemen were drafted to support the federal troops, adding that one of them, “after the civil war came back to the police as Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of Kaduna.” But retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), Baba Adisa Bolanta, stressed on the Police Act that empowered policemen to be drafted to war. He explained that “there is nothing wrong for the police to undergo military training to be able to fight war.” He added: “The Act empowers the Inspector-General of Police to draft policemen for military duties in and outside the country.” Also supporting Bolanta, retired AIG Bala Hassan said there was nothing wrong in giving policemen military training to update them. He recalled that when he was Commissioner of Police in charge of Mobile Force (COMPOL MOPOL) he was directed by the IGP then “to liaise with the military to train some of my mobile men,” adding that “198 of the mobile men were trained at the Nigerian Army Infantry School, Kaduna.” Hassan, however, cautioned that although Section 4 of the Police Act empowered policemen to be drafted to war as directed by the president, “the IGP may have taken permission from the president.” He continued: “So, I don’t think it is wrong drafting policemen to war, provided the relevant laws are being taken by the IGP.”