ABUJA  –Lt- Gen. Tukur Buratai, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), on Monday, lamented that the Boko Haram terrorists group had sustained its criminal activities in the North East, thereby bringing untold hardship, pains and fears upon the citizens, in spite of troops’ sustained operations to promote and protect human rights in the area. Buratai spoke through a statement issued by Brig- Gen. Sani Usman, the Director of Army Public Relations (DAPR), to mark this year’s International Human Rights Day. The army chief noted that the military had committed so much into restoring peace and human dignity in the North East, but that the terrorists were bent on continuing to afflict the people and trample on their rights. “I note with regret the situation in some areas in the North Eastern states of Nigeria where heinous acts of terrorism continue to be perpetuated by Boko Haram terrorists. “I specifically pay tribute to the officers, men and women who have lost their lives in the pursuit of human rights for the people living in these communities. “While these resurgent acts of terrorism challenge the rights that we celebrate today, I nevertheless believe that freedom including the right to live without fear will triumph eventually over terrorism and the Nigerian Army remains committed to working toward that end,” the COAS assured. He emphasised that the army firmly believed that the promotion and protection of human rights were essential components of military operations. Buratai said that they firmly embraced the idea and the message behind the International Human Rights Day and were committed to doing their part to spread awareness and support for human rights every day. “On this day, I recommit the Nigerian Army to supporting the brave officers, men and women who are working daily to defend human dignity and advance the cause of freedom of Nigerians across the 36 states of Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory,” he stated. The army chief had, last year, issued a first ever statement by the Nigerian Army in commemoration of International Human Rights Day, when he restated the commitment of the soldiers to the promotion and protection of Human Rights. This day marks the anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a document that enshrines the fundamental freedoms of religion, expression, peaceful assembly and association for all individuals, everywhere.