AKURE – The Yoruba Youths Coalition (YYC) at the weekend declared its support for the reelection of President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo. The group appealed to all youths across the six geo-political zones of the country to vote for Buhari and Osinbajo in next year’s presidential election. It said the Buhari government had used the last three-and-a-half years to restore the glory of the country and lay a good foundation for her socio-economic development. In a statement by its national president, Olalekan Owolabi and national secretary, Boluwaji Ayeni, the coalition commended the government for its fight against corruption and various intervention programmes designed for youths in the country. It said: “We examined the state of affairs of our nation in the last three-and-a-half years under the leadership and administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. “It is our observation that the anti-corruption drive of the President in all sectors of the economy has been unparalleled and unprecedented, which has made the various government parastatals and agencies accountable in revenue generation. “The president had on several occasions made it known that Nigerian youths and not oil are the assets of the nation. “It is in view of the foregoing that the president initiated, among others, the social intervention programmes, which comprise the N-Power and numerous agricultural schemes designed to enable the Nigerian youths explore their potentials and become masters of their own businesses. “Expectedly, millions of Nigerian youths have become beneficiaries of the several initiatives put up by the Federal Government “The Buhari government has improved the security situation in the country and performed creditably well in upgrading and developing the transport, power and health infrastructure. “We cannot afford the Nigeria project and the march towards greatness to be truncated by those who possess no agenda other than enthroning greed and placing the wealth of our nation in the hands of a very few.” The group also drummed support for the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos state, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. It commended the Iyaloja-General of Nigeria, Folashade Tinubu-Ojo, and the Chief Imam of Yorubaland, Sheikh Abdukareem Aduranigba, for promoting the cause of Yoruba youths.