ENUGU – The Mandate Renaissance Initiative, Enugu, has applauded the value orientation which Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has been propagating in the state. Dr Felix Ugwu, patron of the group, stated this while speaking with journalists at the House on the Rock music fiesta, tagged ‘Good morning Enugu’. Ugwu, a United States-based consultant, extolled the guiding principles upon  which Ugwuanyi had been leading the state,  stressing that “it is truly rooted in godliness.” Ugwu, who led the Ugwuanyi’s Re-Election Support Group to support the governor during the fiesta, commended the godly spirit with which Governor Ugwuanyi had been piloting the affairs of Enugu State. He added that they were the bedrock upon which peace, unity and development could be achieved in any given society. “This fiesta could only hold in an atmosphere of peace such as the one Enugu people are enjoying under the leadership of Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. “We believe that Ugwuanyi has done well and as such should be given a second chance to consolidate on gains achieved for Enugu people. “The unparalleled peace and security of life and property prevalent in Enugu was the hallmark of Ugwuanyi’s achievements among several road projects, bridges and buildings constructed by his administration.” Hon. Ifeanyi Agu, the Coordinator of The Mandate  Renaissance Initiative and the Administrator of Udi South Development Centre, said the group would continue to support Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for the enthronement of good leadership in Enugu State. “The Mandate Renaissance Initiative’  has  continued to mobilised her members and the entire people of Enugu state to effectively participate in the electoral process with a view to voting massively for Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi during the 2019 Governorship election,” Agu said. He called on those who have not collected their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to go to the designated centres for collection, insisting that the power of the electorates lies with the voter cards.