LAGOS – Chief Maxi Okwu, National Leader of Otu Nkwado Atiku Na Obi, an Igbo voters’ volunteer movement for the support of Atiku/Obi presidential ticket, has commended the National Election Debate Group (NEDG) and the Broadcasting Organisation of Nigeria (BON) over last weekend’s Vice Presidential Debate. Okwu, who spoke through a statement issued by Okah Kingsley Chukwuebuka, the group’s Secretary, Research/Publicity, said that having listened to the debate, restated the need for a paradigm shift in the polity, hence his group’s support for the Atiku/Obi presidential ticket. He said the vice presidential debate also afforded patriotic and unbiased Nigerians the opportunity to judge between the foremost candidates of the two major political parties in this contest, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). Okwu, former factional National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), stressed: “As for us, we had earlier on considered economy, job creation, Rule of Law and fiscal Federalism as our main reason for throwing our support for Atiku/Obi. “With the debate, we reaffirm our support for Atiku/Obi. This is predicated on the overwhelming cum momentous performance touching our main ideas about governance, which Peter Obi dissected in practical terms during debate.” Okwu, a veteran politician and lawyer, maintained that Nigerians had been faced with the choice(s) of choosing a team with hindsight on how to fix the economy or continue with those still promising them hardship as if what they had been going through was not enough. He said: “We call on Nigerians to look beyond political affiliations and leanings as the task to rescue and get Nigeria working again has taken a quantum leap; uniting forces, breaking age-long political imbroglios that placed a cog on our wheel of political advancement. “It is ideal we remind the people that PDP as it is today, is configured with those who had believed in the ideals of service, but that the powerful corrupt ones prevented them. Fortunately, the corrupt ones have left to join Buhari in APC and doing exploit. “No wonder we hear of FIRS revenue in trillions, Customs in trillions, NPA, etc all put together exceeding the budget. Yet, we still borrow to add in trillions and achieve only 10 percent of capital budget. It is not the name, PDP, that was stealing. It was the leaders. “Now, they are 80 percent on the other camp, hence our intervention in making sure Atiku/Obi project is not reduced to a political party. We therefore serve political charlatans red card as men with track record of success in their public and private lives have shown up.” He stressed that Nigeria, as a fragile country, was too important to be left in the hands of those he described as looters in the current administration, even as he enjoined the citizens to reject them during the coming elections by voting for the Atiku/Obi ticket. Okwu also condemned alleged moves by APC chieftains and people in the Presidency, using those he termed as Fifth Columnists to forestall the main presidential debate between Atiku and Buhari. He said: “We can’t be intimidated again in this system. We are out to promote democratic ethos which this debate is all about. Nigerian citizens must not stomach this affront and therefore must know that it is not time to be evasive, spineless or confused. “We must be resilient, assertive and out to contend with anti democratic forces against our collective good as a people.” He alerted of an alleged plan of some individuals through a political party to approach court to obtain an injuction to stop the Presidential Debate to shield President Buhari from exercise. Okwu awrned: “The court should not reduce the hope resident in them. The survival of our nascent democracy is on course. History won’t be kind to any character, institution or gang that will sabotage this national enthusiasm that has given our democracy flesh and vigor. The court must not grant such an injunction. “Otu Nkwado Atiku Na Obi hereby invites objective and conscience ridden Nigerians to wake from their slumber and identify with Atiku/Obi project. It is an idea beyond idea. Their thinking pattern on governance will ensure equitable distribution of our common wealth. “We can’t risk the next four years in the hands of sophisticated thieves marauding as the Messiah of the millennium.”