Mohammed Shosanya and Justice Iyasere Lagos / Warri – Nigeria lost about N288 billion ($800 million) this year alone as a result of incessant breaches in the 87-kilometre Trans Forcados Pipeline (TFP), an official of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) said in Abuja on Tuesday. Specifically, the NNPC, its Joint Venture partners and the Nigerian federation were affected by the over 60-day production losses in the region of 11 million barrels of crude oil, according to a statement by Ndu Ughamadu, Spokesman of the NNPC. He said, “In 2018, we lost over 60 days of production due to incessant breaches on the TFP, despite having a security contract in place. “In terms of production numbers, this translates to over 11 million barrels of crude oil which on face value equates to over $800 million in lost revenue to all the stakeholders in the matrix which includes NNPC, its Joint Venture partners and the Nigerian federation.” He explained that based on the above scenario, Ocean Marine Solution was assigned to handle the TFP under the proof of concept arrangement which was yielding great results in the Bonny-Port Harcourt and Escravos-Warri crude evacuation lines. He added that the decision to assign the TFP surveillance package to Ocean Marine Solutions was reached after consideration of huge losses on TFP and rigorous appraisal of the company’s impressive record of performance on the Bonny-Port Harcourt and Warri-Escravos crude evacuation lines. Under this package, the surveillance company is obligated to protect the lines and bear the cost of repairs if and when there is any breach to the pipeline. According to him, this arrangement is totally different from the old order where the contractor gets paid for surveillance duties and totally exempted from repair cost or any form of responsibility in the event of any line break or breach to the pipeline he is paid to watch. On the alleged huge cost of the new contract, the corporation explained that the cost of the new deal pales into insignificance when placed side by side and value-for-money with the old arrangement. “In 2018, after we lost over 60 days of production, under the old contract, the NNPC and its stakeholders spent over $32 million on repairs, protection of the TFP and clean-up. This is a verifiable fact which makes the new deal not only better but far more rewarding to all stakeholders,” the corporation said. The NNPC also dismissed mounting insinuations that the entry of OMS into the TFP would spell doom for host community youths on the pipeline right-of-way currently rendering sundry services to the old service provider. It argued that the issue of TFP security is purely a matter of criminality which the host communities along the pipeline corridor are totally against. It noted that long before now, the corporation had evolved a host community participation model which naturally incorporated youths within the vicinity of its assets and areas of operations as veritable stakeholders cum participants in the running of such facility. “We want to state for the umpteenth time that based on our community engagement model for asset protection, OMS is obligated to engage youths in the TFP right-of-way in executing its mandate, thus reports of imminent loss of jobs by host community youths are totally incorrect and mischievous,” the corporation said. The NNPC also noted that community participation model is already in practice on Escravos-Warri and Bonny-Port Harcourt lines and these host communities have absolutely no issues with the corporation or the pipeline surveillance service provider. NNPC argued that the employment opportunities for youths in the area would be bolstered by the assured all-year availability of the TFP under the new proof of concept agreement. On the allegation of non-adherence to due process in the offer of the surveillance deal, NNPC explained that all Federal Government-approved procurement processes and procedures in the award of highly sensitive national security contract were followed to the letter. It said it was the same steps and procedures that were followed in the award of all pipeline security contracts, including the award of the TFP surveillance contract to the old contractor. It also assured that as an entity entrusted by the government and people of Nigeria to oversee the nation’s vast hydrocarbon resources for the good of all stakeholders, it could not in good conscience allow extraneous considerations to sway its judgment on a straight forward commercial undertaking like the TFP surveillance project. “The NNPC and its stakeholders will continue to do everything legally possible to recover our pipelines, cut our losses, reduce downtime, improve crude production and by extension increase inflow of revenue to all the tiers of the federation in line with our mandate,” the corporation said.