Charles Oputa, popularly known as Charley Boy, the convener of OurMumuDonDo Movement, has called on Nigerian youths to take up responsibilities and struggle for the future of their dreams. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Charley Boy made the call on Sunday during an Art Exhibition and Panel Conversation at the International Institute for Creative Development (IICD) in Abuja. The Exhibition tagged: ‘The Struggle: Rising from the Ashes’, chronicles images of Charley Boy’s activism and advocacy against societal ills over the years, which sparked off interactions between him and the audience. The ‘Area Fada’ recounted that although he was born with the proverbial silver spoon in his mouth, he decided as a youth to work hard and pursue his dreams, which required a lot of struggles. Charley Boy noted that although the Nigeria of his days as youth was better, they still needed to hold leaders accountable when necessary, adding that many youths of today had rather chosen “to suffer and smile. “Reality bites; I hope Nigerian youths can now see the disadvantage of waiting for my turn to chop. “They have been corrupted by their docility, inaction and fear, while others have chosen to be political tugs and bodyguards to the same people who have traded off their future. “The youths of the 70s used to stand up and agitate against policies and programmes of government that are not people-oriented, thereby holding leaders accountable. “The future of the youths has been stolen by very vile and insensitive politicians whose sole purpose of governance is to enrich them, and if the youths cannot rise to the challenge, then it is a shame,” he said. The 67-years-old activist, who dubs himself ‘president of frustrated Nigerians’, recounted how he had spent most part of his years fighting for the rights of ordinary Nigerians. He added that in some cases, he went to the streets to champion the fight for the rights of those he never knew. “My father always told me back then that whenever I see injustice, I should fight it, because it may come to affect me someday too. “On several occasions, I have been tortured by the Nigerian Police and the military for standing up to authorities to ask questions. “However, on some occasions I have been regarded as their friends, depending on the sensibility of those in power,” he said.