Governor Abdul’aziz Yari of Zamfara State on Thursday threw his weight behind the call on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare a state of emergency on the state. Yari, addressing newsmen at a press briefing in Gusau, said, “I am also in support of the declaration of state of emergency if it will save the lives of people of the state.” He warned politicians against politicising the disturbing security situation in the state. “We are talking about the lives of our people and this needs the coming together of all, so that the crisis can end. “If the provisions of my office had allowed me to carry arms against the bandits, I would have done so. “But, if I am not around, there are capable hands that collaborate with the security team in the fight against the bandits. “The security men are doing their best. “But, it is sad to know that some of the people involved in the kidnappings are close relatives or associates of the victims, which is part of the reasons the problem is persisting. “We must all come together and expose anyone or group that is part of these hoodlums, and we should also pray for Allah’s intervention,” Yari said. Bandits have wreaked havoc in Zamfara, killing people with ease with no end in sight. Following their unrestrained killings and destruction of property, Senator Saidu Dansadau, a former lawmaker and now governorship candidate of National Rescue Mission (NRM), said the only solution to the widespread insecurity in the state was for the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency on the state. According to him, Governor Abdul’aziz Abubakar Yari’s public resignation as the chief security officer of the state made the declaration of state of emergency in the state inevitable. He said Yari had shifted focus from his primary duty to his political ambition, adding that he was willing to retain power at all cost. Plateau: Gunmen Attack Partygoers, Kill Five Meanwhile, five people were killed by unknown gunmen that invaded Rawuru village in Fan District of Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State, on Wednesday, according to Terna Tyopev, spokesman of the state’s police command. Tyopev said on Thursday in Jos, that two persons were injured in the attack that took place in the night. “This morning, at about 8a.m., we received information from one Mr. Kim Timothy, the Youth Leader of Rawuru Village, Fan District in Barkin Ladi Local Government (Area), that gunmen hit the area around 9p.m. on Wednesday. “According to him, the victims were returning from a birthday party at Pugu, a nearby village, when the gunmen opened fire on them,” the spokesman said. Tyopev said that the gunmen fled the area after the attack, adding that the bodies of those killed had been buried, while those injured had been taken to the Barkin Ladi General Hospital. “Already, Mr. Austin Agbonlahor, the Commissioner of Police in the state, has directed that the incident be investigated while security has been beefed up in the areas and those around it to forestall a recurrence,” he said.