Mr Gbenga Adebayo, President, Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria says availability of enabling environment is crucial to the survival of telecom operators in the country. Adebayo said this at the Nigeria Information Technology Reporters Association (NITRA) 4th Quarterly Forum in Lagos on Friday with the theme: ”Achieving Last-Mile Connectivity Through Affordable Broadband.” Adebayo, who is represented by Mr Olajide Aremu, the Technical Committee Chairman, ALTON, noted that states were not moving forward and not generating revenue because they did not adopt technology in what they did. “Technology is an enabler and so for state governments to achieve much, they need to adopt technology in their activities. “The level of telecom infrastructure is low, companies that make better profit uses technology and so the need to make technology work effectively cannot be over emphasised,“ he said. Adebayo, who noted that telecom operators faced enormous challenges leading to a number of them going down, called for continuous support from government and private sector for the operators to stay afloat.  According to him, sanctions and multiple taxes are not helping the industry. “What we have achieved in the industry will be eroded if care is not taken.We are going to the next level where the enabler technology will help the industry and so the need to tackle problems facing states. “The country is talking about migration from 4G to 5G, what have we achieved with 4G and what is its penetration in the country. “Creating an enabling environment for telecom to grow, especially in some states, should be the main focus of the country.“ Earlier, the Chairman of NITRA, Mr Emma Okonji, said that Nigerians were yearning for ubiquitous and affordable broadband to further drive internet connectivity at the speed of light. According to him, the country has achieved 30.9 per cent broadband target due to the broadband infrastructure development by the Executive Vice Chairman of Nigeria Communications Commission, Prof.Umar Danbatta. He said that the forum would give stakeholders the opportunity to discuss issues raised regarding achieving last-mile connectivity through affordable broadband. Okonji said: “NITRA is the umbrella body of all practicing Information and Communications Technology journalists in Nigeria. “It cuts across the print, broadcast and online media with the vision to drive ICT development and ensure accurate and robust ICT reportage. “Former President Goodluck Jonathan, on Sept. 20, 2012, inaugurated the presidential committee for a national broadband strategy and roadmap. “This is mindful of the importance of broadband infrastructure as an enabler for economic and social growth in the digital economy. “With the resumption of Danbatta as the Executive Vice Chairman of Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), he released an 8-point Agenda with broadband as key driver while his passion for broadband development has deepened penetration which grew from 22 to 30.9.“