Lagos – The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) on Sunday called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to resist pressure from those bent on sabotaging 2019 elections. The SMBLF, in a statement by Mr. Yinka Odumakin (South West); Prof. Chigozie Ogbu (South-East); Senator Bassey Henshaw (South-South), and Dr. Isuwa Dogo (Middle Belt), said it was raising the alarm following reports that INEC was under intense pressure to delete electronic transmission of results from polling units to a central server. The group argued that rigging usually starts with the changing of results announced by polling officers, saying though party agents were expected to countersign results but the refusal of any agent to sign does not invalidate the results. This allows compromised polling officers to change figures between the polling units and the ward collation centres. The group advised INEC to be mindful of the fact that the credibility of the conduct of the 2019 elections has a lot to do with the continued existence of Nigeria as a country and therefore must be above board like Caesar’s wife. It said, “Our attention has been drawn to media reports on Sunday that the commission has come under pressure to delete the electronic transmission of results from the polling units (PU) to a central server and the pasting of results at the polling units in the proposed guidelines for the 2019 elections in sync with the refusal to sign the Electoral Bill passed by the National Assembly. “If these reports are true, it may just confirm the fears that the perpetual boast by the ruling party and its allies of assurance of victory in the 2019 presidential polls even before it holds is not based on winning the hearts of the people but through underhand means. “INEC must use form EC 60E which will contain the scores of every candidate at every PU which must be pasted at every polling unit and transmitted to a central server by the presiding officer in the presence of agents.” The group also asked Nigerians to be on the alert as it may be possible that some forces were already in talks with some foreign mercenaries to interfere with the electoral process. The fear of the group stemmed from a publication by The Nation of Kenya of December 23, 2018 titled, ‘Eyebrows Raised over Mystery Russian Plane at Wilson’. The report stated that some 30 minutes to the closure of Wilson Airport on December 17, a twin-engine plane touched down at Khartoum, Sudan. Five people were on board the British-manufactured Hawker 800XP registration M-VITO, according to the Director General of Kenyan Civil Aviation Authority, Gilbert Kibe. “The aircraft arrived from Khartoum on December 17, 2018 at 1956hours with a total of five on board. It departed for JKIA on December 20, 2018 at 1635hrs and later the same day at 1750hrs, it departed JKIA for Ndjamena – Chad with a total of seven on board,” the KCAA boss told The Nation.” What raised the red flag about the plane’s movement was that the particular aircraft was reportedly owned by Yevgeny Prigozhin, 57, a shadowy Russian and Kremlin insider with close links to President Vladmir Putin and whose name had prominently featured in the ongoing investigations into the 2016 US election meddling by agents of Moscow. Mr. Prigozhin, a secretive businessman known as Putin’s cook/chef for his Kremlin catering work, was sanctioned by the US in 2016 and indicted in 2018 by Special Counsel Robert Muller who is investigating the Russian interference in the 2016 US elections. According to a European Union monitoring site for aircraft operators, M-VITO is Mr. Prigozhin’s private plane but owned by Beratex Group Ltd, a Russian company. Mr. Prigozhin is among 13 Russians charged by the US Justice Department with trying to sway the 2016 election. He has been accused of being behind the Internet Research Agency (IRA), the Russian troll factory that spearheaded the efforts to meddle in the 2016 US elections. In November, Bloomberg reported that Mr. Prigozhin had become President Putin’s point man in efforts to reach across Africa by “offering security, arms training, and electioneering services in exchange for mining rights and other opportunities”. “He’s already active in or moving into 10 countries that Russia’s military already has relationships with: the Democratic Republic of Congo, Sudan, Libya, Madagascar, Angola, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Zimbabwe and the Central African Republic,” the Bloomberg report said. Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum’s fear is that Mr. Prigozhin was being whispered to have come into Nigeria through the Chadian president in the course of these moves in relation to the 2019 elections in the country. “We demand a categorical statement from the Nigerian government on this to assure the country that our electoral process is not about to fall into the hands of foreign manipulators just as we call on our people to remain ever vigilant,” the elders said. In a related development, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, elder statesman and Afenifere chieftain, said there were signs that President Muhammadu Buhari was doing everything within his power to rig the 2019 presidential election. Speaking with Daily Independent, Adebanjo who said Buhari was trying to get re-elected by hook or crook, however, warned that any attempt to rig the 2019 elections would signal the end of Nigeria. “My expectation is that President Buhari should allow the election to be free and fair. But from the signs we are seeing, he wants to get back to office by hook or crook. “I pray to God that he should have a change of mind because if by any mistake he rigs the election, that will be the end of Nigeria,” he said.