Some stakeholders believe that government should not fold its arms and watch some levies and tax collecting agencies and bastardise the process of collection and remittance. Making references to Indians and Lebanese, among the foreign companies that cheat Nigerian government, Oji said that they come into the country, without the immigration services knowing. According to him, the Nigerian Immigration Service do not know the number of such foreigners. He equally accused the top officials of the Nigeria Immigration Services of compromise in terms of shielding the unscrupulous foreigners who are bent on cheating the country. “They build houses for them, give few of them money. How many are they that they should forget the generality of the Nigerian people. This is done for selfish interests. All these should be checkmated. Foreigners are ripping us off. We are losing billions from foreigners operating businesses in our country,” Oji lamented. Speaking on the issue, Abdul Lateef Owoyemi, the managing director at Lop Consulting Ltd, said that the political structure of the country is at the root of the problem. According to him, “you can have the best president in the world but if the members of the National Assembly are not focused and are only interested only in what they can get, you cannot get a fair and equitable Nigeria and whatever revenue that is collected cannot be equitably distributed and deployed.” The former president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) said the Nigerian National Assembly has 469 members and they appropriate a good percentage of the nation’s budget to themselves, adding that most of them were not elected on the basis of their integrity or what they can do for the country but on their ability to buy votes and maneuver the electoral process. “They were elected on the basis of the huge amount they spent on elections, which they would always want to recoup. Any executive leader, who tries to make them do the right thing, will not succeed because they are fixed in their ways and have powers over their budget. “Until the country gets a sincere, honest, patriotic and revolutionary leader and backed by a sincere, honest, patriotic and revolutionary National Assembly, the nation will continue to generate revenues that will not be fairly and equitably deployed. When SUNDAY INDEPENDENT asked him if he wants Nigerians to continue to pay tax against the background that they know that the tax will not be fairly distributed and used, he said, “People must continue to pay tax; that is the law of the country.” He, however, argued that many of the rich and well-t-do in the country do not pay tax, adding that it is only the salary earners whose tax is deducted at source and the poor who pay tax in the country. According to him, people who get contracts pay withholding tax on the contract and this tax does not get to the Inland Revenue authorities. He called on the authorities to tax the more prosperous bracket of the country. He said that the government should tax bank deposits that that are higher than N100,000, and that one or two per cent should be taken as tax, adding that poor people do not deposit up to N100,000 in the bank. Owoyemi called for a change in tax system in the country, saying use of resources and not profit should be taxed. “Everybody who uses economic resources, whether a church, mosque or company should pay on the basis of the resources being used,” he posited. He called on the government to build infrastructure in all parts f the country so that people will feel the impacted of the tax they are paying. Also speaking with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT on the issue, Udemezue Orji, the lead consultant at Flame Academy argued that the tax authorities has been more aggressive in the way it is collecting tax, adding that what is being done is to be aggressive on the companies that are currently paying. He stated. “The FIRS is becoming aggressive in its revenue drive because the country has revenue issues. But the surprising thing is that is aggressive toward companies and other Nigerians that are already in the tax system of the country. Companies such as Dangote Sugar, Dangote Flour, MTN, Airtel, the banks and others are being made to pay more tax whereas there are thousands of companies and millions of Nigerians who making billions of naira and are paying little into the tax system of the country. “The emphasis should be to bring in more people and companies into the tax net and not to overtax those that are already in the tax system of the country. The tax authorities should capture those that are not in the tax net in a friendly way that would not hurt them or scare them away. “More importantly the government should use the tax in such a way that it will have a positive impact on the life of the people of the country. A situation in which the roads, the hospitals, bridges and other infrastructure are poor will not encourage the people to pay tax.” For Ayodele Olori, a Lagos-based tax consultant, the tax generated in the country has little or no impact on the life of Nigerians, adding that this is because a large part of the revenue of government comes from oil and not tax. This, he posited, has created a situation in which the people do not care about how much is generated as revenue and to what purpose it is deployed.  He called on the government to use revenues generated in a way that will lift the standard of living of Nigerians, adding that if this was done, many Nigerians will willingly pay tax.