Afis Kareem Lagos – Member of Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Gbolahan Olusegun Yishawu (GOY) has said he introduced yearly Vocational Training and Skill Acquisition in order to improve employability of youths in his constituency by making them self employed, saying no government can provide jobs for all. The lawmaker representing Eti-Osa Constituency 02 disclosed this during his visitation to his constituents across his constituency. While sensitising them on the collection of their Permanent Voters Cards (PVC) and vote in the forthcoming elections, Yishawu tasked the youths in the area to make judicious use of the vocational training, saying it would enable them to be self employed and also become an employer of labour thereby creating jobs for others too. According to him, ‘’Every year we make available over 1200, (one thousand two hundred forms) for employability programmes in different fields to engage youths because no government can provide jobs for all but provision of enabling environment and appropriate infrastructure for businesses to thrive is governments goal. We also provide start-up equipment for the best three students from each field after the training. Hon. Yishawu  promised to continue with programmes in Education, Health and Employability while representing them creditably in legislative matters and ensuring delivery of more State projects within the constituency when re-election by his people. One of the beneficiaries of the employability programme on health, Samuel Antai expressed his appreciation to the lawmaker and prayed for him. One of the elders in the area, Mr. Jolly Johnson corroborated the fact that the lawmaker has impacted into the lives of youth and the constituency at large. The lawmaker also  urged his constituents to get their PVCs ahead of 2019 general election and vote for all candidates of the All Progressives party (APC) form the Presidency down to the House of Assembly. Earlier, the lawmaker had attended inter-house sport competitions in his constituency in which both the pupils and parents appreciated his presence. Hon. Yishawu also extended his kind gesture to the schools and encouraged the teachers continue to impact into the lives of the pupils.