Lagos – The Human Development  Initiatives (HID), Nigeria on Thursday December 6 at Atunda Olu Nursery and Primary School Surulere, Lagos held a programme on sensitisation of community stakeholders on basic education project in the Lagos SUBEB 2017 action plan. In her opening remarks, Executive Director, HDI Nigeria, Mrs. Olufunso Owasanoye, emphasised on good education for children, saying most children were at home basically on the weak strength of most of the parents to pay and carter for their children wellbeing. “It is always disheartening to see children who are supposed to be in school hawking and if they are not doing that they will be doing other bad things which can influence their life in a negative way. And at the end, some of them will end up with unwanted pregnancy even at a very tender age,” she said. She also itemised stakeholders’ roles in the UBE program in ensuring success of the board, even as she  provided participants with knowledge on contents of the LSUBEB 2017 action plan. She also encouraged stakeholders to monitor UBE projects in their communities. Owasanoye implored the community to take the project as theirs and not believing that it is for government alone. “Community should know that this project is their own and not for government alone. Some schools need furniture, others need fence and so many things. And good enough, we have monitoring group who supervise how the disbursed money is being sent. If for instance, a project supposed to be completed by  six months and it was not completed, we will ask why.” Also speaking at the interactive session, Dosunmu Adebodun, who is the Director, Social Mobilization of HDI also advised community to show sense of belonging. “They should know that they are also part of the project. They should not see it as government thing. We can also say that the money embarked on is judiciously spent. Some states are in 2014/2015, but here we are presenting 2017.” The interaction came to an end with a question and answer session by stakeholders, handled by Mr Olayemi Samuel. In attendance were the representatives of each local government and monitoring groups. HID is a Lagos-based nonprofit organisation with a mission to build total human development by empowering vulnerable groups to address their needs and concerns.