AWKA – Okechukwu Daniel Udoka, an Anglican priest who claims that God shows him the future like a movie, has said it had been revealed to him that the Presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would win next year’s presidential election. Udoka referred to himself as a baby prophet who has the grace to watch like a movie what would happen in future especially in the political sphere. He previously predicted in 2017 the outcome of Anambra State gubernatorial election as well as  the first, second and third positions. He said then that he saw the grace that put Obiano there putting him back. He also said then that Buhari was still alive and that he was opportune to visit him in the hospital. He predicted that President Buhari would live to see his defeat in 2019. He said he has a new set of revelations concerning the 2019 elections. “I am privileged to watch it again. The least person not expected will take the position. Thank God the person is coming closer. “And he is no one else if not Atiku. And God said that Atiku will be better than the four administrations before him put together. “God will use him to bring a new Nigeria. He will use him to start the good work. Any hands that will resist the young man from entering there might not live to see tomorrow,” he said. He told Atiku to go and celebrate and that he should seek the consent of God to guide him in his leadership when he assumes the position. “If he consults God in all he does as a President, his leadership will be okay before God and man. He is the chosen one and the answer to the prayers of God’s people over the year. “God said I should tell his people that he heard them. The sin they would commit is to go to the polls and not vote for him,” he said. He enjoined Christians, Muslims and those of other religions or interest groups to go out and vote for Atiku. Speaking on Buhari, the prophet said that he loves President Buhari and had been praying for him, but added, “I obeyed Buhari and never spoke ill of him. Buhari has every power to win the election. I saw a conflict. But God says because he has chosen Atiku, no power will stop him. “He said that Buhari has done his best but that He is sending Atiku who has more energy to do a greater work. Nigeria is a difficult country to govern,” he concluded.