SOKOTO – The Federal High Court sitting in Birnin-Kebbi, Kebbi State, presided over by Justice Basse Onu Thursday remanded Alhaji Saadu Usman Dakingari, the immediate past governor of the state; Sunday Dogoyaro and Garba Kamba in the custody of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in Birnin-Kebbi pending the ruling on their bail application on December 10, 2018. The defendants were standing trial on 13-count charge bordering on conspiracy and money laundering by the EFCC. They were alleged to have committed money laundry of N450 million, part of $115 million and $115 million collected from Deziani Alison-Madueke, former Minister of Petroleum Resources, contrary to Section 1A of Money Laundry Act 2015 punishable under Section 16(2B), among others. J. A. Ojogbane, the lead Counsel to the EFCC, told the court that the defendants were in court and that they should take their pleas and pleaded with the court that the 13-count charge be read to them for immediate commencement of their trial. He told the court that they were ready for the trial along with their witnesses. However, all the defendants pleaded not guilty to all the charges by the prosecuton’s leading counsel. Counsel to the first defendant, Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN) while applying for the defendant’s bail, told the court that his client was the former Governor of Kebbi State without record of criminal cases, and argued that he would not jump bail if granted. He also pleaded before the court that should the judge rules otherwise in  his client’s bail application the facilities of the EFCC Birnin-Kebbi and Sokoto State could be considered to avoid long distance and stress. O. A. Dada, the counsel to the second defendant, in his application for bail supported with 21-paragraph affidavit, argued that if the court grants his client bail, he would not dishonour the court by not making himself available, arguing that he had been punctual consistently since the commencement of the case before the court. He also pleaded that if his client would be remanded, they would align with the submission of the 1st defendant that the EFCC custody in Birnin-Kebbi and Sokoto State should be considered as an alternative. Counsel to the 3rd defendant, Ahmed Fingilla, in his application before the court argued that his client has represented Nigeria in many countries as a Diplomat with track record without blemish, stressing that the prosecutor had also testified that the third defendant was the accused person that honoured the EFCC invitation at their Kano office as well regularly appeared before the court since the case commenced in June 2018. He also pleaded before the court that his client should be remanded in Birnin-Kebbi or Sokoto State remand facilities of the EFCC if the court rules in the interim, before the ruling on the bail. Responding to the defendant’s counsel’s bail application, EFCC Counsel, Ojogbane, who did not object to their applications for bail, stressed that the anti-graft agency had remand facilities in Birnin-Kebbi and Sokoto State where the defendants could be remanded before the adjourned date. While ruling on their bail application, Justice Onu ordered that the three defendants be remanded in Birnin-Kebbi remand facilities of EFCC, pending the final ruling on their bail applications on December 10, 2018 and adjourned the case for ruling and trial on the same date.