With what appears to be a lack of transparency in arms deployment to troops in the war theater, wrong strategy in the fight against insurgents and growing indications from arms\defense contractors formerly engaged in arms and logistics supply to the Nigerian military, the fight against a much rejuvenated Boko Haram in the North East of the country may not end anytime soon, Sunday INDEPENDENT has been told by multiple sources. Despite virement of a hefty $1 billion from the country’s Sovereign Wealth Fund, SWF, and an estimated N1 trillion defense budget, reports from within the rank and file of the Nigerian army suggest that soldiers are poorly armed and motivated when they take on insurgents in Borno and other war theaters in the North. These, according to highly placed informers leave a huge question mark on what the monies were used for. And for the fighting troops, the incidents have further demoralised them. Even more, the newspaper investigations also learnt that recent set backs resulting in the killings of soldiers by insurgents may well be attributed to wrong policy and strategic advice being heeded by President Mohammadu Buhari and what is also being said to be a growing apathy amongst arms suppliers and dealers. Recent killings of alleged 118 soldiers in Metele, a war theater in Borno, by men of the Boko Haram, has cast a great deal of doubts on army strategies and defence policies under President Buhari in the last three years. As also gathered, efforts at retaking Metele by over 100 troops made of special force operatives of the Nigerian military suffered set back as the insurgents allegedly again put the army to flight. The insurgents’ exploits further confirm intelligence that Boko Haram now has strong intelligence back bone, highly trained operatives sourced principally from its Islamic State, IS, in Syria, and sophisticated arms to booth. Currently, Boko Haram has since transmogrified into Islamic State In West Africa, ISWA, which, according to intelligence sources, is a frightening development. In fact, Tukur Buratai, chief of army staff said last week that the sudden rise in the sect’s attacks over the last three months has forced the Nigerian military to fine-tune its counter-insurgency operations in the war-ravaged Northeast. The army chief also said the terrorists now use drones and foreign fighters in their operations, describing the exploits of the jihadists as “daring,” saying it threatened to erode the previously recorded achievements in the counter-terrorism efforts. Boko Haram has carried out successful, back-to-back attacks on Nigerian military bases since July, leaving heavy personnel and equipment losses in their wake. The army chief said the attacks have put the military’s resolve to test, but assured the insurgency would be uprooted before long. However, explaining the cause of this set back, some fighting troops allege that arms needed to vanguish insurgents are being hoarded by the army hierarchy. “Our weapons are only being kept for ceremonial purposes and show of force,” explained an army officer who has been in the war theater in the North East. According to the source there is no iota of doubt in the minds of the army foot soldiers that there are arms in the armoury. “We saw the display of arms once in Bauchi. Words spread to us in Maiduguri from our colleagues in Bauchi about the arms cache. But to our utmost chagrin, we were not provided with fresh arms. We have had to make do with the old AK47, which is largely ineffectual against this well armed Boko Haram. “I can tell you that where a contingent of Boko Haram fights the Nigerian army, they come with not less than 10 gun trucks. We don’t have even as much as two. The chief of army staff comes to us with more than 20 gun trucks. RPGs are also scarce. But with the insurgents, the RPG is supplus so much so that they use the weapon meant for leveling buildings to shoot Nigerian soldiers,” the soldier narrated. Other sources aver that the army hierarchy is so much interested and invested in the war that they don’t want it to end. According to another army officer, who asked not to be mentioned, the army leadership go to great length to hide the true picture of killings in the war theater from Buhari. There was the instance in Maiduguri during a visit by President Buhari, explained another army source: “If you have heard the stories of how wounded soldiers now fill up hospitals and our dear fill up mortuaries, it is very true. But before Buhari’s visit, efforts were made by the army hierarchy to empty the mortuaries of our dead bodies most of which were taken to be buried in mass graves; and they also reduced the number of casualties in the hospital so that the president would have the impression that we are not suffering too much casualties when the opposite is the case,” said the war scared army man who spoke to the newspaper. But some defense strategy experts believe that either Buhari or his close associates who are looking to safeguard their tenure from possible coup by the army may be involved in the alleged deceit being alluded to by the soldier. Eeben Barlow, a South African defense expert for hire recently made insinuation about this on social media. As chairman, Specialised Tasks, Training, Equipment and Protection International (STTEP), Barlow was hired by former president, Goodluck Jonathan, to train the 72 battalion as mobile strike force, MSF. The unit succeeded in pushing the insurgents out of their former enclaves to the fringes of Chad Basin. But Buhari had kicked against the hiring of the contractors. According to Barlow, there are strong rumours that elements in the presidency may have deliberately kicked STTEP out of Nigeria so that the three phases of its ‘Operational Anvil’ that would totally destroy Boko Haram would not be completed. According to the South African mercenary there are strong rumours within the Nigerian army that the insurgency is the only way of keeping the army busy from making and executing a coup to oust Buahri like it was done in 1985. Barlow made other controversial disclosures. According to him, Buhari was misinformed when he was told that Boko Haram has been technically defeated. “There is, in a purely military sense, no such thing as a ‘technical defeat’—something the President, as an ex-military man ought to know. Sadly, he also chose to make the successes of 7 Infantry Division and 72 Mobile Strike Force (MSF) his own, when it wasn’t,” said Barlow. “President Buhari and his team were, however, part of the political leader group that led the vocal charge about STTEP’s presence in Nigeria. Indeed, they made it known that the company’s presence would not be tolerated under his office. “The initial 3-phase campaign strategy (known as ‘Operational Anvil’) to degrade and destroy BH in Borno State, was rejected by his advisors. “Many of the men we trained as part of 72 Mobile Strike Force have remained in contact with us (STTEP), pleading for our return to Nigeria. They have also told us that they have been used to a point of exhaustion. “Prior to, and following our departure from Nigeria, we issued numerous intelligence warnings to his government. These intelligence warnings were all rejected in favour of a false belief. Neighbouring countries were advised not to listen to us as it was claimed to be a cheap attempt to ‘get a contract’. Chad, Cameroon and Niger are now also reaping the benefits of rejecting intelligence in favour of an agenda-driven narrative,” he said. The revelation further raises questions on several claims by APC on alleged handling of arms procurement money under previous administration. Allegedly, the administration under PDP failed to procure needed arms to fight Boko Haram, a reason why some former military chiefs are facing trials. Meanwhile, the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), last week observed that some intervening insecurity indicators in the country like insecurity in different parts of the country, which include the continued attacks by the deadly Boko Haram insurgents; agitations for a separate state of Biafra; activities of the Niger Delta militias; armed robbery, political thuggery, cultism and kidnappings could undermine the fidelity of the elections next year. In its pre-election security assessment report titled “Voting amidst insecurity: Nigeria’s 2019 elections,” the CDD observed that with at least 91 political parties (the largest number in Nigeria’s electoral history) expected to be on the ballot, and a total number of 84,271,832 citizens on the voter’s roll, the forthcoming 2019 elections is likely to be one of the most contested elections in the history of Nigeria.