In the modern world, the overarching purpose of taxation is to fund government’s expenditure. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, ANDREW UTULU and IKECHI NZEAKOR, examine the importance of taxation and the contribution to infrastructural development. Taxation is a means by which governments finance their expenditure by imposing charges on citizens and corporate entities. Governments use taxation to encourage or discourage certain economic decisions. For example, reduction in taxable personal (or household) income by the amount paid as interest on home mortgage loans results in greater construction activity, and generates more jobs. It is because taxation has become an acceptable practice in society, which itself is anchored on the belief that sustaining government is a shared responsibility, everyone understands and respects the imperative of tax payment. It is a duty. Tax avoidance is seen and treated as criminal and despicable disservice. Regardless of how we feel about taxation, whether as individuals or corporate entities, there is no denying the fact that it is one of the tools that empower the people to hold their leaders and governments accountable. By paying your tax, you are handed an instrument to query the government and demand accountability and transparency. In doing so, the government will have no choice, but to perform and strive to meet our expectations in terms of social projects and developmental objectives. Using the instance of Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital, despite unwavering efforts of the state government, huge gaps still exist in the provision of pivotal infrastructure to drive economic development. Ranging from roads, power, housing, transportation, water, schools and hospitals, to even recreation centres and courts, there are so many expectations from governments that require attention. Everyone feels the need and effect. The government, according to available records, depends on three major sources of revenue, namely Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), federal transfers and capital receipts. A closer look shows that IGR is the main income earner for the state, contributing an average of 66 per cent between 2012 and 2016. In 2016, this revenue source yielded N291 billion, translating to about N25 billion per month. Enters VAIDS As Acting President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, signed an Executive Order (EO) on the Voluntary Asset and Income Declaration Scheme (VAIDS). The main objective of the scheme – which commenced on July 1, 2017 and will last for a period of nine months – is to help expand the country’s tax base. Other objectives of the scheme include increasing tax-to-GDP ratio from 6 per cent to 18 per cent by 2020, and improving compliance with existing tax laws. In one of its reports on Voluntary Disclosure Programmes, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) describes VDPs as “opportunities offered by tax administrations to allow previously non-compliant taxpayers to correct their tax affairs under specified terms. When drafted carefully, voluntary disclosure programmes benefit everyone involved – taxpayers making the disclosure, compliant taxpayers, and governments.” The Nigerian VAIDS is being implemented by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) in collaboration with all 36 State Internal Revenue Services (IRS) and the FCT IRS. While signing the EO on the scheme, Osinbajo said it had become imperative for the government to do something about the low level of tax compliance, adding that, “When people pay taxes, they pay more attention to what government is doing. There’s a greater level of political and social consciousness. Taxes are not only about boosting government revenues. When people pay taxes, they hold the government to account more.” He is right. In developed countries, citizens pay their fair share of taxes and they have a say in the way their representatives in government manage government funds. Considering Nigeria’s low tax-to-GDP ratio, and the fact that out of a taxable class of about 69 million people, only 14 million are currently in the tax net, the implementation of VAIDS could go a long way in increasing non-oil revenue. Despite having a non-oil sector that accounts for up to 93% of Nigeria’s GDP, government’s non-oil revenue in 2016 was N2.99 trillion (or 2.9% of GDP). Suffice to say, though, that there was a decline in non-oil collection from the N3.08 trillion recorded in 2015. Nevertheless, this does not alter the main gist, which is the dismal performance of the non-oil sector in terms of generating revenue for the government. In line with the expectation of the government on the VAIDS option, the Federal Government raked in nearly N30 billion. The VAIDS windfall, according to Fowler, was championed by FIRS which was “responsible for the collection of 90 per cent of the amount, while the states were responsible for the 10 per cent collection balance.” According to Fowler, “looking beyond the financial returns of the scheme, the impact it has had in promoting voluntary compliance is unquantifiable. One of the outcomes of the scheme, whether directly or indirectly is the growth of the national tax payer database from under 14 million pre 2016 number to over 19 million in 2018, and we are confident that these numbers will translate into a positive growth in the country tax revenue to GDP ratio when the official percentage for 2017 have been released.” Aside from VAIDS, Fowler noted that “in recent times, the incidence of illicit financial flows, aggressive tax avoidance and outright tax evasion have come into the front burner. The international community, recognised the need to present a united front against this trend, which is a limiting factor in the quest towards exploiting the inherent potentials of tax as a viable alternative to sustainable revenue generation, especially for developing and emerging economies, have designed and is implementing a number of initiatives that will leave no hiding place for the tax evader”, said FIRS Chairman.