Abuja – Comrade Timi Frank, Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has queried claim by the APC administration that it has degraded Boko Haram, pointing out that on the contrary, the insurgents are gaining ground in vast areas of the northeast. To buttress his claim, Frank revealed that in the last 48 hours or so, the insurgents have  dislodged a military base HQ 7 Bde located in Baga under Sector 3 Mongunu, and that the dislodged unit is presently in SBS Naval unit in Baga. He alleged that  the  Nigerian government is desperately trying to hide same  from the media. In a statement he released on Friday in Abuja, Timi Frank claimed that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, has lost idea on how to tackle the nation’s worsening insecurity,  adding that about five  states;  Borno, Yobe, Zamfara, Plateau and a part of Benue,  have been heavily attacked recently as the government force down measures to suppress the information from the public. Zamfara State governor had recently called for a state of emergency in the state. While reacting to the endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari by the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) on Thursday, the former APC chieftain alleged that the group had enjoyed protection from the administration despite allegedly involved in killings of several farmers and other innocent Nigerians especially in the North-central region. “Now that Miyetti Allah has endorsed Buhari for 2019, we no longer need any prophet to tell us why president Buhari has been silent on herdsmen killings across the country. No wonder one of the APC governors had paid them to stop killing in Southern Kaduna. “This is the first time a group known to have allegedly caused damages in a society will publicly declare their supports for a sitting president. This goes to show how much support the group has enjoyed from Buhari’s presidency; technically, financially and otherwise but the blood of those killed by Miyetti Allah group will not rest until the justice is done.