The Nigerian Air Force said the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Diran Mikiya successfully neutralised armed bandits’ hideout at a compound West of Tsamari in Birnin Magaji Local Government Area of Zamfara. Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, NAF Director of Public Relations and Information, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. He explained that the attack was conducted at dawn on December 28, following intelligence reports indicating that the compound was being used by the armed bandits as a camp from where they launch attacks on innocent civilians. Accordingly, the ATF detailed a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft, which confirmed the presence of bandits armed with high calibre weapons at the location. “Consequently, an Alpha Jet aircraft was dispatched to strike the compound, recording direct hits on the target area and resulting in significant damage to the structures and neutralisation of some bandits. “This was later confirmed by credible human intelligence sources,’’ he said. Daramola said surface troops later invaded the compound and recovered some motorcycles abandoned by the fleeing criminals. “The ATF working in concert with surface forces and other security agencies, will continue to conduct reconnaissance and air interdiction missions with a view to restoring normalcy to the affected states in the North-West.” Insurgency: NAF Reactivates More Aircraft In Port Harcourt Meanwhile, NAF says it has begun an in-house reactivation of its Mi-35P and EC-135 combat helicopters in Port Harcourt. Air Commodore Daramola said this was in furtherance of its commitment to ensure availability of more serviceable platforms for the prosecution of the ongoing war against insurgency and other forms of criminality in the country. He said the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, during an operational visit to 115 Special Operations Group (115 SOG), Port Harcourt, inspected the ongoing in-house reactivation works on the Mi-35P and EC-135 helicopters. “Upon completion in the first quarter of 2019, the reactivated aircraft will be available for deployment to enhance NAF operational efficiency in the discharge of its constitutional roles.” Daramola explained that the operational visit to 115 SOG was one of series of visits by Abubakar to NAF units across the country. He further said the visit was to assess NAF’s operational readiness in tackling emerging security challenges as well as progress of work on the reactivation of various platforms. He said the air chief during the inspection was conducted round the completed Base Defence Coordination Centre (BDCC), by the Commander 115 SOG, Air Commodore Elijah Ebiowe. Daramola said the CAS also inaugurated a new block of 18 single-bedroom Corporals and Below Quarters. He said the BDCC, was equipped with communications and surveillance equipment to boost the operational capacity of the unit in the area of intelligence gathering and real time coordination of the Base Defence Plan. He said the BDCC would also help in timely response to security exigencies within the Unit’s Area of Responsibility (AOR). He quoted the CAS as saying that the current NAF administration places high premium on the welfare needs of personnel, as evidenced by the various projects embarked upon across NAF units to meet accommodation and other welfare needs. Abubakar thanked President Muhammadu Buhari, for providing the enabling environment for the Service to function effectively and efficiently. My Gov Has Sidelined Me, Laments Zamfara Dep Gov In another development, Malam Ibrahim Wakkala, Deputy Governor of Zamfara State, says his governor, Abdul’Aziz Yari, has sidelined him. Wakkala told newsmen in Gusau on Sunday that the governor had denied him his rights and privileges. “For months now, several of the legal funding that are supposed to be made to my office have been stopped and I have been completely sidelined by the state government. “This attitude against me started since I indicated interest to run for the governorship of the state on the platform of our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). “I know that nothing stops me as a citizen from contesting for any elective position, so I want those concerned and responsible for the interpretation and implementation of the constitutional provisions that accorded me rights and privileges to explain to me why I am being treated this way. “If my crime is my declaration, then what about my supporting staff made up of casual staff, feeding of security personnel, fueling and services of vehicles attached to my office, what have they done to have their allowances stopped,” he said. The deputy governor also said that it had still not been officially communicated to him that the speaker of the state House of Assembly, Alhaji Sanusi Rikiji, would be serving as acting governor of the state. “I knew this on the pages of newspapers, the social media and when the state Commissioner of Information told a journalist that I am treated this way because I belong to the G8 group. “My concern at the moment, however, is to see that Zamfara is free from all these security challenges where the killings, kidnappings and animal rustling have taken charge.” Clarifying further on the matter, the Deputy Governor’s Director-General on Media, Malam Yusuf Idris, said, “The deputy governor is always in his office and nothing is related to him concerning official matters.” Yusuf maintained that “the only reason someone else aside from the deputy governor that can act in the governor’s absence is when he (the deputy governor) is impeached, removed from office by court order or death and none of these is the case at the moment,” he said. When contacted, however, Gov. Yari told journalists that “my main concern in the state now is how to tackle the security situation and see our people living without any threat to their lives, businesses or property. “We can only discuss this issue when we begin to talk politics,” he said. The APC in the state is fictionalised between the governor and his supporters and the G8 made up of eight persons including the deputy governor.