Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie The year 2018 has finally come to an end. Any moment from now we shall crossover into 2019. As 2018 comes to an end all the ugly situation in your life is coming to an end. As Moses told his follow Israelites, “the Egyptians you see today, you shall see no more” (Exodus 14:13). The 2018 you see today – you shall see no more! The poverty you see today – you shall see no more! the barrenness you see today – you shall see no more! The darkness you experience today – you shall experience no more! The sickness you see today – you shall see no more! The bondage you experience today – you shall experience no more! Your level is about to change. Any moment from now you shall crossover: …from poverty to riches: Poverty is a disease. It is the worst and humiliating situation anyone can find himself. The poor ones have little or no respect in the society. Our Lord Jesus Christ did not come into this world to impoverish us, instead, as St. Paul rightly wrote, he came to enrich us “For you know the generous act of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, so that by his poverty you might become rich (2 Corinthians 8:9). Child of God, as 2018 has finally come to an end your period of poverty has come to an end. You are crossover from poverty to  riches. …from barrenness to fruitfulness: Barrenness is among the unfavorable situations on earth. A barren couple is a desolate couple. In the book of Exodus 23:26 the Lord God assured his chosen ones, “No one shall miscarry or be barren in your land; I will fulfill the number of your days.” Instead of bareness in Psalm 128 the Lord assured his faithful ones, “Your wife will be like a fruitful vine within your house; your children will be like olive shoots around your table.” With the end of 2018 the period of barrenness is over! …from Darkness to Light:  Darkness is the most irritating force on earth. Naturally, every reasonable person abhors darkness. Before creation the author of the book of Genesis described the earth as a place that was engulfed with total darkness, “the earth was a formless void and darkness covered the face of the deep, while a wind from God swept over the face of the waters. Then God said, “Let there be light”; and there was light” (Genesis 1:2-3). With the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ the gospel of Matthew declares, the people who sat in darkness have seen a great light, and for those who sat in the region and shadow of death light has dawned” (Matthew 4:16). As 2018 comes to an end every form of darkness will surely disappear in Jesus name – Amen! …from Nobody to Somebody: A nobody is an irrelevant person. He is someone without voice or recognition. When God sent Moses to Pharaoh, he could not believe it, he described himself as nobody before Pharaoh: “But Moses said to God, “Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh, and bring the Israelites out of Egypt?”  The Lord assured him, saying, “I will be with you.” (Exodus 3:11-12). Indeed, One with God is majority! With God on his side Moses was able to defeat Pharaoh and the Egyptian army. God transformed his life from nobody to somebody. Any moment from now, as the year comes to an end, you are crossing over from nobody to somebody! … from Sickness to Health:   Sickness is the most discomforting and most embarrassing experience anyone can go through. Some sickness even leads to death. Our Lord Jesus Christ was brushed because of our sickness. The prophet Isaiah 53:5 declares, “He was wounded for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the punishment that made us whole, and by his bruises we are healed.” During his public ministry, a lot of people received their healing. “ The gospel of Matthew 8:16 declares, “That evening they brought to him many who were possessed with demons; and he cast out the spirits with a word, and cured all who were sick.” Through our Lord Jesus Christ the sick ones were all transformed into healthy ones, they all received their healing. Child of God, as you cross over to the new year no sickness shall crossover with you! …from Death to Life: Death is the most painful and the most dreadful reality on earth. It is the end of human Endeavor. Death occurs once in every human being’s life. According to the book of Hebrew 9:27,  “It is appointed for mortals to die once, and after that the judgment.” Death is therefore irrevocable! Through his death on the cross, our Lord Jesus Christ abolished death. He said, “I am the resurrection and the life. Those who believe in me, even though they die, will live, 26 and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die.” Crossover from death to life is made possible through and in Christ Jesus. Jesus is the channel of new life. Child of God, As you crossover into the new year, untimely death is not for you. You will not experience premature death. You are crossing over from death to abundant life! …from bondage to freedom: Bondage is another form of oppression. It is captivity in action. Our Lord Jesus Christ was anointed to set the captives free. He declared in the gospel of Luke 4:18 “ “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim release to the captives     and recovery of sight to the blind, to let the oppressed go free, to proclaim the year of the Lord’s favor.” As long as Christ Jesus is concerned, none of us are in bondage. Jesus has set us free. Child of God, as you crossover into 2019, you shall crossover from bondage to freedom. The yoke of captivity and slavery is hereby broken in Jesus name – Amen! …from setback to breakthrough: Setback, failure and disappointment are the worst thing that can happen to any business man or woman. setback occurs in the absence of our Lord Jesus Christ. The gospel of Luke 5 presents the case of fishermen who laboured in vain, without Christ. As soon as Jesus entered their boat/business things turned around. Jesus told Simon Peter, “Put out into the deep water and let down your nets for a catch.” 5 Simon answered, “Master, we have worked all night long but have caught nothing. Yet if you say so, I will let down the nets.” 6 When they had done this, they caught so many fish that their nets were beginning to break. 7 So they signaled their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both boats, so that they began to sink.” That was the end of fruitless labour in the life of Simon Peter. Child of God, I may not know the kind of business you are doing. I may not know the kind of occupation you are into. I may not even know the kind of office where you are working, but as you are moving into the New Year, your level must surely change! I see you moving from failure to success, from setback to breakthrough, from one level to another level; from curses to abundant blessing. And as you match into the year 2019 it shall be well with you. Goodness and mercy shall follow you and you shall dwell in the presence of the Lord – forever and ever – Amen!