UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, on Sunday announced the creation of the UN Network on Migration, to support member-states in the endeavour to ensure safe, orderly and regular migration. Guterres made this known on Sunday, the eve of the two-day Inter-governmental Conference to Adopt the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration which opens in Marrakech, Morocco, on Monday. According to him, the creation of the network is a visible sign of the United Nations system’s commitment to working with member-states in the implementation of the historic Global Compact. He highlighted some of the Network’s core features as focusing on collaboration, noting that the International Organisation for Migration would play a central role in that regard. Guteress also said that the Network would have “an agile and inclusive structure’’, support member- states and complement, rather than duplicate, other initiatives. “Furthermore, it would embody the diversity that is the UN hallmark, and an openness to working with all partners, at all levels,’’ he said. “With this in mind, we have decided to establish the United Nations Network on Migration. “This will mobilise the full extent of our capacities and expertise to support you, member-states, in this vital endeavour.” The UN scribe thanked his Special Representative, Louise Arbour, for overseeing the Network’s creation, and his colleagues throughout the system – from the Secretariat to the Agencies, Funds and Programmes, for “committing to this new way of working’’. He expressed confidence in the leadership and the members of the new arrangement. Describing international migration as on one of the most-pressing current global challenges, Guteress said the participation of diverse stakeholders in the conference demonstrated the importance attached to the pursuit of better management of the issue. According to him, the cooperative approach is grounded in the principles of state sovereignty, responsibility-sharing, non-discrimination and human rights. “Many months of inclusive dialogue have produced an impressive document on one of the most-pressing global challenges of our times. “Now we must breathe life into what we have agreed and demonstrate the Compact’s utility to Governments as they establish and implement their own migration policies; to communities of origin, transit and destination and to migrants themselves. “One of the most significant features of the Global Compact is its recognition of the essential roles to be played by many actors, including governments and migrants themselves. “But, also civil society, academia, trade unions, the private sector, diaspora groups, local communities, parliamentarians, national human rights institutions and the media.’’ Guterres also commended what he described as “the extraordinary capacity of all our Moroccan host – to have such a beautiful convention center built out of nothing in a few weeks’’.