LAGOS – The Nigeria Football Federation has ordered the League Management Company (LMC) to start the 2018/19 league season before January 1, 2019. The NFF also directed that the Nigeria National League produce four teams that will be promoted to the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) for the 2018/2019 Season. The Emergency Committee of the NFF that met the weekend in Abuja, which gave these directives, stated that that teams contesting the Super 8 Tournament should arrive Aba on Wednesday, 19th December, and the tournament must be concluded by Sunday, 23rd December for the Nigeria National League to present teams to the Nigeria Professional Football League for the new season. “The Super 8 Tournament must go ahead with all the teams arriving on or before Wednesday, 19th December. I enjoin all the eight qualified teams to endeavour to be in Aba for this tournament, in order to ensure that the LMC has the names of the four teams promoted from the NNL, and go ahead to conduct its draws for the new season,” NFF stated in a statement signed by its head of Head of Media, Ademola Olajire on Monday. The NFF also directed that the NNL must proceed with the tournament as scheduled with the Clubs that report to Aba while stating that disciplinary action would be taken against those who fail to honour their obligations to participate in the Super 8 and the directives of the NFF. “At the same time, the League Management Company must make best efforts to ensure that all parameters, processes and procedures are set to commence the new Nigeria Professional Football League season before the first day of January, 2019.” While giving these directives, the NFF pleaded with the clubs not to boycott the league stating, “I am imploring the various Club Owners and other investors, promoters and facilitators, as well as the administrators of the two Leagues, to see the current situation as a consequence of the special circumstances that we found ourselves and consider the best interest of Nigerian Football. “Nobody foresaw these special circumstances. Yet, it is only by obeying the rules and regulations, and being guided by global best practice that we can move forward. Nigerian Football is operating within the international football community, and not an oasis in any desert. The NFF Emergency Committee endorses the resolution of the expanded meeting that the best eight teams in the NNL should contest the Super 8 Tournament, from which the best four teams will be promoted to the Nigeria Professional Football League for the 2018/2019 Season.” Gombe United FC, Remo Stars FC, Shooting Stars Sports Club, Bendel Insurance FC, Delta Force FC, Kada Stars FC, Real Stars FC and Kogi United are the teams qualified for the NNL Super 8 Tournament.