Scores of supporters of Akinwunmi Ambode, the Lagos State Governor, on Sunday, embarked on solidarity rally to reaffirm commitment to the election of the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The supporters, who marched from the State Secretariat in Alausa to APC’s secretariat on Acme Road in Ogba, said there was no iota of truth in the purported alliance with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Accord Party (AP) as reported in some sections of the media. The rally, which was organised under the auspices of Ambode Mandate Support Group (AMSG), was well attended by thousands of the governor’s supporters who were received by the state APC chairman, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, alongside other state executive officers of the party. Leader of the delegation and Director General of AMSG, Akeem Sulaimon, said the solidarity walk was embarked upon to reaffirm the commitment of Governor Ambode to the victory of the APC in 2019 elections at all levels in the state. Sulaimon, who is also the Special Adviser to the Governor on Communities and Communication, said it was also important to emphasise that Governor Ambode had truly accepted the choice of the party, adding that any contrary information was a hoax. “We are here because a lot of people lately seem to be talking for our principal, His Excellency Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, claiming to be representing his interest and we need to let the whole world know that if anyone will represent his interests, it can only be those of us that belong to his campaign. “His Excellency, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode is a man of God; he is a man who believes that the party is supreme; he is a man who has accepted the choice and the position of the party. He has accepted that Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu is the candidate of our great party, APC and he has equally been mobilizing not just members of his group but he has been mobilizing the party to ensure victory for Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu come 2019,” he said.