LAGOS – “What will become of my future? Who will help me? How I found myself in this condition sounds mysterious. It’s like I am still dreaming. I live in pains everyday. I need help, Nigerians.” These were the painful comments of 50-year-old hotel cleaner, Imoh Effiong from Calabar, Cross River State, who is suffering from an unknown ailment that led to stomach protrusion for the past one year. Effiong left Calabar for Lagos few years ago in search of greener pasture. After several failed attempts to raise money from family members to start petty trading, she decided to look for paid employment and was engaged in a hotel (name withheld) as a cleaner. According to her, she got to work one day and after she finished the morning cleaning session, she started feeling uncomfortable as her tummy was vibrating. Effiong, who was found seated and begging for financial assistance in the company of her junior sister, Aisat Abass, on the new foot bridge at Berger Ojodu, Lagos, narrated her ordeal to Saturday INDEPENDENT on Friday. “I was hale and hearty before I got to work the day the incidence happened. After the end of the morning session, I discovered I was not feeling too well within me. My stomach began to swell. I thought it was constipation. Before I knew it, it was becoming very unbearable as the stomach was protruding very profusely.” Asked what she thought could have been responsible for her condition, she said it started after she collected money from her boss. “What I can remember was that the previous night, my boss gave me the sum of N1500 as bonus for the day’s job. I was skeptical to collect it since he has never done so before, but I was scared to reject the offer. It was after I collected the money that I discovered that certain powdery substances littered the air around me. I suspected the substances were from the naira notes I received from my boss,” she said. Effiong also said any time rain falls, the protrusion reduces and she is calmer. But as the sun shines, the pain returns with protrusion. She said she has gone to a Health Centre at Orile-Iganmu Lagos to seek for medical assistance but no meaningful diagnosis has been done to confirm the status of her ailment. “Everybody has abandoned me. I cannot sleep well. I have no food to eat. That was why I begged my sister (Aisat) to lead me to Berger so that Nigerians can come to my aid. She has to abandon soft drinks and pure water she was selling to stand by me on this bridge.” All efforts to speak with Effiong’s boss proved abortive as his phone number was unreachable. Though Saturday INDEPENDENT’s investigation continues, Effiong has not been able to give the precise address of the hotel at Orile-Iganmu as at press time. Though Effiong has no bank account but she is appealing to individuals, corporate and religious organisations to help her. Anyone who wants to render any form of assistance can reach her through her sister, Aisat, on this phone number: 07057873172.