Tomi Falade, Oyinkan Somorin and Ifeoma Ononye LAGOS – There seems to be a new mantra in Nigeria or among Nigerians whenever a conversation is started, and it is all about the state of Nigerian roads. If there is one unifying factor on Nigerian roads, it is the level of degradation and prevalence of potholes on many of the roads. This is not a phenomenon unique to one area, community, local government area or state, it is a nationwide problem that has become part of commuters and Nigerians’ reality, and there seems to be no end in sight. In many instances, Nigerians and other road users have had to copy driving styles and moves from movies like ‘Fast and Furious’ to navigate the deep crevices and trenches scattered across many roads in Nigeria. While the bad roads may be attributed to use of substandard materials by some road contractors in Nigeria, one of the greatest causes is our poor maintenance culture and neglect of roads in need of attention. However, with the approach of the yuletide season, panic has begun to spread anew among road commuters and travelers in Nigeria at the thought of the number of lives that would again be lost as a result of the deplorable state of the roads. While the issue seems to have been over flogged, Saturday INDEPENDENT felt the need to revisit the issue with the approach of the festive season, as many Nigerians plying the dangerous roads to visit friends and relatives in distant locations. But when Oyebowale Oladayo, founder of De Self Help Community Project, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that help communities rehabilitate roads told Saturday INDEPENDENT that the last time a road in his area was constructed and rehabilitated was during the military regime, over 20 years ago, it gave more reason and substance to this piece. The road, which Oladayo spoke about, was described by residents as a disaster waiting to happen. The canal spot is called Herculus bus stop in Ogun State and serves as the biggest channel for water during rainy season. Due to the fact that there are no workable gutters on either side of the road, water has gradually washed off a good part of the road into the canal. Additionally, there is a big gorge under the road that also channels into the canal, which is getting wider by the day. According to Oladayo, the then military governor of Lagos State, Buba Marwa did a great job constructing the road in 1996. “What we are seeing here is 22 years of neglect by government. If nothing is done to save the road, erosion will possess this road,” he said. Most mornings, in different states of the federation, commuters sometimes leave their homes three or four hours early, not because the distance to their destination is great or simply to beat rush hour traffic, it is to make up for the amount of time that they will spend snaking through the ditches and crevices that have become a yawning fixture on Nigerian roads. For those who live in a different state or city from their places of work or business, their story is even direr. Mutiat, a fashion designer whose place of business is in Abeokuta, Ogun State, explained that she had to move down to Ijebu-Ode after she got married, but realised the journey alone would kill her in a few years. This, according to her, caused her to move her business back to Ijebu-Ode, and she lost most of her customers. Workers in Ibadan, who reside in Osun State or vice versa, Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered, prefer to only go home on the weekends to reduce commute time and risk to life as a result of the quality of the roads. Roads like Benin-Ore, have become a death trap to travelers, as it has become another haven for potholes that look like wells. Unlike the mere worries of commuting to work, now that the end of the year is drawing closer, Nigerians have newer worries. In the case of people who live far from home and who plan to take advantage of the festive break to return to their homes in far East, North, South-South or South-West, the fear of accidents caused by bad roads have suddenly become real. And their fears are justified; after all, a one to two hour drive on a bad road is nothing compared to a twelve or 15-hour drive on different roads on diverse levels of degradation. A few months back when the rains made their appearance, so did the return of potholes on the roads. In Lagos, it would be recalled that in the later months of 2017, the state government made efforts to fix major roads and degraded sections of roads in the state. Despite the multiple constructions of new roads, which continued this year by the Lagos State Public Works Corporations (LSPWC), it is as if no such thing has been done, as there is a re-emergence of potholes on practically all the roads. Areas like Alimosho, the stretch from Moshalashi to Iyana Ipaja, Isheri going to Egbeda, Mechanic, and the five star corridors inwards to Aswani Market, from Cele and Iyana-Isolo on the Oshodi- Apapa Expressway among others have seen a lot of wear in the short period of rains. On these roads, records of ghastly accidents abound, including the one few months ago where a laden truck, a Toyota Highlander SUV, a Sienna SUV and a Volkswagen commercial bus all collided as they tried to overtake each other forgetting the potholes on the road. According to those who witnessed it, they said the accident took place because of the potholes and the victims were fortunate that nobody died. Deji Adebowale, a transporter and a witness to the accident said the tragedy occured because the truck driver was impatient. “If I am to blame anyone, it would be the truck driver because he was impatient, knowing the kind of road he was plying. He should have taken it slowly. At the end of the day, the truck hit the commercial bus, and the force of the action made the bus hit the car in front and it went on like that. I think six vehicles were damaged that day. It was no joke.” On the popular Agbado road leading to Oke-Aro, Giwa Bus-Stop and Lambe communities of Ogun State, erosion is gradually taking a good part of the road into the canal that doubles as a refuse dump site. The road is a boundary between Ogun and Lagos States. It is also the major link road for residents of Ogun State communities who work and have businesses in Lagos. In Calabar, a city in Cross River State known for its beauty and allegiance, commuters are not spared from pothole troubles. In most areas like the Bakassi for instance, the residents took it upon themselves to mend the potholes and craters on their streets as they appear to have grown tired of waiting for it to be done by the government. The residents pile rocky pieces of earth and sand to fill the holes on the roads. Others who can’t afford to buy materials throw their waste on the road to fill the holes. According to Chief Lawrence Obot, he explains that if they don’t do it that way, the road would be inaccessible for residents who have vehicles on the street. “They say if someone can’t help you, you help yourself. That is this case. The government cannot do everything. How many can they do? All these issues, they are not the ones it affects, so if we continue to wait for the government to come repair the roads on our street for us, then we are going to wait a long time. I pity my car most times as it is always visiting the mechanic because of bad roads.” Asides from the roads being riddled with holes, some residents across the country have questioned the quality of materials being used to make these roads. Some have even gone as far as saying that it is the leading reason for the deplorable roads travelers experience at yuletide. David Okeke, a civil engineer, questioned the materials used. He said the materials were not meant to stand the test of time. “What I have seen with these people who claim they are working is that they just repair and build the road with materials that are not efficient. Apart from that, when building the roads these contractors are supposed to work on drainages, so as to allow for free flow of flood and dirt, but they won’t do this because they want another government to give them another job worth millions into their pockets. The thing is we Nigerians are our own worst enemies. We make substandard roads, how do we expect it to last?” According to research, and a comment by Chairman, Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Apapa Branch, Dr. Ombugadu Garba, he said, apart from the quality of the materials used to make the roads, there are other factors that could contribute to road failure. Garba explained that if the road is not properly designed, no matter how solid the road is, it would fail. He said that most of these roads are done with asphalt, noting that asphalt and water are not compatible. He also stated that anyone who is assigned to design the road should look at the traffic volume and the axial load of every truck that plies it. “Properly designed in the sense that you look at the drainage system; is the road properly designed such that water can easily run off after the rain? There are areas where you have heavy trucks passing through amid gridlock. Such roads, if the design doesn’t consider that volume of transit vis-à-vis the axial load, the loads of plying trucks will fail such roads easily. But importantly, the issue of quality of roads is another challenge. Every road depends on the terrain. There are terrains that ordinary constructions can stand the test of time, but there are some terrains where you need to do much more work, if not, such road will fail especially like the water-logged and muddy areas. The road designs are different. Oftentimes, you see that the surface thickness aspects are not considered and that is the challenge. “Again, no matter how you design a road, if you don’t have competent personnel that would transfer that design into reality, then you are bound to have problems. Such a road would not stand the test of time. Also, no matter how competent the personnel are, if the quality of the material is not up to standard, then such road will fail. Every day we tell government to give the road construction and rehabilitation to people that have what it takes to construct the road, but oftentimes, people that are given these contracts don’t know much about construction and they will always want to maximise profit. As a result, we have these challenges. You construct a road, and within six months, it is gone,” Garba said. Few months ago, in the statement of the State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Lagos State, Ade Akinsanya, he said many roads across the state had been fixed, but the government would nonetheless make efforts to ensure that all dilapidated sections of roads across the state that need construction would be rehabilitated to bring freedom of hardship to motorist and residents. He made it known that some roads in strategic areas across the state, which includes Lekki, Ikorodu, Itokin, Ogunlana Drive, Lawanson Road, Ojota amongst others, have been fixed with motorist and commuters driving smoothly on these roads. According to him “Massive road rehabilitation across the state has already been embarked upon and we like to assure the public that all road corridors across the state will be touched by the various rehabilitation gangs who have been deployed to all nooks and crannies of the state. At the moment, areas already covered include Lekki –Expressway by Abijo and Abraham Adesanya roundabout carried out by Hi-tech Construction; Ojota, Ketu and Mile 12 sections of the Ikorodu Road have been attended to, while work is also on-going on Ijede-Ewu-Elepe Road in Ikorodu, amongst others. More importantly, the various failed portions on the Lagos Badagry Expressway are also being attended to presently. These include the Isashi Junction, Iyana Era, Agbara and Ijanikin,” he said. This all made it seems like road problems in Lagos were nearing a definitive end, but few months down the line and the story is different. Potholes, according to some Lagosians pop up on Lagos roads daily like weeds, and it seems that promise of paradise has been lost. Other roads that have fallen into disrepair include Lokoja-Okene Road in Kogi State, which has claimed too many lives in almost a decade since it has been in that deplorable state. Parts of Obajana road, where Dangote’s cement factory lies cannot also be left off this list, as commuters complain bitterly on the sorry state of the road. A 2017 report also claimed that between Forest, Abuja-Jos road to Mararaban Jamaar in Jos South, there are 1674 potholes. These kind of statistics are quite troubling as they portend a gloomy yuletide travel for commuters. Now the yuletide season is here, and efforts to speak to an FRSC official or spokesperson on what measures the Road Safety officials are taking to prevent accidents or loss of lives on roads this season proved abortive. Whatever the cause: substandard roads or poor road maintenance culture, the result is here. What we have to show as a nation this festive season is the collection of bad roads that have become Nigeria’s trademark and a fresh point of worry for Nigerians who wish to travel to their various home towns this December.