Samuel Ogidan and Jide Oyekunle Abuja – Armed Policemen on Friday invaded the house of Senator Dino Melaye, member representing  Kogi West Senatorial District with the view to arresting him. The house which is located at No 11 Shanga Street, Maitama in Abuja was on Friday barricaded by armed policemen with six Police Rapid Response Squad vehicles stationed in front of  the building. It was gathered that they arrived at 12:45pm and blocked the gate with their vehicles. Saturday Independent gathered that the senator was inside the building but refused to come out. When journalists arrived with cameras to film the siege operation, the leader of the team who was on mufti asked journalists to leave saying that they don’t want the operation to be recorded. When he was prodded on the reason for the invasion,  the officer simply said that they were there to arrest Dino. He declined to give further detail. It was also gathered that two security guards were said to have been beaten, arrested and handcuffed by the police when they demanded to know the identity of the officers who appeared in mufti. The police were said to have forcefully gained entry into the building and chased out all domestic staff of the senator. While reacting to the siege to his house Melaye who spoke to Saturday Independent via telephone from an undisclosed location said that he was out of Abuja adding that it was a deliberate attempt to kill and destroy him. He stated that police had refused to release his international passports to him despite the court order. He accused Nigeria police of exposing him to danger by withdrawing his security since April. His words “My international passports are with the police and I have a court order that it should be released to me . The IG has refused to honour the court order . As I speak to you my police details have been withdrawn since April and it is in a deliberate attempt to expose me so that I can be killed and destroyed.  The Senate in their resolution asked the police to restore my security but up till today they refused.” Dino explained that the same officers of Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) that shot him are laying siege to his house. He stressed that all the SARS officers  in his house are in mufti. “I am a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and If there is any invitation here in Abuja I am going to honour it but not Kogi. I have been arraigned seven times in different courts by Nigeria Police. Anyone they want to do now will only be number eight  I am not afraid  of being arraigned or tried in court because I know that my hands are clean. I have not committed any atrocity or offence.  I know that the God that I serve will deliver me.” Also his younger brother , Moses Melaye  who addressed journalists said that police in mufti took over the Shanga Street from the beginning to the end. He said that they were not aware of what was happening until after much surveillance they decided to advance to the main gate. His words “The security man refused to open the gate immediately they came because he wanted to identify them but upon identification they brought him out and beat him up and handcuffed him and put him inside their Hilux.” “I met their team leader and introduced myself. He asked me my name and my relationship with the senator and I told him that I am his younger brother. So he said that they wanted to arrest the senator and I asked him of the warrant of arrest and search but he shunned me at that point he said that I cannot gain access into the compound. They forced themselves into the compound and locked everybody outside. I don’t know exactly what they are doing behind the gate,” Melaye said. As at time of this report the standoff was still ongoing and the gun-toting officers were still laying siege to the house. The reason for the planned  arrest cannot be ascertained as at time of this report. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday condemned in the invasion of the residence of its Presidential Campaign’s Director in charge of  Civil Societies. The party, in a statement by the Director, Media and Publicity of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organization, Kola Ologbondiyan, rejected the Gestapo-like attack on Senator Melaye residence and demanded the immediate vacation of his residence by the invading security official. “Nigerians can recall that Senator Melaye had a few days ago alerted of a plot by the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Ibrahim Idris, to forcefully arrest him and inject him with poisonous substances due to his outspokenness against the misrule, corruption and infractions of the Buhari administration “It is therefore devious of the Nigeria Police, which had distanced itself from the plot, to turn round to invade Senator Melaye’s residence held hostage and beat up his domestic aides. “This invasion is part of the larger machination by the Buhari Presidency to use state apparatus of power, particularly the police under IGP Idris to harass, intimidate and clamp down on opposition members in a bid to create fear and subjugate the opposition ahead of the 2019 general elections,” the party said. The party recalls the series of attacks and harassment on PDP leaders, including the airport attack on its Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, by security officials, noting that such is a clear recipe for anarchy and a political crisis that could destabilize the nation. In a related development, the PDP yesterday descended hard on President Muhammadu Buhari and All Progressives Congress (APC) over Uyo, Akwa Ibom State campaign rally, saying the ruling party diverted N478 million Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Fund to rent a crowd for the President. PPCO accused Buhari Presidency and the APC of secretly drawing over N478 million from the coffers of the NDDC to rent a crowd and offset bills in President Buhari’s expensive re-election campaign rally in Uyo. The campaign organisation also accused President Buhari of directly appointing serving ministers and heads of government agencies as members of his campaign council so as to continue to use them as conduit pipes for the diversion of public funds to finance his 2019 campaign. “Our party is also aware of the protests by some eminent Nigerians, including foremost businessmen, who were named as members of the APC Campaign Council without their consent, in a desperate bid to showcase an impression that they are supporting Mr. President’s re-election bid. “The N478 million NDDC fund which was originally budgeted for development projects in the Niger Delta was diverted to renting and transportation of crowd from other parts of the country to the rally to create an impression of popularity for President Buhari in the region. “Further information at our party’s disposal, shows that the said N478 million is part of the wholesome sum of N1.2 billion allegedly siphoned in tranches from the NDDC treasury by the cabal at the Buhari Presidency and APC leaders, who have been stealing money from various government agencies to finance President Buhari’s campaign. “Our party also has it on good authority that this ignoble scheme of siphoning NDDC development fund to finance his campaign was the main reason President Buhari foisted an unpopular leadership at the management of the NDDC despite the protests by critical stakeholders in all the states of the Niger Delta,” the party said. Lambasting Buhari’s presidency over its dictatorial tendencies and its arrogant disdain for constituted authority, PPCO called on Nigerians to note that unlike the PDP Presidential campaign council, which has credible Nigerians as members, most of Buhari’s zonal coordinators are persons facing corruption cases. “This casts a very long shadow on President Buhari’s integrity and further confirms that his fight against corruption is a sham,” the campaign organisation said. PPCO, however, reminded President Buhari that Nigerians are still awaiting his explanation on the seething revelation of corrupt acquisition of Etisalat Nigeria and Keystone Bank PLC by his family members under the cover of his presidency; an issue that Nigerians are not willing to let go until he clears his name.