Eleniyan (the one who has people) as he is fondly called by members of his constituents and other Lagosians, is one man that was evidently bathed with the water of politics. What, with his drive to serve his people, his doggedness even in the face of tragedy, and his vision for a better country; he has consistently remained the choice of the people. Hon. Segun Olulade, asides being a sharp dresser and a two-time member of the Lagos State House of Assembly in his time in office has not only displayed characteristics of a politician, but that of a true leader, a political professional. His sojourn into office was not merely to become a politician, but to answer hard questions for his people and make even harder decisions to better the society. In this exclusive chat with Saturday INDEPENDENT’s TOMI FALADE, the economist, cum environmentalist explains why legislators are the backbone of the society among other things. We learn most things from our parents. Were your parents ever involved in politics? Yes, my parents were politicians. I grew up in a political family and it is funny that both my parents were always in different political parties. It was only one party that brought them together which was AD. They are both late now, but it was that party that brought them together. During the NRC/SDP era, my mum was in NRC and my dad was in SDP. During UPN/NPN days, my dad was in UPN and my mum was in NPN. It has always been like that, and they both held their political parties’ meetings in our house. They were both leaders of their respective political parties, and that has also helped me as an individual to understand tolerance in politics, to understand how to relate with others, and how to be a grassroots politician. In this situation where there seems to be so much bad blood between the two major political parties in Nigeria, do you think that’s possible? That is one of the things we need to address. That a person belongs to another political party does not make him an enemy, especially for the followers of the other person. It just shows that he or she has a different agenda and manifesto. And if my manifesto appeals to the public, they would vote for me. If it doesn’t, they would vote for the other person. That is the way to go when playing politics, we should not encourage ‘thuggery’, we should not encourage violence in politics, and we should not encourage bad blood. If you win, understand that no victor, no vanquished. Like I tell people, if what you are going for in a political office is about service, why do you have to kill yourself about it? If they say they do not need your service, you go home and sleep. That is why it is good to have people who are political professionals, not professional politicians. If you have professional politicians, it affects governance, because all they know about is politics. But when you have professionals in politics, it gives them the opportunity, and if they do not win an election, they have a profession they can always fall back on. But we must also discourage the idea of everyone simply flocking to one office or the other before you can lead or serve. Having been exposed to such political environment in your formative years, did it inform your decision or spark your interest in politics or was it merely you seeing a need and deciding to meet that need? It started with that, but the major thing that prompted me to be involved in politics was Alhaji Lateef Jakande. As the Senior Prefect of my primary school then, he visited my community and I saw a man who happened to be the governor of the state the way he came into our community inspired me and motivated me to want to be like him. That was the conviction I had. How old were you then? I was about 11 or 12 years old. I had other career interests though. Growing up, I wanted to be a medical doctor, but as I grew up I ended up becoming an economist, and that was the academic aspect of life for me. In the reality though, I became an environmentalist. You would realise that God moves in mysterious ways when you follow my career path. Why not Political Science as an academic pursuit then? A lot of us that go to the university end up doing the courses we did not intend to do. And even when you are opportune to do those courses, you end up doing different things in real life. In my opinion, we need to also look into that aspect of life. How we can tailor our education in a way that it will avail our children the opportunity for career guidance that would be fair enough to allow the children to make their own career choices. A lot of times, we see our parents who have painted a picture of what they want us to be, and that is what you are solely exposed to, and that limits you in taking decisions of what you really want to do as a person. While growing up, if all you see is somebody who is your teacher, you will end up thinking that you want to become a teacher when you grow up. If the person you see and appreciate is a policeman, you will choose to be a policeman when you grow up, and it is the same with all other professions. It is the level of limitations that our people have been engaged in. I believe that we should find a means to accommodate all things to avail us the opportunity of saying that as a child, don’t limit yourself. Why many children from middle-class homes make it in life, so to say, is that they have the opportunity of seeing an aeroplane and travelling. They have visited other countries at very young ages, so they have seen how things are being done in other climes. So they can decide on a variety of professions. You will notice that if your father is a lawyer and he is constantly in court, the tendencies are there that the children will start envisioning being a lawyer. We have families where the father is a judge, the mother is a judge, the children are lawyers. That is because it is what they were exposed to. Some would have been mechanics, engineers, fashion designers… That’s why you see some of them even after a law or medical degree; they end up becoming musicians or caterers. That is even in vogue now. As a nation, we must look at how we develop our children to give them the opportunity to be whatever they want honourably and still make it in life. We must also place value and emphasis on certificate. That is the reason we have so many people with certificates they cannot defend. We are all simply reading to pass. Were your parents in support of your political ambition? The first day I told my dad about my interest to contest, he gave his blessings. But for my mum, she didn’t want it. She believed I was not cut out to be a politician in the present political climate; that there is a way politicians behave, and I do not have those traits. So she didn’t want me to be a politician. But after my brother and my dad were able to convince her, she eventually gave her blessings and prayed for me. With what you have discovered, what trait do you believe a politician must have to serve successfully? To be a very good politician, you must be selfless. At times, it doesn’t pay, but when you are honest and sincere to the people you represent, and you are generous; because you must be a giver, you will go far in politics. I have seen some very greedy politicians that have made it in politics, they have gone far, but theirs would be a situation where they would not have anything as a legacy when they leave. When they leave, they leave without a mark. But if you are committed to service of the public, the people you are serving know those who are serving them, and they know those who are greedy, who are there simply for the perks of the office. Those people don’t go far. Imagine, we still talk about people like Lateef Jakande, Tinubu, Obafemi Awolowo till date, and it is because of the impact they have made in politics, the value they have added to governance in Nigeria. There are some that have left offices after them and we can’t even remember that they have passed through those offices before. What will sustain you is the value you have been able to add to people’s lives, it is the kind of services you have been able to render, the kind of representation you have provided for your people. Those are key things in politics, not having all the money. You have plans to serve at the national level, is it because you feel it is time for you to move? I had the opportunity of coming back to the Lagos House, but I said no. I have gotten a lot of knowledge here, I should be able to give the younger ones the opportunity to come up and learn more about what we do and how we do it. Going to the National Assembly is because I see a vacuum in terms of representation for my people, and I decided that it is time for us to have quality representation at the national level. I’m still young and I believe I have a lot more to offer, so I will go there to offer service. As a young man, I should also be ambitious. With the elections almost upon us, what do you think the electorate should look out for in picking their political leaders? There has always been more emphasis on the governors and presidents, without looking at those who are the real representatives of the people, the legislative arm of government. The electorate thinks that it is the governors and the presidents that are the number one in the country, and it is the lie they have been told for years. Their number one is ceremonial. When we talk about the number one arm of government, it is the legislative arm of government and that is the area that a lot of people have been neglecting over the years. Major challenges we face in this country today are the fact that the National Assembly is not running the same vision with the president. They are not on the same page with the president, and that has always affected us as a people. If, for example, what we see in Lagos is the same thing that we are seeing at the National Assembly, we would have gone far. The issue of electricity would have been a thing of the past. The issue of True Federalism would have been a thing of the past. People are talking about autonomy of the legislative arm today, but you can imagine how many years ago we achieved that in Lagos State. So that’s what we are talking about. Major issues like electricity should have been addressed. It is the issue of devolution of power, true federalism, that are not being addressed by the National Assembly. And I think this time; we would have a house that would support President Muhammadu Buhari at the National Assembly, a house that would be full of people of integrity, that have something to offer. That is my expectation. Also, we have the opportunity of seeing the manifestos of the two major political parties; we should just weigh which would favour us as a country. Is it those who have been there for 16 years and destroyed our economy, or the man who has been there for three and a half years that we started seeing broken down amenities and infrastructure coming back? And the fact that we have a president that is being respected across the globe and that is not corrupt, an image-maker for our country. So those are the issues that Nigerians should look into. Isn’t that whom we want, and not someone that has been tagged ‘Mr Corruption’? The youth must wake up. Youth participation in politics must increase. The idea of political apathy should be eroded, because it is until politicians realise that it is the people that would determine their fate at the polls that we will see a difference. How do you balance family life with the demands of the job? It is not the way everyone is that I am as a politician. I commit a lot of time, energy and resources to ensure that we have the best in my constituency. In doing so, I wake up early, sometimes I take my children to school before coming to the office. Sometimes, the earliest I can leave the office is 10pm. So the little time I have with my family, I utilise it well. I communicate with them regularly; I talk to my children and family often. Even if I am in the office, my wife can tell you where I am at every given time because of the kind of relationship we have built. It is important that family should not be put at the back, because they are paying for whatever services you are rendering. When you go out and there is no food at home, you still give money to people out there. So they make a lot of sacrifices for you to do your job well, so I believe as public servants, we should consider our families. Your style is like something off the cover of a magazine, and you always appear respectably dressed. What’s the one fashion item that is most important to you? My cap. I am a brand person, so you will always see me with my cap except if I am dressed in corporate attire. Asides that, you can’t catch me without my cap when I am on native, so every native outfit I have has a cap to go with it. Once you open my wardrobe, you see my caps. Being a Yoruba man, I have more of the Yoruba style of caps, but I have others. I put my logo on my cap, shoes and clothes. As a politician, what would you say is the greatest challenge you ever faced? It was the day when houses of members of my constituency were being demolished by our government. That period was a very tough time for me. Representing a set of people, and you see them losing their valuables and you cannot help. As a public office holder, that was the greatest challenge. It wasn’t easy for me, but I thank God that those people have been able to overcome it. Some died in the course of the issue. I think as a government, if I ever have the opportunity of doing something, it is to look at how we can do things better than demolishing properties of those who have laboured to build.