Rev. Fr. John Damian Adizie Last weekend the Nigerian Super Falcons proved to the world that the downfall of a man, or rather of a woman, is not the end of her life. At the opening Match of the just concluded African Women Cup of Nations (AWCON) the Nigerian Super Falcon were beaten by the Bayana Bayana of South Africa. Last weekend they met this same team in their final match. But this time around, the Super Falcon were able to beat the Bayana Bayana 4:3 thereby maintaining their position as the African Champion. With this victory the Falcons has retained this title for the 9th time. He who laughs last laughs the best! As I watch these young girls celebrating their victory over South Africa a thought came to my mind, do you know that you are the next champion? Last week we lamented on the ravages caused by this year’s flooding on farmers and how the custom officers are terrorising food suppliers on the road. We reported how the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) appealed to the Federal Government to come to their aid following the destruction of thousands of hectares of rice farmlands by flood in several communities across the nation. As God would have it, the Federal government has responded promptly by promising to compensate the farmers and fishermen who were affected by the flood. This is a welcome development! With this you can agree with me that the downfall of the farmers is not the end of their lives. The farmers will still retain their position as the Champions of Nigerian economy. As the farmers are smiling home I would like to use this medium to appeal to the Federal government to consider the plight of Importers and Exporters. One man’s meat may be another’s man’s poison. With the ban on the importation of food and other essential commodities most of our Importers and Exporters have been rendered poor due to this policy. Moreover, whenever there is shortage of food either as a result of flooding, famine or other natural disaster the nation should be wise and humble enough to make provision for adequate food supply. This was exactly what the sons of Jacob did when the famine heated their land. In the book of Genesis chapter 42, when Jacob learned that there was grain in Egypt he sent his sons to buy grains from Egypt and that was how they were able to survive the famine. With the approval of free trade policy it will then be the turn of the Importers and exporters to become Champions in food supply. The ban on food importation can be revisited whenever there is surplus in food supply not when there is famine in the land due to heavy flooding. Whatever be the case, a new champion is about to emerge. The gospel presents our Lord Jesus Christ as the long awaited champion. Before his arrival John the Baptist was sent to prepare the way for his coming. According to the gospel of Luke 3:1-6 he was the voice of the One crying in the wilderness saying, “Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight, and the rough ways shall be made smooth, and all flesh shall see the salvation of God.” Child of God, you are among those who will see the salvation of God! You will surely experience the salvation of God. During his public ministry our Lord Jesus Christ lived like a champion. He destroyed all the works of Satan. In his first letter, St. John declares, “The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil” (1 John 3:8). That was exactly what Jesus did during his public ministry. The captives were set free, the eyes of the blind were restored, lepers were cleansed, and even the dead were raised back to life. With all these our Lord Jesus Christ declared himself the Champion of champions. In John 16:33 he told his followers, “In the world you have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have conquered the world.” Indeed, our Lord Jesus Christ has conquered not just the world but also the principalities and powers of darkness. He has conquered Satan and all the agents of darkness. He is the greatest champion the world has ever known. He is the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Mighty Man in Battle. He is the ocean divider. He is Mightier than the mightiest and Greater than the greatest. To him be glory and praise both now and forevermore – Amen! Child of God, do you know that you are the next champion? Do you know that you possess all that it takes to become the next champion? Do you even know that you are born to win? Failures and defeat are not for you. In his letter to the Romans St. Paul declares, “In all these we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.” (Romans 8:37-39). Dearly beloved one, as long as you are in Christ Jesus you are more than a conqueror. You are not just an ordinary champion, you are super champion! You are about to be celebrated! Nothing on earth can stop you from becoming a champion. Your sickness cannot stop you. Your family idols and curses cannot stop you. Your poverty cannot stop you. Your weakness and limitations cannot stop you. Your enemies cannot stop. Indeed, you are unstoppable! Even your afflictions and sorrows cannot stop you from attaining your destined position as a champion. The prophet Baruch in chapter 5:1-9 encourages you to put on your garment of championship: “Take off the garment of your sorrow and affliction, O Jerusalem and put on forever the beauty of the glory from God. Put on the robe of the righteousness from God; put on your head the diadem of the glory of the Everlasting; for God will show your splendor everywhere under heaven.” Child of God, your period of sorrow is over! God is taken away that garment of failure from you. He is pulling off the garment of sickness and premature death from your family. As a champion there is no more space for sorrow in your life~! Our Lord Jesus Christ assured his followers, “You have sorrow now, but I will see you again and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you” (John 16:22). Child of God, your level has changed! You are not going to remain in sorrow forever. You shall not remain a failure forever. From failure I see you becoming a champion!  In Psalm 126 the Palmist declares that they that sow in tears will reap with joy. “They go out, they go out, full of tears, bearing seed for the sowing; they come back, they come back with a song, bearing their sheaves.” This shall be your portion in Jesus name – Amen! With today’s responsorial Psalm, your period of sowing in tears is over! Now is your of joyful harvest period. You shall reap with joy. As the book of Deuteronomy declares, “The Lord will command the blessing upon you in your barns, and in all that you undertake; and he will bless you in the land which the Lord your God gives you” (Deuteronomy 28:8). The Lord will also command his blessing upon your business centre, your office is blessed! Your academic is blessed! Your journey is blessed! And as a champion you shall live to enjoy the fruit of your labour. And it shall be well with you in Jesus name – Amen!