ANDREW UTULU and  TITILOPE JOSEPH LAGOS – A popular musician, Adekunle Temitope aka ’Small Doctor’ has been arrested by police in Lagos for allegedly being in possession of firearm, and threatening to shoot policemen. Small Doctor was arrested with three others who were in his company during the incident. Police said they will be charged with unlawful possession of fireman and act capable of causing breach of public peace. The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State command who paraded the suspects on Monday, said they were arrested at Oshodi area of the state,after they had threatened to shoot traffic policemen. Imohimi added that he was disappointed with the musician’s conduct, knowing he had a case with the SCIID, Panti for shooting at his show in Agege, where he allegedly injured four persons. “You would have thought the incident would made him wiser, but surprisingly today, I got a situation report from traffic monitors at Oshodi expressway alleging that four unknown gunmen in a green unregistered SUV were threatening peace and stability of the area. “He brought out a weapon and threatened to fire the policemen. Fortunately the DPO and other policemen at Shogunle intercepted the suspects and arrested them. “When they were brought here it was discovered that one of them was the same Adekunle Temitope aka Small Doctor with three others and they were arrested with a functional rifle, a cartridge and some personal items. “I am concerned as one will expect that a popular musician like him would be a role model but his character of gangsterism is nothing to emulate,”. The police boss stated. The CP further urged celebrities to stop involving themselves in issues of gangsterism and conflicts that do not portray them well. “You would recall that the Inspector General of Police, IGP Ibrahim Idris had a window period for submission of all firearms as all licenses’ had been canceled and all approvals suspended. “But the suspect did not take this advantage to surrender the gun in his possession. “I have directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police in-charge of State CID who is standing here with me to properly investigate the case and they will be charged for threatening violence on policemen and being in possession of forearm,” the CP averred.