Tony Ezimakor and Sulaiman Fasasi Abuja / Abeokuta – Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has again hit at the present administration led by President Muhammadu Buhari, saying the country will be worse off than what it is should the administration return in 2019. While asking Nigerians to remain active and get involved in the political process, Obasanjo said Nigerians should get much needed change to a government that will improve the economy, drive growth and regain confidence of investors. Obasanjo’s statement which was signed by his media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, was coming on the heels of a report credited to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) with the headline ‘Atiku: Obasanjo changes political gear to neutral.’ Obasanjo reiterated that while he will not impress any candidate on Nigerians, they should vote for a credible candidate who will drive growth and development and make their lives better than it is now. While insisting that he would not be neutral, Obasanjo said it is only a fool who will be neutral while the country is being destroyed by incompetence, corruption, lack of focus, insecurity, nepotism, brazen impunity and denial of the obvious. While chastising the alleged report by NAN, Obasanjo said his statement at the gathering which was quoted did not suggest neutrality. The former president reassures Nigerians that he will not sit on the fence when he needs to be out and active for people to know where he stands in the best interest of Nigeria. The statement reads, “While Chief Olusegun Obasanjo is in Cairo to attend the maiden edition of the Intra-African Trade Fair (IATF), of which he is Chairman of the Advisory Council, his attention has been drawn to a report by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) with the headline ‘Atiku: Obasanjo shifts political gear to neutral.’ “It is disingenuous, if not malicious, for anyone to suggest that Chief Obasanjo was being neutral when he chose not to use the Owu convention as a platform for political campaign but instead adopt a communal and familial approach in talking to members of his Owu family. “For the records, and as accurately reported by some media organisations, what the former president said at the convention in Iwo was that while he would not impress any candidate on them, Nigerians should vote for credible candidates who will drive growth and development and make their lives better than it is now. “Chief Obasanjo’s statement did not suggest his neutrality. In fact, the former president believes that only a fool will sit on the fence or be neutral when his or her country is being destroyed with incompetence, corruption, lack of focus, insecurity, nepotism, brazen impunity and denial of the obvious. Chief Obasanjo is no such fool nor is he so unwise. “The former president reassures Nigerians that he will not sit on the fence when he needs to be out and active for people to know where he stands in the best interest of Nigeria. “Chief Obasanjo reaffirms that he is on the side of what is best for Nigeria and what we have currently and as the affairs of Nigeria are being run is not the best for Nigeria, so nobody should fool himself or deceive others about Chief Obasanjo’s position. “The former president further urges Nigerians who are victims of what we have for now to stop just complaining and go out to get beneficial change. They must know that such change will not come if they remain inactive just complaining and complacent and they allow themselves to be deceived by sycophants and enemies of Nigeria. “If they do not become active and get much needed change of the current administration to a government that will improve the economy, regain the confidence of investors and generally drive growth, development and economic progress with security, what is coming will be much worse than what Nigerians currently suffer. “On his part, Chief Obasanjo will remain consistent in speaking out whenever and wherever he sees evil as he is known to do no matter whose ox is gored. Nobody should manipulate Chief Obasanjo’s position, particularly on the 2019 presidential election and what he said in Iwo to perpetrate or perpetuate continued destruction of our country.” We Don’t Have Much To Tell Nigerians— APC Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has justified its delayed start of the 2019 campaigns, noting that it has very little to tell the Nigerian electorate. The party said it has just two items for review ahead of the 2019 polls hence the delayed start, namely the achievement of APC administration in three and half years and the character of the personalities that have put themselves forward for the 2019 polls—  President Muhammadu Buhari and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. Whereas the PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar, has since stormed various parts of the country with his campaign train, President Buhari is yet to constitute his Presidential Campaign Council. Only recently, the national leader of the party, Ahmed Bola Tinubu, reportedly declined pressure to head the campaign council. But APC National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Oniru, said the party is not perturbed at all with the perceived delay. “Well, we don’t have any problem at all and we are very okay. Because campaign as you may know is just one aspect of it. There are many other platforms to engage with the people. Rally is just one”, he said. Stressing on personalities of candidates, he said the APC will zero in on the candidate of the PDP and allow persons who know him well, like former President Olusegun Obasanjo, to do the job for the APC. “When we go out for campaign, we will be doing two things because this campaign for APC is about two issues. Character of persons who have come forward to say they want to rule us. We are going to bring character into focus. And for the candidates of the PDP, we won’t go too far stressing to review who you are but the person you worked with…”, he noted. Issa-Oniru noted that the former president in his book did a good job on his assessment of the PDP candidate for all Nigerians to see. “He (Obasanjo) told us he found him to be very unreliable person, somebody that is not trustworthy, that he found him to be somebody who compromises the system for personal gain. And we have evidence of that and we must bring that to focus. And we must continue to thank President Obasanjo for being so patriotic to have alerted the country to the danger inherent in bringing somebody like former Vice President Atiku close to Nigeria’s assets and resources”, the APC spokesman said. He said that what the ruling party expected PDP to use its zonal presidential rallies to accomplish was to profusely apologise to Nigerians for the damage it did in its 16 years in power. Issa-Oniru said, “And it is actually the impact of rally not that we are not going to go round the country because what we expect the PDP to do in this rally is to go to the zones and apologise profusely. Demonstrate remorsefulness which they have failed to do. And they keep going to those zones for rally to insult people. “Our campaign will be on our stewardship. We have been in government for three and half years. We are going to give stewardship. For every kilometre of road that we have done is a reminder to the systemic years of waste under the previous governments. For every rail track that we have laid is a reminder to the systemic wastefulness; for the continuous increase in enrolment of students across the nation because of the now very inviting school environment of school feeding, it is a reminder to the 13.5 million pupils who were out of school under PDP. “So, the campaign will be able stewardship and what we have used the three and half years to do. All the abandoned projects that we have fixed, the issue of diversification that for four decades and the 16 years of PDP became mere mantra and a reality. “Check our GDP, it is no longer a mono product economy. It is now an economy that you have contribution from agriculture and from solid minerals, making solid impact in our GDP. That is diversification. And all this, by the time we bring them to bear and Nigerians are going to move by this December for Christmas and the new year. We are also alerting them that the road that were impassable they will see progress that has been made in the country. And Christmas after Christmas they will continue to see improvement.”