President of Fulani Socio-cultural Association, Miyetti Allah Kautal-Hore, Alhaji Bello Abdullahi Bodejo, in this interview with HABEEB HAZEEZ, blame politicians for fueling herdsmen/farmers clashes. He however, proffers a return to the old order of creating grazing reserves as permanent solution to this incessant bloodletting. Two weeks ago, Miyetti Allah national body rose from a meeting with no clear decision on who to endorse and support come 2019 elections, have you taken a position now? Yes, we had our national association meeting recently, where each states presented their reports, including their challenges. You will agree with me that the problems of Fulani’s in Benue is different from that of Sokoto and other states. In some, their challenge is problem of kidnapping, others is cattle rustling and like that. On the issue of endorsement, my visit to Sokoto is part of our nationwide consultation with our members to review each state disposition to our course and plights, sensitize them ahead of our decision to endorse a preferred candidate that would be based on our aggregate opinion. My visit to Sokoto has also enabled me to interact with the chairman and members of Miyetti Allah, hear their problems and challenges, and get first hand information of what the state government is doing for the benefits of the Fulani race. Prior to the 2015 elections when the presidential contest was between a Fulani and non-Fulani, you endorsed former President Goodluck Jonathan, why is it taking you this long, even with two Fulanis as strong contenders? It was true we endorsed from President Goodluck Jonathan, and the reason we did that was,  we were already in love with him to the extent that we made him our Patron and, let me emphasize here, Fulanis don’t double-deal, that is why we endorsed Goodluck. The reason why we are yet to endorse anyone between the two leading candidates is that, we are yet to see or hear from any of them, their plans and programmes for the Fulanis. Fulani herdsmen don’t need electricity; the only thing we need is grazing land. Up to this moment we are talking, none of the leading candidates are saying anything about the Fulanis or how they want to solve farmers, herders clashes. Be assured that Fulanis have their PVC, and we shall surely mobilize and vote against all those in government that cannot protect our interest. Does it not bothered you that your members are labeled as the tormentors in clashes with farmers? What people termed as incessant clashes between herders and farmers are the handwork of desperate politicians, who always want to escalate mere misunderstanding to score political cheap points, even at the expense of their people. Fulani love peace, having in mind that it is under peaceful atmosphere that there business can thrive. I will buttress this with two instances. In Taraba state, Fulani’s have their cattle colony, for ages, they already have their own grazing land and during a senseless attack which has nothing to do with herders,  farmers clash, hundreds of Fulani’s were killed. In Benue state, the governor for his hatred for herdsmen, introduced and signed into law the anti-open grazing law. That anti-open grazing law is political, anti-Fulani herdsmen and not intended to solve herders, farmers clash. How does Miyetti Allah as the umbrella body of Fulani herdsmen regulates activities of Fulani herdsmen in Nigeria In the area of monitoring the herder activities, their movements, to curtail every accusations by farmers who always accused them of over stepping their bounds? Let me tell you something, Fulani’s don’t have boundary. A typical Fulani don’t have a boundary. Fulani can migrate to Cameroon to go and rear their cows and come back. As I speak with you, not less than twenty thousand of our members are outside the shores Nigeria and no matter how far they traveled they will still come back. In Benue alone, about 15,000 of our members have migrated to Cameroun and you can’t ask them not to go, since ECOWAS protocol has give everyone free movement across border, then you can’t say because you are a Governor or you are somebody, you can put boundaries for a Fulani. If government can have Census of its people, how come Miyetti Allah can not have Census in various state, so as to help you to moderate and monitor some of your members? Unfortunately, government is yet to recognise the importance of Fulani herders and as an association, we cannot conduct the census of herdsmen alone. All Miyetti Allah is doing is to protect our people and we are ready to support government at all levels to protect the interest of Fulani’s, but they are not serious. What form(s) of recognition do you request from the government? We have through several medium, ask the government to bring back our grazing reserved areas. I mean those gazetted and those not gazetted. Please, help us tell the government to let us go back to the era of grazing reserve. As at the time we had gazetted international cattle routes, national and state cattle routes, herders, farmers clashes were alien to us but, where are the gazetted cattle routes now? Government has relegated the interest of Fulani to the back ground. They are not providing anything, even to give them education, no place for them to settle. How true was the story sometimes ago that Miyetti Allah turned down federal government offers to create a grazing reserved? Our Association is backing the call for grazing reserve, cattle colony or whatever names they called it, be it ranching or anything, we need them. We need a solution. I just came to Sokoto and visited my people in Wurno and many other places. In the course of my interactions with them, their stories were pathetic, their problem is worse than many other places, no single cattle route for their cows and that is how it is all over the country. There were cattle grazing reserves for Fulanis and their cattle, why this sudden argument over ranching or cattle colony, when we already have something similar? All government need to do is prepare the place where Fulani’s were use to before. Recently, the National Economic Council approved a grant  of N5billion to Kaduna state to develop ranches for herdsmen in the state. Are you giving assurance that this will bring solution to herders, farmers clashes? Where are the ranches, those on the pages of newspapers, on television screen or where? Anyway, we are waiting to see the ranches. We hope this is not propaganda to divert attention of finding a lasting solution to this perennial problem. The issue of cattle rearing is a personal business, why can’t individuals establish their ranches instead of waiting for government? The people in government are intelligent and If we are now saying cattle rearing is personal business, why do they create grazing reserved for the Fulani’s since time immemorial? If farming as a personal business, why did government at all levels keep giving farmers subsidy, seedlings and implements, whereas, 99.9 percent of cows that we breed and consume in this country are by individuals Fulani, with no form of assistance from government. Despite all our efforts of moving up and down, in and out in this country, under the sun or in the rain, all what we get is harassment and intimidation from those who will still benefit the consumption of our cows. If we direct our members to move out of the country, I can assure you that the economy of this country will collapse.