SEGUN OLANIYAN KATSINA – The Katsina Police Command has arrested a notorious syndicates of armed robbery suspects terrorising Funtua,area of Katsina state and its environs. Superintendent of Police, Gambo Isah, the Command’s Police Public Relations Officer disclosed this in a statement made available to the Daily Independent in katsina. According to the statement, nemesis caught up with the suspects when they invaded the house of one Haruna Idris of Dan-Dutse Quarters, Funtua, Katsina state. The arrested members of the syndicates police named as Umar Yahaya, 24, Abdulmalik Yahaya,20,Abdulrashid Musa,20,and Abdulrahaman Suleman 21,all of Maigamji village, Funtua Local Government Area,LGA, of Katsina state. It was gathered that one fabricated locally made rifle, one toy gun, two sharp knives, one cutlass, four GSM phones, military cap and the sum of Nine thousand and Eighty Naira cash were recovered from them. In another development, the command said it has arrested a gang of suspected cattle rustlers/kidnappers armed with AK- 47 rifles that invaded Dallawa Mahuta village, Dandume LGA of Katsina state. According to the police, the notorious gang during the incidence shot at one Aminu Maharazu, aged 20, of the same address, it stated. “Consequently, the villagers organized themselves and gave the hoodlums a hot chase, during the encounter the villagers succeeded in killing three of the bandits while the rest took to their heels and escaped into the bush”. The statement added that, Police patrol teams were immediately dispatch to the scene, combed the bush where they recovered five rounds of 5.56mm live ammunitions along with three empty shells of expended ammunition. The statement further revealed that, corpse of one Isiya Alhaji Bello of Gamji village, Sabuwa LGA of Katsina state, a notorious gang leader of kidnappers, terrorising Dandume, Sabuwa and Kankara was identified among the hoodlums killed by the brave villagers. “Similarly, the Police patrol team on routine patrol along Alhazawa village, Safana LGA of Katsina state had a fierce encounter with a gang of Cattle rustlers/Kidnappers. “The team also succeeded in gunning down the ring leader one Audu Bello aias Gemu,aged 40 of Rugu forest, whose gang has been identified to be responsible for the recent attack at Gora village in the state.”The statement concluded.