Abuja – The dust from the purported indictment of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo over funds for National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) intervention in the North East is yet to settle. Johnson Agbonayinma, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the House of Representatives, on Tuesday alleged of an ongoing plot to impeach the vice president. The lawmaker in a statement he read before journalists in the House also said signatures were already being collated for the said purpose. It would be recalled that the House through its committee on emergency and disaster preparedness led by Ali Isa (PDP, Gombe) accused the vice president of hurriedly inaugurating NEMA’s governing board and approving contracts worth N33 billion without due process. While the report did not categorically indict the vice president with regards to fraud or misappropriation of funds, it, however, recommended the removal of NEMA DG, Mustapha Maihaja, whilst asking for his prosecution. But briefing newsmen on Tuesday, Agbonayinma accused some unnamed politicians of plotting to impeach Osinbajo over the matter, insisting that such development will not do the system any good. He further claimed that already signatures are being collated for that purpose even as he accused some media houses whom he also failed to name as championing the said plot. According to Agbonayinma, the issues raised in the probe on NEMA had to do with misappropriation of funds by the director general of the agency, as well as the day-to-day running of the agency with special focus on spending, procurement processes, among others. He further cautioned that as the country marches towards the 2019 general elections, efforts must be made by all stakeholders to bring peace in the land, instead of playing the usual manipulative partisan politics. “We are aware that signatures are being collated for the impeachment of the vice president. The reason is because of the outcome of the NEMA investigation. “For the records, the issues raised in the probe on NEMA had to do with misappropriation of funds by the director general and the everyday functioning of the agency with special focus on financial spending, procurement processes, among others. “I urge us not to over-heat the polity. As elections draw nearer, we must shun tendencies and actions that divide us, our campaigns and actions must be driven by issues and policies and not prebendal politics.” When asked why he was doing what looked like a hatchet job for the vice president since he is neither from Lagos or Ogun where Osinbajo hails from, Agbonayinma said, “I am a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), so I am eminently qualified to do what I am doing. Secondly, I am a Nigerian and must speak the truth no matter the political divide. When I was in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), I used to defend the APC when the need arises and now that I am in APC I also defend the PDP when the need is there.” Meanwhile, when contacted to react to the allegation as made by Agbonayinma, the House Spokesman, Abdulrazak Namdas, debunked the claim in its entirety. He said there was no move to impeach the vice president or anyone for that matter as the House is preoccupied with meeting its pressing legislative responsibilities on behalf of Nigerians. Speaking on phone, Namdas, who denied the allegation, insisted that if there’s such a move in the House he should know as he speaks for the House. “Quote me anywhere, there’s no plot to impeach anybody, neither are signatures being gathered against anyone. “People are entitled to their opinions but as far as I’m concerned as the one who speaks for the House, there’s nothing like that to the best of my knowledge”, Namdas assured.