Temidayo Akinsuyi, Innocent Oweh and Samuel Ogidan Lagos / Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) has challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to answer an allegation made by Atiku Abubakar that family members of the president had acquired Etisalat Nigeria and Keystone Bank Plc at the tune of N1.032 trillion. Atiku Abubakar is the presidential candidate of the PDP in the 2019 polls in which President Buhari is seeking re-election on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The PDP campaign organisation further stated that against the backdrop of the allegation, the president lacked integrity to seek re-election. Fielding questions while addressing newsmen at a press conference in Abuja, the Director, Media and Publicity of PPCO, Kola Ologbondiyan, who refused to give more details, added that if President Buhari refused to answer the allegation, it means he had agreed with the revelation. He further said that if the president answered the allegation, the campaign organisation would give more details, adding that his silence would mean consent. Ologbondiyan declared that President Buhari no longer had the moral standing to seek re-election until he directly provided answers to Atiku Abubakar’s revelations that he (the president) had soiled his hands in the alleged corrupt acquisition of Etisalat Nigeria and Keystone Bank Plc. He said President Buhari should perish the thought of going ahead with his re-election campaign without clearing this pertinent issue, because it directly bordered on his integrity both as a person and as occupier of the exulted office of Nigerian president. The campaign media director challenged the president to explain how “his family members came about the sum of N1.032 trillion for this scandalous acquisition.” He said: “Nigerians are not interested in mere rhetoric or attempts by the Buhari presidency to divert public attention from the issue at hand, but demand that President Buhari, who hitherto prides himself as Mr. Integrity, squarely addresses these grave issues in person. “This is not an issue for President Buhari’s aides to howl about in the media, it touches directly on his person, particularly his perception as a symbol of the talakawas. He must therefore address them on this issue. “It is a norm that he who comes to equity must come with clean hands. President Buhari and his family members have entangled themselves in corruption. Mr. President’s hands can no longer be said to be clean, until he proves otherwise. “The PPCO wants Nigerians and the whole world to note that President Buhari’s refusal to personally address this matter means consent. “We, therefore, dare President Buhari to put forth a denial on this disclosure by our candidate and we will spare no thoughts in furnishing the public with details of his corrupt activities within and outside Nigeria. “Our party has full details of how persons related to President Buhari, by consanguinity and affinity, have been paved the way to loot trillions of naira from government agencies for corrupt acquisition of shares in major companies, purchase expensive property within and outside Nigeria, as well as to finance their very luxury lifestyles, under Mr. President’s cover. “In fact, no Nigerian has made more money in the last three and half years than relations of President Buhari, many of whom have found themselves controlling stupendous wealth frittered from our economy, yet our president is asking Nigerians to get ready for more hardship in the coming year. “Our party is privy to the facts of how these relations of the president have been hounding government agencies, major business concerns and intending foreign investors over kickbacks as well as strangulating companies that refuse to accede to their demands. “Nigerians will also recall how the Buhari presidency muted the case of the aide of the first lady, Mr. Baba-Inna, who was arrested in September this year, over accusations of receiving N2.5 billion from politicians, businessmen and women on behalf of the first lady. “Nigerians can also recall how the Buhari presidency gagged the confession of one Amina Mohammed, paraded by the Department of State Services (DSS), who stated in public that persons close to President Muhammadu Buhari were involved in serial fraud and looting of public resources under the official cover of the Buhari presidency.” Buhari Has Failed On His Three Cardinal Promises
— PDP In a similar development, PDP on Thursday said there were clear evidences that President Muhammadu Buhari had failed to deliver on his three cardinal points in the area of revamping the economy, fighting corruption, and tackling insecurity. Addressing newsmen, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, also described the current administration as the most corrupt government that had ever governed the country, saying the ongoing anti-corruption war was only targeted at the president’s enemies and political opponents. While stating that the PDP actually fought corruption while in power, the party described the fight against corruption by the present administration as a scam, and challenged the All Progressives Congress-led government to present a case against corruption it fought successfully. He said while the PDP subjected federal lawmakers, governors, and even a sitting president to trial, the Buhari administration had failed to take actions on some of its key members who had been accused of engaging in corrupt acts such as the vice president, Chief of Staff to the President, and a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Babachir Lawal. He said: “As a party, we are worried by the level of hunger in Nigeria today. We are worried by the level of starvation across the land. We are also troubled at the level of division, insecurity, and bloodletting across the nation. We have taken on the APC and President Buhari on three key promises they made to Nigerians during the last election. “They promised to revive the economy but the loss of jobs that we have experienced and the cost of living that has gone up astronomically has demonstrated to all of us that President Buhari has not fulfilled his promise about reviving the economy. “Two, he promised to fight corruption and he is seen as Mr. Integrity but it is very worrisome that President Buhari is not fighting corruption but busy fighting perceived enemies and possible opponents in the 2019 elections. “We in the PDP believe that while we were in government, we have situations where senators, reps members, governors, and even a Senate president was not only investigated and subjected to trial, we even have an instance where a sibling of a former president was arrested. But what do we find in the current circumstance? “The Chief of Staff who is the closest person in terms of administration to Mr. President was accused of collecting bribes as we speak today, he has not been investigated or subjected to trial. “The former SGF, Babachir Lawal, was accused of cutting grass with over N200 million in the North East where our fellow Nigerians were victims of insurgency. “The same insurgency that President Buhari promised to come and fight. As we speak today, they are just playing games, no arraignment, no trials. “Just recently, the House of Reps indicted the vice president in its report on corruption in NEMA and yet they are talking to us about fighting corruption. Presidency Mocks Atiku’s Understanding Of Budgetary Issues The presidency on Thursday took on Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), describing him as a poor critic of President Muhammadu Buhari’s fiscal policy. Recall that Atiku had described the N8.83 trillion 2019 budget presented to the joint session of the National Assembly by President Buhari recently as “fundamentally flawed and failing to address current realities”. While presenting the budget, a number of lawmakers were seen booing the president, a development that prompted reactions from members of the public. But in taking a swipe at Abubakar, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said the former vice president failed to offer substantive and workable solutions to the identified “realities” he mentioned in his statement. He said Atiku described the underlying assumptions of the budget as generous, wild, and untenable but did not propose alternative assumptions that would have been more appropriate. Speaking further, Adesina said the presidential hopeful argued that the economy was yet to recover from the 2016/2017 recession but that, unfortunately, he could not create his own definition of an economic recession, which was a technical term with a universally applicable meaning. Adesina explained: “When an economy experiences two consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth, it is said to be in recession and whenever it returns to positive GDP growth of whatever rate, it is said to have exited recession. It is doubtful if he understands the simple meaning of recession. “Atiku attributed the sustained accretion to foreign reserves to ‘increases in international prices of Brent Crude and foreign borrowing’, but he conveniently forgets that under the immediate past federal administration oil prices were at an all-time high with substantial growth in foreign borrowings, and yet foreign reserves nose-dived from a peak of $62 billion to as low as $24 billion.” He said Atiku’s repeated reference to the price of Brent Crude throughout his statement might be indicative of his lack of knowledge that Nigeria’s Bonny Light Crude traded at a premium of at least $2 per barrel over the price of Brent; just as his reference to Nigeria’s OPEC quota might also suggest that he did not know that condensates did not count in measuring compliance with the quota. The presidential media aide said the PDP presidential candidate who faulted the provision of N305 billion for NNPC’s cost under-recovery on premium motor spirit (PMS) did not explain exactly what he would do about PMS pricing. “If, however, we are to go by an earlier statement from his campaign organisation, which promised to reduce the price of petrol to N87, then we can expect a much higher subsidy provision from an Atiku government; because he is not going to perform magic to get the refineries working at peak capacity immediately. “He described the 2019 budget as being very small, but he did not offer any implementable options for improving domestic resource mobilisation, which is the only sustainable means to achieving larger budgets. It does seem that he does not understand or is just feigning ignorance about the critical role of revenue in budget preparation. “A careful look at Atiku’s statement would show that there is nothing original about his identified “realities.” These are areas President Buhari had already identified in his speech. For instance, the president recognised that the revenue performance of the Federal Government up till September 2018 has been less than spectacular. “Leaving aside for a moment the fact that there has been a remarkable increase in Federal Account receipts in the last three months, a look at the budget speech will show that the president specified a number of actions to tackle revenue weakness including strengthening on-going efforts at tax collection, liquidation of recovered assets, immediate recovery of past due oil royalties charges and deployment of the national trade window to improve customs collections.”