Gbenga Faturoti and Ojo Oyewamide Osogbo / Akure – Security operatives, including members of Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) and vigilance groups in Oriade Local Government Area of Osun State have rescued four out of the eight staff and students of Osun State College of Technology, Esa-Oke, kidnapped by suspected Fulani herdsmen on Tuesday. It was gathered that some herdsmen, armed with assorted weapons such as AK-47, appeared from the bush and opened fire on people at Onireke junction, along Esa-Oke road, killing a lecturer while several others sustained injuries. About ten persons were also kidnapped by the herdsmen and taken into the thick forest in the area. Following the development, several people have abandoned their homes and ran for safety. Several villages in the area have also been deserted. As at the time of filing in this report, four victims have been rescued by security operatives through the combined efforts of OPC and vigilance groups. The state Commissioner of Police, Fimihan Adeoye, visited the spot of the incident and assured that detectives had since been dispatched to flush out those behind the dastardly act, dead or alive. Adeoye told newsmen that efforts were on to rescue the remaining people in the den of the kidnappers unhurt, adding that those behind the act would not go unpunished. The CP noted that his men were on top of the situation, adding that the remaining four persons in the den of the kidnappers would be rescued. Speaking with Daily Independent, the Director of Media, Dr. Wale Oyekanmi, said the cause of the attack on the staff and students of the institution by the Fulani herdsmen was still unknown. He explained that the ancient town of Esa-Oke and the school have not recorded such incident, saying there was no prior clue to the incident. It was, however, gathered that there had been silent misunderstanding between the Fulani herdsmen and owners of Onibon-Oje Farm, located at Onireke, Esa-Oke road, over grazing of cattle on the farmland. It was also learnt that it was the misunderstanding between the Fulani herdsmen and farm operators that resulted in the attack on the staff and students at close of work on Tuesday. Bunmi Obeisun, Chairman of Oriade Local Government, said his council had rendered assistance to the security operatives for rescue of the victims. One of the lecturers of the institution, Mr. Emmanuel Olaniyi, was not, however, lucky as he died on the spot as a result of gunshot. Olaniyi, who had just bagged his Ph.D, was said to have run into the spot where the herdsmen were stationed and was hit by a bullet and died inside his car. The names of missing persons as released by Director of Media for the school are Mr Olaleye Olalekan, Bus Admin department; Engr. Adeyeoluwa Bankole, HOD, Civil Engineering; Dr. Jesuola Ajibola; Adenreti Chukwu, secretary to Civil Engineering Department, and Rachael Onyinocha Akinboboye, OSCOTECH Microfinance Bank, while Olaniyi Emmanuel Temitope, registry staff (died on the spot). Also, a staff of the institution who simply identified himself as Gbenga said the attack came as a rude shock to the community. According to him, “The person that was killed was a former faculty officer in the school. I saw him driving out of the campus while I was discussing with a colleague at the campus gate. “The gunmen have left the place before we got there but a mechanic around the area who witnessed the incident told us that Mr. Olaniyi was trying to escape from those people and he was shot in the process.” The Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs. Folasade Odoro, when contacted, said security operatives were on top of the situation. He called on the people with knowledge of the whereabouts of the assailants to volunteer information to the police. Gunmen Kidnap Three Health Workers In Ondo, Demand N50m Ransom Meanwhile, three members of staff of the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Owo, Ondo State, have been reportedly abducted. It was learnt that the abductors had contacted families of the health workers and demanded a ransom of N50 million for their release. The victims were said to have been kidnapped on Wednesday along Emure-Ile/Owo Expressway while on their way to work. Sources said they included a medical doctor, a nurse and a record officer. A source said the kidnappers forced the vehicle in which the victims were traveling to stop, dragged them out and took them away. He added that the abductors had already contacted families of the medical workers and demanded a sum of N50 million as ransom. “Three of our staff here in the FMC were kidnapped yesterday by some gunmen while on their way to work. We have reported the incident to the police. “Those that were kidnapped are a medical doctor, a nurse and a record officer. “They were abducted at Emure-Ile and I learnt that the abductors, who were heavily armed with guns, are all Fulanis. “They have contacted the family of the three victims and they are even demanding N50 million as ransom before they can be released,” he said. Femi Joseph, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, confirmed the incident. Joseph said, “I can confirm that the story is true but I only know about just one FMC staff who was kidnapped while the others are staff of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo. “But our boys are on their trail and they have started combing the bush with a view to rescuing the victims alive. “Also, let me assure you that we will arrest the criminals and we will ensure they are brought to book.”