Lagos – There is no better way to describe the fortune of Nigerian football in the outgoing year but to say that it was enveloped in in utter confusion, as disorder reigned supreme. Despite that the year 2018 when it was ushered in 363 days ago, held a lot of promises, chaos was the order of the day. The Nigerian football space was in topsy-turvy for the greater part of the year, especially after the Super Eagles crashed out of the World Cup in Russia at the group stage. Signs that misfortune will be the order of the day in the year started manifesting at the beginning following CHAN Eagles misfortune in Morocco. Though the team reached the final of the tournament organized for domestic league players in the continent, the Super Eagles were disgraced in the final losing 4-0 to Morocco in the final played on February 04, 2018. As if this disgrace was not enough, the four clubs that represented the country in the CAF Champions League and the CAF Confederation Cup were bundled out safe Enyimba that reached the semi-final of the CAF Cup before losing. Nigerian champions Plateau United, Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM), Akwa United and Enyimba were the clubs that flew the country flag continentally. In the CAF Champions League, Plateau United and MFM failed to go past the first round. While Etoile du Sahel of Tunisia ended Plateau United sojourn in the continent 4-3 on goals aggregate, MFM, who defeated MC Alger 2-1 in Agege on March 7, lost the second leg scandalously 6-0 on March 16, 2018. Plateau United lost the first leg 4-2 in Tunis on March 6, 2018. Needing 2-0 home win but could manage only 1-0 victory on March 18, 2018 and consequently crashed out. Their foray into the lower cadre of the CAF Cup also ended in disaster as they failed to qualify for the money spinning group stage. Plateau United were eliminated by USM Algiers. On April 08, the Nigerian won the first leg 2-1 but lost the reverse fixture on April 17, 4-0. The story of MFM was not different. MFM lost their first leg in Agege 0-1 to Djoliba of Mali on April 08 but drew the second leg goalless on April 18. Akwa United in their CAF Cup loss was painful in that it was via away goals rule. Having lost the first leg 2-0 away to Al Hilal of Sudan, in Uyo the Nigerians won 3-1. The goal conceded in Uyo ended their sojourn. However, attempts by Enyimba to redeem the country’s image ended at the semi-final losing to eventual winners, Raja Casablanca. The Nigerians were beaten in the two legged event losing the first leg in Aba 1-0 and the second leg 2-1. After the clubs disastrous outing, all attention was on the World Cup in Russia with Super Eagles drawn in Group D alongside Argentina, Croatia and Iceland. Preparation for the Mundial did not offer any hope. The only hope was the unveiling of the Super Eagles jersey by NIKE in London that sold like hot cake. In hours over three million jerseys were sold with NIKE unable to meet with orders. But Super Eagles preparation was fraught with inconsistencies despite that the team got all that the Nigeria Football Federation promised. Nigeria won only one of the five friendly games before the World Cup kicked off. On March 23, 2018, Nigeria defeated Poland 1-0, lost 2-0 t Serbia on March 27, and drew 1-1 with Congo DR on May 28 before losing 2-1 to England on June 02, 2018. Czech Republic beat Nigeria 1-0 on June 6, 2018 in their last preparatory game. At the World Cup, the Super Eagles started their campaign on a losing note, losing 2-0 to eventual finalist Croatia on June 16. The team raised the hope of Nigerians of reaching the second round by beating Iceland 2-0 in their second group game on June 26. But when they needed just a draw in their last group game against Argentina, Super Eagles lost 2-1 and eventually crashed out of the World Cup ignominiously. However, for the first since Nigeria’s participation in the World Cup, there was no crisis. The players got their allowances and bonuses as at when due. Hardly had the Super Eagles crashed out of the World Cup when Solomon Dalung, the Sports Minister, told the NFF to obey a purported Supreme Court order that gave Chris Giwa the powers to govern Nigerian football. On July 2, 2018, Giwa acting in connivance with the Sports Minister, took over the secretariat of the football house, even announcing the sack of the scribe, Mohammed Sanusi. Giwa’s action was premised on a purported election that held on August 26, 2014 in Abuja. While the Supreme Court ordered that the matter be retried, Giwa and Dalung misinformed Nigerians claiming that the court has ordered him to take over the Glass house. Despite Gianni infantino, FIFA’s President Insistence that FIFA only recognizes the board led by Amaju Pinnick, there was confision everywhere with a looming FIFA ban. However, it took the intervention of the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo writing FIFA and assuring the body that the Pinnick led board was the one the government of the country recognises before sanity prevailed. After all these shenanigans, Pinnick was re-elected for another four-year term in an election that held in Katsina on September 20, 2018 ending all crises that have engulfed the football house since 2014. In the election, Pinnick won with 34 votes with former President, Aminu Maigari polling eight votes to place second while Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi placed third with 2 votes. Chinedu Okoye the fourth contestant got no vote. Nigeria returned to the Africa Cup of Nations by qualifying for the next edition after topping their group with 10 points with a game to spare. The country secured the ticket on November 17, 20128 after they were forced into a 1-1 game by the host. The import of this qualification is that having failed to qualify for the last two editions of the tournament, this brought relief to the Nigerians who want the team return to the summit of Africa football. It was Super Falcons that made the year worth celebrating for Nigerians. The team won the CAF Women’s Africa Cup of Nation for the ninth time in Accra, Ghana, despite poor preparation. They defeated South Africa in the final 4-3 on penalties after the game ended goalless in 120 minutes. In the month of December, Lobi Stars qualified for the CAF Champions League group stage for the first time in many years, while Rangers in the CAF Cup need to overcome another round before qualifying for the group stage.