OSOGBO – The Akarigbo of Remo Kingdom, Oba Victor Babatunde Ajayi, Torugbuwa II, has pledged to join hands with the Arole Oduduwa , Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi,Ojaja II toward the promotion of peace, unity and progress of the entire Yoruba race. Akarigbo gave the assurance at Ile Ife, when he, and other Remo monarchs visited the Ile-Oodua palace, Enuwa, Ile Ife, and also performed traditional rites. The Akarigbo who is the paramount ruler of Remo land , described Ooni as the father of Yoruba race endowed with countless unique human qualities and God- given potentials. Calling on all the descendants of Oduduwa to support the Ooni and the other kings in Yoruba land for the unity of the race, the Akarigbo, confirmed that his ancestors migrated from Iremo quarters in Ile-Ife, stating that the history of Remo Kingdom cannot be complete without relating it to Ile-Ife, the cradle of Yoruba. He appreciated Ooni Ogunwusi for his fatherly role in uniting the Yoruba people since he ascended the throne of his forefathers, and expressed his readiness to support him toward moving the Yoruba race forward. According to him:‘I am so happy that the Ooni is on a mission to reunite all the descendants of Oduduwa across the world, and I am committed to such efforts. We migrated from Iremo quarters here and the history of Remo Kingdom cannot be complete without Ile-Ife, the cradle of the Yoruba people. “I call on all Yoruba monarchs to support Ooni and the other kings in Yoruba land, I appreciate Kabiyesi Ooni for his fatherly role toward uniting Yoruba race since he ascended the throne of his forefathers.I assure you of our readiness to support you at anytime I am called upon to join you in moving Yoruba race forward Kabiesi ’ Akarigbo said. Akarigbo, who arrived the Ooni’s Palace with scores of Remo monarchs was received by the Obalufe of Iremo Quarters, Oba Idowu Adediwura and other traditional chiefs who washed his legs with the living deity water (Yeyemolu-Otooro Omi Ale-Ife) before the off shoot of Orisa-gaani-amu (Shagamu of today). The visitors were later led to Ile –Ase where the Laadin of Ife, Chief Olusegun Arasanmi, who is the custodian of the sacred place prayed for the Akarigbo, Remo Kingdom, Ile Ife and the entire Yoruba race. Speaking at the official reception held later , Ooni Ogunwusi explained that Iremo which is the ancestral home of Remo descendants is highly symbolic to the enthronement of every Ooni noting that both Remo and Ife are indispensable companions. The Arole Oodua recalled an instance on February 28,1903 which recorded the first movement of an Ooni out of his Palace. ‘Look at Akarigbo and Elepe, who are currently sitting keenly here today, there was a huge battle between them which led to the first movement of an Ooni from Ile-Ife. Ooni Adelekan (Olubuse 1) travelled to Lagos on the invitation of the then colonial government to restore peace between them after several rites were performed. ‘’This unusual movement of Ooni from his Palace made all Yoruba kings left their respective thrones and domains to show respect for Ooni on the historic day, the gesture compelled the colonial masters (British) to gazette the occurrence as one that had never been recorded anywhere globally’ Ooni Ogunwusi stated. The Ooni later led Akarigbo and the other monarchs to the Oranmiyan Groove known as ‘Opa Oramiyan’ where spiritual rites were performed by the Oba Isoro Owa Eredumi of Ife.