Gusau – A group of people suspected to be internally displaced persons (IDPs) stormed Tsafe Local Government Area secretariat, Zamfara State, in the early hours of Monday and set it ablaze, burning no fewer than 18 operational vehicles belonging to the council. Daily Independent gathered that the unidentified persons stormed the secretariat with some locally made guns with which, the security man in the secretariat said they overpowered him and began to burn the secretariat while vandalising property belonging to the local government council. According to Umaru Isah, the security man, the operation started about 7a.m on Monday. He said when he escaped, he raised the alarm but that nobody responded until the arsonists had completed their task. The security man noted that before they entered the secretariat, they blocked the major roads leading to Katsina, Kano, Kaduna states and Gusau, burning tyres and shooting sporadically without the presence of any security operative even though there was a divisional police headquarters in Tsafe town. Our correspondent gathered that when the police came to the scene of destruction, they were overpowered by the group who also threatened to burn down their operational vehicles, and this forced the security men to take to their heels. However, a combined team of Nigerian army and the police was dispatched to the scene and other strategic areas to remove the road blocks to enable vehicles to pass to their various destinations. When contacted at the secretariat, the local government chairman, Aliyu Abubakar, said he suspected that the nefarious act was not carried out by internally displaced persons. He insisted that the operation was sponsored by power-drunk political enemies. Miscreants, Not IDPs Behind Zamfara Crisis— Police The Zamfara State police command only confirmed the burning of 15 vehicles as a result of Monday’s protest by those it described as miscreants in Tsafe town, the headquarters of Tsafe Local Government Area. The state Commissioner of Police, Usman Belel, made the confirmation at a press conference in Gusau on Monday. “What happened today in Tsafe was really uncalled for, people didn’t deserve that. “We received a message in the early hours of today that members of the internally displaced persons (IDPS) were trying to stage peaceful protest to complain about their plight to the government on security issues. “Our investigation revealed that, large number of miscreants were sighted at the gate of the IDP camp in Tsafe instigating women and children to partake in the protest”, he said. “Therefore what happened today in Tsafe is not an IDPs demonstration, it is an act of criminals who have no regards to lives and property”, he added. He said no death was recorded during the protest and that normalcy has already been restored. Belel said police had arrested 23 persons who were involved in Monday’s unrest in Tsafe town where firearms were used by the protesters. He said the command was particularly disturbed to discover that some of the protesting youths carried guns and fired shots to scare people after which they burnt several vehicles at the local government secretariat. Senator Dansadau Wants State Of Emergency Declared Meanwhile, Senator Saidu Dansadau, a former lawmaker and now governorship candidate of National Rescue Mission (NRM), has pointed out that the only solution to the widespread insecurity in the state was for the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency. According to him, Governor Abdul’aziz Abubakar Yari’s public resignation as the chief security officer of the state made the declaration of state of emergency in the state inevitable. He said Yari had shifted focus from his primary duty to his political ambition, adding that he was willing to retain power at all cost. “The Zamfara State governor’s recent pronouncement that he has resigned as the chief security officer of the state makes the declaration of state of emergency inevitable. I make bold to say that we have finished all necessary preparation to impeach Abdul’aziz Abubakar Yari, if in spite of this unprecedented breakdown of law and order and colossal loss of lives we do not persuade. “Mr. President, while it is acknowledged that similar tension exists in other states like Katsina, Kaduna, Niger and Kebbi states which share common border with Zamfara, the approach of the governors of these states in managing the problem has substantially brought the situation under control.” Senator Dansadau said on Sunday that he had written to President Muhammadu Burahi, asking him to declare a state of emergency in Zamfara State. Dansadau, who addressed journalists in Abuja, said he listed various offences committed by the Zamfara State governor, Abdul’aziz Yari, in his letter to the president. According to him, the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, and the Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, were copied the letter. He urged Buhari and the National Assembly to invoke the necessary provisions of the constitution which empowered them to declare a state of emergency in a state, in the interest of peace and security of the residents. Part of the letter reads: “By sections 4 (2) and 176 (2) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the executive powers of a state are vested in the governor of that state. “By section 215 (4) of the constitution, the governor is the chief security officer of the state. The constitution envisages that to perform these onerous responsibilities, the governor is expected to be resident in the state and give his full attention to the governance of the state. “I wish to bring to the attention of Mr. President that since the incumbency of the governor of Zamfara State, Alhaji Abdulaziz Yari Abubakar, which began five years ago, public perception is that the governor has spent only about 20 percent of that whole period in Zamfara State. “He had utilised the other 80 percent junketing from one part of the country to the other and shuttling around the globe. All matters of state that require action are kept waiting until he returns to the state. “Consequently, intelligence and security reports are kept in abeyance. For instance, at a period, out of 60 straight days, the governor spent only two days in Zamfara State.” He said as a result, there were increasing threats to public order in the state with hundreds killed. “If the killings in the remaining 23 state constituencies in the state are added, the total number of lives lost can better be imagined. All these losses would have been averted were the governor alive to his constitutional responsibilities,” he added. Military Arrests 22 Armed Bandits, 12 Foreigners, Loses Two Soldiers Amid the worsening security situation in the state, Major General S. O. Olabanji, the commanding officer in charge of ‘Operation Sharan Daji’ of the Nigerian military has revealed that 22 suspected armed bandits and 12 illegal immigrants had been apprehended by the forces during series of raids in Zamfara State. The commanding officer made the revelation in a statement in Gusau, saying that weapons, including eight AK47 riffles, one locally made pistol, 168 rounds of 7.6mm ammunitions, and two Dane guns were recovered from the armed bandits in thick forests in the state. Major Olabanji noted that they also recovered other valuable items like nine arrows, bows, and 14 empty magazines while a total of 468 cows, 161 sheep and 38 rams were equally recovered from the dens of the armed bandits which, he said, had been handed over to the state government committee on the recovery of rustled animals. He said two mobile phones and nine motorcycles, and one Honda car were among the recovered items from the forests. He explained that his troops, apart from the items recovered, rescued two kidnapped victims, one Kabiru and another Lawali, from the net of notorious kidnappers after a very tough battle. The commander noted that his men were putting in their best under his watchful eyes to decimate terror attacks and armed banditry as well as kidnappings which, he noted, had become everyday business in the state. He vowed that it would no longer be business as usual, saying that the troops would continue to carry out efficient and effective operations against the notorious armed bandits and kidnappers in the state. Buhari Condemns Killings, Considers Major Military Operation Nevertheless, President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the killings in Birnin Magaji and Magami communities in Tsafe and Maradun local government areas of Zamfara, following attacks by suspected bandits. The president made the condemnation in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Monday. According to the president, a major operation by the Nigerian armed forces, the police, Department of State Services and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps was being considered to restore peace and stability to affected areas. “These horrendous acts of violence are crimes against humanity. This violence must stop,” he said. While expressing his deepest condolences to the families of those killed in the attacks, the government and people of Zamfara, the president also wished those injured a speedy recovery. Buhari said he had authorised an assessment trip to Zamfara and Sokoto states by the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Abubakar Sadiq, on Christmas and Boxing days. He reassured residents of states plagued by bandits – Zamfara, Sokoto, Kaduna, Niger and Taraba – that their safety was an enduring commitment of his administration and he would continue to ensure that security agencies worked round the clock to protect local populations. The president conveyed his support to the Nigeria police force, which had already deployed Special Forces in each of the local government areas in Zamfara and the Defence Headquarters’ deployment of a Special Military Intervention Force comprising more than 1,000 personnel. He said the security personnel, which were part of measures, among others, to respond to the security challenges in the North Central and North West, would be intensified to flush out the bandits from the affected areas. The president commended Nigerians “for the support to our security agencies who have continued to demonstrate dedication, commitment and bravery even in very difficult and complex operations”. The police command in Zamfara had on Sunday confirmed that 17 people were killed in an attack on Magami village of Faru District in Maradun Local Government Area of Zamfara.