DAMATURU –Members of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the Yobe South have been told that the party would no longer tolerate indiscipline or anti-party activities from them. They were also cautioned that the party in the state was against any act of insubordination against the party, candidates or its leadership. The party warned that offenders would not be carried along. Buni and Gubana Youth Solidarity Organization (BGYSO) chairman, Umar Zubairu Damagum, gave the warning recently in Potiskum and Fika towns during an enlightenment and mobilisation visit on stakeholders and supporters of APC in the area. According to Damagum, anti-party wrangling was responsible for APC’s loss of the senatorial seat in Yobe South in 2015, adding, however, that the party would not tolerate such development in subsequent elections. “Let me use this medium to appeal against politics of religion, tribe and other differences.” Damagum commended the development initiatives of Governor Ibrahim Gaidam, especially his rural and urban development policies and programmes in the past years, saying they were always grateful. They commended the governor for blazing the trail in the effective utilization of internally generated revenue in the development of the state. “The state is remarkable in rural and urban development.” He, however, extolled the discipline among members of the party and its leadership while also calling for the application of dialogue in the resolution of friction between members. “We are happy with the development in Yobe APC in the past years. The members are loyal and disciplined. The party in the southern Yobe had in the past played great role in bringing sanity to the polity,” he stated. Speaking to DAILY INDEPENDENT on the visit, one of the members of the Buni Gubana Youth Solidarity Organization, Aminu Bawa, said the state government had always applied the APC manifesto in its programmes and policies, adding that APC in the state was peaceful and without any opposition.