LAGOS – The Chairman, Oilserv Group, Dr. Emeka Okwuosa has said that Nigeria needed to invest over $3trn in infrastructure over the next 20 years for positive impacts in various sectors of the economy. Okwuosa was quoted in a statement on Sunday to have said this while delivering paper titled: ‘Infrastructural Development: A Key to Economic Growth and Development in Nigeria’ at the 48th convocation of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka. He said the investment would also help to optimise the collective contributions from operators in various sectors. According to him, the World Bank ranks Nigeria lowly as viable destinations for doing business, pointing to the poor state of its infrastructure. “The 2017 World Economic Forum (WEF) Report ranks Nigeria, out of 137 countries, as follows: Roads Quality: 127th, Airport Quality: 125th, Electricity Supply: 132nd, education system: 120th, Math & Science: 118th, Innovation: 112th. “How do we respond to these negative and retrogressive occurrences? Nigeria needs to invest over $3trn in infrastructure over the next 20 years,” he said. He hinted further that Federal Government must leverage the private sector capital in a variety of ways such as creating special purpose vehicles for financing creations and drive. He urged the government to also develop public-private partnerships, and investment funds with a variety of guaranty plans and arrangements. He said that government key role could be to create and sustain an enabling environment by deploying instruments like the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority with its arm. Okwuosa said that the National Sovereign Wealth Fund should act as a catalyst for the provision of funding needed for development. The government and the private sector must, as a matter of urgency respond to these deficiencies in the economy by accelerating infrastructure development, he said. “By this, I specifically refer to power, roads, rail, ports and telecommunication (especially broadband technologies).