Lagos – With the confirmation by Access Bank and Diamond Bank that the acquisition deal has been concluded, financial analysts have called for caution to avoid the pitfall of Skye Bank which bought Mainstreet Bank in 2014. Diamond Bank, in a statement signed by the Company’s Secretary, Uzoma Uja, said that following a strategic review leading to a competitive process, the board has selected Access Bank as the preferred bidder with respect to a potential merger of the two banks that will create Nigeria and Africa’s largest retail bank by customers. The board of Diamond Bank believes that the merger is in the best interest of all stakeholders including, employees, customers, depositors and shareholders and has agreed to recommend the offer to Diamond Bank’s shareholders. Completion of the merger is subject to certain shareholder and regulatory approvals. The proposed merger would involve Access Bank acquiring the entire issued share capital of Diamond Bank in exchange for a combination of cash and shares in Access Bank via a Scheme of Merger. Based on the agreement reached by the boards of the two financial institutions, Diamond Bank shareholders will receive a consideration of N3.13 per share, comprising of N1.00 per share in cash and the allotment of 2 new Access Bank ordinary shares for every 7 Diamond Bank ordinary shares held as at the implementation date. The offer represents a premium of 260 percent to the closing market price of N0.87 per share of Diamond Bank on the Nigerian Stock Exchange as of December 13, 2018, the date of the final binding offer. Immediately following completion of the merger, Diamond Bank would be absorbed into Access Bank and it will cease to exist under Nigerian law. The current listing of Diamond Bank’s shares on the NSE and the listing of Diamond Bank’s global depositary receipts on the London Stock Exchange will be cancelled, upon the merger becoming effective. Diamond Bank expects the transaction to complete in the first half of 2019. Uzoma Dozie, the Chief Executive Officer of Diamond Bank, said: “The proposed combination with Access Bank will create one of Africa’s leading financial institutions. “There is clear strategic rationale for the proposed merger and strong complementarities between the two institutions. While Diamond Bank has pioneered Nigeria’s largest technology led retail banking platform, Access Bank is one of Nigeria’s leading full-service commercial banks. Consolidation in the Nigerian banking industry is an inevitable, natural progression in a sector where the gap between Tier 1 and Tier 2 banks has been widening and scale has become critical; where technology will disrupt the traditional business model while enabling broader financial inclusion. “The board of Diamond Bank believes that the proposed combination of the two operations provides an exciting prospect for all stakeholders in both businesses and will create a financial institution with the scale, strength and expertise to capitalise on the significant opportunities in Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa more broadly.” Herbert Wigwe, CEO of Access Bank, said: “Access Bank has a strong track record of acquisition and integration and has a clear growth strategy. Access Bank and Diamond Bank have complementary operations and similar values, and a merger with Diamond Bank, with its leadership in digital and mobile-led retail banking, could accelerate our strategy as a significant corporate and retail bank in Nigeria and a pan-African financial services champion. “Access Bank has a strong financial profile with attractive returns and a robust capital position with 20.1% CAR as at 30 September 2018. We believe that this platform, together with the two banks’ shared focus on innovation, financial inclusion and sustainability, can bring benefits to Access Bank and Diamond Bank customers, staff and shareholders.” However, the arrangement between the two banks, according to financial experts, has officially reduced access to financial services by Nigerians by one as the place of Diamond Bank in the nation’s banking sector will be vacant forever while others are of the opinion that from acquisition will emerge Nigeria’s biggest and strongest bank. Anor Anyanwu, former Executive Director, Mainstreet Bank, said the combination will produce about the biggest bank in the industry as at today. “Both Diamond Bank and Access Bank are systematically important banks. I think Access Bank ranks number five while Diamond Bank ranks number seven. If these businesses are combined, they can become biggest bank in Nigeria”, Anyanwu said. On bad loans, Anyanwu said this is also an assumption, “saying Diamond Bank brings bad loans to Access Bank. All banks in Nigeria have bad loans. I do not think the major problem of Diamond Bank is bad loans. Diamond Bank has been very good and prudent in making all required provisions. The coming together of these banks will give Nigeria a very strong bank”. Mr. Johnson Chukwu, Managing Director, Cowry Asset Management Limited, sees the acquisition in two lights. He sees it as positive and negative. “The concerns of the bank’s solvency have been addressed by this acquisition. So, it has also mitigated the risk of any bank crisis or a bridge bank. “Secondly, it will also boost the wealth of shareholders. “On the negative, the acquisition will reduce available banking services options to the banking public because there will never be Diamond Bank again as it is signing off with this acquisition. “There will be loss of jobs, especially among senior staff. It might be difficult for Access Bank to absorb the top management of Diamond Bank into the system.” In his reaction, Cyril Ampka, an Abuja-based financial analyst, said his worry is how the bank will cope with the close to 300 branches of Diamond Bank to add to its own branch network. “As a Nigerian, I am happy that we did not witness collapse of another financial institution as we saw in the Skye Bank’s episode. My worry is that of the integration of the 271 branches of Diamond Bank with the 310 branches of Access Bank. “It will be counter-productive for Access Bank to have over 500 branches in the country. The bank, Access Bank, should not attempt to absorb all these branches if they are to make any headway in this acquisition.” A foremost shareholder activist, Mr. Sunny Nwosu, said the acquisition of the bank is a welcome development. Nwosu, the immediate National Coordinator, Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ISAN), said: “I am happy about the arrangement. I just addressed some shareholders on it today and they are happy with the arrangement of seven shares of Diamond Bank for two shares of Access Bank. “We are happy. This is much better than any arrangement by NDIC of a bridge bank. With seven to two, you still have some little things to scoop and the one naira special dividend in the icing on the cake”. He, however, advised that Access Bank and Diamond Bank should call an emergency general meeting where they will seek the approval of shareholders for the ratification. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Monday said it is aware of the intention of Access Bank and Diamond Bank to go into a merger. Access Bank and Diamond Bank have both notified the commission and the general public. “It is a notice to merge, they have not merged yet. SEC is awaiting their application on the matter. “The SEC received on Monday, Dec 17 2018, notice of intention by Diamond Bank and Access Bank to merge. The commission is currently waiting for their formal application”.