LAGOS – Igbo people of the South Eastern part of Nigeria believe that they have been marginalized in the country and that the rest of the country does not consider their opinions in taking important decisions. They believe the time has come for them to take the bull by the horn, assert their political relevance. The South East people said that they have been shortchanged on all sides; that where other regions have at least six states, the region has only five and no effort has been made to balance the shortfall. They proponent of the change had noted that the They said that there seemed to be a scheme to exclude them from the Nigerian political equation, noting that there would be need for them to negotiate with other interest groups, ethnic nations, build enabling political structure, to be relevant in Nigeria political equation. The group made the submission at Igbo National Stakeholders Assembly (INSA) Summit and prestigious awards 2018 in Lagos with the theme, “Ositadinma” where the convener, founder of INSA and first president of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Lagos, Chief John Uche, said that the time had come for Ndigbo to make conscious effort to ensure that they were not undermined politically. Adding, “Elections is around the corner a lot of people are jostling for political offices, making coalitions for political relevance but Ndigbo appear to be complacent about the issue of the moment, “We are here to tell them that we have suffered in the last four years and in the next four years we do not want to suffer again. Our businesses collapsed, we were excluded from the scheme of things, no key appointments by the government of President Muhammadu Buhari.” He said. Uche noted that there would be need for negotiation of their votes. He said that any political party that would ask for the votes of the Igbo people must negotiate with them appropriately, pointing out that the condition would also include assent to call for restructure of the Nigeria, even as he agreed that they had not entered into any agreement with any political party. James Ezike, the keynote speaker, who was represented by Okey, noted that it was 40 years ago that an Igbo man, Dr. Alex Ekwueme, attained the highest political office, as a vice president of Nigeria and a further attempt by him (Ekwueme) in 1999 at the presidency failed because of political conspiracy. The lawyer said that there seemed to be a political conspiracy to exclude Igbo people in the political equation in the country, noting that power was never donated or given but asserted. He added that if Ndigbo wanted any political position they must be prepare for it. He noted that the task before them would be to raise their political consciousness, where the interest of the people would be promoted above personal and egoistic interest. Speaking through the vice president of Ohaneze Ndigbo in Lagos, Vitus Uzoh, the socio-cultural organization made its position on 2019 election clear, where it said that candidates that were not credible should withdraw, pointing out that they had been able to sensitize their members adequately on the need for full participation in the election by obtaining their permanent voter cards (PVCs), vote for only credible candidates of their choice, even as he appealed for a peaceful general elections.