Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari may have begun subtle moves to ensure the release of the remaining abducted Chibok schoolgirls, including Leah Sharibu, one of the Dapchi schoolgirls still in the captivity of Islamist Boko Haram. To this end, Buhari seized the opportunity of the ongoing UN Climate Change Conference, COP24, being hosted by Poland, to open further discussions with Alain Berset, the Swiss President, on the schoolgirls’ rescue. The president first underscored the invaluable role being played by the Swiss Confederation, saying their efforts and intermediary, which helped in securing the release of a good number of the girls, were immensely appreciated. He then told Berset that the issue of the remaining kidnapped girls and other abducted persons remained a key priority for the Nigerian government, insisting that he would not rest until the remaining Chibok girls kidnapped by the Boko Haram terrorists in April 2014 were safely released. Talks between both leaders took place in Katowice, Poland, at a bilateral meeting. Buhari also met with several world leaders and visited the impressive Nigerian pavilion at the climate summit. The Nigerian president said joint strategies to ensure the safe return of the girls, building on the past successes of securing the release of some of the Chibok girls and other abducted persons in the North-Eastern part of Nigeria, would be welcomed. The president also welcomed the Swiss president’s commitment to continue to provide humanitarian assistance to internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Nigeria and to ensure the safe release of the abducted schoolgirls. “We will continue to make the safe release of the remaining Chibok girls a priority and will welcome any kind of support from any quarters to make this happen,” the president said. In separate bilateral meetings with the President of Poland, Andrzej Duda, and the Prime Minister, Mateusz Morawiecki, Buhari lauded the country for a successful outing at the opening of the COP24 meeting in Katowice. He told his Polish counterpart that Nigeria was facing serious climate change challenges, particularly the receding Lake Chad, which is a source of livelihood to some 40 million people living in the region. “‘Nigeria is totally committed to global efforts to mitigate and adapt to effects of climate change,’” President Buhari told the Polish leader, whose country is the president of COP24. In his meeting with Prime Minister Morawiecki, the president lauded the plan by the Polish government to open a trade office in Lagos soon, promising that investors who looked to Nigeria could be guaranteed safe returns on their investments. “We have a vibrant and active young population and our government is doing so much on the Nigerian economy, including diversifying to non-oil sectors. “‘We welcome increased cooperation with Poland and will encourage investments in other sectors of the economy like solid minerals and information technology,” the president said. Morawiecki told the Nigerian leader that traditionally 96 percent of oil imports to Poland came from Saudi Arabia and Russia, adding, “but now we are looking at importing oil from Nigeria.’” The Prime Minister noted that as the fastest growing economy in the European Union, Poland had identified Nigeria, Egypt, and South Africa as three top investment destinations in Africa. “We want the hub of our investment destination to be in Nigeria,” the Polish Prime Minister told President Buhari, welcoming the pledge by the Nigerian leader to immediately put in place a framework to encourage more Polish investments in Nigeria. Meanwhile, the president’s bilateral meeting with his Austrian counterpart, Alexander Van der Bellen, focused on the challenges of Lake Chad and what was required to recharge it. He argued that the Lake faced the two challenges of technology and financing, explaining to the Austrian leader that enormous financial resources and technology were required to transfer water to Lake Chad from the Congo Basin. Van der Bellen indicated his country’s willingness to cooperate with Nigeria on recharging the Lake Chad while reeling out some climate change challenges in Austria which includes drought, glaciers melting, among others. President Buhari also met with Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and both leaders followed up on their discussions at their last meeting in The Hague, Netherlands, in July, which centred on trade, investments, and partnerships in agriculture. The president welcomed the proposal by the Dutch Prime Minister to visit Abuja soon and promised that the Nigerian government would continue to provide a conducive business environment for existing and prospective Dutch investors. On the sidelines of COP24, President Buhari also met with the Prime Minister of Estonia, Jüri Ratas. The Prime Minister of the Northern European country sought Nigeria’s support on its bid for a non-permanent seat at the UN Security Council for 2020-2021. The two leaders also discussed bilateral cooperation and climate change mitigation.