President of the Confederation of African Football (CAF), Ahmad Ahmad, has denied reports that Cameroon were stripped of  the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations hosting rights as scores-settling with his predecessor, Issa Hayatou. Hayatou, as CAF boss stripped Madagascar Africa U-20 Cup of Nations hosting rights shortly after Ahmad announced his intention to challenge Hayatou for the CAF seat. However, on November 30, 2018, CAF withdrew the hosting rights from Cameroon, after a meeting of its executive committee. But Ahmad denied reports during the week that the withdrawal of the hosting rights from Cameroon was scores-settling with Hayatou, saying he has never personally criticised the management of the continental soccer body by the latter. “Even when journalists tried repeatedly to urge me to comment on his [Issa Hayatou] reign, I always avoided it and told them it was their role, not mine. It is not possible that withdrawing CAF 2019 from Cameroon implies I’m settling scores with my predecessor, a Cameroonian,” Ahmad stated. Rather, he said that, CAF stripped Cameroon of the hosting rights to avoid the 2010 experience where some players came under attack by Angola’s Cabinda separatists, besides the delays in infrastructural preparations. Gunmen attacked a bus transporting the Togolese national team to the 2010 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Angola, killing three people and wounding many others. The attackers fired at the vehicle when it crossed from the Republic of Congo into Angola’s oil-rich enclave of Cabinda. Rebels who were fighting for the independence of the region, later claimed responsibility. In an interview on the pan-African television channel, the Afrique Media, Ahmad said that CAF paid dearly for the Cabinda incident and “can’t take that risk again,” for Cameroon that is facing two major security threats; the Boko Haram insurgency in the north, and an armed separatist movement in the two English speaking regions. According to him, all 20 members of the CAF executive committee, who were present in Accra, Ghana, unanimously agreed that it was not possible to stage the 2019 tournament in Cameroon and asked the Central African country to continue preparations to host the 2021 edition because scheduled hosts, Cote d’Ivoire, would not be ready by then. “We have seen that Cote d’Ivoire will not be ready to host AFCON in 2021. So the executive committee has confirmed Cameroon as host of 2021 …We have taken the decision for the good of African football on the basis of rules and regulations of the game in force,” Ahmad said.