Lagos – Determined to ensure that children and young adults with special needs also have a feeling of Christmas as other Nigerians, Rotary Club of Lagos Island District 9110 and its affiliate, Rotaract Club, visited Modupe Cole Memorial Child Care and Children’s Home in Yaba, Lagos. Vipul Agrawal, Vice President of the club, during the visit at the weekend, said it was part of the Club’s way of putting smiles on the faces of the needy in the society. The Club’s President, Raj Kumar Gulati, in a statement, affirmed the club’s commitment to serving the poor, disadvantaged and needy. “It is a continuation of other projects like ‘VISON 2020’, which provides free eye cataract operations. Rotary Club of Lagos Island is also leads in conducting blood donation camps contributing more than 500 units of blood in past six months.” Gulati thanked all the donors, volunteers and well-wishers who selflessly serve the communities we live in, and assured of continued service to humanity. Items donated by the club included clothes, hampers with sweets, food and sanitation items to 150 special needs children; adult diapers and other healthcare items as part of its ‘Disease Prevention and Treatment’ month. The event, which witnessed cutting of Christmas cake by the club members and people with special needs, Kamlesh Jain, the club’s Volunteer Service Project Director, who gave a motivational talk, titled: “Look at the world and say with pride ‘Yes I can”, also tutored them on disease prevention, sanitation and treatment awareness project. “We came here to inspire them and we believe in the spirit of Christmas, which is joy. We came to give to them and make them feel happy. Yes we can, we love one another and will be kind to one another. “We actually had a refreshing time with them, we sang with them, we danced with them and shared some things with them. Rotary Club of Lagos Island members came out to share the joy with them. We came to celebrate Christmas with them and wished them the very best. They are so lovely and adorable.”