LAGOS – Barrister Emmanuel Umohinyang, President of the Emmanuel Umohinyang Foundation, last Sunday hosted widows and the less privileged to a Christmas party. The event, which held in his Maryland, Lagos residence, attracted over 1,000 people, including widows, the needy as well as indigent students and their parents. During the event, which marked the 10th anniversary of the Foundation, Mr. Umohinyang, the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the President on Civil Society and Digital Strategy, distributed 1,080 bags of rice and exercise books, even as 24 cows were killed to fete the crowd. There were a lot to eat and drink, while the widows and the needy went home with a lot of extra packages in the spirit of Christmas. Speaking with newsmen, Mr Umohinyang said the foundation started in 2008 with the objective of assisting the needy. Going spiritual, he said that a man cannot serve God if he cannot give selflessly to those around him, adding that “When we give, we are like God who gave His only son to everyone without taking from anyone.” He added: “We have a duty as Christians and Nigerians that whatever we have, we share. December is a period to give. It makes me happy to give not minding the challenges we have today. We want to show that poverty can be eradicated through hardwork and commitment. “When we give to people in need, we are serving God. We are encouraged by what the President and his wife are doing to alleviate poverty. “In today’s event, we gave out 1,080 bags of rice, killed 24 cows. Everyone who came here went home with a bag of rice as well as exercise books for their children. “We donated musical instruments to churches. We also have scholarship programmes for indigent students, while we have plans to purchase forms for students taking the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) Examinations, West African School Certificate Examinations (WASCE) and the National Examination Council (NECO) Examinations.” He said the Foundation is also planning to hold empowerment trainings for the youths and the less privileged across the country. “This is a programme we will continue to do till the very end,” Umohinyang concluded.