Lagos – The Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) has rated the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) as 84 per cent complaint to the recently launched Executive Order 001 (EO 001). With the rating, the service emerged as the highest ranked government organisations in the Nigerian aviation industry. PEBEC in the rating said that NIS was the most efficient Ministry, Department and Agencies (MDAs) in terms of service delivery timelines and compliance to default approvals and on government directive on EO 001. Other agencies also rated were the Nigeria Agricultural Quarantined, which received 69 per cent score; Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) had 52 per cent, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) with 47 per cent, while the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) received zero per cent score. A source close to PEBEC told our correspondent that the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos Command had also gotten the Comptroller-General’s approval for the expansion of both D and E fingers visa-on-arrival space. The source said that this had further facilitated the ease-of-doing-business policy of the Federal Government, which came on board in June 2017. The source however, lamented the lack of understanding by those seeking to enter the country via the visa on arrival. The source explained that most of the travellers don’t wait for the Comptroller- General’s approval of their entry visas before embarking on their journeys to Nigeria, stressing that the payment did not mean approval. “We are trying to sensitise people to make them understand that payment for the visa-on-arrival does not mean approval and people do not want to wait for the CGI’s approval and that is why we send them back. “Making payment for the visa on arrival does not mean approval and validity after payment is 14 days and as a rule, no visa no entry that is why we send them back. Complying with the directive of the CGI, applicant either goes for visa from the embassy or applies for visa on arrival. If you are coming to our country without either, you are impeding on our security,” the source said.