Rivers State on Friday defeated Team Lagos by 59-45 points to win gold medal in the women’s basketball final at the on-going 19th National Sports Festival (NSF) in Abuja. The game, played under severe weather at the Package B Open Court of the Abuja National Stadium, saw Rivers take the first quarter 14-11 points. It was in the second quarter that Rivers totally demolished their opponent, dictating the pace of the game and punishing Lagos for the blunders they committed. The quarter ended 21-7, with Rivers opening a 14-point gap between them and Lagos. Lagos threw everything into the game in the third quarter, converting their free throws with better accuracy, yet it was the South-southerners who narrowly took the quarter by 13-12 points. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that there was a 15-minute delay in the third quarter, when the electronic scoreboard malfunctioned. Although Lagos rallied in the final quarter and ended it 15-11, Rivers did enough to hold on to victory and take gold medal while Lagos settled for silver. Coach of Team Lagos, Peter Amedu, told NAN after the game that he was not disappointed; stating that playing in an open court had taken its toll on his players. “If anything, I praise my players for a good fight. Except for two of them, the rest are coming to the NSF for the first time and the experience is good for them. “Also, they prepared throughout in an indoor facility; coming to play in an open court with the harsh weather took a toll on them. “Regardless, they gave their best,” he said. On his part, Coach Ogoh Daudu of Rivers said his side’s determination won the gold medal. “It was a difficult game, although we rode on our luck because we expected a tougher contest. Lagos are a good side and we are the only team they lost to in this competition. “I think we were more determined and had more firepower. That was what won us the game,’’ he told NAN. Earlier, Plateau defeated Team FCT 56-39 points in the third place playoff to take the competition’s bronze medal.