Godwin Emefiele, Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), has said the proposed National Micro Finance Bank would commence work in January 2019 and would address the concerns around the several intervention funds that had been lying idle in the vaults of the apex bank. The bank is a collaboration of the CBN with the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST), and it is targeted at enhancing financial inclusion and credit to fund the Agricultural sector and small and medium scale enterprises (SME). Emefiele made the clarification at the post press briefing at the end of the 10th annual bankers’ committee retreat on Sunday in Lagos. The bankers’ committee annual retreat attempt to articulate how to open up lending to critical sectors of the economy that can serve as a catalyst for economic growth. The theme for this year was, “Export-led Transformation of the Economy-Engine for Susta2inclusive Growth”. Recall that Emefiele said at the opening of the retreat that a national MFB slated to launch in January would leverage the existing NIPOST presence in 774 local government areas and aid the CBN and the bankers committee’s effort in accessing the Anchor Borrowers fund, SME fund, and other initiatives tailored towards SMEs, farmers, and the CBN’s financial inclusion drive. The CBN governor said the issues bordering on access to credit was a major bottleneck that must be addressed in order to create the much needed jobs that the country needed. He said: “We have the N210 billion SMEs fund, the N60 billion Agric SMEs fund that will be N90 billion by year end. “But even we the bankers have complained that not all of that fund has been disbursed and, sometimes, I feel embarrassed when people say, how come we have not heard about it or we have not accessed it.” He said the CBN, under the auspices of the bankers committee and the National Postal service, decided to create its own independent channel where these funds could go out very quickly. The governor also disclosed plans by the committee to streamline issues of access to credit by youths who operate in the creative industry and ICT, that would allow easy access to loans. He said: “We resolved that we need to set up a committee, headed by a bank CEO, and what they would do is to look at the issues hindering export and report back by February 2019, and through that the banks will commit to ensure we deploy funds or some of our intervention to support those initiatives.” Speaking on the Apapa gridlock and the difficulties encountered by exporters, Emefiele said the government had taken bold steps to address the Apapa gridlock and there were some innovative arrangement currently ongoing that helps to transport goods in batches from areas like FESTAC and mile 2 into Apapa. He expressed optimism that once the work on the road was completed, the burden of exporters would be greatly reduced