Osogbo – Osun State Government has offered to provide special incentives to investors willing to invest in the state’s economy. Governor Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola made the promise at the weekend when he paid visit to the Ambassador of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in Nigeria, Fahad Al Taffaq, in Abuja. Governor Oyetola told the envoy that Osun has gold in abundance and that the state is willing to partner with investors especially from UAE to see that the gold deposit translates to the economic advantage of the state and its people. He also called for support in the area of agriculture because Osun State, he noted, is an agrarian state. Oyetola told the envoy that the state “is a centre of commerce with a lot of infrastructure where access to land by investors is unrestrained because of the Land Bank Policy in place.” He explained that no community would disturb an investor because the government portions land for investment with the Land Bank policy. The governor said power is stable in the state especially in the capital city, which has an average 16-hour daily supply; he said the access to the rail could ensure easy transportation of goods from the state to Iddo Terminus in Lagos for export through the ports in Lagos. Oyetola said that the state government was determined to work out special incentives for investors willing to come to the state. The governor said: “We need countries that can facilitate our agriculture plan part of which is the establishment of farming settlements in each of the nine federal constituencies. I see the great importance of technology in agriculture. We need support in this area.” Responding, Fahad Al Taffaq expressed the willingness of the UAE to partner with Osun State, saying majority of gold in his country comes from Nigeria. He explained that a deal would be worked out, expressing desire to host Governor Oyetola at 2019 Dubai Investment Forum, the biggest investment event in Dubai, and attended by major investors worldwide. He also promised to support the state’s dry sea port, its agriculture development plans and to explore “further ways to support the state in the short, medium and long term.”