ABUJA – Adams Oshiomhole, Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) does not stand a chance to unseat President Muhammadu Buhari especially when it left the country in ruins after 16 years. He said it would be foolhardy for the party to think that just apologizing to Nigerians must have wiped out economic atrocities carried out during the immediate past administration. He said these issues would form the crux of the APC campaigns, even as Buhari officially flags off his presidential campaigns in Akwa Ibom (today) on Friday. He made these statements after he visited the Presidential Villa apparently to tidy up arrangements for the campaign flag-off. “Campaigns will start tomorrow in Uyo, we are flagging off with the South-South. It is going to be the first rally of the President and taking place in the South-South, is particularly significant. From all the feelers we have had, I think the people of Uyo and Akwa Ibom states are anxious to receive Mr. President and to hear the message. We are all in good mood,” he stated. Asked on the chances of APC clinching victory in the midst of crisis rocking the party at the state level, he said: “Of course, how can you ask what the chances are? If PDP was doing well after 16 years, they wanted to do for 60 but they were terminated, no employer will recall an employee dismissed due to gross misconduct and abuse of finances, you don’t recall the employee. “I remember that the best Uche Secondus had to say was that he was apologizing to Nigerian people and I have not heard anybody say they have accepted the apology. People who have robbed you don’t apologize and say allow me back into your store-room, you don’t do that. “So we are certain that even as we can’t talk of any perfect situation, nothing can make Nigeria get so confused as to think that yesterday there was mismanagement and those who were at the heart of that mismanagement can be entrusted with providing leadership for tomorrow. I don’t think that is the question at all, PDP is out of this calculation as far as I am concerned. “I don’t think Nigerians even in their moment … PDP is just not an option particularly when their candidate is not a new face. There is basis for benefit of the doubt, you can give benefit of the doubt to a stranger not to someone who was at the heart, perhaps one of the most powerful Vice Presidents we have ever had. So, I am clear that Nigeria will never have basis to give PDP the benefit of the doubt.”