Lagos – The management of Leadway Assurance Company Limited has described the Independent Award for Outstanding Insurance Company of 2018 bestowed on the firm as a good end of the year gift and recognition of the excellent and selfless service the company had been providing to its teeming customers. Mrs. Adetola Adegbayi, Executive Director (General Business), who stood in for Mr. Oye Hassan-Odukale, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the company, made the remark on Thursday during an official visit by the management of Independent Newspapers Limited, led by Mr. Ade Odigan, the Managing Director and Editor-in-Chief of the frontline newspaper, to the company. Referring to an earlier company citation by Mr. Ogidan, Mrs. Adegbayi said: “You have captured our history in terms of our modest beginning and because of that modest beginning we want to remain well-grounded. “So, we are not kind of shying away. Also, we’d like to fly the radar, meaning that a lot of us have achieved that because of our customers. “We are custodian of funds contributed by insured persons like yourselves whether you are buying motor insurance or you are buying life assurance or you are buying our pension service. We like to see ourselves as a financial conglomerate.” She said it was an honour to receive the award which, she said, was an indication that people were seeing the successes the firm has recorded over the years. “It’s a pleasure to have you in our office. The award is a good end of the year gift and we won’t take it for granted, and we will go back to ensure that customers continue to see value in our conservative existence because we are a very conservative company and we like to be conservative because of the fact that we are willing to be there for the long run. “We are coming from first generation to another generation and we are moving on to the third generation as we speak. So, our own aim is to become that exemplary company that endures beyond the founder and become a Nigerian institution. That is where we want to be and that is what we are working towards. “So, for an award to come from you as the bearer of what is going on in the industry to the insuring public is something we wouldn’t take lightly and something we won’t take for granted. So thank you for coming,” she said. Speaking earlier, Mr. Odigan narrated the profile of the annual award, stating that the ceremony, an annual event, was meant to celebrate excellence. He added that the decision to award Leadway Assurance was a painstaking effort based on thorough research among its peers to discover who actually merits it. “I want to say that we were happy when you emerged top insurance company in the country. It is quite hearty that Leadway started its humble beginning in Kaduna. “Not much chance was given to the company and what we see today is a genuine indigenous company. We are quite happy that Leadway Assurance has been able to push aside competition, even from the foreign companies, and the commendation is quite noted,” said Mr. Ogidan. He maintained that the award was based strictly on the result of an independent research, noting that Independent ensured that its awards were earned.