LAGOS – For Junior Nmeni 28, one of a seven-man gang of suspected notorious armed robbers, has told the police on interrogation that he was forced into armed robbery due to lack of job, and to be able to feed his pregnant wife. They were arrested last week in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital. Those arrested includes a 25-year-old woman, who was alleged to be a member of the gang that specialises in breaking into people’s homes at night while armed with guns and other dangerous weapons. They were rounded up by the operatives of the Inspector General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT) in Port-Harcourt. The suspects, who were identified as Precious Okoye, alias Angel, Junior Nmeni, Oliver Nwokocha, Emeka Iwuayawu, Victor Nwabuisi, Sunny Nweke and Ezekiel Ishaya, were arrested recently, after they allegedly killed a professional golfer, Usman Zabadi, in his house on Poultry Road, Rukpokwu, Port Harcourt and made away with television sets, two mobile phones and an ATM card. Crime Tracker learnt that the late golfer, Zabadi, was shot dead by a member of the gang when his house was attacked. IRT source disclosed further that the gang went on to rob several houses around Iguruta and Upper-Deck areas of Port-Harcourt. The gang was also said to have kidnapped and raped a 13-year-old girl, in one of their operations and allegedly collected a ransom of N200,000 before she was released. It was further revealed that the gang ran into trouble following complaints made to the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, by some of the victims. As a result, the IRT, headed by Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari, was directed to track the suspects. The IRT detectives were said to have trailed the suspects through the ATM card of late Zabadi’s wife, which the suspects used in withdrawing money from her account, after her husband was killed. It was gathered that images generated from the ATM transactions, was distributed among police informants around Iguruta and the exact gang member, Oliver, who murdered the golfer was identified and arrested. IRT source disclosed that his confessions led to arrest of six other members of the gang. Police said that on interrogation of the 22-year-old, Oliver, a native of Echiche Local Government of Rivers State, he allegedly claimed that: “The killing of my uncle resulted in a community fight. I went to my friend, Junior who has an automatic pump action gun and I used it in the fight. When the issue came down, Emeka called me and said Junior wanted us to go for a robbery with the gun. I took the guns to Emeka and we met at Iguruta and he and two others, Ifeanyi, and Victor took me to a house in Rukpokwu, but while we were breaking into the house, the people started shouting Jesus Jesus!!. Then we went to another house and Ifeanyi broke into the house and we entered inside. The man in that house quickly ran into the kitchen and I followed him. Then he hit me with a gas cylinder and poured me a hot pot of soup, then I got angry and shot him. I did not know he died at that spot. It was when I was arrested that the police told me that the man was dead,” the suspect lamented. Police revealed that on his part, Junior Nmeni, who is the owner of one of the guns used, was quoted as saying that he was forced into armed robbery because he lost his job and he was looking for money to care for his pregnant wife. The 28-year-old, who is a native of Umuechem Community in Etchie Local Government Area of Rivers State, according to the police, said: “I was formerly a cleaner at the Port Harcourt International Airport but I joined the gang seven months ago because the company I worked for sacked me and things became very hard for me and my wife. There was this gun that belongs to my late elder brother. I saw the gun in his ceiling. When there was a riot in Olivers community, I gave the gun to Oliver and after the crisis, Oliver used the gun to rob and killed a man with it. He brought back the gun to me and told me what he was done with it. Then I decided to join his gang of robbers and we robbed a man and a woman at Iguruta. I kidnapped and raped the woman’s sister. I kept her in my house for two days before Emeka and I started demanding for ransom. The woman paid us N200,000 and I got N23,000 as my share, since we were six that went for the operation. Then the next operation I went for was at Hotel and we went with two guns. Elvis, our gang member brought the second gun and it was Sunny another gang member, that brought information about the hotel. We got N21,000 from the hotel and three phones. My last operation was at the home of one Mr. Ogundun. Elvis was the person that brought the job but on the day we went to the house we didn’t succeed because the man had a gun and he shot at Oliver, then we took the man’s motorcycle away. I haven’t made much money from the business before I was arrested. I was hoping to raise enough money from the business which I intended to use for my pregnant wife’s delivery.” While narrating how he went into crime, according to the police, Emeka Iwuanyanwu, who is 24- year-old and a native of Ugulabo Local Government Area of Imo State, said his late father who was a native doctor, died without burying his grandmother and that his father also sold all his family properties, which would have been his inheritance. “My late father was a native doctor and he didn’t bury his mother who is also my grandmother before he died. I am a primary school dropout and my father drove me out of the house when my mother who is from Kogi State left him. I went to Port-Harcourt to look for job and when I couldn’t find any job, I went into a bush at Unmuji farm road, where I started selling Indian helm. My father fell sick and died, leaving me with the burden of burying him and my grandmother. I had no money to take my father’s corpse to the mortuary and I discovered that he sold all our landed properties before he died. “I was in prison because of fighting one man and while in prison I met Ifeanyi. When we came out, we started snatching people bags. I made some money from those robbery operations and I used the money to bury my grandmother. I then joined Ifeanyi to carry out more robberies hoping to raise more money to bury my father. Ifeanyi took me and two others to a house at night and when we entered the house, we heard a woman praying and shouting Jesus, then we left that house and robbed another house. “Later we met one woman who told me she has three children and her husband had abandoned her without any money. She also followed us to two other robbery operations where we gave her all the money we made,” he said.