OSOGBO – Men of the Osun State Police Command have arrested four member gang of armed robbery who allegedly robbed their victim, Victor Akinbile and set him ablaze in his car. Osun State Commissioner for Police, Fimihan Adeoye told journalists on Monday while parading the suspect before newsmen in Osogbo. Famihan said the gang of four, Rasheed Waheed 35, native of Ikirun, Ahmed Rafiu 33 native of ikirun,Owolabi Bashiru 51 ,native of Ikirun and Kayode 27 ,native of Ondo were all apprehended on 27th of November after the police was informed about the missing of Akinbile According to Adeoye, friends of late Akinbile reported to the police, on November 27, by 10:30pm, the case of suspicious transfer of N3m from the deceased’s account and the inability to reach him after he travelled to Ikirun from Lagos on November 26. The commissioner of police said friends of the deceased also informed the police that Akinbile had informed them he would be passing a night in Ikirun, his home town, and return the next day but were worried about the money transferred and inability to reach him. Adeoye said the police anti-kidnapping and SARS team were deployed to investigate the matter and by November 29 and 30, four suspects were arrested and the burnt body and car of the victim were recovered. “The police team discovered that the robbery team consists of four men, and one of them happens to be a security guard who alerted his members that the victim/deceased was in town. “The gang later came to the victims abode, where he was passing the night, broke into the house and took the N25,000 he was having on him and equally forced him to transfer N3 million to the account of one of them. “The police tracing the account the money was transferred to, arrested one of the robbery gang member, Hammed Rafiu, which subsequently led to the arrest of other members of his gang. “One of the gang members, Sunday Kayode, was however traced and arrested in Ondo state where he relocated after their operation while the other two members were arrested in Ikirun. “During investigation and interrogation of the suspects, the police discovered that the suspects, after robbing their victim of his cash and transferring N3 million from his account, put him in the trunk of his car and drove him to a secluded place where they set the car alight, while he was locked in the booth.” he said Adeoye said the suspects were being processed for prosecution, and he also sends the condolence and sympathy of the Inspector General of Police to the family of the deceased victim. Confessing how Victor Akingbile was trapped and killed, Ahmed Rafiu disclosed that Owolabi Bashiru ,who is a night guard watching after the house where deceased slept called to informed them about the arrival of Victor from Lagos who was to pass a night in his brother’s house at Ikirun. Rafiu said after Victor was driven from Ikirun to a bush along old Osogbo-Iragbiji road , they set him ablaze.