There has been a raging controversy over the freedom of Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to enter the United States of America. The controversy, which is being fuelled by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government, is hinged on alleged corruption charges against Atiku in the U.S. The Federal Government recently urged the US government not to grant travel visa to the PDP presidential candidate. The Federal Government told the US government to be cautious in granting visa to Atiku in order not to create the impression of endorsing him for the 2019 election. Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information and Culture, said the government was aware of the move by the former vice president to lobby the Us to lift the visa ban allegedly imposed on him However, the U.S. government has reportedly said that that it has no corruption charge against Atiku, even as there were conflicting reports that it had indeed granted visa to him. With all these controversies over the issue, Nigerians have been wondering if there is indeed any serious issue in Atiku traveling to the US. Group Protest Against Atiku’s Visa Issuance Interestingly, demonstrators under the platform of Forum of Non-Governmental Organisations in Nigeria (FOGON) has urged the US government not to grant entry visa into its country to Atiku over his alleged involvement in bribery. The grouped stormed the US embassy in Abuja to present their reasons in a letter to the consulate titled: “The Imperatives of Rejecting Alhaji Atiku Abubakar’s Visa Request.” Atiku had been accused of involvement in a bribery scandal for which an American Senator, William Jefferson, was jailed in 2009. Leading the protesters, the National Convener of the Forum, Comrade Wole Badmus, argued that granting visa to Atiku on the eve of the 2019 presidential elections makes a mockery of United Nation’s Convention against corruption. He also said doing so would violate the American Patriot Act which makes the acceptance of foreign corruption proceeds a US money laundering offense. U.S Embassy Reacts The United States, in response, said it has not granted Atiku visa, contrary to the reports in various media. An embassy source revealed that U.S. position on Atiku has not changed and a family source confirmed that Atiku only travelled to the UK. This is as the sources indicated that the PDP presidential candidate has not yet applied for a U.S visa. Hajiya Mairo Marafa, a Minna-based educationist, said “I had wondered why the fuss and if there is any big deal about hunting a Nigerian citizen like Atiku travelling to the United States for whatsoever reason, be it personal or official, as a politician and/or businessman of international repute he is. “But, I couldn’t find or see any to the best of my ability. But one thing that kept coming to my mind is that probably the ruling APC administration has something they are afraid of that is capable of rocking their boat if Atiku travels to the US. “But, they are not telling us that. If not, why the noise about Atiku and getting a US visa? If he has any case, why not open up and tell Nigerians? Why the interest in frustrating his plans of travelling out of the country for any reason if he so wish? “To me, I don’t see anything serious about chasing Atiku, except that the APC government has gone ideological bankrupt. In as much as I don’t see anything special about Atiku travelling to the US, maybe for his business because every Nigerian knows him to be an international businessman, maybe to frustrate his presidential bid, but the APC-led government, by recent developments, is proving to Nigerians that they have lost ideas or focus. “That is why they now want us to see them as doing something by diverting our attention in this their chasing the likes of Atiku instead of looking with pity the pains generality of Nigerians are going through and do something to end it.” Atiku’s Going To U.S Or Not Is Not A Serious Issue – Don Dr. Febian Onobitaire Ojaiko, a university lecturer said: “To me, I don’t think there is anything serious there, because I have read in both online and print media where America Embassy explained that if Atiku Abubakar applies for US visa, he will be given. “Since that statement, as credited to the American Consulate, has not been refuted, I don’t think we should be making any issue out of it. We should not politicise every issue. “If Atiku Abubakar is elected President and he decides not to travel to the US during his four year tenure, it is all left for him. He is not going to be an American President, but a Nigerian President.” ‘There Is Nothing Wrong With Atiku Travelling To U.S’ Chief Emeruo Nkwachukwu Igwe, Secretary, Better Nigeria Progressive Party (BNPP), Owerri West LGA, Imo State, stated: “What is wrong with Atiku going to U.S? Is he going there to thumb print ballot papers to win the election? Is Donald Trump the INEC that will conduct our elections? Has the American government made any statement that suggests that Americans are pro-Atiku? “Last week, President Muhammadu Buhari was in Poland for an international conference. Did anybody raise the eyebrow? Since President Buhari came on board, has he not travelled to US? There is absolutely nothing wrong with the Turaki of Adamawa going to US or are they saying that being the PDP presidential candidate, he should be held incommunicado. No Law Forbids Atiku From GoingTo U.S – Politician Ignatius Nwadinkpa Iwumba, member,  Providence Peoples Congress (PPC), Imo State, said: “I do not understand the fuss over the US trip by Alhaji Atiku Abubarkar. If President Buhari jets out today to America, will anybody quarrel about it? “The APC people are suffering from hallucination by thinking that Atiku’s visit to US will sway the minds of the American authorities in our 2019 presidential election. I challenge anybody to bring the provision of our constitution which forbids a presidential candidate from traveling to US while campaigning to become president. Our Leaders Are Only Playing Politics – Activist Wale Odediran, a human rights activist, opined that “There is no serious issue in Atiku travelling to America. But, our leaders are only playing politics with it.  According to him, playing politics with Atiku’s travelling to US is only to justify their claim that Atiku has case to answer in US. Whether Atiku has case to answer in US or not should not be of serious concern to a serious government that is desirable to serve the masses and the country at large. “It is an indication that our leaders play with issue and not serious about governance and administration of the country. There are lots of issues to address by any serious government but our leaders only engaged in deceit and not serious about governance.”