Osogbo – Taiwo Oluga, the All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Representatives candidate for Ayedaade/Irewole/Isokan Federal Constituency of Osun State, has promised to champion peoples’ needs if elected to represent the area. Oluga, a special adviser to former Governor Rauf Aregbesola on Culture and Tourism, also said she would return governance to the grassroots if given the opportunity to do so, admonishing that her going into politics was to serve humanity. She assured her constituents of good governance, vowing to legislate on things that would bring succour to all. Oluga made the pledge on Saturday while addressing the people during a solidarity/endurance trek, which was called at the instance of the progressive youths of Ikire in Irewole Local Government Area of the state. The trek was aimed to show solidarity to Oluga and all the candidates of the APC in Osun West Senatorial District. Ikire, the headquarters of Irewole Federal Constituency, stood still for hours as people trooped out en mass to welcome Oluga and her entourage. The 12-kilometre trek, which commenced at Naira and Kobo area through Ita-merin, Jolaya, Oke-Adaa, Ori-Eru, Oke-Awo, Ayedaade, Oja-Ale and Holy Cross, terminated at Sango. Oluga expressed optimism in her ability to come victorious at the poll. She attributed her winning changes to her achievements while serving as the Special Adviser to the Governor on Culture and Tourism under the administration of Aregbesola. Oluga reiterated her commitment to strengthen democracy and democratic tenets in her constituency by sponsoring bills that will make life meaningful and abundant for the people. She said, “We shall together run an all-inclusive government with special attention on the improved accessibility to governance; girl child right, care for the aged people and care for the people living with disabilities.” “We will also focus on youth and women empowerment; vocational training for the youths and young adults will be taken as priorities.”