Abuja – A total of $5.4 billion has so far been paid to states by the Federal Government for settlement of the Paris Club refund. Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, confirmed the release at a news conference on the state of the economy on Monday in Abuja. Present at the briefing were the Director-General, Debt Management Office, Patience Oniha; the Acting Director-General, Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary Uduk, and the Comptroller General of Customs, Col. Hameed Alli (rtd). Others were the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Mahmoud Dutse; Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service, Babatunde Fowler and other top officials in the ministry. She said that the Paris Club refund was released to states in phases based on some conditions, which included that salaries and staff related arrears must be paid as a priority. Also, there must be commitment by all states to the commencement of the repayment of Budget Support Loans granted in 2016 and clearing of amounts due to the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative. Ahmed said that the Federal Government had also settled inherited debts despite the revenue shortfall experienced within the last three years. The finance minister said aside the $5.4 billion used to pay states over deductions made from the Paris Club debt, $6.8 billion was used to settle Joint Venture Cash Call obligations. She also said that contractors being owed N1.9 trillion under the Export Expansion Grants were on the verge of being settled. In addition, she said that about N488 billion spent by state governments on road projects had also been paid. Similarly, she said that as part of the Federal Government’s efforts to ensure all pensioners get their entitlements, the ministry had released N54 billion to settle outstanding pension arrears in 2014, 2015 and 2016. She noted that the government had settled pension claims up to March 2017. Ahmed announced that the Federal Government had agreed to pay about N571 million as gratuity to 175 retired police officers affected by the Biafra war. In the area of expenditure performance, the finance minister said that in 2018, despite the revenue shortfall, the Federal Government had been able to pay salaries and fully service its debt obligations. FG Receives Investigative Panel Report On NHIS Meanwhile, Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), on Monday in Abuja received the report of the Presidential Independent Fact-Finding Panel on National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). A seven-member panel was inaugurated in November to investigate the conflict that engulfed the NHIS and led to the suspension of its Executive Secretary, Prof. Usman Yusuf. Mustapha said that the government’s decision and recommendations of the panel would be made public at the appropriate time. He said that NHIS was critical in enabling government deliver on its promise of qualitative and affordable health care to Nigerians. He noted that healthcare delivery was a cardinal programme in which huge investments had been made because a healthy nation was a wealthy nation. “I am delighted to receive the report of the panel on NHIS from the chairman and members who were assigned to look at the immediate and remote causes of the conflict that engulfed the NHIS. “The panel was earlier given two weeks to submit its report; it was, however, extended due to the nature of the work and the need to address core issues. “I receive this report with deep sense of appreciation and I assure you that the report would be expeditiously processed for implementation,” he said. Mustapha also thanked the panel for their various sacrifices in ensuring that the scheme was sustained and remained beneficial to all Nigerians. In his remarks, the Chairman of the Panel, Bukar Hassan, said the report contained a set of recommendations that could be considered for short, medium and long term implementation. Hassan called for urgent attention to the key recommendations. He explained that the panel extended the period for the submission of the report because of the quantum of the documents that had to be perused and the need to be fair. “In the course of the work, the panel had to interface with stakeholders including the Minister of Health, the Permanent Secretary, Chairman of Governing council, unions, the National Assembly, among others. “It is our belief and aspiration that our recommendations will reposition the scheme and proffer solutions to the challenges that have hindered the scheme in achieving its laudable objectives,” he said. The chairman thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for the confidence in the panel and for giving the members the opportunity to serve their nation.