LAGOS – Ashiat Abdulganiyu, a 300-level student of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, Kaduna State, committed suicide by drinking poison on Boxing Day, Wednesday, December 26, 2018. Ashiat took her own life in the early hours of the day at her Samaru, Zaria home, shortly after hanging out with her friends and updating her WhatsApp stories, telling her friends: “I love y’all” and saying: “Rest girl… You need to rest.” She, however, stated the reason for her ultimate action in a note. The deceased blamed her mother for tagging her a witch. Before she did the unbelievable, she put this script together: “Just like I said, If I am no more, please hold my family especially my mum and dad responsible. I have tried to be the best I can be, stayed away from them just because they blame me for their mistakes and they can’t love, help and take care of me like their own. My mum has made life a living hell for me only because she is bipolar and frustrated. Accusing me of being a witch, trying to kill her and being a cursed child even though my brother is responsible for my education and upkeep.” While the note goes on, other phrases like, “I hope and believe that now that I am gone, it will bring them relief and happiness;” “Just like I said, if I am no more please hold my family together especially my mom;” and “Please bury me immediately I am found dead. Love you!” jump out at a reader. A person is still a person, no matter how small they are. Sometimes, especially in this part of the world, we forget that children, the smallest of our kind, are innocent human beings deserving our compassion, care, and protection. For many decades, it was the norm to be dismissive of children; they were not to speak, be seen or even regarded. Their words were not worthy of recognition, and their actions were almost always ignored, but all that eventually changed with the awareness that children have legal rights. Even with the realisation, many cases still fell short of legal scrutiny as the focus was mostly on sexual abuse and domestic violence. One of such cases that remained largely illuminated by the awareness and enforcement of the law is children being accused of witchcraft. The story of a little boy who was rescued by a Danish aid worker, Anja Ringgren Loven, comes to mind. The boy, whom she named Hope, had been ostracised by his community in Akwa-Ibom area of Nigeria due to superstitious beliefs that he was a witch. According to reports and images that went viral, the then-two-year-old Hope was emaciated, riddled with worms and suffering hypospadias, an inborn condition in which one has an incomplete developed urethra. His treatment and condition were ridiculously inhuman. After proper care for a whole year, a new Hope emerged. The perceived witchcraft seemed to have faded with his accusers, but no one was prosecuted. Ms. Loven was named “the most inspiring person of the year 2016” by Germany’s Ooom Magazine at the end of last year, beating the likes of Pope Francis and Barack Obama to the title. George Kindel, OOOM’s editor-in-chief, who led the jury that chose the list, said: “When she saw the starving child, she acted like a human being and became an inspiration for millions. Her sustained efforts to help the abandoned children of Nigeria give us hope and encourages us to follow suit.” While applaudable, Hope’s story is just one case, and it is of a child who was rescued before he paid the ultimate price. Many other unreported cases fall under the radar and the bodies of the children become the platform on which many superstitions are built. Every year, thousands of children are left to roam the streets, die and rot away like animals. Many of these children are not alone merely because they are orphans and there is no one to care for them, a good percentage of them have living parents who simply want nothing to do with them because they are believed to be witches. This begs the questions: are witches real; on whose authority is a child to be labeled a witch; what is the criterion for measuring who is or is not a witch; is witchcraft contracted by reason of birth or chance occurrence? Without an answer to these questions and many others, the subject remains a relatively unexplored one. Any human being below the age of 18 is presumed to be defenseless and is, under the law, a child. If an adult is labeled a witch, cast away and ostracised by family and society, it is assumed that he or she can handle it. There are defenses and protection to keep him or her from bodily harm. But imagine when a girl of eight is thrown out of her father’s house simply because her mother died giving birth to her, and that makes her a witch. Where is she to go? Or the case of a boy whose mother has remarried and her new husband cannot stand the sight of him. Accusing such a boy of witchcraft is the only way out the stepfather sees and the boy is left to weather life’s storms without support. These are realities that are hidden in the suburbs and rural areas all over Nigeria, and because of the myriad of problems present in Nigeria, these practices are allowed to continue unchecked. Speaking with Mrs. Olubukola Akinleye of the LEAH Foundation, she explained that “yes, there is Child Right law in Nigeria, but I am not sure if it is specific on the issue of witchcraft. Though I believe labeling a child a witch still falls under child abuse.” The legal rights of the Nigerian child are contained in various municipal laws and international instruments. These laws are based on certain fundamental principles relating to the promotion of human survival, prevention of harm, promotion, and sustenance of human dignity and the enhancement of human development. These principles recognise the basic concept that the child is the foundation of the society and he or she assures its continuity. Accordingly, the survival and continuity of the human society depend upon the protection, preservation, nurture, and development of the child. A right in the general sense is either the liberty (protected by law) of acting or abstaining from acting in a certain manner or the power (enforced by law) of compelling a specific person to do or abstain from doing a particular thing. Accordingly, a Legal Right is the capacity residing in one person of controlling, with the assent and the assistance of the State, the action of others. Thus, every right involves a person invested with the right, or the person entitled, a person or persons on whom that right imposes a correlative duty or obligation; an act of forbearance which is the subject matter of right and in some cases an object, that is, a person or thing to which the right has reference, as in the case of ownership. A right therefore in general, is a well-founded claim; and when a given claim is recognised by the civil law, it becomes an acknowledged claim or legal right enforceable by the power of the State (Oputa J.S.C., 1986). While the law, in theory, should protect the Nigerian child, it doesn’t always work and these children suffer inhuman treatment. Akinleye posits that “There is something the law can do about it. Most of the children branded witches are beaten, they burn their hands and bodies, they do terrible things to them. So all those come under child abuse, which is prohibited under the law.” Among other things, there is a school of thought that stipulates that our religiosity as a nation allows these abuses and practices to continue. Some have even opined that a number of churches promote the custom of labeling defenseless children witches. However, Pastor Femi Luther-Abegunde, responding to Saturday INDEPENDENT’s questions said, “Witchcraft according to the Bible is not limited to spiritual wickedness. It is the African concept of witchcraft that has taken over naughtiness in children. The truth is that children are prone to naughty behaviour, but that does not make a child a witch. Can a child be possessed? Yes. Can an adult be possessed? Yes. But we need to know that every naughtiness is not witchcraft. Cultural influences have influenced our definition of witchcraft. Ignorance, Biblical illiteracy, tradition are also contributory factors,”Luther-Abegunde says. Akinleye, on her part believes that it is our beliefs that fuel these misconceptions, and because it mostly borders on religion, it has become an untouchable subject. “The religious aspect of it is something the society cannot really tamper with, it is their belief. But what I am particular about is taking the children off the abusers because if you leave the children with them, no matter how much you talk to them, because it is their belief it is not easy to convince the parent or the adult has branded such child. They would tell you all sorts of things they have noticed. But if you take the children off them, they can’t harm them. “I still maintain that it is the belief. I can talk about the Yorubas because I am Yoruba. You will see some mothers who have special love for a particular child among their children, and if you ask them why, they would tell you that it was when they gave birth to that child that they had a breakthrough or became financially stable. They do not know that there are time and season for everything. They might have been pursuing some of those things for a long time before things fell into place for them. They believe the child is the harbinger of the breakthrough. So it works the other way too. For some people, after they have the child, the father or the mother lost their job, and they forget that they have had a lackadaisical attitude to work. They usually don’t weigh all these possibilities; they just assume the child’s leg is not good. So while you can’t really point out a cause, it is merely their belief. It is the same way some men marry two wives. They believe it was when they started dating another woman that doors begin to open for them, so they marry the new woman so that the door can stay permanently open. It is their belief. Even educated people think like that.” Going further, Akinleye, who works closely with children shared, “While I have personally never had such a case or been involved in one, I have read stories. There was a particularly touching one I read where they said the child was an ‘ogbanje’ and they took her to a white garment church. They started beating her with brooms. How did they know that the child is an ‘ogbanje?’ They called her an ‘ogbanje’ simply because she doesn’t finish her food. They believe she is leaving the rest for her spiritual friends. “Whenever she is given a chore or task, she goes about it very fast so that she can have enough time to play. They interpret it by saying her spiritual mates are the ones who came to help her. “I used to have an aunt who had eight children. At a time, her last daughter was very ill, and her friend offered to take her somewhere for prayers. Immediately they got to the church, which was a white garment church; I am not saying white garment churches are bad, it is just that it is where you see most of those things. In the course of prayers, the person praying told her that she would have had so many children, but her mother is a witch and that was why she didn’t have many. Immediately, she stood up and carried her baby. She told them that this is her eighth child, so if her mother were not a witch, how many children would she have? If not for that, she may have believed them. And a woman can easily be bought over once she hears anything about her child. “And this is not peculiar to a particular religion, it is just based on the way they handle it. For Christians, those that attend some white garment churches take the suspected witch child to the church and they use brooms on them. Those that attend Pentecostal churches take them for deliverance. So it depends on their faith.” In many cases, it is almost impossible to curb these abuses, and Akinleye proffers a solution. “The only thing that the government can do is to enforce the Child Right law, especially the section that talks about child abuse. If they take them away from these abusive parents the way they do it abroad, it will work. There, they are very careful not to inflict pain or bodily harm on the child because they know the child can be taken away from them and they may be jailed. If that is done here, you will see that child witch-hunting will stop. “In some places, when children play act or talk alone, they say the child is conversing with spiritual mates.” While the trend remains worrisome, the fear of rendering children homeless also prevents concerned people from reporting such cases, after all, it is the general belief that some care for a child is better than no care at all. In Akinleye’s opinion though, “If any child is found on the street, there should be a process in place to trace where the child came from. When they get to the root of it, if the parents are okay and the child is on the street, there should be a penalty for that. If the parents are poor and the child is on the street, there should be a reason, because there are some children on the streets who are the breadwinners of their families. But because there are no consequences for actions people don’t bother.” If accusations of witchcraft can affect an educated adult like Ashiat and cause her to commit suicide, what will be the effect on a child whose mind and personality is still being formed? Yes, children are diamonds in the rough, but an undiscovered diamond will never appeal to anyone, no matter how much potential is contained within.