Nsa Gill and Innocent Oweh Calabar/Abuja – The spate of communal clashes in Cross River appears to be on the rise each week. The latest – the crisis between Abanwan and Orugbam communities in Biase Local Government Area of the state – took a different turn on Tuesday with no fewer than eight persons killed and many others reported missing. This is as President Muhammadu Buhari has called for calm in the affected communities. The latest clash reportedly occurred when the people of Orugbam in an attempt at a reprisal attack on Abanwan, lost five more people. Orugbam had lost three people to an earlier alleged invasion of Abanwan on Monday and had allegedly gone to another community, Ekoli, to mobilize and attempt to invade Abanwan on Tuesday morning only to end up losing five more people. As at the time of filing this report, a source close to the two communities said Abanwan had started burning houses in Orugbam. A source from Orugbam said, “As I speak with you, the Abanwan people are burning our village. We are on the run, and only God knows when all this will stop.” On how the crisis started, the source, who pleaded anonymity, said: “To be honest, a woman died in Abanwan and was to be buried last Saturday. About six youths from Abanwan went to various neighbouring communities to poste her posters in the tradition of the area, as a way of advertising the burial. “They went to Ibini and posted the posters but when they came to Orugbam, some people accosted them and, in fact, waylaid them. “The Abanwan people decided to bury the woman on Saturday only for them to attack us on Monday. “To be honest, I don’t like what our people are doing because we are all one and we speak the same dialect.” A woman, who gave her name as Margaret, said: “Right now, only churches are left in Orugbam. We have always known that this situation will come to this point because Orugbam has always caused problem among the Erei community. “Remember that Orugbam had invaded Ebor and Ipene in the past, killing people. So, Orugbam’s action is that they have come to the limit of patience.” She continued: “What may have irked Abanwan people is the fact that as a way of reprisal, Orugbam went to a nearby community and recruited some people and gave them military uniforms. “So, when the people went to Abanwan and discovered that youths there were waiting for them, they ran away, leaving some Orugbam youths behind. Five of the youths were killed today.” It would be recalled that last week, a communal clash was recorded in Abi Local Government Area in the state between Usumutong people and Affafayin. Communal clashes had also been recorded between some communities in Obubra Local Government Area in the central part of the state. When contacted on the latest clash in Biase Local Government Area in the southern part of the state, the State Security Adviser, South Senatorial District, Ani Esin, admitted the crisis to be true but pleaded for some time to be able to make a meaningful statement on the situation, assuring that security had been mobilized to restore normalcy in the communities. The Police Public Relations Officer, Irene Ugbo, in the state command also confirmed that a detachment of mobile policemen was already in the area. The clashes have become a national source of anxiety, and on Tuesday President Muhammadu Buhari expressed concern over reports of violence in those four communities in Biase Local Government Area which had resulted in loss of lives, injuries to many and displacement of villagers. The president called for calm and restoration of peace in the affected communities bordering Abia State. He also urged the people of the areas to allow law and order to prevail. “Our communities must be ready to live together in peace since no development can take place in an atmosphere of recurring violence,” he said. President Buhari, who commended the state government for the steps taken so far towards bringing peace to the areas, also lauded the state police command for speedily mobilizing its personnel to the affected communities to contain the crisis. He urged all stakeholders to cooperate and ensure that lasting peace returned to the affected areas.