Lagos – Immigration officers in Lagos State are said to be secretly combing all the 20 local governments and 37 Local Council Development Authorities (LCDAs) to identify and arrest any citizen of Economic of West African States (ECOWAS) who have no ECOWAS permit or whose papers are not valid. Crime Tracker investigations reveal that the Comptroller of Immigration for Lagos State command, King Ekpedeme gave the directive last week and directed his officers to arrest ECOWAS citizens whose papers have expired after 90 days of stay or do not even have relevant papers. We learnt that his directive is not unconnected with influx of ECOWAS citizens into Lagos for the Christmas yuletide who are involved in menial trades at every major motor packs and bus stops. Our investigations reveal that, most of them claim to be from the northern part of the country and are involved in sales of fruits, fresh tomatoes and yam, while others are in involved in commercial motorcycle business at major bus stops all over Lagos. Dependable source at the Immigration office disclosed that one major reason for combing the entire state of irregular migrants,“is to ensure that they are not allowed to participate in the 2019 general elections. “Apart from not being allowing because they are not citizens, we want to ensure that they are not used by some politicians to disrupt the elections. Some of them also indulge in criminality,” a senior Immigration officer explained. Crime Tracker also learnt that the exercise is not restricted to ECOWAS citizens but “to every other foreigner whose resident permit or visiting papers have expired. Some of them don’t even have papers. The Comptroller-General has warned that we must not compromise, so, we are going after anyone who has no relevant papers, no discrimination at all,” the officer assured. The officer further disclosed that, “those who are monitoring the irregular migrants go in decoy without wearing uniform, while they station their operational vehicles at strategic locations. But those in the vehicles wear uniform.” The officer could not give the figure of those dispatched to the local governments. He however, disclosed that “in every local government and LCDAs, we have Divisional Immigration Officers(DIOs),” adding that the DIOs are mandated to oversee the activities of those monitoring the irregular migrants. He also failed to ascertain if any of the irregular migrants have so far been arrested and deported.