Lagos – With the adoption of the “Know Your Status” theme for the World AIDS Day 2018, the Provost, Ogun State College of Health Technology (OSCOHTECH), Dr. Abiodun Oladunjoye has called for the intensification of an awareness campaign on HIV/AIDS in schools and at the grassroots level. In his presentation to mark the 2018 World HIV/AIDS Day organised by the Campus Mobilization Against HIV/AIDs in conjunction with OSCOHTECH,‎ in Ijebu Ode, the Provost advocated for continuous education  about the scourge and called for involvement of teachers at all levels of learning, saying this will be more impactful as it will raise awareness. “In our school here, as we are responsible for holistic health, we have decided that all our courses and programmes should include preventive measures for the scourge. The disease is most prevalent amongst the youths because they are the ones willing to always try something new and engage in sex with multiple partners,” the provost said. Oladunjuoye, however, said the ‘ABC’ strategy of abstinence, being faithful and condom use should continue to form the fulcrum of the HIV/AIDS campaign. In the same vein, the Dean, School of Community Health, OSCOHTECH, Dr. (Mrs.) Basirat Odunuga said it was fundamental that stakeholders, government and civil society groups work together to kick out the virus permanently, adding that previous campaign efforts must be intensified in achieving the zero infection targets for the year 2030. According to her, this is not the time to relent as the message about the scourge should be spread and not the virus, saying people infected with the virus must be made to understand the need to help curtail the spread of HIV by taking care of their health. Also speaking, Mrs. Caroline Oladunjoye, CEO Oladunjoye Foundation, who specializes in counselling individual about the scourge, said, ‘Having access to HIV counselling and testing is key because when you know your status, even if positive, you should know how to take care of yourself’’. Mrs. Oladunjoye urged the students to always seek further information about the HIV/AIDS scourge and go for a regular test in order to know their status and stay healthy.