ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) has admitted that it will lose some governorship and national assembly seats  to the opposition parties  in next year’s general election, as the  party comes  to terms with negative backlash of the lingering crisis in the party occasioned by the contentious party. Despite threats of sanctions, a number of aggrieved governors, ministers and other stakeholders of APC have voiced their inclination to vote President Muhammadu Buhari but work against candidates they claim was foisted on them by the party. Admitting this reality, Yekini Nabena , Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the ruling said that it for this reason the party has put in place the peace and reconciliation committee but regretted that some APC Governors have stuck to their guns to work against candidates of the party. Nabena told journalists at the weekend that APC will lose some states and senatorial seats because of the selfishness of some of the Governors. He also admitted the National Chairman of the Party , Comrade Adams Oshiomhole made mistakes ,he excused as human error. “If you watch closely, all these people are not talking about the Presidential election. “Where we are going to have problems as a party is the fact that some governors who were not given their preferred candidates may work against the party in such places out of selfishness. “The chairman tried his best even though he has his own faults because he is human. But because of selfish interest, some of the governors wanted all the candidates from their state to be their preferred candidates. Such governors are likely to support their candidates who have moved to other parties. As a party, we have to be very careful so that we don’t have problems in the future and that is why the committees must put up something for these people. “It is evident that we are going to lose some senators because the governors will want to support their own candidates. If these senators don’t make it, they will also turn round to work against the governors during their own elections. So, that is part of our internal problems. That is why the committees must have the necessary give and take. Otherwise, they may not achieve the purpose for which they were set up”. The Appeal Court earlier in the week ruled that APC has no governorship candidate for Rivers State for the 2019 polls. On the decision of President Buhari to withhold assent to the amended Electoral bill, Nabena said the president was in order. He accused the main opposition PDP of hatching a plot with Russian hackers to to rig the election in 2019, pointing out that the plot was part of decision reached by PDP at its Dubai meeting. “The electoral Act we are using now was created by the PDP. You created a bill and now, you are afraid to use the bill that you created. Does that sound right? What the PDP are doing right now is playing out what they designed in Dubai.”