OWERRI – Rochas Okorocha, Imo State governor, has again taken a swipe at the media attacks against him and other APC governors by Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Governor Okorocha said that the governors who have become a punching bag in the hands of the APC National Chairman would not take the pain to begin to talk about all the abuses, but to humbly plead with President Muhammadu Buhari, who is the leader of the party, to call Oshiomhole to order. He regretted that the APC National Chairman had, in less than six months, enthroned the culture of rascality into the party, a development, he said, was not good for the party. “APC is not known for rascality and abuses. And the earlier he is called to order the better for the party,” Okorocha stated. In a statement through Sam Onwuemeodo, his Chief Press Secretary, the governor observed that since Muhammadu Buhari became President he has never used any foul language on any Nigerian, low or high, stressing that it is the best way to go. Oshiomhole, he said, should borrow a leaf from Mr. President, nothing that one of the reasons the PDP lost in 2015 was the abuses the handlers of the party then were heaping on the APC Presidential Candidate then, and the President today, Muhammadu Buhari, adding, “Oshiomhole should be advised not to tow the 2015 PDP line.” The statement reads, “Chief Olusegun Obasanjo is the former President of the country and no matter the provocation or his political activities this time, Oshiomhole should have considered his status as the former President of the country in talking about him, and should have exercised caution in addressing him. Saying that God would punish the former President was never advisable. This should not be the language of APC.” The governor reminded the APC National Chairman that the party does not belong to him. Hence he should carefully select his words when he is talking about certain categories of Nigerians. And he should also find out why he is the only one talking about APC and no other member of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party is doing so. “Oshiomhole should help the party and its candidates by making his points without abusing people. The way Oshiomhole is talking has become nauseating to most Nigerians and the earlier he is called to order, the better. He should be talking about the achievements of President Buhari and APC as a party instead of using the opportunities he would have used to do that, to be insulting people. “To say the least, few weeks to the elections, APC and its candidates do not need Oshiomhole’s abuses or insults but the reasons Nigerians should re-elect President Buhari and elect APC candidates,” Governor Okorocha stated.