The year 2018 is about to end. Thus, it is a time for people to make projections into the New Year. Therefore, at this time, it is not out of place to ask people their expectations in 2019, especially as this is an election year. Nigerians Votes Must Count – Lawyer Barrister Moses Segba, a Warri-based legal practitioner, in his response, stated: “The build-up to the 2019 elections is worrisome. The Federal Government seems hell-bent on perpetuating itself in power. “My expectation for 2019, particularly as it affects the coming polls, is for our votes to truly count so that credible leaders could be brought to direct the affairs of Nigeria. The greatest fear of the common voter is the manipulation of the electoral system. Will their votes count? Will the outcome of the election truly reflect the voting pattern? Will those rejected by the people be willing to step down in deference to the result of the ballot? Will Nigerians get the kind of leaders they so desire? These are fears agitating the minds of the people. I am worried too and I expect the system to do the right thing so as not to throw Nigeria into avoidable tension and conflagration. “Everything points to a growing concern over the intolerance of the party in power. APC is totally blind and deaf to reality. They glorify themselves as working for the people. Yet, the party is working for itself and not in the interest of the common man. Nothing is working and only a change of bad leaders could guarantee good governance. “The best thing to happen to Nigeria in 2019 is to vote Buhari out. That way, whoever wins will sit up with the understanding that any leader who fails to work for the people stands the risk of being rejected by them. But, once the system is successfully manipulated to perpetuate or reinforce failure (apologies to Olusegun Obasanjo), then the hope of deepening our democracy would be eclipsed.” Security of lives, properties should be paramount – Commentator Boladale Bamigbola, Osogbo-based social commentator and journalist, has observed that the only condition that can guaranteed peaceful, free and fair polls come 2019 is for the Federal Government to charge security operatives to provide adequate security of lives and properties before, during and after the elections in February 2019. Bamigbola, reacting to what should be the expectations of Nigerians especially as regards the 2019 elections, said: “Security of lives and properties in all parts of the country is paramount and should not for any reason be compromised to favour or affect any part or section and political parties as well as Nigerians. “More attention should be given to areas where the country is having security challenges. That is not to say that other places should be neglected.” He explained that there cannot be success where there is no peace and that adequate security must be for all, irrespective of parties, groups and associations. He also suggested that more votes should be given to security issues and curb influx of illegal arms and ammunitions into the country ahead of the elections. He also canvassed for more logistics, especially in the provision of operational vehicles, intelligence gargets for surveillance including aerial surveillance. He further admonished the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to improve on its past performances and be fair to all parties. He said the INEC ad hoc staff expected to be used for elections should be properly trained and remain unbiased to parties, while civil organisations and election observers should be given free hands to operate and do their work as expected. Boladale also charged religious leaders across the country to enlighten their members and encourage them to actively participate in the exercise to achieve large turnout for the election. There Must Be Change In FG’s Economic Policy – Don Dr. Sampson Adokore Ikhuoria, Benin-based university lecturer, said: “First, there must be a change in the economic policy of this administration. Nigerians cannot afford to continue in hardship. Everybody is almost dying of hunger. Already, people are predicting more hardship and hunger next year because of the crisis between the farmers and herdsmen, especially in the northern part of the country. “I expect the three tiers of government to do something about it by adopting a means of ensuring that food items mostly consumed in the country that are not produced enough as a result of the crisis, are imported to augment the short fall. This arrangement should start from the first week of January to avoid fire brigade approach. When I watched on the television and see the number of Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps in northern states, I believe that many of the local farmers were driven away from their villages. “Secondly, I expect the Federal Government to go into serious dialogue with the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) now so that the current strike will not go beyond the second week of January. This is election year and anything that will necessitate public protests should be avoided because the atmosphere is getting charged everyday as a result of hardship in every part of the country. “I will also want to use this opportunity to advise INEC to do everything to ensure free and fair conduct of the election to avoid protests that may lead to bloodshed after the elections. I foresee a situation where the security agents will find it very difficult to check protests that may arise from the elections. Therefore, anything that could bring about protests should be avoided. “I will advise the voters to vote according to their conscience, no matter the inducement from the politicians. Take their money because it is our money they looted. But, vote the right candidate you believe will take you out of the present hardship. “The Federal Government should also finalise the issue of minimum wage in January so that it will reflect on the worker’s February salary, the month of election. The Federal Government should also ensure that all the bad roads across the 36 states are giving attention before the rainy season.” Let There Be Free, Fair, Credible Elections – GNP Chief Nnawuihe Johnson Nweafor is the chairman, Green Party of Nigeria (GPN), Umualiri Ward, Owerri North LGA, Imo state. He said: “My expectations are in line with those of patriotic Nigerians. Let us have a free, fair and credible election. Let our politicians get it right this time around by playing the game according to the rule. “I expect our politicians seeking elective positions, INEC and the electorate to purge themselves of the ills that rocked our past elections. “The electorate, although hungry, should not use the harsh economic times as an excuse to mortgage their conscience by accepting money from politicians to vote for them. “I also expect a clear improvement in our security because our experience this year is most disturbing. The government should also do something to improve our battered economy to make life meaningful for the masses.” Let Nigeria Revert To Being Giant Of Africa – LP Chieftain Nze Theo Iwumba Ohadiukwu, ex-councillor and now member, Labour Party (LP), stated: “Let our country be restored to its premier position as the giant of Africa. There should be jobs for the youths. The government should give us the basic necessities of life. The value of the naira should appreciate. Let there be more industries, factories, refineries and let INEC give us decent elections. Professor Humphrey Nwosu did this in 1993. Why can’t we achieve the same feat again? “We have lost many lives this year through the Boko Haram insurgents. Look at what is happening in Zamfara State and the killing of former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Vice Marshall Alex Badeh. “Like the late musical legend, Sunny Okosuns, once said, we do not want war again and Nigeria should shed no more blood.” Politicians Must Play By The Rules – Agronomist Mallam Musbau Abdulmaliki, an agronomist, stated: “Politicians should play by the rules of the game to avoid crisis capable of degenerating into full blown bloodletting. Former President Goodluck Jonathan conducted elections peacefully. When he discovered that he was losing, he did away with his personal interests and ambition for the sake of Nigerians by allowing the wish of the populace to prevail. That to me is why he congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari before all the results were announced even when he had the powers as President and Commander-in-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces to stay put. So, my appeal to politicians and their parties is for them to learn from Jonathan’s example so that there will be peace and for Nigeria to remain.”