LAGOS – Bukola Olopade has kicked against the organization of the Nigeria National League Supper 8 playoff that will ensure that four clubs are promoted to the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). Failure to organise the playoff last month in Aba has led to the non-kickoff of the NPFL before the end of the year. Consequently, the Nigeria Football Federation has ordered the League Management Company to ensure that the playoff holds in January and that the NPFL kicks off not later than January 13, 2019. But Olopade, the former CEO of the NNL, believes NFF’s insistence on organizing the playoff was just postponing the evil day on the premise that the playoffs won’t solve the crisis in the domestic league. According to him, promoting four clubs to the elite league has breached the league’s article that states that only 20 clubs should participate in the league. He said that should the NFF promote four clubs to the elite league, it must also relegate four clubs, saying that in the absence of such, the eight clubs that qualified for the playoffs should be promoted to the elite league. In an interview with Sports Village Square, he said, “The organisers of the NPFL must relegate four teams if they are to accommodate four NPFL in the 2018/19. “NNL has the right to reject demotion of eight teams at the end of the season if four NNL teams were promoted to the elite league from the beginning of the season,” he pointed out. He insisted that if the Super 8 was played, the management of the leagues were merely postponing the doomsday in Nigerian football because the problem “is not over yet.” “NPFL must also relegate four teams because at the end of the season eight clubs will be relegated to the NNL and at that time, NNL also has the right to reject and say they cannot accommodate eight clubs when they promoted four clubs. “So, even if we solve this problem now by playing the Super 8, we are only postponing doomsday in Nigerian league because the problem will still face us at the end of the season. “They said that the rule says four teams should be promoted from the NNL to the NPFL. But they have already breached an article in LMC statute which states that only 20 teams should prosecute the NPFL. Therefore, it is wrong for them not to relegate four clubs but wants four clubs to join them from the NNL to make the number of the clubs 24.”