LAGOS – Wrestling is one of the sports that made the year a good one for the country. Against all odds, Nigerian wrestlers put up a good outing first at the Africa Youth Games (AYG) in Algeria winning 19 medals by 20 wrestlers that represented the country. President, Nigeria Wrestling Federation, (NWF) Daniel Igali, commended the performance of the wrestlers stressing that winning 19 medals was highly commendable, noting that the future was bright for the sport in the country. “We went with 20 wrestlers comprising 10 males and 10 females and we came back with 19 medals, meaning that only one wrestler didn’t win a medal. “They clinched three gold, seven silver and nine bronze. You know we are here talking of young wrestlers between the age of 15 and 17 years, we are not even expecting much from them as they were young and only needed exposure. “The results were very appreciable. I’m hoping that as we go further in the quest to have these kids properly groomed, our results will improve. “Our conversion rate was poor; we had about 10 wrestlers in the finals and were only able to convert that into just three gold medals, which is about 20-30 percent. “I will want us to work more on that to get to about 60 percent, but in all, we had a fantastic performance,’’ he said. Igali, who is also a member of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, said that he would want a situation where NWF has more young wrestlers in camp regularly. “That’s the only way we can brush them up and also ensure that they compete regularly in both local and international competitions. “Once we do that, I think Nigerian wrestling is in good hands because we will now sit comfortable knowing that we have a crop of wrestlers, who in the next four, five years will be able to replace some of our ageing ones who may likely retire. “I think the goal of the federation to have junior and cadet wrestlers ready to replace ageing ones is on course,” he said. Team Nigeria finished 5th behind Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia and Morocco at the games. At the Commonwealth Games in Australia tagged ‘Gold Coast 2018’, Team Nigeria was represented by six male and female wrestlers making 12 while the country won three gold, two silver and three bronze medals. Odunayo Adekuoroye won gold in women’s 57kg wrestling, thereby, defending her 2014 Commonwealth Games gold medal,in Glasgow. She defeated India’s Pooja Dhanda 7-5 points in the women’s 57kg wrestling freestyle event to win gold for Nigeria. Adekuoroye has become the first Nigerian female wrestler to win a gold medal consecutively at the Commonwealth Games. Blessing Oborududu won gold in women’s 68kg wrestling. The 2014 Commonwealth Games bronze medalist, Oborududu picked up gold for Team Nigeria in her event. Oborududu, came from behind to defeat Canada’s Danielle Lappage in the women’s 68kg wrestling freestyle event on points (4-3). Aminat Adeniyi won gold in women’s 62kg wrestling. She won the 9th gold for Team Nigeria after she got the better of Michelle Fazzari of Canada in the final of the women’s 62kg freestyle at the games. Blessing Onyebuchi won silver in women’s 76kg wrestling. Onyebuchi came second in the women’s freestyle 76 kg after a defeat by Canada’s Erica Wiebe. Melvin Bibo won silver in the men’s 86kg wrestling event. Bibo had lost lost to Pakistan’s Muhammad Inam who won by 3-0 classification points (victory by points) to finish as second best, while Miesinnei Genesis clinched a bronze medal after she defeated Australia’s Rupinder Kaur 10-0 (victory by technical superiority) in the women’s wrestling 50kg. Bose Samuel won bronze in the women’s 53kg wrestling event. She defeated India’s Deepika Dilhani claim the bronze in freestyle (53kg). Ebikewenimo Welson defeated South Africa’s Jan Combrinck to win bronze in the men’s freestyle 57 kg wrestling event. Amas Daniel won bronze in men’s 65kg wrestling event; DanieL overcame Vincent De Marinis in their bronze medal match. Despite both wrestlers tying at 4-4, Daniel was awarded the bout on technical rules.