Austin Oboh Lagos – The fear of partisanship by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies, including the police, appears to top mounting concerns over the 2019 polls, especially in opposition camps. This emerged from recent investigations by Daily Independent. It would be recalled that in October, the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, insisted that the party doubted INEC’s willingness to conduct free and fair elections in 2019. Secondus spoke at the party’s headquarters, Abuja, while playing host to a delegation of the European Union Election Exploration Mission to Nigeria led by Niclay Paus. He claimed that findings by the party revealed that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) had perfected plans to connive with the electoral umpire to manipulate the process. Doubts seem to be swirling not just around INEC but also security agencies in light of their involvement in recent elections. In a chat with Daily Independent, Paul Ibe, media aide to PDP’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, maintained that opposition’s call for neutrality by INEC and security agencies was a key issue ahead of the 2019 polls. He said: “We’re concerned about the involvement of security agencies in the conduct of elections. We want free and fair election, and that is why we are bothered about the roles security agencies may be asked to play. “If they are going to be involved in elections, they should keep to their roles of managing law and order during the polls and not get involved the way we have seen them do in recent exercises. “The military should stick to their constitutionally assigned duties of ensuring security. On election days, they should be kept at strategic points where there may be likely breach of security. They shouldn’t be close to polling units; they sometimes scare voters away.” In early December, Rev. Father Hassan Kukah, the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, challenged security agencies in the country to be professional and neutral in the discharge of their duties during elections, saying it was their responsibility to prove critics wrong over allegations of bias. Kukah is a key member of the National Peace Committee headed by former military Head of State, Abdulsalam Abubakar. “One hopes the security agencies in the country have taken note of the concerns by Nigerians, because perceptions are not easy to do away with and it is the responsibility of the security agencies to prove Nigerians wrong on the allegations,” he had said. The fear of bias by state actors became internationalised last week when the U. S. Senate raised concerns over the recently concluded governorship elections in Ekiti and Osun where, it said, security agencies displayed partisanship. According to the U.S. Senate, “During the Ekiti and Osun gubernatorial elections in July 2018 and September 2018, respectively, there were incidents in which some elements of Nigeria’s security agencies displayed partisanship and a lack of objectivity, which risks escalating tensions within the country.” Asked to comment on the possibility of withdrawing security agencies from the management of elections, lawyer and rights advocate, Femi Falana (SAN), told Daily Independent that it would not be wise to do so. He said: “Security agencies cannot be kept away from elections because they are required to maintain security at all times. “What is to be advocated is that they remain neutral and be insulated from the control of any political party, including the ruling party. “But you cannot say they should not be involved in elections. What is forbidden is partisan involvement. “Only the military is not allowed to be involved in the management of elections, but you have been in this country and you know that the military has been involved in all the elections we’ve had since 1999.” Regardless, the two principal officers of the National Assembly, Senate President Bukola Saraki and Yakubu Dogara have also expressed anxieties over alleged partisanship by security agencies and INEC. While Saraki said security agents were beginning to emerge as major clogs in the electoral wheel, Dogara pointed out that a more worrisome dimension to vote buying and other forms of electoral malpractice was the alleged use of INEC and security officials to induce, intimidate, and coerce voters. But speaking to Daily Independent on the claims of partisanship and other speculations of a plot to rig the elections, Dr. Junaid Mohammed, the Convener of the Coalition of Northern Politicians, Academics, Professionals, and Businessmen, challenged the PDP to adduce evidence in support of its claims. He said: “He who does otherwise thinks otherwise. The PDP has been the most reckless election riggers in this country since Independence. They said they couldn’t rig the 2015 election because of card readers. “Saying the APC or the Federal Government intends to rig the 2019 polls, in cahoots with INEC and security agencies, is neither here nor there. “They probably know something we don’t know. But the law does not punish anyone for an alleged intention to commit crime except evidence is made available. “So, the PDP should provide evidence of the claims they have made. They should not just sit somewhere and accuse the Federal Government and the APC of intention to use INEC and security agencies to rig elections.” On a slightly different note, the Chairman of the National Peace Committee, former Head of State, Abdulsalami Abubakar, had in November expressed concerns over a different potential source of trouble for the electoral exercise when he drew attention to some flashpoints in the country, as well as terrorism prone areas in the North. The flash points he mentioned were Rivers and Akwa Ibom. He was ostensibly also concerned about renewed terrorism in the North East as well as banditry in Zamfara. Ahmed Gulak, a prominent APC chieftain, told Daily Independent that the fear expressed by the former head of state was justified. “The fears are justified since politicians are so desperate as could be seen where some persons are training local militias. “The escalation of politically motivated violence, kidnapping, and banditry is a very bad signal that the 2019 elections may be marred by violence. The Zamfara phenomenon is a case in point,” Gulak said. Similarly, Chidi Odinkalu, human rights lawyer, activist, and academic who – until November, 2015 – was Chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, said the basis of Abdusalami’s alert was all too obvious. He said the government’s feeling that everything was under control ahead of the elections, and that people were merely crying wolf was misplaced. “There is an escalation of violence in the Gulf of Guinea, the Sahel; there is a high level of trade in arms around the Chad Basin. “There is an increase in distribution and use of narcotics and psychotropic substances such as tramadol, codeine, and others; indeed, there is an active market for instruments of violence. Small arms are in the hands of small boys. “On the political front, there have been incidents of lawlessness, impeachments of speakers in Ondo, Anambra, Akwa Ibom, and Zamfara. “In the face of this, the government has got to produce something more convincing, not just the usual assurances”, he said.