The Security and Exchange Commissiob said as a result of the introduction of E-DMMS, over N30billion was paid to investors from the accumulated dividends. The regulator noted that as means to further reduce the unclaimed dividends profile and curb its growth in the country, it would continue to underwrite the cost of e- dividend enrolment till June 30, 2017, when it would stop issuance of dividend warrants. Sequel to  this exercise, over N30billion, which was, hitherto, unclaimed, have so far been credited to respective bank accounts of investors. Observers said the advantage of the e-dividend is not only to enable investors collect subsequent dividends electronically but it allows all accrued dividends be credited to investors bank accounts. The commission has, however, observed with concern the challenges being experienced by investors in the course of the e-Dividend registration and therefore commits to further defray the cost of registration till June 30, 2017 to enable investors continue to enjoy the free registration, SEC said. The SEC boss added: “When we started the e-dividend, the major challenge was for people to key into the e dividend mandate. There are unclaimed dividends that have not been claimed, the registrars have been compelled to pay all the arrears of unclaimed dividends. In this country, we have never had this kind of initiative that has reduced unclaimed dividends like we had today. Apart from the investor getting his dividends where ever he is, that investor will be able to get dividends that in the last five years he has not been able to get. The e-dividend is for the interest of retail investors. Stopping Issuance Of Dividend Warrants Having seen the impact of the e-DMMS since it was introduced in 2015 and the level of response, Gwarzo had restated the decision of the commission not to issue dividend warrants from July 1, 2017. According to him, before 2017 date, the electronic-dividend registration would have gained significant traction. From June 30, 2017 no registrar will issue dividend warrant again in the market. This will not only assist in reducing unclaimed dividends in the market but will also compel those yet to embrace the e-dividend registration to do so, he said. Apart from discontinuing the issuance of dividend warrants, the former SEC boss also disclosed that shareholders who bought shares and registered with multiple names would forfeit ownership of such holdings. He explained that it is against the law, saying that the dividend and shares of those who registered with multiple names would be forfeited going forward. According to him, the shares and dividends of these individuals would be transferred to the Capital Market Development Fund (CMDF). He however, noted that the investors who joggled their names in order to have multiple subscription should be given a forbearance period of six months within which they can lay claims to both their shares and dividends. “For those that have the same name, but joggled it to have multiple subscription and can provide identity and justify they are the owners of the shares, they should be able to claim their shares and dividend,” he said. He said the CMDF will not be managed by SEC but by other stakeholders in the Nigerian capital market. The Executive Secretary, Institute of Capital Market Registrars (ICMR), Dr. David Walker Ogogo said the Registrars are prepared to implement the directive of the capital market regulator on the stopping issuance  of dividend warrants He said:”Regarding the decision of SEC on the issuance of dividend warrants, the registrars do not have any problem. Since the information was made public, we have been preparing our minds and have told them to tell the publicly quoted companies that this is what the regulator is looking. We have the companies already and we are working towards it, Ogogo said. Before now, SEC had issued a directive to registrars to return all unclaimed dividends which have been in their custody for 15 months and above to the paying companies. The commission had given that directive in June 2015 as part of efforts to discourage registrars from holding on to unclaimed dividends. According to the commission, once Registrars do not get incentive in keeping unclaimed dividends, they would be compelled to ensure fast disbursement to shareholders or return them to the paying companies. Migration from Free Registration The Security and Exchange Commission had said that the free registration ended by December 31, 2017, adding that  any shareholder who wants to do the e-dividend registration will bear the cost of N150 per mandate. “All investors that are yet to enroll, are enjoined to continue with the registration, at a marginal cost of N150. “Such investors should continue to approach their banks or registrars, as usual, to seamlessly mandate their bank accounts for the collection of their dividends electronically, including unclaimed dividends, not exceeding 12 years of issue; as the N150 would not be demanded from them at the point of registration. “For the avoidance of doubt, the N150 fee would not be demanded from investors at the point of registration and/or submission of completed e-dividend mandate forms.” The SEC boss further revealed that all registrars have been directed to stop the issuance of dividend paper warrants with effect from January 1, 2018. “For the avoidance of doubt, all paper dividend warrants issued up till December 31, 2017 are valid and should be honoured. Banks and registrars are accordingly implored to note and adhere”, he added. But some market operators are of the opinion that the plan by SEC to stop issuing warrants as from will rather increase the amount of unclaimed dividends in the market. They explained that the development that is capable of punctuating  the current efforts of the regulator. Adeayo Ajayi, a Lagos stock broker  said  the regulators and registrars have been working on reducing unclaimed dividends, but the E-DMMS platform, which is supposed to absorb all the dividends are not yet perfectly being adopted. He added:”The rate of success is still low now you and they are planning not to issue physical dividend warrants again, which means if the success you have recorded is about 35 per cent, the remaining 65 per cent would be with the registrars. This will mean going back to square one, the broker said. According to him, registrars confirmed that the account details of investors but until the investors go to the Registrars, nothing that can be done. This means that their e-dividend mandates cannot go into the E-DMMS platform. We have even had experiences with some Registrars, who said their old e-dividend mandate forms were discontinued by SEC, saying that only the new platform should be used. But if you say everybody must go to the platform, the rate at which people are going there is low. I think there should be more enlightenment and awareness creation. Do not forget the issue of multiply applicants is also there. Because the E-DMMS platform uses BVN, many of those multiple applicants cannot get back their dividends. That means those monies would remain with registrars. Now if you say no new warrants should be printed, the registrars will only pay those who are in the system already.