The recent statement by the Chief Executive Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) that the agency have so far generated N4.3 trillion as tax revenue between January and October this year did not come to many as surprise. The agency has done equally better in the past and that the figure is just a justification of the robust leadership qualities of the mangers at the agency. In 2012, the agency generated N5 trillion, while it generated N4.69 trillion in 2014. Though there was a drop in 2016 to N3.3 trillion but it generated N4.67 trillion in 2017. FIRS Executive Chairman, Babatunde Fowler, had informed during the “Federal Inland Revenue Service Special Day” at the recently concluded Lagos International Trade Fair held at Tafawa Balewa Square that the agency is on its way towards meeting its 2018 projected target. “I am pleased to inform you today that the FIRS has recorded remarkable performance in terms of revenue collection this year. “For instance, as at October 31, 2018 our collection was N4.3 trillion and we believe we have the potential to meet our assigned target at the end of the year. “We realised that this performance would not have been possible but for the present administration’s policy of expanding the nation’s tax base and blocking revenue leakages,” he said. Fowler said that the agency focused its attention on businesses with over a billion naira in annual turnover without any record of commensurate payment of tax obligations to boost its revenue performance. He noted that about 6000 of such companies had been identified and contacted by the service leveraging on various data sources. “We will continue to focus on recovering all such revenues due to the Federal Government and the people of Nigeria. “We encourage the business community and all well-meaning citizens to continue to partner with us to ensure that defaulters are traced and face the consequences while compliant businesses receive all the support they require,” he said. Fowler said the agency was working assiduously to ensure that it aligned with all efforts to grow national revenue from taxation while easing the inherent administrative burdens. Speaking on the revenue generation by the FIRS  and how it could impact positively on the nation’s economy,  the well-being of the citizenry,  Frank Oshanugo, commended the huge revenue of N3 trillion the agency claimed it generated recently. Oshanugo, former Public Relations Officer of the defunct Federal Government National Clearing and Forwarding Agency (NACFA), lamented that many organizations and individuals do not remit money from taxation to the government through the FIRS. According to him, the monies generated are also not impacting positively on the masses, in terms of development. Giving instance with what he called economic growth and economic development, Oshanugor said economic growth shows how much revenue generated impacts on the economy. He also explained that economic development, tells the value addition the money generated has impacted on the citizenry. He said that if basic amenities like water, shelter and so on are not provided by the government, as well as employment, then the trillions being calculated by the government are not impacting on the people. “So if the country’s revenue must be seen as   impacting positively on the masses, the money must be translated into positive projects,  such that will create  employment opportunities, lamenting that the unemployment rate were on the increase. He advised that such revenue should equally be channeled towards developing infrastructures, which would enable self-employment. According to him, in the rural areas, there are many things the unemployed could engage themselves and become self-employed, if there is regular power supply. Oshanugo, who is also a media consultant and public commentator, equally spoke on provision of soft loans to those who want to venture into self-employment, arguing that in the true sense of it, the government cannot provide employment for everybody. “You can take greater part of the money to open channels, and give funds to these people, by way of interest free loans, which could equally be easily assessable. On the way forward for improved revenue generation by FIRS, Oshanugo, noted that a good number of Nigerians do not pay tax, adding that even corporate organizations fall into the category. He lamented that several organisations would deduct taxes from their employees and would not remit same to the government, through the Inland Revenue. “There are also those that are self-employed, that ordinarily would pay personal income taxes or even taxes from their businesses, but because of the harsh environment they operate from, it becomes very difficult for them to wake up in January or whatever, and go to tax office and say please, assess me, I want to pay xyz, when he or she has many jobs to do and many bills to pay.” He advised that the government should provide enabling environment for the people to pay tax by encouraging the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), to operate. According to him, capital should be provided to them in terms of loans as well as ensuring accountability. Speaking on the proper utilization of revenue generated by FIRS, the former NAFAC image maker, said it was not just enough to say you have generated N3trillion, saying the utilisation should focus on the economic development aspect of it. “How has the money impacted on the lives of the citizens, has there been any value addition, in terms of providing the basic infrastructure.” He said the government should provide basic amenities to impact on the common man. For Chris Oji, the amount the FIRS claimed it generated was far below what was expected. “I can tell you that they under quoted the revenue they generated. They needed to be investigated.” He said that the money being generated should get to the grass root development. He lamented that the grass root do not have access to good roads, drinking water. “We know our local government chairmen and Counselors. We know that this amount is given to them for developmental purposes; we will be able to hold them accountable because we voted them and know them, and we interact with them. The money given to them is infinitesimal. If the government at the Federal level is sincere, funds would be channeled for development.” According to him, at the local level, the people are predominantly farmers, adding that some of them have not set their eyes on fertilizers before. They have not seen it before, so there should be enlightenment programme in this regard. “They should earmark funds for them to purchase fertilizers, carry out irrigation, because erosion has taken most parts of their lands and roads to the farms.  Even when the people struggle to cultivate and harvest, there is not roads to transport the goods to towns and cities. So the government must look into all these, provide soft loans for the farmers.” On the way forward for improved revenue generation by the FIRS, Oji averred that so many big names and companies evade payment of taxation. He equally accused foreigners doing business in Nigeria of doing same. He called on the government to engage auditors to go to firms, audit their revenue, their staff strength in order to know their value and what they should pay as taxes.