Lagos – The recent downward review in the cost of National Examination Council (NECO) and Basic Education Certification Examination (BECE) registration forms announced by the Federal Government may have given many stakeholders in the education sector, especially parents and guardians, cause for concern. A survey conducted by Daily Independent showed that private schools levy unsuspecting parents as much as N50, 000 for the West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE). In addition, investigations showed that heads of public schools and teachers also connive with parents as recruitment syndicate to pull out a large number of candidates from the school system for registration in private schools that operate as miracle centres. When contacted, Demianus Ojijeogu, Head, Public Affairs, WAEC, Nigeria, told Daily Independent that the organisation does not charge above the stipulated fee of N13, 950 for both examinations. Though it is no longer news that different schools charge different registration fees for candidates, what is new is that corruption knows no bounds as owners and managers of schools cheat on parents, and many of the candidates are aware. Private schools appear to be the only culprits in this daylight robbery. Miracle centres often patronised by parents and guardians and students charge higher as their preys are promised excellent results. Many private schools, especially those in the grade B category, in connivance with other schools, cheat on parents to charge an exorbitant fee for the examination where they only remit N13, 950 to WAEC. In addition, candidates from public schools are not left out as they are also lured by a cartel within the school to enroll students as external candidates in organised private schools where parents, who are also part of the deal, buy good grades for their wards, are made to pay as much as N50,000 depending on the contact. When contacted, the principal of a private school on Lagos Island explained that what the school charged parents was not a standalone fee but that it included other packages preparatory to the examination, saying that a lot of things are built into the package. Studies have shown that many parents whose children are in private schools are ignorant of the actual cost of registration for the school-based West African Senior Secondary School Examination (WASSCE). Parents whose wards are in public schools, especially in states where the government foot the bills under the free education programme, also belong to this category just as payment for the examination is also shrouded in a lot of secrecy by government officials on whose shoulders such responsibilities rest. A survey in secondary schools in Ogun State where the government has stopped payment for the terminal examination, showed that candidates pay between N14, 300 and N15, 000 depending on the school. Investigations showed that charges for WAEC school-based examination at the Abeokuta Grammar School and Lisabi Grammar School, both in Idi-aba, Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, range from N14,300  to N14,500 that include the cost of capturing, among other sundry costs. However, the reverse was the case at many private schools within the Sango and Agbado boundaries of Lagos and Ogun states, regarded as the hub for examination malpractice, as unsuspecting parents, guardians and others that are neck deep in the scam pay a minimum fee of N35, 000 upward where affected schools only remit N13, 950 to the regional examination body. Speaking on depletion, a source wondered why managers of public education sector have deliberately failed to challenge school principals on the sudden depletion in the number of candidates for the school-based examination. The source said: “For instance, if 200 candidates gain promotion to SSS III class, shortly after, the number begins to deplete as some candidates for miracle centres stop coming to school and only register for WASSCE in private schools where they pay huge sums of money and are promised good grades. “For English Language and Mathematics, candidates are charged N1000 per paper and N500 for other subjects. “Government and WAEC must resolve this and apprehend the culprits that are perfecting their deals now,” the source added.