Invariably, instead of reducing the dividends in the system, you are increasing the level. There should be more enlightenment and awareness creation. Also, there should be other incentives. I know SEC is trying by saying the registration is free but those that are in rural areas, should have a motivating thing that would encourage them to come and register,” he said. Mr. Olufemi Timothy of Renaissance Shareholders Association of Nigeria said it is good to encourage e-dividends but it should be done in a way that no investors’ loses their dividends. The Chairman of Ibadan Zone Shareholders Association, Mr. Eric Akinduro, said the proactive steps taking by SEC to eradicate unclaimed dividend through e-dividend platform is a welcome development which will help  reduce the incidence of unclaimed dividend. To him, SEC has also done well by creating a platform where investors can check their non-mandate account with registrars and which many of them have embraced. “However the dead line is what I fault due to the level of illiteracy of both investors and even the banks. SEC needs to do a lot of enlightenment at grassroot level for the small investors that are the major owners of these unclaimed dividends to know how to do about it. “Also the issue of signature irregular has to be addressed. Many investors are still facing a lot of difficulties when it comes to signature problem either irregular signature or no specimen signature. What I believe is that this new development in the banking sector should be aligned to do that. So far the BVN and bank has endorsed the form and you can link the name to other shares owned by the investor there should be a way where they can amalgamate the accounts as this will help indeed. So SEC should not close the platform because unclaimed dividend is a continuous issue that cannot stop over a period of time. How many small Investors have access to internet and computer to check this but with time information will go round and more people will get it done,” Akinduro said. Shola Badiru,a stock analyst, said:”In as much as I am in total support of e-dividend, it is not matured now to completely stop the issuance of dividend warrants. Before that should be done, we need to do more of enlightenment, especially in the rural areas. Before now, most investors were civil servants, who have retired to their villages or changed addresses. “Most of them do not have access to mass media to key into the E-DMMS that SEC has introduced. We need to go down to the rural areas to enlighten them. If SEC goes ahead to implement its decision, many of the investors would remain locked out and this would have defeated the objective. The regulator should collaborate with other stakeholders and do more enlightenment for a more efficient result”. Commission’s Unrelenting Drive Last Thursday, the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC  enjoined more Nigerians to take advantage of the on-going  e-dividend registration in a bid to reduce the unclaimed dividends profile as well as increase liquidity in the capital market and the economy. Acting Director General of the SEC, Mary Uduk, who stated this at an Enlightenment program on e-Dividend and contemporary issues in the Nigerian Capital Market held in Enugu, disclosed that the Commission is currently leading the entire capital market industry in an effort to migrate all shareholders to an E –Dividend regime. According to her, “The essence of the E-Dividend Mandate Management System is to eradicate or reduce to the barest minimum the incidence of unclaimed dividend. Unclaimed dividend is an undesirable feature of the Nigerian capital market which denies investors/shareholders the gains of participating in the capital market. It denies the economy access to the huge amount of money which should have accrued to shareholders and would have gone into circulation to oil the wheel of the economy. “It is a consequence of the bottlenecks which are inherent in the erstwhile paper dividend warrant regime such as postal system inefficiency, change in investors’ addresses, poor fidelity and human fallibility in dividend payment processes, amongst others. She stated that the E–Dividend regime bypasses these limitations by ensuring that dividends which do not exceed 12 years of issue are credited directly to an investors account after declaration by the paying company and within a stipulated payment period through simple interbank transfer. The E-Dividend registration exercise started on November 23, 2016. Each successful registration costs N150, however, between that time and March 31, 2018, the Commission underwrote the registration cost for all investors that mandated. It is my pleasure to let us know, that a total of 2.4million accounts had been mandated. “I therefore implore you all to key into the E-Dividend registration exercise by visiting the nearest bank branch or registrar. In addition to migrating to the E–Dividend regime yourselves, kindly tell everybody you know to do same in their best interest. “I am informed that some registrars are present at this forum. I implore us to visit them and take advantage of the services they are providing to register for your E-Dividend, here and now,” she stated. Uduk also disclosed that the SEC is implementing various initiatives which are aimed at making our market deeper, vibrant and more effective. According to her “The forbearance window for shareholders with multiple subscriptions has been extended by another year from the December 31, 2018 deadline previously communicated. Consequently, we enjoin those who have not come forward for the regularization of shares purchased with multiple identities, to do so. “We have also developed a two-pronged approach to addressing the intractable challenges associated with transmission of shares related to the estate of deceased investors. The first step would involve engagement with and enlightenment of the Probate Registry with a view to providing solutions to the cumbersome process of transmitting shares. Secondly, Rules would be developed around the time frame for transmission shares and the fee structure”.