The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) on Saturday commended Colleges of Education  Academic Staff Union (COEASU) for calling off its two-month strike. The union called off the strike after an agreement with the Federal Government. COEASU members resumed lectures across colleges nationwide on December 6. NANS’ National Public Relations Officer, Mr Bestman Okereafor, said in Enugu on Saturday that there was need for ASUU to also call off its strike. “The attention of the apex students governing body, NANS, has been drawn to the recent suspension of the over two months industrial action embarked upon by COEASU members. “This came after the academic union reached an agreement with the Federal Government earlier this week. “NANS is appealing to their counterparts at the university level, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), to be honourable by suspending their ongoing strike without further delay. “The ASUU strike has really affected Nigerian students negatively,’’ Okereafor said. He urged stakeholders in the education sector and well-meaning Nigerians to rally round the Federal Government to find lasting solution to tertiary education funding in the country. “There must be a new thinking and ways of doing things to solve the persistent funding challenges of tertiary institutions nationwide,’’ he said. Group Applauds FG For Planned Police Salary Increment Southern Nigeria Peoples’ Mandate (SNPM), a NGO, has applauded the Federal Government for its planned increment of police salary. President of SNPM, Mr Augustine Chukwudum, made the commendation in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Saturday. “The increment in police salary is a welcomed development from the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. “It is a step in the right direction and should be commended by all Nigerians,’’ he said. Chukwudum, who spoke on the neglect of the Nigerian Police Force by successive administrations, noted that the salary increment would restore a sense of purpose among police personnel in the discharge of their constitutional duty. “It is SNPM wish that police must appreciate this gesture by doing their work with honesty and respect to human rights because the money being used to pay the salary, as well as its proposed increase is citizens’ tax. “We are appealing to President Muhammadu Buhari to make good his promise of monitoring personnel of the Nigeria Police because so much atrocity is committed everyday by some `bad eggs’ in the organisation,” he said. “Let the `bad eggs’ among the organisation’s rank and file be identified and flush out of the system. Chukwudum, however, called on the federal and state governments to equip the police to enable them to carry out the task of policing the country more effectively.