ENUGU – In the spirit of the Yuletide, a non-profit organization, Bina Foundation for People With Special Needs, has hosted a Christmas party for its students and other physically challenged persons in Enugu. The party, which was held on the premises of Bina Foundation, Thinkers’ Corner, Enugu, also doubled as a reception for the Enugu State para-athletics association’s Contingent at the just concluded 19th National Sports Festival in Abuja, which won laurels. Making remarks at the Christmas party, Chief Chris Atuegwu, the patron of Bina Foundation, thanked Bina Foundation volunteers for working even while he was away with his wife, Lady Ifeoma Atuegwu, for almost one year. Atuegwu urged the volunteers to continue to work selflessly for the benefit of those with special needs in society. Atuegwu particularly thanked the Enugu State Para-Athletics Federation who went to the National Sports Festival on behalf of the foundation and returned triumphantly with gold, silver and bronze medals. Also in an address at the party, Ifeoma Atuegwu, president/founder of Bina Foundation, said they gathered for two purposes-to have a Christmas party for students of the foundation and to receive the glorious members of the Enugu Para-Athletics Federation- as well as share gifts. The president who was represented by Amobi Chikwendu, a director of Bina Foundation, praised the para-athletes for their gallantry at the National Sports Festival. “Before the Enugu State Para-Athletics Association’s contingent travelled to Abuja for the 19th Sports Festival, I spoke with them on telephone and promised that Bina Foundation would host them on their return if they came back with any medal. “They also told me of their challenges and Bina Foundation was able to provide them with the necessary sports kits, repair their defective sports equipment and gave some financial support to ensure that nothing stopped them from travelling to Abuja for the event. “It is in the fulfilment of the promise that I made that Bina Foundation decided to give you a warm reception to celebrate with you for your encouraging and impressive representation at the occasion. I say, congratulations on your success. “We are particularly impressed with the gallant performances of the following athletes from Enugu State led by the Chief Coach, Mr. Silver Ezeikpe who is a world record holder in Javelin. They won the following medals: Chukwuemeka Oji won gold medal in 100 metres race, Ogochukwu Ogili won silver medal in shot put and Victor Mba won silver medal in shot put,” Lady Atuegwu said. She noted that the performances of these athletes show courage, determination, hard work and ability to look beyond the shackles of disability. “We are positive that the impact of your excellent performances at the event will spur you to greater heights of achievements in future,” she said.