Former President GoodLuck Jonathan has dismissed allegations by the running mate to the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Lagos, Obafemi Hamzat, that he rejected $5 million bribe offered him by the former president during the 2015 elections. A statement by Ikechukwu Eze, Media Adviser to Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, dismissed the allegation as a “blatant lie by a wannabe politician desperate for votes in a campaign season.” The statement said the ex-president had never met Hamzat, adding that if the former President did not offer anyone bribe, having clearly acquitted himself as a man who does not believe in desperate politics,  how on earth could he have sought to compromise an individual he didn’t even know and who obviously had no means of helping him politically? “Assuming anybody had $5 million dollars to spend to better his political fortune as Mr.  Hamzat claimed, why seek to waste it on man who was just a commissioner prior to 2015, and whose best outing so far is to function as a hand-picked running mate to a governorship candidate in the forthcoming 2019 elections? “His is obviously the antics of a desperate and dishonest politician seeking to apply subterfuge and outright lies,  believing that such could boost his lowly image,  win him public sympathy and possibly, votes. It is the action of people like Hamzat that conjures up in the minds of Nigerians the Biblical  ‘Mark of the Beast’ to the effect that to be accepted in his party, one must be adept at telling lies. “If this is how Mr. Hamzat wishes to anchor his own political doctrine on lies and name dropping, he should be reminded that those who follow this route do not go far either in politics or personal growth. This definitely should not be  the character and colour of a person who wants to become a governor or deputy governor of a state,  lest we lose all hope in the expectation that we have all it takes to rescue our country from the bleak future that stares it in the face.” “What we know about liars is that they always leave a loose end which readily exposes them for who they are.  Otherwise, Mr. Hamzat should have been bold enough to tell Nigerians where the money was presented to him and in whose presence the offer was made. We have always made the point that there should be a limit to these lies,  if we must make progress as a democratic nation. Nigerians are not fools. It is high time those in positions of responsibility stopped running this country on lies.”