Benin – The Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, on Monday boosted the security apparatus of the state as he donated 50 patrol vehicles, 30 hilux and two Armored Personnel Carriers to the Police Command in the state. The governor, who made the donation at the official launch of the new security outfit code-named: “Operation Wabanizigan” in Benin City, the state capital, said the equipment would enable the police combat crimes and criminalities in Edo. Obaseki said the new architecture would address the long-overdue security challenges in the state, adding that it was in fulfillment of his campaign promises. The governor said Edo over the years, had been one of the most peaceful states in the Niger Delta region and that it was his desire that it remained peaceful for businesses to thrive. He said the sum of N2 billion had been earmarked for the security outfit in the 2019 budget and hoped that it would be increased to N10b in order to support the security trust fund. He, however, called on well-meaning Nigerians to contribute their quota towards the sustenance of the outfit in the state. On his part, Chairman, Edo State Security Trust Fund, Iyke Imokhuede, thanked the governor for giving him the opportunity to contribute his part towards the safety of lives and property of the people. Imokhuede further said the state government could not bear the burden of providing security for the people alone, but rather, it should be the collective efforts of all to contribute financially to sustain the governor’s laudable project. Also speaking, the Edo State Commissioner of Police, CP Kokumo Johnson, said the strategic location of the state has made it necessary for such formidable security architecture. Kokumo said at the assumption of office, he was confronted with daunting security challenges such as kidnapping, armed robbery and other vices, pointing that the hoodlums took advantages of the vast forest and the porous waterways to perpetrate their nefarious acts in the state. He said his presence in the state had led to the formation of the Marine Police to man the waterways while the airways and lands have also been properly taken care of. He said the Command was working with other sisters-agencies to tackle crimes and criminality in the state, just as he promised to make judicious use of the logistics provided by the governor for the overall well-being of the people.