The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has mopped up sub-standard lubricants in different parts of the country. Indeed, the standards body stated that the action became necessary after it discovered through its surveillance activities and extensive survey of the market that most lubricants in the market failed to meet quality parameters of the Nigerian Industrial Standard (NIS). Osita Aboloma, the Director-General, SON, stated this over the weekend at an enforcement exercise to Swiss Park, a haven known for dealing in substandard lubricants in ASPAMDA market. He disclosed that over five containers had been seized in order not to allow the goods find their way into the hands of the unsuspecting consumers. The Director-General represented by Isa Suleiman, Coordinator, Surveillance, Intelligence and Monitoring (SIM) Unit, SON, said the products lacked the chemical compositions of the oil, which reduce wear and friction even in extreme conditions. He said: “Before now, we did a lot of surveillance activities where most of the brands of this engine oils and lubricants were sampled and tested and quite a number of them failed including this particular brand we have intercepted.” He said the enforcement was also to safeguard many Nigerians that would be travelling this yuletide season by way of ensuring that only lubricants that met the minimum requirement of the standards are sold in the market. He advised buyers to always insist on purchasing goods from genuine dealers, while also looking out for certain marks of quality. He stated that the exercise being carried out simultaneously in most of the states nationwide was being monitored by the Director-General and serves as a warning to all sellers and distributors of lubricants and other auto parts to desist from the illicit trade. “This activity is just the beginning; we are going to follow up while also talking to the market leaders for self-regulation. They have all seen the need to cooperate with SON and other government regulatory agencies to ensure that products meet the required standards,” he added. According to Isa, the exercise was sequel to the surveillance it carried out following tip-offs on the influx of substandard lubricants in circulation, saying that SON swung into action in order to salvage the situation. He therefore warned erring marketers that the organisation would not relent in its effort to ensure that sub-standard products were removed out of market and urged the public to always look out for the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP) number and logo to ensure that they purchase standard and certified products. Meanwhile, in Kano and Jigawa states, some affected businesses were SACLUX Industries Ltd at Sabon Gari market and EXIM IMPEX warehouse along Maganda Road in Kano city, where such unregistered products were found. The exercise, which also took part in Rivers and Bayelsa also witnessed SON officials swoop on Becmac Limited Lubricant Marketers in Port Harcourt, where drums of branded and unbranded lubricants were discovered. The exercise led to the closure of 10 warehouses and shops within the FCT. The major distributor has nine of the 10 sealed warehouses and substandard Mobil lubricant of about 700 cartons were put on hold. Other lubricants put on hold were Total lubricant suspected to be substandard, Forte oil, Ammasco, Castel oil, a foreign brand.