Lagos – A group of human rights activists has called on the Federal Government to put an end to the incessant killing of unarmed citizens, abduction and rape of women by armed bandits that have been terrorising the law-abiding people of Zamfara State for quite some time. The group expressed sadness that despite the assurance by the Federal Government to protect the lives and property of every Nigerian citizen, the armed bandits have continued to unleash mayhem on the people of state unabated. In a letter signed by 13 different human right groups, they urged the government to Immediately end the involvement of the Army in the maintenance of internal security in the country, saying such intervention usually lead to wanton killing of innocent people. The statement read in part: “After Governor Abdulaziz Yari announced that he was quitting as the Chief Security Officer of the State and urged Allah to take control of the security situation.  Since then, the intensity of the reckless attacks by the armed bandits has continued unabated. Having been left completely at the mercy of the criminal gangs the people have decided to draw public attention to their plight by embarking on peaceful rallies. “The fundamental rights of the Nigerian people to assemble peacefully and express themselves freely is guaranteed by the Constitution of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) we support the rallies convened by the people of Zamfara State to protest the state of anarchy and chaos in the State. “However, instead of adopting adequate measures to restore law and order in the State, the Nigerian Army as been dispatched by the federal government to stop the protests. As usual, armed troops have killed a number of the people for staging protests against the armed bandits.” In addition, the activists are also seeking the “Immediately end to harassment and intimidation of the people of Zamfara State by the Nigerian Army; urgent recruit and train an adequate number of police personnel to secure the country; pay adequate compensation to the families of the people who have been killed by the armed bandits and Nigerian Army in Zamfara State; and  ensure prosecution of the armed bandits arrested by security forces for committing the offences of rape, armed robbery, abduction, culpable homicide and other human rights abuses and crimes under international law. Signitaries to the document include Bamisope Adeyanju (SERAP Senior Legal Adviser); Femi Falana (SAN); Dr Kolawole Olaniyan; Dr Chidi Odinkalu, Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi, Adetokunbo Mumuni, Lanre Suraj Malachi Ugwummadu, and the Amnesty International, Nigeria. Others are Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA), Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC), Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, (CDHR), Transition Monitoring Group (TMG).