After failing to secure assurances from the US Department of Justice that he will not be arrested in the United States, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has reportedly shunned visiting the U.S. It was gathered that Atiku was supposed to go to the U.S. after his visitation to the United Kingdom but his  return to Abuja has been announced. It was earlier reported that Atiku has been given the U.S. visa after 13 years ban over his case of money laundering allegation involving him and a US congressman, Williams Jefferson came to limelight. His counterpart in the United States, Williams Jefferson, has already served jail term and made to refund part of the money traced to him for money laundering. Announcing his return to Abuja, one of Atiku’s media aides, Paul Ibe, tweeted that “HE@atiku embarked on a private visit to the United Kingdom on Thursday shortly after the inauguration of his Presidential Campaign Council. He has since returned back to Abuja. #LetsGetNigeriaWorkingAgain” HE @atiku embarked on a private visit to the United Kingdom on Thursday shortly after the inauguration of his Presidential Campaign Council. He has  since returned back to Abuja. #LetsGetNigeriaWorkingAgain — Paul Ibe (@omonlakiki) December 1, 2018  Reacting, a group, Initiative To Save Democracy, in a statement signed by its president, Akinloye James, said Atiku had on Thursday travelled to the United Kingdom after securing a United States Visa from where he hopes to travel to the United States. “His mission in the United Kingdom is to get the British Government to help him secure the assurances of the United States Department of Justice that he will not be arrested upon setting foot in US soil. But the British government is reported to have informed Abubakar that the US Department of Justice has made it clear that it cannot guarantee he will not be arrested,” the group alleged. “Report that Atiku obtained US Visa and travelled to the UK may be true, but the part that he would be traveling to the US is completely false,” James added.