Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, former Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives and Imo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governorship flag bearer, has reiterated his readiness to run an open and participatory government when he assumes office in 2019. Ihedioha made the remarks while addressing some Imo indigenes living in the USA under the umbrella of Imo Community (USA) in Garland, Texas USA. This is just as Professor Eddie Oparaoji, Chairman, Imo Global Alliance for Good Governance (IGAGG), said that the reception former Deputy Speaker got from both local and international interest groups during his seven-day official visit to the United States of America (USA) has invigorated his economic vision for Imo State. Ihedioha said, “I want to reiterate my promise that when by the grace of God, I am elected the governor of our state, I will run an open and participatory government. My administration will broaden the base of government to give all the marginalised and deprived sections of our state, a true sense of belonging.” The governorship hopeful who decried the level of decay in Imo State, said everybody, including those in Diaspora were affected. “Whether you like the present state governor, Rochas Okorocha, or not, Imo is our state, and he is our governor. So his actions have impact on all of us. The money he squandered is a loss to all of us. It has deprived us of development; and our children, a bright and promising future,” he said. He charged all Imo indigenes to seriously get involved in determining who rules them. “Our future and that of our children depend on it. Governance is a serious business, I urge you not to be a bystander. Please get involved,” he said. Ihedioha who said he believed he won the 2015 governorship election but was not declared the winner said, “I am wiser and more prepared now. What happened then cannot happen now.” He therefore urged the people to ask the hard questions and take the right decisions no matter how difficult. Meanwhile, Professor Oparaoji, the Chairman of the Imo Global Alliance for Good Governance (IGAGG), has said that Ihedioha’s visit to the U.S. has broadened his economic vision for the state. He said,  “Hon. Ihedioha during this visit, in his ‘Rebuild and Reposition Imo State’ vision, has embraced a global vision, that in this new age, that the destiny and prosperity of Imo State will not be defined by geographical lines and confines, but by the character, resourcefulness, and location of her citizens across the world.” The Imo State Community in the USA in partnership with other high profile international organisations, following their endorsement of Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, as the best candidate to govern Imo State, come 2019 had invited him to speak at the biggest policy stage in the world – The National Press Club, in Washington DC, on December 6, 2018. He would also use the occasion of his visit to be the special Guest of Honour at various interactive sessions on the theme, “Rebuilding and Repositioning Imo State, in Bowie Maryland; Dallas, Texas; Raleigh, North Carolina; New Jersey and in New York. These events have to a great extent offered the former Deputy Speaker an opportunity to share his vision and policies with Imo indigenes, stakeholders, interest groups as well as investors towards achieving much desired Rebuild Imo Agenda. On the efficacy of the U.S. visit, Professor Eddie Oparaoji, Chairman and Moderator of the colloquium sponsor, the Imo Global Alliance for Good Governance (IGAGG) said, “There is a huge disruption today on how we perceive global economic dynamics. The most powerful drivers of advancement and prosperity do not obey the laws of geography, namely ideas, innovation and technology. It is therefore a no-brainer that a winning strategy, is to lay the enabling conduit from high areas of economic and innovative opportunities like the U.S. in order to funnel, drive and stimulate growth in depressed economic communities such as Imo State.” On the delegation with Hon. Ihedioha to the USA include Anselm Okorie Esq, an expert in Development Goals and multilateral business relations from Mbaitoli LGA., Chinedu Chukwuonye, a construction giant and entrepreneur from Isiala Mbano LGA; Chief PGU Madu, an industrialist and international business development consultant from Ahiazu Mbaise LGA and Architect Chidi Okolie a building expert and investment broker from Ideato North.