LAGOS – Last Saturday, November 24 witnessed the fourth album launch of Dr. Evang. Prince Emmanuel Benson aka MOG (Man of God). Though Dr. Evang. Prince Emmanuel Benson is physically challenged, he is a talented gospel artist. People look at disabilities and use them as an excuse but that is not the case with him as he took his disability to another level of grace. Though he may not be able to do things that normal people do but he is able to conquer all his fears and challenges with his in born talents. Emmanuel was able to write a book titled, You Are Born To Be Great In Life. The book, which talks about the greatest mistakes people make that cannot be corrected is based loosely on the loss of virginity. In his music career, Emmanuel spoke about his inspiration, how God spoke to him and how he started singing. “When God was ministering to me he told me that he wants me to go into his ministry. I struggled a little bit with God because I was discouraged. I asked God how did he wanted me to sing when I didn’t have the voice, I even compared myself to those who had the voice and weren’t successful in the business. I also asked God ‘who is going to buy my music?’ But one morning, God replied me, he said ‘son I am going to surprise you in a way that you won’t believe. Just listen to me and you don’t have to beg to eat in life.’ That was how I got inspired to go into music; if not I won’t even venture into it at all.” He also talked about the challenges he faced before he was able to produce his first album. According to him, people rejected him but God made a way for him. “I started my career music in the year 1999, but my first album came out in 2001. In the past, people didn’t accept me, they thought I couldn’t make it because of my condition. Before I released my first album I went to visit different studios to record my album but they chased me away. They told me that I was wasting my time, until when one woman, Evangelist Elizama encouraged me and during her program she invited me to sing for them. Behold I didn’t know there was a producer in the congregation. He listened to me and walked up to me. He asked me ‘that song you sang, can I have the album.’ I told him I was looking for someone to help me produce my album but no one wants to help me. He gave me his card and told me to call him on a Monday morning. That was how my first album was born. This was in 2001.” At the moment, Evangelist Emmanuel has his own studio and he has composed a total of 150 songs. His first album was well received and sold up to 10,000 copies nationwide. Emmanuel however needs assistance to raise funds for his monthly program he tagged ‘Altar of Worship. The program has to do with reaching out to people in praise and worship and encouraging others like him. Currently he organises it in various churches but doesn’t want to do that anymore as he wants to venture into the streets to reach out to more people like him but he is challenged as he needs to acquire modern musical instruments and a bus to run his monthly musical concert outreach.