Oyo State Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, has expressed gratitude to the people of the state for standing by his administration during the low and high time of his historical two-term tenure which ends on May 28, 2019. In his address at this year’s Christmas Carol and the thanksgiving service to mark his 69th birthday, held simultaneously at the Agodi Gardens, Ibadan, on Sunday, the governor also acknowledge the grace and mercy of God while his tenure lasted. Emphasising the need for citizens to love and sacrifice for one another beyond the festive season, the governor said these were the virtues that the life and times of the symbol of the season, Jesus Christ, epitomized. The governor urged citizens to always be thankful to God for counting them worthy to witness this year’s festive season, irrespective of their economic or social status. He thanked his wife for being very supportive, especially for showing kindness and care for the orphans, widows, less-privileged and other vulnerable citizens of the state through several social safety nets. Ajimobi said, “My message this year is just gratitude, gratitude and gratitude. First, let me thank God for the opportunity given me to govern this state for an unprecedented two consecutive terms. Secondly, I thank the people of Oyo State for their support. “I must thank God for His kindness and mercy, which made it possible for us to achieve all we were able to achieve. In governance key performance index, we have performed excellently. In education, health, agric, social infrastructure and others we have done well. “But, I must especially thank my wife publicly for her support. She has taught me more about kindness and Godliness. My wife is a devout Christian who derives pleasure in putting smiles on the faces of the downtrodden. “She took many children, especially orphans, off the streets and she is nurturing them the same way she nurtures our children. “I thank the Muslim and Christian religious bodies for their prayers and support for my administration. I make bold to say that no governor in the history of this state had promoted and celebrated both faiths as we did since the inception of my administration.”