AFIS KASUMU LAGOS – Chief Sunny Onuesoke, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain has commended Delta State Governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa for approving the completion of the dualisation of (Section C2) of Ughelli/Asaba Road. Onuesoke, a former governorship aspirant of the party equally expressed appreciation over the Governor’s approval of the construction of Kwale-Beneku Bridge and approach roads in Ndokwa West and Ndokwa East Local Government Areas and the construction of Olomoro internal roads in Isoko South. He thanked Okowa for his kind benevolence and hailed him for his love and magnanimity for the people, saying the title ‘Road Master ‘ fits no other one but him. Speaking to newsmen while on inspection tour of Ughelli/ Asaba dualisation project , Onuesoke who expressed satisfaction at the fast rate at which work is going on said the completion of the project will improve the socio-economic life style those residing in that axis. “The construction of the roads will open the hinterland to the city. The indigenous farmers will be able to transport their farm products to the city without any difficultly. This will lead to surplus food supply with lesser price,” he stated. He said Okowa has indeed shown his love for the people of Delta state, following his passion and commitment for social infrastructures and linking of communities in the State with roads and bridges. He further pointed out that one of the high points of Okowa’s administration is his manifest quest to address nagging developments, adding that his action is noticeable in the infrastructural renewal agenda of his administration. “ In the past two-and-a-half years, hundreds of kilometres of roads have either been built to open up hither to inaccessible areas or upgraded to remedy the attendant dilapidation of yesteryears. “A case in point is the Cable Point Road in Asaba that Governor Okowa transformed from its previous single lane, littered with craters to a smooth dual carriage way, with solar powered street lights boosting its scenic beauty at night,” he stated. Onuesoke appealed to people of Delta State to re-elect Okowa in 2019 assuring them that more should be expected from the SMART Governor, who is making tremendous sacrifices for the development of the state. He disclosed that the leadership and members of the PDP in Delta State are very united, focused and strongly supporting the re-election of Governor Okowa, who has the people and constitutional mandate to serve two terms.