Abuja – The All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus in the House of Representatives on Wednesday blamed flaws identified by President Muhammadu Buhari in the Electoral Amendment Bill on the Legal Department of the National Assembly. Recall that the president last week wrote the legislature to decline assent due to the nearness of the amendment to the general election. The president, in his letter, also noted the existence of errors in the Bill. Briefing newsmen after a caucus meeting ahead of plenary session on Wednesday, the Leader of the Caucus, who is also the House Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila, exonerated members of the two chambers of the National Assembly from the flaws. He said the Legal Department, which was in charge of drafting the bill for the lawmakers, ought to have identified and made necessary adjustments before passing it to both chambers for further legislative action. He, however, declared the support of the caucus for President Buhari’s action, and pointed out that the Amendment Bill, as it was, could have led to total chaos and the disenfranchisement of millions of voters during next year’s polls. Gbajabiamila also argued that the appropriate thing would be for both chambers to make necessary amendments to the Bill as pointed out by President Buhari and return it to him for assent. While insisting that the National Assembly could not veto the president’s action, Gbajabiamila declared that the caucus had more than enough members to stop the veto as was being touted in some quarters. “When a document is imperfect and you can read it or interpret it anyhow, or if count was removed when it should have been there, then you can’t override such an imperfect document unless first, you amend the document.” “You have to start the process all over again and then send it back to Mr. President,” the caucus leader said. He explained further that constitutionally, the president was not obliged to give reasons for declining assent to any legislation. “On this particular one, the thrust and spirit why the president has refused to sign which, we identify with, is that every vote must count in Nigeria. “This Bill that was sent to the president says that you can only accredit voters through electronic system; it forecloses manual accreditation. “We’re all witnesses to what happened in the last election where even the sitting president couldn’t be accredited. “What Buhari has done is to protect everybody in Nigeria. Yes, do your electronic accreditation but make room for the possibility for manual accreditation in the event the electronic system fails,” Gbajabiamila stated. Gbajabiamila, therefore, challenged the National Assembly to remove all the imperfections in the Amendment Bill and resend it to the president for assent. “So, that’s our position. A punctuation mark, a dot, and a line can change the meaning of a provision in the law,” he said. He, however, expressed confidence that the opposition would not be able to muster the numbers required to override the president’s veto, remarking that “lawmaking is about numbers and we have more than the numbers”. He added: “If they (opposition) are able to muster the required two-third and they can push it, there is nothing we can do, but as a party, we’re not going to be part of the two-third.”