Lagos – Later today, the Super Falcons will be gunning to win the Women Africa Cup of Nations a record nine times. But they will have to contend with perennial rivals, the Bayana Bayana of South Africa, who earlier in the tournament, defeated them 1-0. South Africa will also be aiming to join Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea as winners of the competition and they have proven to be reliable in the ongoing event having remained the only country yet to taste a defeat. There is no gainsaying the fact that Nigeria qualified for the final with unconvincing performances, leading to some analysts doubting the country’s stand on women football. For example, the opening day 0-1 loss to South Africa did not come without a very poor display from the team. In the loss to South Africa, who will later today stand between them and a ninth shot at the title, there was no desire, determination or intent from the Super Falcons. There was also no urgency to respond to South Africa’s threat in the second half even after they had scored. It was as though they were just there for the fun of it and the result of it was that they duly got what they deserved. It was very disappointing and a huge setback to see a side that had some of women’s biggest names in Africa in the likes of Asisat Oshoala, Rasheedat Ajibade, Francisca Ordega, Desire Oparanozie and Captain Onome Ebi could not change the game’s tide even when a lot was expected of them. In the second match against debutants, Zambia, the team won well but were unconvincing in their performance. This led to speculations in some quarters that most of the players have past their primes while the team need urgent overhaul. On the other hand, South Africa have shown purpose and grit in the matches they have played leading to the final. The Bayana Bayana, as earlier posited, are yet to lose or even draw a match – a record only Nigeria was known for in the past. This flawless play has given Coach Desiree Ellis a realistic confidence of thumping Nigeria the second time today and make history with her ladies. “Now is the time to focus on the task at hand which is to engage Nigeria and possibly beat them to the cup because it is time to end their dominance. We have the capacity to wrestle the cup from them, so I want my players to show mental character and we call for prayers from our supporters back home,” Ellis said moments after defeating Mali 2-0 in the semifinal. But Coach Thomas Dennerby of the Super Falcons is brimming with confidence ahead of the match, saying that the players are targeting to retain their crown. “The next target is retaining the trophy. The players are also itching to retain the trophy and they know that it is not going to be easy, especially since we will be playing the Banyana Banyana of South Africa again. “We will correct all the loopholes noticed in our first match with them when we played at the group stage.  The final is going to be different game entirely but we hope to win,” he said. Talk, they say, is cheap and Coach Dennerby must holistically look at the team that has qualified for the final with emphasis on the games they played before getting to this stage. This is to effect necessary corrections because South Africans will obviously be more difficult than expected having gotten this far. In the first match, Nigeria could not force a single save from the South Africa goalkeeper all through the match. Also, only one decent attempt, through Desire Oparanozie, was made in that match, as South Africa, particularly in the second half, dictated the pace of the game. Today, Dennerby must make sure that the ladies take the game to their opponent and deny them the ball as much as possible. The girls should play a more tactical game and play like champions if they want to retain the title for the ninth time asking. Secondly, given that this is the final match where no mistake is entertained, they must make all their chances count. Looking at the semifinal match against Cameroon, the Indomitable Lionesses dominated possession but the match could not have ended with a penalty shootout if the Nigerian ladies converted some glaring chances that came their way. Francesca Ordega, Asisat Oshoala and Desire Oparanozie are foreign base professionals with top level experiences, which they should deploy at this time to get the job done against a very resilient and hungrier South Africans. Also, the coach should deploy his wealth of experience to ensure South African danger woman, Thembi Kgatlana, is put under check, She, it was, who scored the decisive goal against Nigeria. She has gone ahead to be among the top scorers, having also scored in every match en route their final against Nigeria today. Kgatlana is the revelation of the tournament and a strong contender for Africa Women’s Player of the Year. Nigerian defenders must be cautious of her pace and slippery disposition when on the ball, with the goal against them being a reminiscent. Most importantly, Nigerian ladies must avoid being over confident entering into today’s match. Since qualifying for the final, the local media has been awash with stories of Super Falcons players believing that the match was already won even before kickoff. For instance, goalkeeper, Tochukwu Oluehi, was quoted as boasting that, “Meeting South Africa in the final is what we have been praying for because we want to play them again. We want to tell them that beating us in the group stage was a mistake and it’s not going to happen again. I’m confident we will beat them in the final.” They should thread with caution. Dennebery should warn his ladies to avoid being too sure they are going to win the match without threading with caution. South Africa can be deadly on the counter attack and their pace has kept all opponents on their toes in the competition. Nigeria can win the match if they show character because of experience and their long dominance in women football in Africa. There is no way the spectators will be on the side of Nigeria. This is according to a Nigerian journalist covering the event, who said that a vox pop she carried out in Accra revealed that majority of local fans in Ghana and even visiting ones from other countries are supporting any country to defeat Nigeria in order to end the seeming dominance. This is understandable but the respondents will not enter the field to play the matches, but the players must understand that other countries are fast catching up on them. According to Ann Chiejine, the former Super Falcons goalkeeper and coach, the poor start of the team in the 2018 Cup of Nations is attributable to two situations. Chiejine, who was quoted as reacting to the team’s loss to South Africa at the group stage, said that it was either that the team was not prepared well by the coach due to logistical issues or the rest of the continent is catching up on Nigeria. Speaking further, the former goalie said that the loss and the overall performance of the team recently has placed a huge burden on the organisers of women football league in Nigeria to come up with strategies to improve the league and make it more competitive, saying that the country couldn’t always depend on the foreign base players, who may not even form the majority of the team. On her own, Kikelomo Ajayi, the team’s former goalkeeper, who currently plays for Dínamo Guadalajara in the Spanish Second Division, while wishing the team well, said as long as they would not underrate South Africa, their experiences would count in their favour. “I wish them well and I hope that they will not underrate their opponent because if they don’t, I assure you that they will win because we have players with a lot of experience in the team,” she was quoted as saying.