Tony Ezimakor and Samuel Ogidan Abuja – Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former vice president, has advised President Muhammadu Buhari not to blame the Nigerian system for his failure. Atiku said President Buhari was the problem and that his economic policy was a failure. Buhari had on Christmas day blamed his inability to fight corruption on the Nigerian system, adding that his administration was slow in fighting corruption because the system was slow. Atiku stated this in a statement on Thursday in which he also conceded that the nation’s system had challenges but argued that where there was political will, the system could make progress. He said, “My immediate response to this is to commend President Buhari for admitting that he has failed in fighting corruption. The president has just corroborated Transparency International, whose latest Corruption Perception Index shows that Nigeria is more corrupt today than it was under the previous administration, having moved 12 places backwards in the CPI, from 136 in 2014 to 148 this year. “But my point of departure from the president is in blaming his failure on the system. I disagree. The system has challenges, yes, but where there is political will, the system can make progress. “I was vice president of Nigeria from 1999 to 2007 and we used that same system to speedily convict no less a personality than an Inspector General of Police and several others, including cabinet ministers and other high officials. “Mr. President, the problem with your anti-corruption war is not the system. You are the problem! “The system allows you to arrest, try, and convict your former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, who was fingered in a major corruption case, but you chose to let him go scot free and you demonstrated your tolerance for his corruption by giving him a prominent role in your re-election campaign and recently welcoming him to the Presidential Villa with open arms. “The system allowed you to arrest, try, and convict Abdulrasheed Maina, the biggest ever alleged thief in our civil service history, who is suspected of looting the pensions of millions of aged Nigerians. Yet you chose not to go that route, preferring instead to recall him, reinstate and double promote him while giving him armed guards to move about. “The system allows you to probe the $25 billion NNPC contracts awarded without due process, but you chose to bury the matter under the carpet, hoping the Nigerian people will forget about that grand scale alleged looting exposed by a leaked memo from a member of your cabinet. “Finally, nothing in the system stops you from telling Nigerians who owns the billions found in an Ikoyi apartment.” The former vice president added that he would not allow President Buhari to make Nigeria the scapegoat of his failure. Enumerating areas in which the president had failed to address corruption in his government, Atiku said, “I will not allow you to make Nigeria the scapegoat for your failure. Your failure is personal, and not national. “If you could go abroad to insult Nigerian youths as lazy, why did you go to Paris to praise a governor who was caught red-handed receiving bribes on camera? “The system did not stop the EFCC from charging the opposition governor of Akwa-Ibom, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, as a co-accused in the case involving the NBA Chairman, Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN). Contrast this with the treatment meted out to Governor Umar Ganduje of the ruling All Progressives Congress. “Besides, your excuse is deceptive, because you have staunchly resisted restructuring. If you really believed that the system was the problem, you would have embraced restructuring. “Unfortunate as your admitted failure in the war on corruption is, it is your economic policy that is the greater failure. Your lack of ideas and your politicisation of the corruption war has made your administration fight legitimate businesses and the opposition. “I might add that it is actions such as this that have led to an unprecedented capital flight which has caused joblessness and made Nigeria the world headquarters for extreme poverty under your watch,” Atiku added. We Won’t Be Distracted By Atiku, PDP’s Blackmail— APC Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has vowed not to yield to “PDP’s shenanigans and alleged blackmail by its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar”. The party was responding to a recent statement credited to Atiku Abubakar on the 2019 budget proposal wherein the main opposition presidential candidate carpeted the presentation as untenable and deceptive. Atiku had also claimed that the assumptions the budget was based on were unrealistic. But APC said the PDP flag bearer was “exhibiting early signs of depression, resulting from obvious frustration”, and not concentrating on his campaign. Lanre Issa-Onilu, National Publicity Secretary of the ruling party, in a statement on Wednesday said the strategy of the opposition was to truncate the march of the country towards economic buoyancy and social stability, stressing that APC would run on its achievement in the last three and half years. Issa-Onilu claimed that the PDP was drawing an anti-people script geared towards grabbing power and continuing its 16 years of avarice. He maintained that APC was not deterred in its trajectory, vowing that all those that looted the treasury would be made to face the law. He said: “The PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, is exhibiting early signs of depression, resulting from obvious frustration. “Consequently, he is unable to focus on his campaign. Otherwise, he should tell Nigerians why a discredited person like him should be elected as president instead of raising puerile allegations on a daily basis. “President Buhari and APC, not his programmes for the country, appear to be his main campaign issues. Nigerians are desirous of campaign that focuses on issues that matter to them. “For Atiku and his PDP co-travellers, the only interest is to grab power and continue where they stopped in their avarice. “The APC administration is eager to showcase the impressive achievements we have recorded in the last three and half years. This is the campaign that matters to us and this is what Nigerians are interested in. “The trajectory is exciting as we see a brighter future shaping up. We won’t yield to the PDP’s shenanigans. The obvious strategy of the PDP is to truncate the country’s journey towards economic buoyancy and social stability. “We will not play the PDP’s game. PDP is acting an anti-people’s script. President Buhari remains unshaken by the desperate efforts being made by Atiku and the PDP to blackmail the APC government. Everyone who was involved in corrupt practices would be brought to justice. “PDP is not offering any alternative to the progressive course this government is pursuing. It is actually apparent that the party is not contesting the 2019 elections to redeem itself, least of doing any good for the country, but simply to seize power to escape justice for the grievous crimes committed against the people of this country. “Nigerians won’t be fooled by the rapacious PDP gang. Never.”