Chief Maxi Okwu, a seasoned politician and lawyer, is a former factional National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Chief Okwu, the Convener of Otu Nkwado Atiku Na Obi, a platform mobilising support for the Atiku/Obi presidential ticket, spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU For almost two years, you have been silent until recently. Why the silence and what have you been doing within these two years? After our All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) saga that terminated at the Supreme Court on January 16, 2016, one needed to step back, reflect and chart a way forward. An olive branch was held out by the party’s National Leader, Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State. The decision on whether to go for it or not split our ranks. I personally weighed in on the side of those who opined that we should go for it out of consideration for our Anambra State supporters and my being optimistic in all political engagements. I eschew do-or-die politics since it is a vocation, not a profession for people like me. The rapprochement eventually proved a barren and worthless exercise. So, rather than continue to saber rattle or wail, I chose to take a break and went on a self imposed political sabbatical. Having shown off all partisanship, it enabled me to take a sober and deep reflection on the politics we play. I had gone through the entire gamut of opposition politics from AD to APGA, CNPP, CPP and finally back to APGA.  I am out again, refreshed, re-charged and ready to go, but with a new orientation. We learnt that you have come up with a platform to mobilise support for the Atiku/Obi ticket in the 2019 presidential election. How true is this and what is the objective of the group? Yes. A year into the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, I made my call on my Facebook timeline that it would be a one term administration. Some of my friends took great exception and challenged me on my proposition. I was not fazed since I am used to such controversy. I recall the furor I generated when on the morning March 31, 2015, I posted that then President Goodluck Jonathan should place a call to Buhari and concede defeat. I advised further that he should not make the Tofa’s mistake of 1993. All hell broke loose on my timeline, both from friends and antagonists. However, I was pleasantly surprised that evening as I arrived my stop over at Anyingba, Kogi State, on my way to Enugu. Jonathan had made the call. The rest is now history. Now for the records, my post was not borne out of any endorsement of Buhari since I did not vote for him. It was a mere patriotic call to improve the level of our democratic engagement. A lot of hope was raised by the election of Buhari and the defeat of the PDP by the nascent APC. I am sorry to say that President Buhari and the APC have dashed all that hope. It became clear within 100 days of his infant administration that he was not prepared for governance. The jury is in and a vast majority of Nigerian are sick and tired of such a divisive, clannish and/or nepotic administration that has totally messed up our country. The choice was between sitting at home and sulking, or hitting the road to do something; argonise or organise. I chose the latter. We formed Otu Nkwado Atiku na Obi to drum up solid and unflinching support for the Presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) come February 16, 2019. By your action, would you confirm if you have finally broken away from the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and embraced the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) under which platform former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and former Governor Peter Obi are contesting for the Presidency? Technically, the Supreme Court judgment said we were not APGA members. Our effort to return was an abortion. So, there was no breaking away. At the moment, I do not carry the card of any political party. This is without prejudice to my right to review, revise or even change my mind in future. That I am supporting Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi does not in any way mean that I am a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). As a matter of fact, I do not see the need of tying myself to any party since I am not contesting any election. With the level of political nomadism, which is called carpet crossing by politicians, party lines have become blurred or erased. For now, I am not thinking of voting beyond the presidential level, unless any candidate comes to me and gives me reason to vote for him or her. I can tell you that my decision will not be based on party, but on issues and that candidate’s credentials. Why are you supporting the Atiku/Obi ticket as against Buhari/Osinbajo alternative of the APC? Atiku Abubakar has made public commitment on Restructuring. There is no such commitment from President Muhammadu Buhari, who has publicly made jest of the idea whose time has come. Secondly, the pair of Atiku/Obi is what Nigeria needs at this point in time. Successful managers of men and materials are needed to lift us as it were from the economic doldrums Buhari/Osibanjo has sunk this country. Secondly, Buhari’s clannish and rural world view is tearing at the seams of the national fabric. Never have we been so divided. On the other hand, Atiku has a world view, an urbane personality. He has on a personal level and in his business shown capacity to have a cosmopolitan approach to issues. Would you say that Atiku Abubakar has the political will to implement the restructuring of the country as he has promised? I believe so. What is left is to hack out a viable commitment not to renege on that promise when elected. Some of us think he should depose so in an affidavit. Preside Muhammadu Buhari returned the Electoral Act Amendment Bill to the National Assembly for the fourth time. Why do you think the President does not want to sign the bill? He knows that if its innovative features, if religiously followed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), means there will be no more Kano magic and he is as good as back to Daura to tend to his 150 cows. It would be recalled that the Supreme Court declared use of smart cards as contrary to the Electoral Act 2010. So, the 2018 amendment is intended to give INEC a legal basis to use smart cards and Electronic Technology. The major amendment to the 2018 Electoral Bill relates to electronic technology for the conduct of the 2019 elections. In order to remove constraints that will impact the credibility of future elections, such as 2019, the Electoral Act 2010, was amended by the 2018 Bill, to formalise the legal basis of the smart cards, which was already in use for elections by INEC. The 2018 Bill also introduced the extremely important procedure of transmitting results of votes from polling units by electronic means. Electronic transmission will eliminate the collation centre checkpoint where most elections are rigged. INEC says it is familiar with the amendments contained in the 2018 Electoral Bill. INEC has used smart cards at all elections from 2015. INEC has submitted an election budget which provides for smart cards and transmission equipment. Do you think the National Assembly, as presently constituted, can muster the two-thirds majority in both chambers needed to override a Presidential veto to pass the Electoral Act Amended Bill into law? It is mission impossible to garner two thirds majority in both Houses of the National Assembly (NASS) as we are already in a mode. Positions have hardened. It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle. See Section 58 Sub Section 5 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended). How do you and your organisation see the 2019 budget as recently presented to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari? Otu Nkwado Atiku na Obi, of which I am the Convener, sees the budget outing embarked by President Buhari as a confirmation of his failed leadership and calls on the president to begin to pack his personal loads preparatory to his eventual exit from Aso Rock. I see the budget as a proposed economic hostility against the good people of Nigeria since the total revenue stands at N6.345 trillion, with oil revenue at N3.73 trillion, which makes 59℅ of the total revenue. We are concerned over the budget forecast bearing the US continued push on her agenda of becoming a net exporter of oil. Nigeria under Buhari has demonstrated the inability to run an expansive economy with capacity to diversify the streams of income. Our movement aligns with the view expressed by a manufacturing management professional, Engr. Ben Ezeabia, who maintained that ‘Non-oil revenue is N2.62 trillion, while recurrent expenditure is N4.040 trillion. The non-oil revenue cannot even fund the recurrent expenditure.’ I also agree with him that ‘if you remove the oil revenue, there will not be any money to do developmental projects in the country.’ Such remains the country’ major problem. We frown at the terrible status of the proposed fiscal plan whose debt servicing profile takes N2.140 trillion in the total revenue of N6.345 trillion. Suffice it to say that the budget concedes 34% of its strength to debt servicing in an economy where the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS) just published the staggering unemployment rate that inter alia stands at 20.9 million. The simple fact here is that the country uses more money to service debt than capital project. This is the hostile disposition this administration has taken this polity into owing a non-existing economic team, which is the more reason we are pushing for Obi as the Vice President, which will open our economy for mastery coordination. Our movement wonders what else could mean clueless than the abuse of economic configuration, which births no hope, future and motivation to the state and citizens. How do you see the drama during the budget presentation when for the first time lawmakers were booing and jeering at the President? The drama that ensued during the budget presentation where majority of the National Assembly (NASS) members booed Buhari showed the general feelings in the streets of Nigeria. To us, the booing was a vote of no confidence and a foretaste for President Buhari on what Nigerians will do to him at the polls. As the leader of the movement, I call on the patriots to keep faith with Atiku/Obi project as such has no traces of mendacity, unlike APC and her retinue of lies and propaganda. Would you say that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as presently constituted can give the nation free, fair and credible elections in 2019? I do not have that confidence. I say so judging from the performance of that body in Ekiti and then Osun governorship elections. But, since this is a general election, the forces that rig elections may be too extended to pull it off nationwide. That is the slim hope. It is clear also to some of us that some of the handlers of the President would unleash the power of incumbency to overrule the people. Buhari would not like Jonathan roll over and accept defeat unless it is overwhelming. It is my hope that in the end, the will of the people will prevail. The angst in the land against this APC and Buhari  administration has reached tipping point. You can literally touch it. There has been a lot of drama within the major political in Imo State. How do you think the elections will go in that state? I also predicted on my Facebook wall at about the same time that APC would not return to Douglass House, the Imo State Government House. At the APC flag-off rally in Imo State, the national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, declared the APC government of Rochas Okorocha a total failure and a looter of bailout funds. The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) would have been the party to beat until it shot itself in the foot. I believe it is a straight fight between Okigwe and Owerri zones. Do you foresee a major shift in the South East, South West, South South and the Middle Belt during the coming elections? Those four zones have taken a common position through their ethno-cultural associations on the issues at the front burner of national discuss. As usual, South West would be evenly divided. The South East will return block votes for Atiku/Obi ticket. The Atiku/Obi ticket would get a majority of votes in the Middle Belt. As Nigerians are coming to the end of 2018 and are moving into the election year, what is your message to them this yuletide period? Well, on behalf of the Otu Nkwado Atiku na Obi (ONTO), an Igbo volunteer voters’ movement, I wish every citizen, lovers of democracy and a prosperous and progressive country, Nigeria, a very merry Christmas and a victorious election year 2019. However, ONTO finds it necessary to remind fellow citizens and voters of a newspaper report where President Buhari says his victory in the 2019 election is non-negotiable. As a group, we are worried about such an unjust statement coming from the highest level of our government. We are committed to very free and fair elections, making sure the best candidate or most favoured candidate by the electorates emerge victorious. We therefore reject any form of rigging or manipulation of votes in any form or fashion, which is what the unfortunate statement seems to suggest. In view of this reckless statement, we ask everyone to register and have his or her Permanent Voter Card (PVC) handy to vote in next year’s presidential and other elections. We enjoin us to make sure our votes count, by alerting the authorities, stakeholders, political party representatives, international election monitors and observers, etc, of any plan or action by the ruling failed APC government of President Muhammadu Buhari directly or through its proxies, agents or cohorts to rig, manipulate or influence the outcome of the elections. It is no more news that public polls so far sampled by most newspapers, independent organisations and groups indicate Waziri Adamawa Atiku Abubakar and Okwute Igbo Peter Obi of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as leading the other candidates, including the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari in their choice for president in 2019. The popular polls also show that if the presidential election is held today, Atiku and Obi of PDP will emerge victoriously. ONTO has been and is very much engaged in grassroots campaign for almost three months, going from house to house, town hall to town hall, market associations, community leaders, churches, mosques and other religious groups canvassing support for Atiku and Obi ticket. We are aware, and appreciate the reception and overwhelming support our candidates are getting from these groups and their resolve to vote for them in the upcoming elections against other candidates, including President Buhari. Therefore, we condemn the assertion by the Presidency that retaining power by this failed government of Buhari and APC in the 2019 election is non-negotiable. We may remind APC and Buhari that Nigerians are poised to negotiate them out as every public poll and feelers coming from people so indicate. As we prepare for the elections, we enjoin Nigerians to have a wonderful Christmas celebration and a victorious new year having faith that their liberation will come in February 16, 2019.