Osogbo – A Federal High Court sitting in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, on Monday sentenced Professor Richard Iyiola Akindele, formerly of the Department of Management Accounting, Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile Ife, to two years imprisonment for demanding sex for marks from one of his female students. Justice Maurine Onyetenu, the presiding judge, handed down the sentence in her ruling after Akindele changed his plea from not-guilty to guilty. The don had earlier pleaded not guilty to the charge of sexual harassment preferred against him by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC). He had been remanded in prison custody following objection to his bail application by the ICPC, the prosecution. But at the resumed hearing in the suit on Monday, Akindele opted to change his earlier plea and admitted guilty to the charge against him. Earlier, Akindele had been dismissed from the university after voice recording of him demanding for sex from one of his female students, Monica Osagie, had gone viral in the social media. The ICPC had dragged him before the court on November 19 on a four-count charge bordering on sexual harassment, among others. However, efforts by Francis Omotosho, his counsel, to have the court suspend sentencing and negotiate a plea deal failed. Justice Onyetenu, who frowned at the rampant incidence of sexual harassment of female students in university campuses in the country, could not be swayed. Onyetenu, who betrayed emotions during her ruling, said, “The plea bargain is not absolute. The court still has discretion. “This kind of issue is too rampant in our tertiary institutions. We send children to school; they come home telling us that lecturers want to sleep with them. “We cannot continue like this. Somebody has to be used as example. Even primary school pupils are complaining. “Telling me to suspend sentence does not arise. Plea bargain does not arise. Perhaps this problem has continued to occur and reoccur because someone has not been used as an example. “It is high time the court started upholding the right of children, especially female students. The case is endemic.” Counsel to the defendant pleaded that the defendant had lost his job and had learnt his lesson. He informed the court that the university has discovered the mistake in the marking of the exam script of the victim and has concluded plans to compensate her. Omotosho further told the court that plans are ongoing to make lecturers’ offices in the institution open, as their front sides are now being constructed with transparent glass wares. But the trial judge, who couldn’t be swayed by the prayers of the defence counsel, said, “Do you think they do it in the offices? They go to hotels.” Shogunle Adenekan, counsel to the prosecuting ICPC, urged the court to confiscate the mobile phone of the defendant and let him forfeit it to the Federal Government, saying that sensitive materials were discovered therein during their forensic investigation. He also urged the court to order the release of the victim, Monica’s phone. After considering the plea bargain entered and signed by the counsels, Justice Onyetenu ruled that there was the need to use the instant case to serve a note of deterrence to others. In her judgment, she sentenced the accused to 24 months on count one; 24 months on count two; one year on count three; and one year on count four. The jail terms are to run concurrently. She ordered that the convict serve his sentence in Ilesa prison due to the magnitude of his offence, “which is prevalent in the country”. She also ordered that the Samsung X4 belonging to the victim should be returned to her and the convict’s Samsung X8 should be forfeited to the Federal Government.