Senator Victor Ndoma Egba , the Chairman of the Board of NDDC, is an insider in the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led  government where he served as Secretary of the Convention Planning Committee of the APC. In this interview with journalists in Abuja, he bared his mind on the 2019 election, developments in APC and other issues. TONY EZIMAKOR brings the excerpts: The President was said to have returned the NDDC to the Ministry of Niger Delta Development from office of SOGF. How well so you receive this especially given associated bureaucratic bottleneck previously complained of by NDDC? I have heard the rumour. I call it rumour because we are yet to be officially notified of any changes in our reporting line. However, whether we are in the Ministry or the Presidency, each one has its advantage and disadvantages. Either way, we are comfortable, but it is up to the government to take a decision on the reporting line and ours is to comply. APC in Cross River has been in crisis and litigation is on over who is the APC governorship candidate in the state . Will this not affect fortunes of the party in next year’s general election? Yes, there are a number of suits, and we are aware of the recent judgment by the FCT High Court in Bwari. Even before the judgment, the suit had generated appeals because people had envisaged that the judgment will affect them one way or the other and applied to be joined. But the Judge, in his wisdom declined to join them and at the end of the day, he made orders that were binding on people who were not party to the suit. For example, he made an order that is binding on INEC and they were never party to the suit and you don’t bind an entity that is not a party to a suit. Secondly, prayers that were not asked for were granted by the court. The court is no Father Christmas, even though it is a Christmas season. The issue however is that there are Appeals, one on the substantive judgment and the refusal of the judge to join necessary parties to the suit. So, the status quo remains and that is the fact that it is Senator John Uwa-Enoh’s name that  remains with INEC as the governorship candidate for the race in Cross River state. So, until INEC substitute the name through the judgment of the court, he remains the candidate. Are you not concerned about internal crisis in the APC in the run to a big election; See what is happening in IMO, Ogun, Oyo, virtually all the states? I am concerned. As a party person, I believe that we should enter a major election as a united front. But the good news is that both persons claiming to be the candidates of the party will be campaigning for the APC. At the end of the day, whoever the court determine is the candidate that will be declared governor if we win the election. Let me also add that the party in the state has set in motion a reconciliation machinery. As we speak, the reconciliation committees are meeting and I am sure they will bring an end to this seeming dispute. The APC is yet to commence its campaign. What account for this? It is not the length of the campaign that matters, but the intensity. The opposition has been campaigning and we have seen the impact. We still have time for the campaign. Don’t forget that this is the party in government and it will rely largely on its records which are there to speak for us. The South South zone  is traditionally a PDP zone. What do you expect from this election year? Yes, it was a traditional PDP areas because at a time, we had our son who was contesting the Presidency. There was that underlining sentiment that our son was contesting. But today, we don’t have that situation and we don’t have anybody who is contesting from that zone. The two major candidates are from the same region and from the same religion. So, that sentiment will not be there. Take the example of Cross River state. In 2015,President Buhari got a paltry 28,000 votes and inspite of the low level of support, see what he has done for Cross River. Cross River remains the only state that he has visited twice. The state is well represented in government. We have the Chief Justice of Nigeria even though he is not a politician. You can’t run away from the fact that he became Chief Justice under President Buhari, but anything could have happened. The Head of Service of the Federation is from Cross River state, the Auditor General of the Federation is from that state, the Minister of the Niger Delta, the Chairman, NDDC, the Special Adviser on Prosecution are all from that state in addition to Chairmen of boards, all for a paltry 28,000. What was the record under PDP? The best we ever had as a state under the PDP was when we had Kanu Agabi as Minister and Senator Liyel Imoke as Special Adviser. These are arguments that will be taken to the field in Cross River. It will be the height of ingratitude for any Cross Riverian not to vote for President Buhari and it will be uncharitable ingratitude. Recently I had an interview with a radio station and I challenged the public. Any tarred road that was constructed in the last two years in Cross River, 90 percent of the chances is that it was tarred by the NDDC or the Ministry of the Niger Delta. Any renovation of any school in the last two years, the chances are that it was done by either the NDDC or the Ministry of the Niger Delta. So, we have benefited a lot from this government. We also have our argument. What was the experience under the PDP government. It was one loss or the other for us as a state. It was under the PDP that we lost Bakassi and also lost 76 oil wells. It was under the PDP that we lost the hosting right of the National Sport Festival. Cross River at a time was paradise game under Donald Duke when we had the Cattle Ranch and the Mountain Range. But it was still under the PDP that the paradise was lost. These and many more are the arguments that we are going to confront the people with. The sentiments that our son is contesting is no longer there. We are now dealing with verifiable records which we are going to be dealing with and the records favour the President unequivocally and the APC. The NDDC had always complained of poor releases to it by government. As chairman of the board, what is the situation now ? I have been Chairman for two years. But I would like to say that the release of funds to NDDC in the last two years has been the best experienced. In last year’s budget, the federal government contribution was increased and for the first time since the Commission was founded, the NLNG is now contributing to it. For a long time, there was this argument whether the commission was getting its rightful dues under the act establishing it. The Commission has always believed that it has been shortchanged. It is under this administration that a reconciliation exercise was established. So, as we speak, there is reconciliation going on between the Ministry of Finance, the office of the Accountant General of the Federation and the NDDC to establish the exact indebtedness of the federal government to NDDC. In terms of projects, we may have done more than what is on ground. We came with lot of projects with some of them completed and others ongoing. The Nembe/Ogbia road with about 57 bridges and culverts has been completed. We are just waiting for a date from the President for the commissioning. We have quite a number of projects like that. We are also partnering with state governments on major projects. We are partnering with the Ondo State government in the Ilaje/Ibeji Lekki road. We are doing the same with Edo and Delta state government. It is far better in the last two years than it has been in the past.