UYO – As part of efforts to tackle corruption in Akwa Ibom State, especially as it affects infrastructural projects, and to avoid project abandonment, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), Social Action Anti-Corruption Network has called for community participation. The NGO says it would be difficult for communities to allow any useful project that they were carried along from inception to be abandoned. Addressing a press conference organised to mark the 2018 Anti-Corruption Day in Uyo the Akwa Ibom State capital, the state Coordinator, Social Action Anti-Corruption Network, Mrs Ann Udonte said the awareness creation and sensitisation should be utilised to mobilise grassroots participation in combating corruption. Udonte, who disclosed that the recent investigations by the NGO has revealed an alarming rate of abandoned projects in Akwa Ibom State, said such corruption was largely traced to lack of involvement of benefiting communities. She disclosed that 70 per cent of government projects listed in 2018 budget had been abandoned, though most of these, according to her were however awarded by the previous administration in the state. “The increasing level of abandon projects across Akwa Ibom and indeed Nigeria has deprived the citizens the benefit of the trillions of naira budgeted yearly for development. “This process of stealing monies meant for execution of public projects has led to the numerous cases of abandoned projects in the country, “Udonte said. She said that government should put in place mechanism to institutionalise accountability process in all its operations. The NGO further recommended among other things that; anti-corruption campaigns should be intensified, citizens participation in budget planning and implementation, anti-corruption ambassadors should be raised, less influence on the oil and gas sector, oversight committee on government projects to include CSOs, relevant stakeholders involvement in budget planning and implementation and adoption of open governance partnership (OGP). Also speaking, the Zonal Head of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Uyo zone, Mr Abdulkarim Chukkol says in the commission’s avowed determination to combat corruption it the state, it has so far secured eight convictions within the past one year. In addition to the convictions secured, Chukkol said, EFCC had secured about 256 convictions across the country over the years, noting that eight were from Akwa Ibom, with other cases in court.