Abuja – Barring any unforeseen circumstances, President Muhammadu Buhari may forward the 2019 budget estimates to the National Assembly next week. The president is expected to preside over a special session of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) tomorrow, where the entire cabinet members would deliberate on the draft 2019 budget. Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, who gave inkling to the meeting, said it will commence at 10a.m. He explained that the FEC meeting is expected to put finishing touches to the budget after which it will be forwarded as Appropriation Bill to the National Assembly for vetting. “On Friday, by 10:30a.m there is going to be a special session of the Federal Executive Council (FEC). The intention is to look at the budget, get the proposals approved by the FEC and then it will be transmitted to the National Assembly. So, that happens on Friday by 10a.m,” Adesina stated. He did not give details of the estimates or benchmarks contained in the draft copy of the bill to be tabled for deliberations by cabinet members. However, Udoma Udoma, Minister of Budget and National Planning, had last month announced that the Federal Government was considering a leaner 2019 budget of N8.6 trillion, which is lesser than the N9.1 trillion approved by lawmakers for 2018. Addressing a consultative forum on the medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) and fiscal strategy paper (FSP) 2019-2021, the minister said the decision was due to reduced government revenue projection for the year. He also said government planned to cut down the level of borrowing from N1.6 trillion in 2018 to N1.5 trillion in 2019, while the deficit component would be reduced from N1.9 trillion in 2018 to N1.6 trillion. It would be recalled that the presidency had taken up the National Assembly for doctoring the 2018 budget estimates, accusing the leadership of introducing projects not contained in the original documents. He had also alleged that the lawmakers weeded essential projects and inserted non-essential ones. Buhari had also noted that he was compelled to append his signature to the budget owing to the timeframe it took the National Assembly to pass it. FEC Okays N1.6bn Variation Cost For Osegudu-Uweto Road Meanwhile, Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Power, Works and Housing, got an approval for a variation of N1.6 billion to complete construction works on Osegudu-Uweto road. Fashola, who briefed State House correspondents on some of the resolutions of the cabinet, chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, noted that the road links the Loko-Uweto road, which is now substantially completed. He said the Usegudu-Uweto road links the road to that bridge on the Benue side that helps connect Nasarawa from the Loko side to Benue. He also noted that the construction works became necessary because it is the bridge that links the North and South of Nigeria, like the old Niger Bridge and the second Niger Bridge, which link the East and the West. “Linking the bridge reduces journey time from that part of the country and the Eastern part of Nigeria, especially people who link through Makurdi, Enugu and all of that coming to Abuja, it would reduce their journey time by a couple of about few days that it currently takes. “So, the revision for that contract was N1.6 billion extra because the contract was awarded using 2010 rates and the contractor asked for review to cushion cost and naira depreciations and council approved that. The contractor is on site working and he would feel comforted now that at least his rates have been improved and expect that his certificate would be paid”. He explained that the initial cost for the project was N7.9 billion but has now been shored up to N9.5 billion. “The initial cost of the bridge was about N7.9 billion and then we had a variation of about N1.6 billion that takes it to N9.5 billion (I can provide the specific numbers to you if I look into my record). “Regarding the height of the bridge, I think we must understand first of all that bridges are not designed by imagination. There are international head room height standards for bridges on roads, bridges over water ways based on internationally determined height of ocean going vessels as well. Trailer, trucks, vessels and barges are built to certain minimum and maximum widths and certain minimum and maximum heights as well and these are global standards in the transport industry. “So are rail heights that also carry containers. So, these things don’t happen by accident. They are interrelated disciplines and therefore, those who design bridges over water know what the minimum heights are and what the maximum heights allowable should be. “We had this problem when we were building the Lekki link bridge. I recall people said boats won’t be able to go over but by the time we finished those complaints disappeared. So, I am sure that this would be the case. There should be no cause for alarm. “In terms of end of the year, FERMA is doing its level best. They are part of our end of year team. For us in the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, end of year means so many things; it means heavy commuter activities, it means heavy cargo, also, in the ministry of my colleague, Transport and Aviation, passenger movement, goods, so, it is a pressure cooker time. Many people trying to share limited resources. “So, what have we done in Works? We have met with FRSC, we have met with FERMA and we have apportioned responsibilities of roads that FERMA will repair nationwide. They have that list. The MD should be able to provide that information. “The FRSC has also earmarked routes where they would patrol. They have issued guideline for passenger behaviour. We don’t want people who have no training in motor vehicle use, in essence, unlicensed and uncertified drivers must stay off the federal highway. We have given them the mandate because we want people to arrive safely. “We have identified 53 major corridors across the country where our contractors have road construction but also bad portions, so Lokoja-Benin-Auchi is one of those sections and a couple of others, and the agreement we have reached with our contractors, they will maintain working gangs for one and a half month period, till January 19”.