LAGOS – The insurance industry, as at September 2018, had paid out at least N143bn as claims. The figure represents a 30 per cent increase over the N110bn paid out in the same period in 2017. Within the same period, the sector also collectively recorded Gross Premium Income (GPI) of N315bn or 22 per cent of N258bn in 2017. Disclosing this during the maiden insurance workshop organised by National Association of Insurance & Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO) held in Lagos at the weekend, Alhaji Mohammed Kari, who was represented by Mr. Sunday Thomas, Deputy Commissioner, Technical, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) said that the final figures for 2018 would be significant. The Commission, however, decried the low performance of the insurance industry as measured by its contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), saying the operators had not been cooperating with the commission in its bid to boost insurance penetration through various developmental initiatives. “It has become a common saying that Insurance is underperforming in Nigeria, with dismal percentages and unflattering comparisons trotted out to reinforce this position. While one may not disagree that the industry is performing less than optimal potential, the insurance industry has not been static. All our indices have grown steadily, though, at a slow pace over the past few years. “The outlook may not be as rosy as we all would have liked, but NAICOM sees the silver lining and is fully committed to making the most of it. We have set for ourselves a clear, unambiguous task: to improve the aggregate numbers by enabling individual operators to optimally serve a much larger customer pool with a more varied basket of products.” The CFI noted the need to use financial inclusion as veritable tools for improved market penetration. He said the initiative was borne out of the belief that pooling the public to get one form of insurance or the other would make a positive impact, adding that “insurance companies are being encouraged to have a buy-in into our microinsurance initiatives for the Nigerian market.” In addition, the commissioner said, efforts were being made to expand the distribution channels for insurance products because the traditional channels were becoming too restrictive and suboptimal, noting that while Bancassurance had received the most attention, there were other initiatives to reach out to the public.