Since the advent of Global System for Mobile (GSM) communications in 2001, there has been a gradual revolution in the Information Communications Technology (ICT) sector which has fast become the Nigerian economic catalyst to other industries. In several reports released by national statistics bodies, there have been clear indications that the telecoms sector contributed immensely to the economy of the country. In this report, MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR report. With an estimated population of about 200 million people, Nigeria which is undoubtedly the giant of Africa remains the largest mobile market in the continent – and still has more potential for growth to compete with the markets in the developed nations. The market viability of the country has made it an envy of other countries. This has positively brought about a successful telecom investment in Nigeria- especially through Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) which has been put at $68 billion. According a recent statistics released by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), contributions of Telecommunications and Information Services to GDP from Q1 – Q3 2018 hit N4.7trillion; in the last quarter (Q3, 2018) the amount stood at N1.5 trillion, according to figures released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). Speaking recently at ITU Telecom World 2018 held in Durban, South Africa in September 2018, NCC Executive Vice Chairman, Prof. Umar Danbatta said the Commission has done so much to impact the lives of Nigerians and the economy of the country. According to him, “We at NCC believe there is much left to be done in terms of improvement of Quality of Service, more access to as many people as possible. We must admit that the Quality of Service is not where we want it to be yet, but with time and increase of infrastructure deployment, we should be there soonest than later. “Only recently, the Vice President of Nigeria, His Excellency, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo launched the ICT Roadmap in Nigeria and driving broadband penetration for accelerated economic growth formed the kernel of this roadmap. “We at NCC are conscious of the role assigned to us in the Roadmap and National Broadband Plan to drive Broadband penetration beyond the minimum target of 20% to reach the maximum target of 30% target, hopefully before the end of 2018. At 22%, we have already exceeded the minimum target.” Recently, Africa’s largest telecom market, the Nigerian telecom industry, has been tipped for increased foreign investments. This is a study by BuddeComm, a telecommunications research organisation, has shown. This comes on the heels of government’s pledge to deploy 18,000km of fibre to extend broadband to rural areas. According to the study, “Given the potential for further growth, Nigeria’s telecom sector attracts considerable foreign investment.” It also notes that market liberalisation measures in recent years have led to hundreds of companies, many of them small and localised, being set up to provide a range of telecom and value-added services. “Market competition and wider deployment of LTE (Long Term Evolution) technologies have in no small way boosted the sector”, it noted. “The mobile sector has benefited from market competition and the wider deployment of LTE technologies, which have in turn supported  the operator revenue growth and encouraged the adoption of mobile broadband among subscribers,” the study states. The free market initiative introduced by the regulatory agency is bound to also increase competitiveness and efficiency among players in the industry. The government has continued with its plan to increase broadband penetration to 30 per cent by 2018 and to increase mobile broadband penetration to 50 per cent by 2020. To this end, the regulator is looking to auction additional spectrum in the 700MHz and 2.3GHz bands. Recently, ahead of the 2019 general election, the National President of the Nigeria Computer Society (NCS), Prof. Adesola Aderounmu called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to adopt a technology driven approach to facilitate what he described as a smooth electoral process. Aderounmu, who is also a Co-Centre Leader, Centre of Excellence in Software Engineering at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, believes that the use of technology will ensure smooth facilitation worthy of a 21st century nation in our electoral processes for the Nigeria’s electoral body. According to him, “Using ICTs to elect leaders could motivate successful transition into a valid and credible democracy that would truly represent the will of the people. “All over the world the use of technology in election processes has become more paramount. Though, the introduction of technology into the electoral process is generating both interest and concern among voters, as well as practitioners across the globe as most electoral management bodies around the world use new technologies with the aim of improving the electoral process.” Multiple taxation and unfavourable conditions for the industry in terms of access to foreign exchange only serve to exacerbate the high cost of delivering Internet services and, by implication, the cost of access to Internet services. On the benefits of broadband penetration, analysts posit that the government needs to reevaluate its activities that are hindering the performance of the telecom operators as well as InfraCos. Government at all levels needs to reconsider industry-specific taxation while also minimising complexity and uncertainty of taxes and fees in the sector. GSMA Media Relations Manager, Claire Cranton reveals that a research by the organisation in 2015 showed that there are 26 different taxes and fees levied on mobile operators as well as consumers in Nigeria which include 12 taxes that are specific to the telecommunications sector. There is no doubt to the fact that too many regulations will stifle growth in the telecoms industry. A situation where multiple agencies are performing the same role on service providers will definitely strangulate them. In his view, Mr. Teniola Olusola, President, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, that the chances of contributing to the growth of the economy is quite promising, but said that the huddles impeding that role of telecoms operators be reduced or totally removed. “The struggle of most mobile operators in the continent has been access to relatively inexpensive funds to create a capital structure that doesn’t erode their balance sheet. Since most African countries have had their credit agencies, the one viable option is to take their company’s public. “In the case of MTN and Airtel that have already explored that option in their respective home countries, it makes perfect sense to now do the same in those countries where they currently operate,” he said.