The country’s inability to meet the proposed target and surpass its current 21 percent broadband penetration rate has been a source of concern. This is especially among analysts who propose that huge investments should be made in telecoms infrastructure for Nigeria to stand a chance in becoming an active member of the current digital transformation within the global village. Although, latest data from the NCC show a 2.6 percent year-on-year growth in internet subscriptions, with 94.8 million internet subscribers as of November 2017, the challenge with this is that the telecoms industry is beginning to see a decline in internet subscriber numbers from recorded figures of 97.8 million subscribers in November 2015 to 94.8 million in November 2017. Multiple / unlawful levies, taxes and charges being increasingly imposed upon telecom operations by myriad MDAs of Government at all levels as a way to subtly regulate the industry, is taking a toll on the contribution of the sector to the economy. The frequent enforcement actions of these MDAs to compel payment result in extensive disruption of telecoms operations, affecting customer experience.  Operators face major challenges in securing site and right of way approvals from state governments. Recently, Kogi state government shut down telecoms operators’ mast sites over some fees and charges which were allegedly claimed to be illegal. The development affected adjoining states, causing network failure. It took the efforts of major stakeholders and NCC for the sites to be reopened. Increasing incidences of recurrent fibre cuts on network is an issue the operators have been contending with. The fibre cut affects signaling and transmission links across the country. Indiscriminate vandalisation and sabotage of sites by some MDAs who often claim to regulate, collect levies and permits from operators but provide no further protection for such infrastructure. These interventions considerably increase the lead time to roll out, inflate costs of deploying infrastructure and depreciate network quality. The interference of the MDAs has created a wide infrastructural gap that leads to the poor quality of services being experience by subscribers. While the mobile and telecoms sector has been contributing significantly to Nigerian economy, there is also the fact that the current evaluation report of the state of the industry suggests that whilst not understating the impact of other external and fiscal issues confronting the sector, that most challenges negatively affecting the health of operators in the sector today are attributable to poor governance issues. Speaking on the issue, Engr. Gbenga Adebayo, Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), reiterate that the inclement situation service providers is operating has been compounded by the recent economic challenges characterized by the steep depreciation of the Naira, the need to resort to the parallel market and foreign exchange scarcity which have considerably increased the capital and operational cost of providing telecommunications services. “As the sector is contributing to the general economy of the country, the government can also assist by reducing import taxes on ICT equipment. It was reported that over 70,000 companies are not paying taxes in this country. What is the government doing about such companies? Ghana slashed import taxes on mobile phones for its people to have more access to telecommunications services. The main target of our government seems to focus only on telecommunications companies for revenues generation,” he said. In the second quarter of 2016, the telecommunications sector of the Nigerian economy contributed N1.580 trillion to gross domestic product (GDP) or 9.8 per cent, which represents an increase of 1.0 point relative to the previous quarter. According to a data released by National Bureau of Statistics in the same year, this is the largest contribution to GDP made from this sector in the rebased period, which emphasizes that growth in telecommunications has remained robust when compared to total GDP. The industry remains quite strong and defiant in the face of very challenging times.