As the year 2018 draws to a close today, TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI highlights some major political events that grabbed the headlines in the outgoing year. Excerpts: The year 2018 was a year full of political dramas, intrigues and maneuverings. Aside being the year that preceded the 2019 general elections, it was a year dominated by key issues such as defections between gladiators in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the major opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP, restructuring , controversial party primaries and the emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari, Atiku Abubakar, Oby Ezekwesili Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, Kingsley Moghalu Fela Durotoye and others as the presidential candidates of the major political parties. Buhari’s New Year Message – Boring and Uninspiring? In his New Year message on January 1st 2018, President Buhari issued a warning to politicians to be careful as the year will be dominated by political activities. He noted that for Nigeria to remain united, politicians must play the game with decorum as linking ethnicity with religion and religion with politics must be avoided at all costs if the citizens are to live in peace and harmony. He prescribed the model of Southwest States who have ensured that politics, religion and ethnicity are not allowed to upset their communities. In his words “As the electioneering season approaches politicians must avoid exploiting ethnicity and religion by linking ethnicity with religion and religion with politics. Such must be avoided at all costs if we are to live in harmony”. “In this respect the rest of Nigeria could learn from the South Western States who have successfully internalized religion, ethnicity and politics. “Political discourse should be conducted with civility, decorum and in a constitutional manner. We all have a collective responsibility to strengthen our democracy and entrench the rule of law.” On the burning issue of restructuring, the President dismissed calls for a holistic new look at Nigeria’s political structure, saying restructuring is not the solution to Nigeria’ s problems. He argued that the country’s problems are more of processes than structure. He further said that Nigeria should continue to operate its current presidential system, “In respect of political developments, I have kept a close watch on the on-going debate about “Restructuring”. No human law or edifice is perfect. Whatever structure we develop must periodically be perfected according to changing circumstances and the country’s socio-economic developments. We Nigerians can be very impatient and want to improve our conditions faster than may be possible considering our resources and capabilities. When all the aggregates of nationwide opinions are considered, my firm view is that our problems are more to do with process than structure”. “We tried the Parliamentary system: we jettisoned it. Now there are shrill cries for a return to the Parliamentary structure. In older democracies these systems took centuries to evolve so we cannot expect a copied system to fit neatly our purposes. We must give a long period of trial and improvement before the system we have adopted is anywhere near fit for purpose”. Though the President expressed concern over the high-rate of kidnapping in the country and promised to tackle it headlong, many Nigerians were outraged that he failed to mention the issue of killer herdsmen who seemed to have taken over from the dreaded Boko Haram terrorists. In its reaction, The PDP rejected the message saying it is full of empty promises, boring, depressing and empty. Kola Ologbondiyan, the party’s National Publicity Secretary said the President completely failed to address serious economic and security issues confronting the nation but rather treated the citizenry to another round of false claims and empty promises. “We already knew the pattern and we advised against it this year. We knew their New Year message would heighten Nigerians’ despondency rather than providing us hope”. A day after the President’s address, suspected Fulani herdsmen invaded five communities in Benue State, killing over 50 persons and leaving many others wounded. They struck around 10.00 am on New Year Day and in the early hours of the following day. Obasanjo’s Letter To Buhari One of the major highlights of the year was the widely publicised letter written by former President Olusegun Obasanjo on January 23, warning President Buhari, not to seek re-election in the 2019 polls. Obasanjo, in a letter titled, ‘THE WAY OUT: A CLARION CALL FOR COALITION FOR NIGERIA MOVEMENT ’, advised Buhari not to “push his luck” or “over-tax the patience and tolerance of Nigerians, no matter what his self-serving so-called advisers” say by seeking re-election in 2019. He further advised him to take a honourable dismount from the horse and allow younger Nigerians take charge of the nation’s affairs. As if planned, Obasanjo’s letter was followed by Gen. Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB), who warned President Buhari not to allow his own personal ambition for second term to override national interest. Going further, IBB said Nigerians should raise a new breed leadership with requisite capacity to manage its diversities and jump-start a process of launching the country on the super highway of technology-driven leadership in line with the dynamics of modern governance. There was however controversy over IBB’s letter as some of his family members claimed it wasn’t authored by him but by his spokesperson, Kassim Afegbua. Afegbua was later declared wanted by the Police Force “for writing a disputed letter on behalf of Babangida”. Despite the appeals by his professional colleagues, President Buhari ignored their advice and announced at the National Executive Council Meeting (NEC) meeting of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on April 9 that he will be seeking reelection. June 12 As Democracy Day To the delight of South Westerners and the family of the late Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (MKO Abiola), President Buhari on June 6 declared the nation’s Democracy Day would now be holding on June 12 of every year instead of the current May 29. Aside this, he also honoured Abiola, with the highest national honour, Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR), posthumously. Apart from Abiola, Buhari also approved a national honour for MKO’s running mate, Alhaji Babagana Kingibe; and the late human rights activist, Chief Gani Fawehinmi. They got the second highest national honour, the Grand Commander of the Niger. Their investiture took place on June 12, 2018. This also came with a lot of drama as some Nigerians said the presidency did that to spite Obasanjo who failed to accord honour to his kinsman throughout his eight years as President. While some argued that the Presidency should have gone a step further by declaring Abiola President and pay his family all his entitlements, others, like Afenifere also argued that while Buhari should be commended, honouring Abiola is not enough to get him votes from the South West. Gale of Defections One of the major highlights in 2018 was the gale of defections that hit both chambers of the National Assembly in July. Shortly before the legislature embarked on a two-month annual recess, 37 members of the House of Representatives had dumped the APC for the PDP, while 14 members defected in the Senate. The defections reached the climax when President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, also dumped the ruling party for the opposition party. In a counter-move, Senator Godswill Akpabio, who was a PDP governor of Akwa Ibom State for two terms of eight years and a former Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum, joined the APC and resigned as Senate Minority Leader. During the recess, the defections had created tension in the National Assembly especially the Senate as both the APC and PDP caucuses claimed to hold the majority membership. The uncertainty of their numbers was made worse by lawmakers whose defections were not officially announced. Since the lawmakers resumed on October 9, several members of the House have changed parties, most of who chose neither the PDP nor the APC. For instance, at the Senate, Senator Shehu Sani of Kaduna-Central defected from the APC to the People’s Redemption Party. The Senate has 109 members while the House has 360 members, making the majority-minority margin in the upper chamber much closer than in the lower chamber. The supremacy battle in the Senate was recently revived by the PDP members who proposed that the National Assembly should override the President’s veto on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. Just last week, the Majority Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, said the APC still maintained the majority and the Deputy President, Ike Ekweremadu, responded that there was no official figure to back the claim. Aside the lawmakers, some state governors which include Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal; his counterpart in Kwara State, Abdulfatah Ahmed; as well as the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, also left the APC and returned to the PDP. Also former Nigeria’s ambassador to South Africa, Ahmed Musa Ibeto resigned his appointment and dumped the APC for PDP. Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, the former national publicity secretary of the APC who is a die-hard loyalist of the Senate President also resigned his position and dumped the party. Drama In Ekiti, Osun The Ekiti and Osun elections was also conducted in 2018 and both recorded huge dramas. In Ekiti, Governor Ayo Fayose of the PDP failed in his attempt to install his deputy, Kolapo Olusola- Eleka. The election was won by Kayode Fayemi of the APC who incidentally was defeated by Fayose in the 2014 goverorship election. The election in Osun will forever be talked about owing to the power play between the APC and PDP. After the first election conducted on September 22 was declared inconclusive by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) , a rerun was conducted and Gboyega Oyetola, the APC candidate was declared the winner. Senator Ademola Adeleke of the PDP is currently challenging the result in court. Atiku Wins PDP Ticket, Reconciles With OBJ In October 7, former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar emerged the presidential candidate of the PDP at its national convention held in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. Abubakar beat his co-contestants that comprised Tambuwal; Saraki; a former Kano State Governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso; Gombe State Governor, Ibrahim Dankwambo; a former Jigawa State Governor, Sule Lamido; a former national chairman of the party, Ahmed Makarfi; a former Minister of Special Duties, Tanimu Turaki; a former Sokoto State Governor, Attahiru Bafarawa; a former President of the Senate, David Mark; a former Plateau State Governor, Jonah Jang, and Datti Ahmed, in that order. Atiku in his victory speech promised to restructure Nigeria within six months if elected president. He also announced Peter Obi, former Anambra State governor as his running mate. Few days after his emergence, some notable religious leaders led Atiku to the Ota residence of his former boss Obasanjo where both men reconciled. Obasanjo, who addressed Atiku as President-to-be, said he believed his former deputy has ‘re-discovered and re-positioned himself ’ and is now good enough to enjoy his support in the next election. Controversial Primaries The primaries of some political parties in the build-up to the 2019 elections also witnessed some high level intrigues. In Lagos, despite receiving multiple endorsements, the attempt by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to get another four- year term was rebuffed by some key stakeholders in the state led by his benefactor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu who are backing Babajide Sanwo- Olu. After weeks of horse-trading, Ambode contested the primaries and lost and has since pledged his commitment to the success of APC both at the state and national level. In Imo and Ogun, attempts by Governors Rochas Okorocha and Ibikunle Amosun to install their cronies as their successors were also rejected by the party’s national leadership. While Amosun’s candidate, Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade has defected from the APC to the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Okorocha’s son-in-law, Uche Nwosu also dumped the APC for Action Alliance (AA). The APC which frowned at the developments has already dissolved the State Executives Council in the two states. As a result of the multiple crises that trailed the primaries, attempts were made to remove Adams Oshiomhole as national chairman of APC with daily protests rocking the APC secretariat. His antagonists also accused him of collecting bribes to award the party tickets to the highest bidder. In APGA, Bianca Ojukwu, wife of Dim Chukwuemeka Ojukwu failed to secure the senatorial ticket for Anambra South. Deaths Sadly, the year 2018 also recorded the deaths of some key stakeholders in the nation’s political circle. Prominent among these are Alhaji Shehu Shagari, first civilian President of Nigeria who ruled between 1979 and 1983; Chief Tony Anenih, a former Minister of Transport and ex-chair Board Of Trustees (BoT) of the PDP; Abubakar Hashidu, former Governor of Gombe State, and Alhaji Ibrahim Coomasie, Chairman, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) and former Inspector- General of Police (IGP). Others are Mallam Adamu Ciroma, former Minister of Finance and former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and a founding member of the PDP. Frederick Fasehun, founder of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) and national chairman of the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN); John Odey, a former Minister of Information also died in 2018 as well as Air Marshal Alex Badeh, the immediate past Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) who was murdered a fortnight ago while returning from his farm. Senator Ali Wakili lawmaker who represented Bauchi South;Umar Buba Jibril, a member of the House of Representatives representing Lokoja/Kogi Federal constituency also passed away at the age of 58 years after serving three terms in the house. Before his death, he was the Deputy majority leader. On April 4, 2018, a first-time Senator representing Katsina North constituency, Mustapha Bukar was announced dead. Also, in April 2018 Independence Ogunewe a former lawmaker who represented Ahiazu/Ezinihitte Federal Constituency, Imo State for two terms at the House of Representatives was also found dead in his house.