Lagos – Inadequate training and equipment may have compelled 190 policemen who were being mobilised for confrontation with Boko Haram to abscond, according to police sources. They said the policemen were afraid following the scanty training given them and also complained of poor equipment to confront the Islamist Boko Haram members. “They lamented over the kind of equipment they will use to confront the insurgents and especially as some of the Boko Haram members go to train in ISIS camps outside the country”, he said. The 190 policemen were allegedly part of the 2000 cops who Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, was reported to have deployed to the terror-infested North-East in November. Police authorities have, in a recent wireless message, ordered the arrest and trial of the personnel who absconded from training at Special Forces School, Buni – Yadi, Yobe State. The message with reference, DTO: 241610/12/2018, from COMPOL MOPOL FHQ, Abuja, instructed Police Mobile Units in Lagos, Enugu, Benin, Abeokuta, Akure, Owerri, Port Harcourt, Uyo, Umuahia, Yenagoa, Asaba, Abakaliki, Dutse, Osogbo, Abuja, Oghara, Onitsha, and Ogoni to “take measures to locate, arrest, and produce under escort the …personnel who absconded from training at Special Forces School, Buni-Yadi”. 190 names were included in the communication which Force Headquarters ordered to be treated as ‘very important’. Ag. DCP Jimoh Moshood, Force Public Relations Officer, had last month announced that the 2000 personnel were from the Police Mobile Force (PMF) and Counter Terrorism Units (CTU), as well as those of the Force and the Sniffer Dog Sections. “The deployment is also to support the strength of the military to defeat the Boko Haram insurgency,” he had said. Police sources claimed that the policemen had been triggered to escape on account of poor training and equipment that would have made them ill-prepared for the onerous task of fighting the dare-devil terrorists who have recently scaled up their attacks on military bases and personnel. Reacting, a retired Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG), Yakubu Mohammed, said it was wrong for the Inspector-General of Police to have drafted policemen to fight war. “I don’t know if it is true, but if it is true a policeman is not trained for war. A policeman, who is not trained to fight war, should not be drafted to war. A policeman is not trained to fight war but to quell riots”, he said. According to him, military training is different from police training. “If they are drafted to war, they are not supposed to fight war. What the military does is that, after they capture a place, they handover the place to the police and move on”, he noted. However, a retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), Alli Modu, differs. He argued that “there is nothing wrong drafting policemen to war. It is in the Police Act that policemen apart from their conventional duties, can be deployed to any other duties, like the military duties.” According to him, “The commander-in-chief has the powers to deploy a policeman to war. So, if the Act says the commander-in-chief can deploy a policeman to war, what is wrong if they are drafted to war? Modu queried. “If the policemen abscond it is not because they are not supposed to be drafted to war, they must have their personal reasons,” he added. But DCP Moshood, Police Spokesman, insisted on Wednesday that “all the 2000 policemen deployed by the Force to the North East had reported and were on ground on combat operation in the North East fighting along with the military in the front line against Boko Haram insurgency”. In his rebuttal he refuted that 167 police officers, as reported by an online medium, absconded from deployment against Boko Haram. According to him, “The 2000 police personnel deployed are in high morale and high spirit in the operation. No police personnel absconded as alleged in the report.” He said the report was an attempt to cast aspersions on the efforts of the Nigeria Police Force in the ongoing fight against the Boko Haram insurgency. He added: “The insinuation in some quarters and as reported in the story that 167 out the 2000 additional police officers recently deployed by the IGP absconded is not correct and should be disregarded by members of the public. “These 2000 police personnel are to complement the efforts of the military to add new impetus to the fight against the decimated Boko Haram insurgency. “This story was investigated and it was found out not to be correct, there is no reason whatsoever that police personnel deployed for the operations in the North East would abscond. “The Police Mobile Force (PMF) personnel have been engaged actively in the front line along with the military in the fight against Boko Haram terrorist group since the inception of the insurgency. “These 2000 police officers recently deployed are in addition to several thousands of police personnel already engaged in the fight against insurgency with the military in the North East. “The list of 167 names attached to the story is fake as the officers mentioned are on ground in the North East. “The 2000 police personnel deployed are in high morale and high spirit in the operation, the Force sees the story as a deliberate attempt to promote insurgency and dampen the morale of officers and men of the police and other services who on daily basis lay down their lives to protect our dear nation, Nigeria, and ensure security of all citizenry.” Four Policemen Arrested For Robbery In Lagos In another development, four policemen attached to Ijanikin Division in Lagos State Police Command have been arrested for allegedly robbing one Theodore Ifunnaya of 350,000 CFA (about N221,508). The police spokesman in Lagos, CSP Chike Oti, said that the victim was a Nigerian based in Togo. Oti said that the policemen faced dismissal if found guilty, stressing, however, that the victim was not stripped naked during interrogation as being alleged in some quarters. Oti said that the affected policemen had been transferred to the Provost Section of the Command for investigation. The officers allegedly accosted the victim coming from Togo to celebrate Christmas in Nigeria at Iyana – Ira, Badagry area on December 17. It was learnt that the suspects subjected the victim to tortuous search and interrogation, where they discovered the sum of money with him. They were alleged to have bundled him into their patrol vehicle to Ijanikin police station where they seized his money and invited a bureau de change operator to exchange the CFA currency into Naira equivalent. It was gathered that having satisfied they had subdued their victim with a threat, they allegedly released him and gave him N2000 out of his money, to enable him locate his Lagos residence. It was further learnt that the victim, after regaining freedom from his alleged police captors, told his family all he went through, which led to a complaint to Area ‘K’ Commander, ACP Hope Okafor. ACP Okafor was said to have intervened by recovering the stolen money and arrested the erring policemen for interrogation.