Unknown gunmen on Tuesday December 18, 2018 shot dead Air Chief Marshal Alex Sabundu Badeh (rtd), former Chief of Defence Staff. Bade was reportedly killed with his driver on the Abuja-Keffi highway. According to reports, Badeh was returning from his farm when his vehicle came under attack. The ex-CDS was said to have been without a military escort, as expected of an officer of his rank because he went to his farm. Bade, it would be recalled, was a Chief of Air Staff before he was appointed Chief of Defence Staff. He also held several positions in the Air Force. Injured Bade was said to have been rushed to a hospital at the military cantonment, popularly called Abacha Barracks, where he was pronounced dead. Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, NAF Director of Public Relations and Information, in a statement, attributed Badeh’s death to gunshot wounds. Bade was killed barely a month to the opening of his defence on the alleged N3.97billion fraud preferred against him by the Federal Government. The court fixed January 16, 2019 for his defence after his application for a no-case submission had failed. In February 2016, Badeh was accused of financial misappropriation by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) during his tenure as service chief. He, however, denied involvement in any act of misconduct. Considering the circumstances surrounding Badeh’s death, Nigerians have been wondering what are its implications on the nation’s security under President Muhammadu Buhari administration. It Shows Security Failure Under Buhari – Architect Prince Valentine Osazuwa Osagiede, a Benin-based architect said: “It all boils down to the failure of the security personnel and their apparatus in the Buhari administration. For an ex-CDS to be gunned down in such a manner shows that the lives of ordinary Nigerians are at risk 24 hours of the day. “I am calling on the security agents not only to find out those responsible for murder, but also to tell Nigerians the truth about the death of this fine retired Four Star General because I see the incidence as a plot to cover up some vital security information.” Badeh’s Killing Shows Nigerians Are Not Safe – Businessman Abdulkadir Mamun, a Minna-based business expert, stated: “The implications of the death of the ex-Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Alex Badeh, on Nigeria’s security under the Buhari administration is that it is a sign of bad omen or woes. “It shows that we are all not safe considering the number of killings, except something is done and urgently too if not Nigeria to me is on a fast lane tilting towards banana republic. President Buhari is a retired Army General and Nigerians had expected that if for nothing else, security issues should drastically be curtailed, if not completely checked beyond mere rhetoric considering the President’s background as a soldier. “But, if under his watch, a fellow retired senior military officer in the position of a former CDS is mowed down, then who is safe? I pray that God should grant his gentle soul rest. “It appears that the President is being overwhelmed by the challenges of leading this country due to old age and his health issues. That is why he can hardly act fast in tackling some of the most pressing problems like insecurity, but for whatever reason, he still tries to cover up his inabilities. “However, one thing that baffles me is how the assassins succeeded in killing the ex-CDS and getting away without any trace along the ever busy Keffi-Abuja road. Indeed, this is one killing too many of such high profile killings in recent time.” FG Not Doing Enough To Tackle Insecurity – Ex-commissioner Hon. Godwin Ogenyi, a one-time Commissioner for Human Capital Development and Poverty Reduction in Enugu State, has described the killing of the former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh, by unknown gunmen as unfortunate incident, which pose danger to the security situation in the country. Ogenyi said: “It is quite unfortunate that with the killing of former Defence Staff, nobody is safe again in this country. The unfortunate thing is that the Buhari administration is not accepting that reality and they are not doing enough to tackle the security situation. “Security problem in Nigeria is growing worst as people engage in all sort of criminal activities due to bad economy, poverty and unemployment. “The incident will serve as a wake-up call for Buhari’s administration so that they can know that nobody is safe in the country because if the Chief of Defence Staff could be killed so cheaply, then those in power are not equally safe. “The government needs to tell the people the truth and address the problem of the economy and stop blaming the former administration of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). If PDP administration was doing well, we wouldn’t have elected the present government. But, for President Buhari to use four years to blame his non-performance on PDP shows he does not have agenda for the country.” Govt’s Security Network Is Poor – GPN Chieftain Nze Adikaibe Ebubechukwu Okafor is a member of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC) and now a chieftain of the Green Party of Nigeria (GPN) in Imo State. He said: “I am surprised that a retired Army General and a former Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) like Alex Badeh could suffer such a brutal death. His tragic death is another pointer to the embarrassing poor security network of the Buhari administration. It further speaks volumes of the inability of the government to protect lives and properties. “I would not want to believe that this is a case of the Boko Haram story. The Buhari administration should wake up from its slumber and save Nigerians from possible extermination.” Nigeria No Longer Has Any Security – PPC helmsman Gregory Nwadiuto Egbeatulam is the chairman, Providence Peoples Congress (PPC) Oru West in Imo State. According to him, “I read the sad story of the death of General Alex Badeh (rtd) from one of the national dailies. It is unfortunate. If a former CDS like Badeh could die the way he did, that goes to tell you that we do not have any security any more in this country. May God save us.”