Dr. Jay Osi-Samuels, National Chairman of Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI speaks on crucial issues in the country such as the war against insurgency, 2019 elections and developments in his party. Excerpts: You spearheaded the founding of the Alliance for New Nigeria, ANN, one of the recently registered political parties. What motivated you into doing this especially given the nature of Nigerian politics? Yes. I did but ten of us actually were founding members of the party. The 10 founding members of ANN were myself, Dr Dale Ogunbayo, Dr Nkatachukwu, Victor Odoeme, Aesosa Osaghae, Thompson Nsima, Sunny Famojuro, Adebola Adekoya, Amos Musa and Steven Odesomi. ANN came about with the meeting of young and patriotic Nigerians, professionals, Doctors, Engineers, Lawyers, and others who were concerned about the state of decadence of governance in Nigeria and we felt it was right for us to play our role, hitherto even though most of us have not been involved in politics. We felt that we can’t just sit on the sideline and be complaining instead of being part of the process. So, a group of us started coming together. We were initially 10 in number, but with time, we expanded with the original founding members of ANN, we are 10 and we cut across all professions and age. I happen to be one of the oldest among our group at that time. We all played different roles in the formation of the party, but one of the common understanding that we had in the beginning was that ANN will be a party that will belong to no one, a party that every member, whether you are just joining or you have been a member from the very beginning, you can claim to be a member or an owner of the party provided you are a financial member. That was the underlying principle and guideline that set out ANN. So, ANN belongs to every Nigerian that is a financial member of the party, but one thing we are clear about is that, we would not allow people with special interests to be involved in the party, whether openly or discreetly. ANN is made up of technocrats so many Nigerians are shocked to find out that you were engaged in controversies that went out of hand like the normal political parties. Were you surprised when this happened? I was surprised too because when we started, we started with the belief that we have one goal of a new Nigeria. So, that was the shock for me that we have people amongst us who are actually of the old order or worse than the normal politicians. But one thing I have come to learn is that in politics, we have the good, the bad and the ugly. So, ANN was not different. In fact, we started managing the crisis since last year and in fact, one of the things that kept us was the image, the branding that we have for the party. We were scared that if the crisis gets out in the public, that will be the end of the party. But eventually it did got out to the public yet the party did not die. We were being naïve, thinking that we could remain squeaky clean but in the terrain of politics, you cannot come wearing a while agbada, you have to be ready to give it all it takes and be prepared to face any challenges. I think that is the lesson we have learnt. ANN, even as we come with a well-grounded ideology, we couldn’t escape from the shenanigans of politicking. Of course, we have people who have different agenda. But that is a thing we have to live with and we are living with it. Having said that, we have learnt our lessons and going forward, we will try to do things differently. Do you see the party surviving beyond the 2019 elections? If you are familiar with our creed, in the third line, it is stated clearly that we are not formed mainly to win elections. so, the unfortunate thing is that our registration came about close to this elections and we got caught up in the frenzy of elections. So, ANN was set up with a long term disposition, beyond 2019. Our focus is that because we came around during the election period, we are going to participate but we will not be disenchanted by whatever that happens during the elections. Our main focus is after the elections and the long –term future. After the 2019 elections, we will definitely gather ourselves and rebuild to where we plan to be as a political party. So, ANN is going to survive the 2019 elections. God willing, it will also survive other elections in the future. What is the difference between professional politicians and professionals in politics? Professional in politics are after offering public service. They are not coming into politics for pecuniary gains. Most professional in politics have been successful in their chosen fields. So, by the time they start looking at participating in politics, they have something to offer the people, instead of looking for what to benefit from the system. On the other hand, professional politicians are mostly interested in what they will gain. To them, politics is an investment and once an election comes, they are already planning for the next election. The two major political parties we have in present day Nigeria is the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). What is your assessment of these two parties? For me, I don’t think there is any difference between the two parties. They are one and the same thing. We recognise the fact that people change parties the way they like without any shame. If you are in APC, all you need to do is to change the clothes to that of PDP and you become one of them. These political parties are not guided by any ideologies and any sound footing. That is why it is so easy for their members to jump ship at any slightest opportunity. This to me is not healthy for the country. Our politicians and our leaders should have an iota of conscience that will prevent them from looking for where the next free money will come from. Before 2015, we saw avalanche of politicians decamping from PDP to APC because they realise the PDP ship was sinking. Now, two years down the line, they have seen the opposite effect now because PDP has been given a lifeline. They seem to be back again while the ruling party, APC is in a comatose state. Very soon, Nigerians will know that the party is as good as dead. But right now, the people inside the APC ship have seen things and they are moving to dump the party for PDP. My question is: Is that the solution to our problem? The answer is no! As far as I am concerned, PDP is a damaged brand and I don’t think any right thinking Nigerian should be thinking of going to PDP because they had the opportunity for 16 years to change the fortunes of this country for good, but they wasted it. They even boasted that they will rule us for 60 years. Fed up with PDP, we tried our luck with APC and in two years, APC has been able to demonstrate to us that they lacked the capacity to govern this country. But as Nigerians, we should not go back to our vomit. We should be looking forward to another platform devoid of all these shenanigans. Our goal is to make ANN that credible platform that will move Nigeria to the promise land.