The Nigerian Employers Consultative Association, (NECA) yesterday stated that most government policies and agencies are not supporting businesses Nigeria. Mr. Olusegun Oshinowo, the out-going Director General of NECA made the disclosure during the farewell press briefing in its head office in Lagos Oshinowo said: “Government policies and agencies are killing businesses; we do not need such agencies and policies that do not support private sector at this time and age.” He pointed out that infrastructure was another threat to businesses in the country, stressing that Apapa grid-lock and Agbara night-mere is a great disaster to business. “The issue of Apapa did not happen in one day, the government should do the needful within the shortest possible time frame to restore the needed enabling environment for businesses in the nation’ ports. If I was a foreign investor, and hearing the history of how business owners are treated in the country, I will take my money back. “We are too off-headed that we allow issues to creep on us and when it happens, we will have more challenges. Insecurity did not creep on us overnight, it is because we have structural problem. “There is no structure on ground for security to flourish. We have always treated the issue of security with levity. “The government swept the issues of state policing under the carpet. No matter what is being done now, it is not sustainable, except we accept restructuring for states and local governments to charge of their security.” he complained. Oshinowo regretted that the absence of good governance is the greatest challenge facing the country, noting that governments in other countries are committed to the welfare of their citizens. “Any government that has no evidence to show that it has lifted its people from poverty has no business in government. The real strength of any economy is population of those that are gainfully employed and those that are living above poverty level”, he said. Speaking on NECA objectives, he noted that the association has over the years focused on the capacity training of youths, workers and women for the industrial sector of the Nigerian economy. “We are involved in vocational and technical skills training as well as manpower development. We have today shown interest in the safety employees in work places”, he said He, however, regretted that Nigerian government does not see advocacy as a right for engagement with the private sector, saying that in countries like South Africa it is a legal issue, such that when government fails to engage in advocacy with the private sector, it would be charged to court.