The National Peace Committee (NPC) led by a former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, hosted some party leaders and presidential candidates  last Tuesday, December 11, 2018, to sign a peace accord preparatory to the 2019 general elections. The event attracted President Muhammadu Buhari, the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) alongside his party’s National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. However, Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate and his party’s National Chairman, Uche Secondus, were not present at the occasion. Other key presidential candidates that were absent at the event held at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja,  include  Donald Duke of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Omoyele Sowore of African Action Congress (AAC) and Mrs Oby Ezekwesili of Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN). Since the accord was signed, Nigerians have been wondering if it is enough to guarantee peaceful elections in 2019. Pact Not Enough To Guarantee Peaceful Poll – Mobiliser Comrade Samaila Rasaki, Minna-based grassroots mobiliser, said that signing the peace pact by political parties and their presidential candidates is not enough to guarantee a peaceful election in 2019. According to him, “the entire scenario has no place in the Nigerian constitution, but mere formalities and the people behind the peace accord, the former Military Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubarkar, who is the chairman, knows this. “Let me say this by form of advice. Who are the ones that will prosecute the election? Who is paying them? How do you measure electoral orchestrated crisis during elections and supposing the same hand incites people during elections stands afar to watch after igniting fire and starts arresting people who are genuinely not to be blamed for reacting to whatever is being played out? “I am not insinuating bad omen or taking sides with any political party after all, I have only one vote, which I must ensure it counts. But, with the revelations coming from the two most recent elections conducted by the Independent national Electoral Commission (INEC) in Ekiti and Osun states, I want to bring this scenario to public discuss. What happens if security agencies or the electoral umpire instigate the people by way of committing electoral flaws? Do you expect them to keep quiet and watch as they are being robbed politically? By reacting, they will easily be branded trouble makers simply because they are fighting to protect their votes. “There are a lot of hidden areas that government agents can always explore to achieve their devious agenda and get away with it. The Federal Government paid security agencies and the INEC officials are there to watch and judge us by words and actions. But, who watches over these forces to ensure that they are doing the right things and in accordance with best global practices? “Obviously, many foreign observers may not get to some remotest part of the country where these electoral crimes are rampant for security reasons and lack of accessible roads. The masses will be left at the mercy of most local observers can be easily manipulated or compromised. So, what happens? “These are areas many Nigerians are not looking at. Political thugs can be sent to cause chaos in opposition stronghold and come out to report to security agencies who will go there and enforce law and order, or even approve for cancellation of the unit, thereby disenfranchising the party. How do you resolve this to ensure justice and fairness? “What happens where secret agents are sent to threaten voters, or even the current inducements with N10, 000, TraderMoni or whatever it is called by the Federal Government, watching Nigerians die in their hundreds in the past three years and coming few months to end of the tenure with whatever they call it? “I can go on and on to bring up some unmentioned and hidden areas those sabotaging Nigeria’s peaceful coexistence can capitalise on to rig and I want the international community to prevail on the relevant Federal Government agencies to look into these area and ensure that the needful is done to guarantee global electoral best practices in the 2019 general elections.” Peace Accord Mere Formality, Unnecessary – Lawyer Joel Edelekan Omolokun, a Benin-based legal practitioner, said: “To me, it is all formalities because those who foment trouble before, during and after elections in most cases are not candidates, but their supporters. “Rather than wasting time to sign peace pact, the candidates and leaders of political parties should come up with political enlightenment programme to educate their supporters on the need to tolerate each other and refrain from electoral malpractice that breeds violence before, during and after elections. “Most the electoral violence that had occurred in this country was brought about by electoral malpractices. I believe the peace pact by political parties and their presidential candidates was unnecessary. “Instead, the leaders of political parties, the candidates, those responsible for the conduct of the election and the voters should sign peace pact with their conscience that they should all play the game according to the rules. Only by so doing that peace will prevail before, during and after the elections. “With the recent happening in Akwa Ibom State where five lawmakers attempted to impeach the governor, you should know what to expect in that state during the election if care is not taken. “We should all abstain from perpetuating illegalities because they lead to violence since violence is not exclusive preserve of one person or one section. “Rather than arming our supporters with dangerous weapons to rig elections, we should educate them on the need to be law abiding citizens during and after elections so that we can do the needful and get the best out of the system to move the country forward.” Peace Pact, Exercise In Futility – DA Chieftain Chief Amadiri Nwakwe Iwuoha, chairman, Democratic Alternative (DA), Ihenworie Ward, Owerri North Council Area, “Let us believe that the peace pact will this time round make a difference in our political system. But, as the saying goes ‘experience is the best teacher’. “Remember that in the past, the political gladiators also signed a similar pact, promising to play the game according to the rules and to shun all forms of undemocratic practices. But at the end of the day, what did we see? All sorts of violence, and electoral malpractices “I am not a prophet of doom. But, I want to state that a chameleon cannot change its colour. The peace pact signed is an exercise in futility because some of those who signed it were also among those who signed the previous ones but refused to do what they signed.” The Peace Accord Will Help – NIP Scribe Rev. Benneth Agunna Nwadiuto, Secretary, National Interest Party (NIP), Owerri West, “With God, all things are possible. The signing of the peace pact will go a long way to give us what we expect in 2019 elections. “In as much as our politicians usually say one thing and do the opposite, I believe that some of them have learnt their lessons and anybody who tries to be funny will incur the wrath of God. I will advise Nigerians to sustain their faith in God and also to pray for the politicians not to derail from the pact they signed.”