Benin – Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State, Chief Dan Orbih on Monday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to resign since  he has admitted that he was not competent to continue to run the affairs of the country, following his admission last week that he has no solution to the nation’s economic problem. Orbih, made the call while addressing the PDP Supporters at the Edo South Senatorial rally in Benin. He said, “the president has promised to take Nigeria to another level which I am convinced is another level of poverty, another level of insecurity, another level of hunger, another level of mass killings of Nigerians by herdsmen and another level of mass unemployment. “The President’s public declaration that the economy is sick is an indication of incompetence and failure. We are calling on him to resign because we have a solution in Atiku and Obi that can turn the fortunes of this country around. Today, the country is sick,  the President is sick and every thing is sick “He should allow a competent man who is Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of PDP to take over and salvage the country from total colapse. He knows what to do at any given time. “Atiku Abubakar as the President of Nigeria will provide quality leadership to Nigerians. Atiku Abubakar is a successful business man and will also replicate it as a president of Nigeria for the benefit of all citizens of this country. Chief Orbih however noted that the mammoth crowd at the rally was an indication and a message of hope for Edo South people  who are determined to join other Nigerians to save the country from the many challenges that has bedevilled the nation. Also speaking at the rally, Senator Urhoghide, the Senator representing Edo South in the Senate, while addressing the rally, asked the people of the senatorial  district not to make the mistake of voting APC in the next election, saying that ,”if they do they will be voting for elongated poverty, more hardship and insecurity of their lives. “You should not allow them to deceive you by saying that they will write results before the election, it is all lies, they can’t do it, go out on the day of election and cast your votes and protect it to the final point of counting and declaration of results.” A former top member of the APC, Brigadier General Ikponmwen Idada rtd while leading his supporters to defect to the PDP said, his has decided to return to the PDP because APC has failed in all their promises they made in 2015. Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu in his speech called on Edo South not to make the mistake in voting for APC. “They will give you money but take their money and vote against them, they can’t do anything to you, they can’t take you to court, take their money and vote for PDP”, he said.