Makurdi – The Benue State Livestock Guards have impounded 105 cows and four sheep which were grazing openly. During the operation, the guards also arrested one herder who may have already been handed over to the police for prosecution. Linus Zaki, Commandant of the Guards who disclosed this while speaking with newsmen in Makurdi on Wednesday, explained that the cattle were impounded while openly grazing near the Akawe Torkula College of Advanced and Professional Studies, Makurdi. He explained that in accordance with the Benue State Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law, the impounded cattle would be quarantined for seven days before being auctioned, if the owners failed to pay the stipulated fine. Zaki cautioned herdsmen against the consequences of flouting the law, stressing the need for ranching of all forms of livestock in the state. This is even as the Tiv Youth Organisation (TYO) stated that comments credited to Senator George Akume representing Benue North East have given Myetti Allah Kautal Hore reason to attack the people of Benue again. In a statement in Makurdi on Wednesday, TYO President, Timothy Hembaor, said the organisation was worried that, based on the statement, the herdsmen may carry out more attacks on his people. He stated that while the Tiv nation condemned the utterances of Senator Akume, it also demanded an apology from the senator. He said: “During the presentation of the Amnesty International’s report on herders and farmers crisis in Nigeria titled, ‘Harvest of Death’, the National Secretary of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, Engr. Saleh Alhassan, cited the statement of APC leader in Benue State, Senator George Akume, as confirmation that the people of the state are the ones killing themselves and not Fulani herdsmen.” Amnesty International had reported that 3,641 lives had been lost to herdsmen attacks on farming communities and that Benue was the worst hit suffering 726 deaths in three years, with 57% of the killings recorded in 2018. “We must add, out of the 726 deaths (it means) 70% of the lives lost are from Akume’s senatorial district (Benue North East),” he said. Quoting Alhassan, the TYO President said Myetti Allah Secretary General had told a gathering of ambassadors and diplomats that “Senator Akume has told the whole world that it was Governor Ortom that recruited those that are responsible for the killings in the Benue valley”. The TYO president, who described Saleh’s statement as a “mockery”, observed that “we are deeply worried by this development because Senator Akume has given Miyetti Allah group a reason to sponsor more gory attacks on innocent Benue communities. “Now, the terrorists have an alibi to hide under and send their armed militia to spill more blood in Benue State, no thanks to the political and ill-motivated comments of Senator Akume. “We strongly rebuff the twist of the narrative by Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore who has capitalised on Akume’s unguarded utterances to blame our people. “The whole world knows that their armed militia groups are responsible for the killings in Benue State, and no amount of twist at this time can change the truth. “We are still shocked that the senator is yet to publicly apologise to the state despite the wide condemnations that followed his shameful statement. “If any herdsmen attack takes place in Benue from now going forward, Senator Akume and his Miyetti Allah partners should be held accountable,” Hembaor stated. He added: “These are statistics that should ordinarily disturb the conscience even of a sadist. What does George Akume hope to achieve with the betrayal of his people? Does politics not have a place for humanity? “This is one senator who has no single project to show for his 12-year stay in the Senate and is not known for moving any motion in that entire period. “And now, the only time his people heard his voice was to blame them for killing their loved ones. No insult will be worse than this! “Less than 24 hours after Amnesty International presented its report, news came that the military (remember Senator Akume heads the Senate Committee on Army) has rejected the report and is pushing for the closure of the offices of the rights group in Nigeria, accusing the group of plotting to destabilise the country. “We once again condemn Senator Akume’s comments and demand a public apology from him to Benue people. “We have now seen the ugly faces of the traitors among us. We now know that Senator Akume is one of those conspiring with terror groups like Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore to sustain the mindless bloodletting in Benue State. “We urge security authorities to give the statement of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore the seriousness it deserves. “This is the same way they rejected the state Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law and threatened to attack the state and made real their threats, earlier this year.”