Abuja – The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has recovered the sum of N106, 590, 298.52 that were meant for the agency but were erroneously credited to the account of other agencies. This, as disclosed by Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, the Director General of NAFDAC on Friday was discovered after a deep reconciliation exercise carried in the final Account unit as part of efforts aimed at bringing financial sanity to the food and drug regulatory agency. Prof. Adeyeye, who was giving an account of her first year in office as NAFDAC DG also disclosed that the Ports Inspection Directorate of the agency has recovered, within one year, the sum of N533 million of evaded administrative charges from stakeholders between 2014 to 2017, adding that the agency has within the period cleared the N3.2 billion debt she met to zero. Speaking during a media interaction at her office, Prof Adeyeye said: “I did not know that there was no directorate-focused budgeting before my assumption and that the agency had a N3.2 billion debt. “I met this big challenge with great resolve as part of quality management system that included fiscal and financial responsibility. I had to work with Finance and Accounts Directorate for about three months from January to March 2018 to achieve this.” Giving further account of her one-year stewardship, the NAFDAC DG also gave details of how the agency has been able to deal with the menace of drug abuse. She said, “I did not know of the high prevalence of unsafe and illicit drugs – Codeine and Tramadol prior to my assumption as DG of NAFDAC. But since assumption of duty, the new director of Ports Inspection Directorate and his team have intercepted 86 containers containing Tramadol and other unregulated drug products.” Giving a breakdown of the seizure, she said these include twenty three (23) 40 feet containers recently examined and found to have been loaded with Tramadol of various strength from 120mg to 250mg and other unregulated products that are known to be injurious to health. According to Prof Adeyeye, the entire products seized had a market value of N6,446,100, 000. The street value of Tramadol alone in Nigeria was put at over N193 billion. The NAFDAC DG also disclosed that the agency’s return to the Ports remains one of the most interesting feats achieved within her one year in office, just as she also confirmed that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has sent a notification to the agency for the certification of its Yaba, Lagos Laboratory. She said NAFDAC has undergone some changes in the recent past which she described as painful but profitable.