Ed Sheeran was excited about playing a festival in Manchester but didn’t really have the money to get up there from London. He caught the Megabus and burned some CDs on the way in the hope that he could sell some for a pound after the gig to pay for his ticket home. “Then the act before him finished and everybody left. I felt so bad for him. But he performed as if it was Wembley!” That summed up Ed’s attitude. He didn’t begrudge things or believe himself too grand. London promoter Tony Moore immediately thought of Ed when he was running the Balham Street Fair and an act didn’t show. At the time Ed was staying at his new manager Stuart Camp’s flat in South London. Tony recalls: “He kind of said yes to everything if there was a chance to play. So when I asked him he said, ‘Yeah, of course’ and hopped on the first bus. Working with someone like that makes everything so much easier. He always came with a generous soul.” Ed had exactly the same attitude when he was asked to play at a Christmas event in East London for Crisis, the charity for the homeless. He was his usual sociable self and chatted happily to a young woman called Angel, who was living in one of the hostels. Only later did Ed learn her sad story – a girl addicted to crack cocaine who sold herself on the streets to support her habit. Ed, who was still a teenager, was profoundly moved by this and that night wrote a song about her. It was The A Team and it changed everything for him. The old cliché of only needing one song was never truer. He recorded it at his collaborator Jake Gosling’s studio in Windlesham, Surrey. He then sang it for a video made by new pal Jamal Edwards for his YouTube channel SBTV, which greatly increased Ed’s vital online presence. He took the song with him to perform on his first trip to Los Angeles in April 2010. He only had one gig arranged at a music and poetry evening but proved such a hit that he soon found himself playing a month of small concerts. He famously caught the attention of movie star Jamie Foxx , who invited him to stay over at his home studio at his Hidden Hills mansion. It’s the sort of thing that could only happen to Ed, who had inherited from his parents the precious gift of having no fear in social situations. The now legendary encounter with Jamie gave Ed great kudos when he returned to London and Stuart Camp set about securing a record deal for his new client. Ed opened with The A Team when he took to the stage at the Bedford, the popular music pub in Balham where Tony Moore presented the best of the capital’s up and coming acts. This was a special night for Ed because he was recording a CD and DVD as well as hoping to impress the record company executives who Stuart had invited. The label bosses were hugely impressed. Ed chose to sign his new contract with Atlantic back home in Framlingham so that his mum, dad and brother could join him for a celebratory pint in his favourite local pub. He was 19 and the teenage years of practice and playing all seemed worth it. His mum Imogen said: “I used to worry about him when he first went to London. But he gained a second family through music who look after him and let me know he’s alright.” Corporate backing opened so many more doors for Ed. He sang The A Team on Later…With Jools Holland, which was broadcast the day Prince William married Kate Middleton in April 2011 .