Cameroon has come hard on the Confederation of African Football (CAF) for withdrawing the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations hosting rights earlier given to them. The government in a statement, 24 hours after the decision was made know, said that CAF decision to withdraw the hosting rights was done in a bad taste. According to a publication in the country, Cameroun24. net, the government, who spoke through the Minister of Communication, Issac Tchiroma Bakary, said that they received CAF’s decision with disappointment. “The Government of the Republic of Cameroon has taken note with dismay of the decision taken by the CAF Executive Committee, which met in Accra last November 30, 2018, to withdraw the hosting of the 2019 AFCON from Cameroon. “This surprising decision for more than one reason, is certainly unfair with regard to the huge investments made by our country, which has led to outstanding modern infrastructures as witnessed by all.” According to the Minister the decision was not a reflection of Cameroon’s determination to organise a magnificent football jamboree. The Minister explained that, “this decision is unmerited considering the resolve of the Head of State and the people of Cameroon to make all-out effort to host a remarkable celebration of African football in 2019.” “It is clear from the outset of this matter, that, our country has been subjected to a treatment which can therefore give rise to questioning.” He used the occasion to call on Cameroonians to be upbeat. “In the face of this blatant injustice, the Government of the Republic urges the People of Cameroon to remain calm and not to indulge into futile arguments.” He noted that despite the recent developments, Cameroon will continue construction of its sports infrastructure. “Cameroon has put in a creditable performance. It shall prove it to the entire world by completing with the same determination and on time the construction of these modern infrastructures belonging to the Cameroonian people, as pledged by the Head of State.”