The President ordered Service Chiefs to relocate to Borno when he assumed office in 2015 and some measures of successes were recorded in the war against insurgency, but few weeks to the general elections, it seems the insurgents are having the upper hand. What do you think went wrong? Personally, I think as a country we have not really taken the welfare of our military serious. We have also not taken the issue of insurgency serious because we have always been on the defensive instead of being proactive. It is common to hear some people say that ‘insurgency is a guerilla war and our soldiers are not really trained for that’. But we have been having this problem for some years and I think we should have deployed new mechanisms and strategies to combat this menace. If our military were trained to do conventional warfare, some special forces should have been developed or established within the armed forces to go for training on how to fight conventional warfare. We should have also invested a lot more in intelligence because we need intelligence to fight this insurgency. You don’t know where they are and so, if you don’t have information, it will be difficult to fight them. From what we are seeing, these insurgents seem to understand the terrain more than our military. So, while we want to commend President Muhammadu Buhari for sending the service chiefs to relocate to Borno state, for me, I think that was cosmetic because we should have had a long lasting solution in addressing this issue because if we have been successful, we will not be where we are today, a situation where Boko Haram insurgents are embarrassing our military and the government. There are some basic things that we need to realise now. What is your general impression about the nation’s security architecture? The security architecture of Nigeria is very faulty; the intelligence architecture is nothing to write home about. So, we need to look at all of that. Then, what investments are we putting into our military?. We cannot just be saying Boko Haram has been technically defeated. What have we done to defeat them? Another major issue I want to harp on is integrity, professionalism-wise, where these insurgents seem to use the information within our own system to their own advantage more than we are utilising it. This is because there are people within our security system who leak information to them. We also need to address the issue of corruption because these Service Chiefs see this war against insurgency as a means to make money. In fact, the more the attacks, the more they can make case for increased funding. Because the reality is that if the attacks by the insurgents should subside, the funding will reduce. So, a lot of them actually prefer that these things continue. In fact, there is a theory out there that our military are the ones behind these latest attacks because they know that now that the election is close, the federal government will be anxious and so, if you step up the attacks, the government will be forced to release more money. Some people call it business proposals. If we can eliminate these things and deal decisively with people that are found wanting, irrespective of their ranks in the military or positions in the society, then we can set standards. But I believe the buck stops at the table of the President, he needs to be more proactive. The 2015 election was postponed by six weeks because of this insurgency. Are you worried that this may happen again in 2019? In my mind, I think that whether Nigerians like it or not, there is going to be postponement of this election. This is just the beginning because the signs are all there that Nigerians don’t want this government. So, any opportunity that they will use to prolong the D-day, they will do it. All of this insurgency that is happening could be signs to create the alibi for postponement because these things will not end. We can end it if we want to, we can even curtail it if we want to but I can bet that we will see more of that until the elections is done. All they will say is’ because of the insecurity, we cannot guarantee this election, so let’s postpone it’. For me, I am very sure that it is going to be postponed. The one that scares me is ‘for how long will the postponement be?’ This time the postponement could be indefinite or even longer than six weeks that we had in 2015. Despite having 91 political parties, a lot of Nigerians believe that the 2019 presidential election is a contest between APC and PDP. Do you also believe that? When we started ANN in 2016, we saw this coming. We saw that if we don’t do something urgent in setting up a platform that will be different from any of those two, we will find ourselves in a situation where we will be stuck with either APC or PDP. So, I agree with the school of thought who said the contest is between the two major parties. Even though I belong to a different political party, the fact on the ground is that the major parties and forces that will slug it out in the 2019 elections is the APC and PDP except if something miraculous happens between now and then. My prediction is that either of the two candidates of these two parties, that is President Muhammadu Buhari or Alhaji Atiku Abubakar will be the president of Nigeria but we will have fewer numbers of voters because a lot of Nigerians don’t like these two men and as such will not be excited about voting during the election. Why has it been difficult for smaller parties to come together to form a formidable force that will dislodge these two parties? From my experience, it takes a lot to get a party going and it takes a lot of resources to make a party competitive. More importantly, I can say that the average Nigerians even though we want change, we are not ready. Nobody wants to venture into an emerging territory; they want to see something that is already successful. So, these ones are comfortable with either the APC or PDP and so when you come to them with another alternative, they are reluctant to accept. That is why I think it is very difficult for any new party to make a serious impact. There have been brickbats between former President Goodluck Jonathan and the Presidency over his claims that corruption has worsened under Buhari than it was four years ago. What is your perspective on this? Of course, corruption has worsened under Buhari. Even before Jonathan, corruption was worse. What happened during the Jonathan administration was that for the first time, we had this crop of young Nigerians who are getting access to free government money for the first time and they were displaying this wealth anyhow. From my knowledge of the economy of Nigeria, there are people that have stolen far worse previously but when you see them, you won’t even know because they are more matured in their dealings. But these young crop of people under Jonathan were so brazen and even believe they were taking what rightfully belongs to them. So, we have gone back to the pre- Jonathan era where people steal quietly and don’t make noise about it. So, corruption is worse now but what is even more painful is that the touted war against corruption is one-sided. Look at the issue of the $2.1bn arms deal probe involving Sambo Dasuki. The Buhari administration started with the Airforce, they went to the Navy but when they got to the Army, nothing was heard again. This is because some people who are in government and was closer to the President were involved. The security architecture of Nigeria is very faulty; the intelligence architecture is nothing to write home about