Boko Haram at the weekend attacked Gudumbali town, the local government headquarters of Guzamala Local Government Area of Borno State, killing 12 soldiers while dozens of others are still missing, even as some flew from the location, three military sources told Reuters on Sunday. The attack said to be carried out by breakaway group, Islamic State in West Africa (ISWA), is seen as one of the largest known losses of lives by the army in the last month. Sources said the poor communication network in the remote area delayed details of the attack being relayed. But Colonel Onyema Nwachukwu, Deputy Director, Public Relations, Theatre Command, in a statement sent to Daily Independent said only a soldier died in the encounter. The three military sources, all of whom are soldiers and did not want to be named, said at least 12 soldiers were killed and dozens were missing after the fighting. One of the sources said 28 Islamist militants were killed. Another source said the attackers looted food items and reportedly carted away about five gun trucks. Some of the soldiers reportedly dislodged by the assailants are said to be taking refuge in a nearby military location at Damasak. Gudumbali is home to nearly 3,000 persons relocated by the Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole and the Borno State government in June this year after four years of displacement in the heat of the insurgency. But the town came under a fresh severe attack in September, during which it was sacked. The biggest loss of military lives in the last few months occurred in late November when about 100 soldiers were killed by ISWA militants who attacked an army base in Metele, Borno State. Nwachukwu in the statement to Daily Independent said, “Troops of Operation Lafiya Dole located at Gudumbali in northern Borno State on Friday, December 15, 2018 repelled an infiltration by suspected Boko Haram terrorists that came disguised as civilian internally displaced persons and inserted themselves in the community. “The terrorists took advantage of the ongoing distribution of relief materials by the Nigerian army at Gudumbali and opened fire on troops’ location which was followed by rapid fire from other terrorists in gun trucks along Gudumbali-Kukawa axis. The trucks conveying the relief materials were set ablaze. However, the troops fought gallantly and outmaneuvered the attackers and inflicted heavy casualties on them. “Unfortunately, a soldier paid the supreme price during the encounter, while another was wounded in action. A Cobra Armoured Personnel Carrier and a truck belonging to the unit were damaged. “Similarly, the troops have recovered bodies of some of the neutralised terrorists, large quantity of ammunition and eight rocket propelled grenades charges. “The troops have since been reinforced and normalcy has been brought to the general area.” Meanwhile, residents of Molai, a village four kilometres off Maiduguri, Borno State capital, on Sunday were on the run following a heavy gunfire between soldiers and Boko Haram fighters. A resident said that the army mobilised troops to the area to repel the fighters who first struck. Molai is the only village in that axis where there has been no insurgent attack in the last two months. Dalori, Konduga, Dala Shuwa, Dala Karamsu, Mammanti, Zabarmari, all surrounding villages, have been attacked recently.