Uyo – President Muhammadu Buhari has pledged to release the actual amount of funds his cabinet has recovered from looters, in three and half years, in its fight against corruption. Buhari is also to disclose to Nigerians the names of the looters and how he intends to use such to advance the development of the country. He handed down the assurance at Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo the Akwa Ibom State capital on Friday during the flag off of South South presidential campaign rally of the APC. Buhari, who vowed never to go back on his desire to arrest corrupt politicians, said the single treasury account adopted by his administration has and will continue to assist the Federal government in its fight against corruption. “I will not stop arresting corrupt politicians. Very soon I will inform Nigerians of funds recovered from looters. I will ensure that I recover Nigeria and no Nigerian will ever regret voting me and the APC. “We will not go back on single treasury account. It  is meant to ensure transparency, because every Federal Government money that goes in there can easily be traced,” he said. He therefore applauded Akwa Ibom State and South South zonal chapter of the All Progressives Congress for organising the get-together to start the campaigns and assured people of the area that they would record no disappointment reelecting him into office as president come 2019. Buhari, who recalled that his 2015 electioneering was based on three key promises: security, economy and fight against corruption, said he has so far battled Boko Haram to a standstill. He noted that though members of the sect have adopted a new approach of indoctrinating young men and women to embark on suicide bombing, assuring that efforts were seriously being made to battle insurgency to a standstill. “We promised to fight corruption, tackle insecurity and improve the economy, and as you can see, Boko Haram is no longer in control of Borno State, they have rather resorted to indoctrinating young men and women to go on suicide bombing. By the grace of God, we are going to clear them off,” he  said. Buhari also admitted that though unemployment remained a challenge in the country, the government is working to tackle the problem, adding that he has ensured food security and encourage Nigerian farmers. The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress party, Mr Bola Tinubu, while speaking said re-electing President Buhari in 2019 would give Nigerians hope and cause the diversification of the economy. He said the APC government will continue to support Akwa Ibom in the renewal of sustainable development, adding that the party is building on a new foundation for the youths, elderly and children. Though alleging that the 16 year-rule of the PDP ravaged and dragged back the economy of Nigeria, Tinubu, however noted that Akwa Ibom has become attractive to his party due to the efforts of former governors Victor Attah and Godswill Akpabio (of PDP). The Director General of Buhari Campaign Organisation and Minister for Transport, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, while addressing the campaign flagoff rally denied that the party promised to make the naira equivalent to the dollar and to bring down the price of petrol, adding that the party has created employment to Nigerians. He said that even the opposition has testified to the fact that President Buhari was fighting corruption. Earlier, the State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress party in Akwa Ibom state, Mr Ini Okopido promised that the party will deliver the state’s vote for President in 2019. Okopido who said the visit of President Buhari to the state for the flag off of his campaigns in the South-South was symbolic, added  that the party was pleased with the appointments so far made by the President in favour of Akwa Ibom State. Highpoint of the campaign rally was the distribution of flags of gubernatorial candidates of the party; Obong Obong Nsima Ekere – Akwa Ibom, Sen John Enoh – Cross River State , Great Ogboru- Delta and Tonye Cole- Rivers State by the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole.