LAGOS – Oil prices rose more than 2 per cent yesterday extending gains ahead of expected output cuts by producer cartel Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and a mandated reduction in Canadian supply. Brent crude oil rose $1.55, or 2.5 per cent, to a high of $63.24 by 0955 GMT. US light crude was $1.25 higher at $54.20. Both crude benchmarks climbed by around 4 per cent the previous session after the US and China agreed a truce in their trade disputes and said they would negotiate for 90 days before taking any further action. “The market seems positively oriented following the G20 developments and heading into the OPEC meeting on Thursday,” BNP Paribas commodities strategist Harry Tchilinguirian told Reuters Global Oil Forum. “A commitment by Russia to cooperate with Saudi Arabia and achieve an agreement at the next OPEC meeting has certainly lifted spirits,” he added. The Middle East-dominated OPEC would on December 6, meet at its headquarters in Vienna, Austria, to agree a joint output policy. OPEC would also discuss policy with non-OPEC production giant Russia. “We expect OPEC to follow suit and agree to a production cut in Vienna this coming Thursday,” US bank Goldman Sachs said in a note to clients. “A cut in OPEC and Russia production of 1.3 million barrels per day (bpd) will be required to reverse the ongoing counter-seasonally large increase in inventories,” the bank said. It added that it expected a joint effort by OPEC and Russia to withhold supply to push Brent oil prices “above the mid-$60 per barrel level.” Helping OPEC in its efforts to rein in emerging oversupply was an order on Sunday by the Canadian province of Alberta for producers to scale back output by 325,000 bpd until excess crude in storage is reduced. OPEC’s biggest problem is surging production in the US, where output has grown by around two million bpd in a year to more than 11.5 million bpd. China in November resumed imports of US crude oil, taking in one tanker at the end of last month, according to ship-tracking data, with another on order for delivery in January. Britain’s Barclays bank pointed out that production in the state of Texas alone “reached 4.69 million bpd in September, compared with Iraqi output of 4.66 million by our estimates”. Iraq is OPEC’s second-biggest oil producer, behind only Saudi Arabia.