Recently, the global human rights watchdog, Amnesty International, accused the Nigerian government of impunity. This followed the government’s handling of the killings of innocent citizens in parts of the country, especially by rampaging Fulani herdsmen. This, the international human rights agency considered unacceptable. Osai Ojigho, Director of Amnesty International, Nigeria chapter, made the allegation in her remarks at the launch of the organisation’s recent report in Abuja, the nation’s capital. She said on the organisation’s website, “The Nigerian government has displayed what can only be described as gross incompetence and has failed in its duty to protect the lives of its population and end the intensifying conflict between herders and farmers.” Continuing, she said: “The authorities’ lethargy has allowed impunity to flourish and the killings to spread to many parts of the country, inflicting greater suffering on communities who already live in constant fear of the next attack.” Ojigho condemned the Federal Government’s inaction, which she said had fuelled “a bloody escalation” in the conflict between farmers and herders, leading to at least 3,641 deaths in the past three years and the displacement of thousands of citizens. In the report entitled, “Harvest of Death: Three Years of Bloody Clashes Between Farmers and Herders”, Amnesty International said 57 per cent of the 3,641 recorded deaths occurred in 2018. It alleged that security forces were often positioned close to the attacks, which lasted hours and sometimes days, yet were slow to act. The organisation also accused the security agencies of receiving prior warning of an imminent raid in some cases, but did nothing to stop or prevent the killings. “Our research shows that these attacks were well planned and coordinated, with the use of weapons like machine guns and AK-47 rifles,” Ojigho added. “Yet, little has been done by the authorities in terms of prevention, arrests and prosecutions, even when information about the suspected perpetrators was available.” Amnesty International said the report was based on 262 interviews with victims, eyewitnesses, community leaders, medical practitioners, religious leaders and government officials, including members of the security forces. It, however, urged the Federal Government to ensure thorough, effective and impartial investigations and prosecution of any person, including members of security forces who perpetrated abuses or deliberately ignored attacks in some states. The states listed in the report include Abia, Adamawa, Anambra, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Kaduna, Kogi, Oyo, Plateau, Taraba and Zamfara among others. The organisation also advised the government to urgently domesticate the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Convention on Small Arms and Light Weapons into the national laws. On the underlying causes of the crisis, it asked the government to ensure the farmers and herders enjoy their human rights, including rights to land, water and pasture, which were at the heart of the crisis. Amnesty International further called for the provision of adequate relief such as protection, shelter, food, and healthcare for those displaced as a result of the crisis while the victims should be provided with adequate compensation. Among other recommendations, it said police personnel should be equipped and trained in modern policing techniques compatible with international human rights standards to effectively deal with the current challenges in the country. It said individual commanders should be investigated and prosecuted for attacks in areas where troops under their command were stationed, especially where there was evidence that they failed to act to stop the attacks. The organisation insisted that the findings of the investigations must be made public. FG Tackles Amnesty International As soon as Amnesty International released the report, the Federal Government bared its fangs. It dismissed as concocted and unrealistic the report by Amnesty International that the administration failed to arrest and prosecute the perpetrators of farmers/herders clashes, thereby emboldening killings in the country. Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, said at a media briefing in Abuja that the report did not take into account the strident efforts the Nigerian government had been making to checkmate killings and bring the perpetrators to justice. He asked why AI does not condemn and document the killing, abduction and maiming of soldiers, policemen and other security personnel by insurgents, but was more keen on attacking the military whenever they move to check insurgency. Mohammed said: “Let me say that I have gone through the statement by the Amnesty International on this. One thing they got right in their report is the cause of the killings. Amnesty said the root cause of this conflict has nothing to do with religion or ethnicity; and that it is largely about land and access to grazing. “That is correct and confirms what we have been saying that the clashes are a result of environmental factors that have made the contest for resources, especially land and water, very keen, demographic factors and, sometimes, sheer criminality. “But, they are wrong, very wrong to suggest that the government has done nothing to stem the killings. I think their report is largely outdated. Everyone knows that the killings resulting from the farmers-herders clashes, and indeed killings from cattle rustling and northern causes, have gone down drastically. “This didn’t happen by accident, but by a concerted and determined efforts by the Buhari administration. Let me list some of the actions that led to the drastic reduction in the killings.” AI Working To Destabilise Nigeria – Army The Nigerian Army, in its response, alleged that Amnesty International, Nigeria, was working to destabilise Nigeria, Brigadier General Sani Usman, Army spokesman, in a statement, said: “The Nigerian branch of Amnesty International, that has hitherto been well respected, has deviated from the core values, principles and objectives of the original Amnesty International domiciled in the United Kingdom. “There is credible information that the Nigerian branch of the international non-governmental organisation is determined to destabilise the Nigerian nation. “This is noted through fabrication of fictitious allegations of alleged human rights abuses against the Nigerian security forces and clandestine sponsorship of dissident groups to protest, as well as unfounded allegations against the leadership of the Nigerian military. “They have tried over the years using Boko Haram terrorists’ conflicts, Islamic Movement in Nigeria, some activists and now herders-farmers conflicts.” He warned that “Nigerians should be wary of Amnesty International (Nigeria) because its goals are to destabilise Nigeria and to dismember it. “The Nigerian Army has no option than to call for the closure of Amnesty International offices in Nigeria, if such recklessness continues.” With the position of the Federal Government and the Army on the orgnaisation’s reports, one wonders if the Amnesty International should be banned from Nigeria. FG Should Study AI’s Reports Well – Architect Prince Valentine Osazuwa Osagiede, a Benin-based architect, said: “In my opinion, I don’t think Nigeria should ban Amnesty International. It is a human rights organisation that has been in existence to monitor human rights violations across the globe. Its opinion on any issue concerning human rights abuses has always been respected and treated with seriousness by any country. “For the present administration in Nigeria to be having issues with them over their unfavourable reports on the country’s human rights activities, particularly as regards insurgency situation in the country, needs much to be desired. “Before now, Amnesty International reports on Nigeria government and her citizens was always given the attention it deserves by carrying out investigations on such reports to ascertain the authenticity. “I would have expected the Buhari-led government to do same. But, to my greatest surprise, this is not case. Instead, the administration is threatening to send the organisation packing from the country for declaring the number of deaths so far recorded since the coming of government. “If the government is viewing the Amnesty International’s reports on its activities as a vote of no confidence, let it carry out self evaluation and adopt a new approach to all those things they are being accused of. “It is no longer news that there have been security lapses in the country since the coming of this government. It is not also an over statement to say this administration has failed to find solution to insurgency in the country, especially the rampaging Boko Harram in the North Eastern part of the country that has claimed the lives of many of our soldiers of recent. “These are the incidences the Amnesty International’s reports are based. Rather than accepting the truth, the government is apportioning blames or accusing the international human rights organisation of being biased. “If the government actually carries out her threat of banning Amnesty International, it will be ridiculed. The government’s image before the international community will be further tarnished. To avoid that, let the government study the reports of the human rights organisation on the country and see if there is a way to correct those things they condemned about the government.” Govt’s Stand On AI Reports Is Laughable – Political Scientist Flora Aruya, Minna-based political scientist and entrepreneur, stated: “My response to your question: Should Amnesty International be banned from Nigeria, is NO. It is rather laughable for anyone to contemplate banning Amnesty International from Nigeria simply because they raised the alarm over alleged Federal Government’s insensitivity or not responding enough to security issues bedeviling Nigeria in the past three years of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration which has never been that bad in the history of this country. “Maybe, as we talk now, Nigeria’s security apparatus may have already sent officials of Amnesty International packing through threats, blackmail and other forms of attacks characteristics of us as a people whereby it is a ‘CRIME’ nobody must criticise or observe what the Federal Government should have done the other way round, else, you will be branded a looter, criminal, fraudster or even set up. In the process, one may pay with one’s life, which to me shouldn’t be in an ideal society. “Let me give an instance with what happened between the President and some lawmakers in the National Assembly (during the recent budget presentation). I hope someone out there will not be misunderstood by anyone out there after all, I don’t belong to any political party, I have just one vote and I know who I will vote for in 2019. “Supporters of President Buhari started it all in the hallowed chamber with the shouts of ‘Sai Baba, Sai Baba! ‘So biu, so biu’. It was not an offence. In fact, it was normal doing that. But, when non-supporters of the President, including of course members of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and some members of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) who we all know have issues to settle with the President for ‘allegedly’ denying them return tickets to the hallowed chambers decided to respond, now it is heckling or whatever the author calls it. “Because someone out there felt that the President must be hailed at all times even when it is against individuals’ common sense, all the people in the chamber, visitors inclusive, have been branded as PDP lawmakers who must be crucified. “I refuse to agree with whoever is coming with that theory. Just this morning I read a post from one of the chat groups I belong to what happened in the same hallowed chamber, how sachets of water were pelted at the immediate-past President Goodluck Jonathan. But, nobody called the opposition APC names, nor called on the international community to witness and judge those behind the humiliation against Goodluck Jonathan. “Now, someone is saying, ‘a General in the Nigerian Army has been humiliated by PDP lawmakers’. Nobody is talking about the fact that, Baba, as we all know, desperately wanted to become a civilian President and he got the bashing. It was not that someone went to insult him in his house. I am I bringing up this issue is because Nigerians are easily distracted by irrelevancies from the stable of government. Do you expect someone who is hungry and unhappy about the way things are happening in Nigeria today to be clapping and hailing the President? “My final submission is that the claims by the Amnesty International should be investigated and shouldn’t be muzzled simply because they raised alarm against what is affecting the peace and survival of Nigeria. This is not the first time the Federal Government’s security agencies are having conflicting claims over security situation in Nigeria, particularly in the north-east where Boko-Haram has cut down millions of lives despite Federal Government’s several claims that they are being defeated, even when the group has remained potent and have continued their killing spree to forcefully spread their alien doctrine. “Amnesty International has been in Nigeria over the years. Why should they be asked to leave because of allegations that can easily be verified? We have had cases of killings and all that the Federal Government will keep saying is that they are all lies while in actual sense is that there are killings of innocent souls unaccounted for. I believe there are treaties or working documents under which such global organisations work. “So, Nigerian government should tow the appropriate channel instead of outright singling out and dealing with officials of Amnesty International in Nigeria.” AI Does Not Make Positive Impact On Nigerians – Politician Nze Adikaibe Ebubechukwu Okafor is a member of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC) and now a chieftain of the Green Party of Nigeria (GPN). According to him, “As an international organisation that claims to protect human rights across the globe, what has it (Amnesty International) achieved in this country? “Do the people feel its presence in this country? How many of them can define what Amnesty International is all about? “If really we are making any financial input to sustain the organisation, this should be stopped forthwith and the organisation banned without any formality. “You know what the nation has been passing through over the years and for us to continue to talk about a body that does not impact on us amounts to leaving the substance and pursuing the shadow.” ‘Nigeria Can’t Afford To Do Away With Amnesty International’ Gregory Nwadiuto Egbeatulam, chairman, chairman, Providence Peoples Congress (PPC) in Oru West area of Imo State. He said: “We cannot afford to do away with such a formidable international organisation as the Amnesty International no matter what ever situation we find ourselves. “As a non-profit, non-religious and non-political organisation which has presence in every part of the world, we cannot afford to be in isolation. “For goodness sake, let the body remain. The FG should concentrate on finding solutions to the nation’s disturbing economic dislocation.”