Ilorin – Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Is’haq Oloyede (OFR), has said that there are enough universities with space enough to accommodate candidates seeking admission in the country. Oloyede, who cautioned against the establishment of more universities by state governments with poor funding of such institutions, said there was hardly a problem with admission space for candidates. The JAMB Registrar stated this while addressing a special forum of top officials of the University of Ilorin (UI) at the institution’s campus on the on-going 2018/2019 admission exercise. While noting that there were available spaces of 600,000 in over 150 universities across the country, Oloyede said these were big enough to accommodate university admission-seekers. He said though about 700,000 candidates had a minimum of O’ level Credits in five subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, which was a statutory prerequisite for admission, the discrepancy did not justify the call for the establishment of more universities that would, in the long run, suffer perennial under-funding. Oloyede said that establishment of more universities, particularly by state governments, would create more problems than they were meant to solve. The JAMB boss explained the series of technology-driven innovations he had brought into the operation of the board, which, according to him, had actually returned the power of admission to institutions of higher learning. He assured that for as long as such institutions adhered strictly to statutory regulations, the hi-cups often faced by some universities in processing the admission of their intended students would become a thing of the past. Oloyede commended the management and staff of the UI for the support his Board had enjoyed from them at improving the credibility of the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations (UMTE) since he took-over the leadership of JAMB. While disclosing that JAMB had sought approval to use part of its annual revenue to support universities’ developmental efforts based on certain parameters, the JAMB Registrar encouraged the University of Ilorin not to rest on its oars as sister-universities are working assiduously to upstage it in several areas where it is currently leading. Earlier, UI Vice-Chancellor, Sulyman Age Abdulkareem, thanked Oloyede for his support towards the growth of the institution and assured him that the university would continue to work with JAMB to avert some of the identified inadequacies in the on-going admission process in several universities.