Ahmad Tijjani Abdul and  Charles Onyekamuo Kano / Awka – A Kano High Court on Thursday finally stopped the state House of Assembly from investigating an alleged bribery video involving Governor Abdullahi Ganduje which recently trended online. The court’s verdict that brought the celebrated probe of a sitting governor to an abrupt end declared that the 40-man strong Assembly don’t have the power to invite, investigate, or summon the state’s chief executive over an alleged criminal case. The Kano House of Assembly had, in the wake of the hullabaloo generated by the $5 million bribery allegation against Governor Ganduje by Daily Nigerian, an online newspaper, constituted a seven-man committee to ascertain the veracity or otherwise of the allegations. Justice Ahmed Tijjani Badamosi, in his ruling, averred that the power to investigate criminal charges was vested on the police, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC). Justice Badamosi further declared that the Assembly was only empowered by the constitution to make laws and review existing laws, stressing that the legislators had no power to investigate criminal matters. Muhammad Zubairu had filed a suit on behalf of himself and other lawyers challenging the power of the Assembly to conduct a criminal inquest on a sitting governor. In a reaction to the court’s verdict, counsel to the plaintiff, Nuraini Jimoh, applauded the ruling as justice for the rule of law. On the other hand, the defence lawyer, Muhammad Waziri, refused to disclose the next line of action, explaining that he needed to brief his clients to reach a reasonable response. Court Sacks Anambra APC Chairman Meanwhile, the Federal High Court, Awka, Anambra State, on Thursday sacked Emeka Ibeh, the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The court ruled that his purported election into the office in May 19, 2018 was not in conformity with both the 1999 constitution of Nigeria, as amended, and the constitution of the party. Justice I.B. Gafai, presided over the suit brought by one Sir Onyekwere Uzochukwu, a state chairmanship aspirant in the May 19, 2018 state congress of the party. The suit was against the incumbent chairman, Emeka Ibeh, the APC, the Independent National Electoral Committee (INEC) and two others. Justice Gafai ordered the APC to immediately conduct a fresh congress for the purpose of electing the state chairman of the party. The court further ordered that INEC should monitor the said election, but it declined to award the N100 million damages sought by the plaintiff. Sir Onyekwere Uzochukwu, a member of the APC in Anambra and chairmanship aspirant, had gone to court to contest the May 19 state elective congress that brought in Ibe over unlawful exclusion. The plaintiff, Sir Uzochukwu, had in the suit filed on his behalf by his counsel, Chief Tagbo Ike, sought a total of 11 reliefs, part of which was an order restraining the second defendant, Emeka Ibeh, from parading himself as APC chairman in Anambra State. The other reliefs sought were perpetual injunctions restraining the APC (1st defendant) from recognising Ibeh as the state chairman of the party, as well as a declaration that the plaintiff was not liable to any disciplinary sanction by the party when he had exhausted all avenues of internal conflict resolutions to no avail. The plaintiff also sought a declaration that he was entitled, as a member of the APC, to aspire to the office of state chairman of the party, being qualified to so do, and that the APC was the intendant of section 223 of the 1999 constitution, as amended, and article 20 of the APC constitution and guidelines for wards, local government, and state congresses of the party 2018. The plaintiff also sought a declaration of the court that the election into the office of the chairman of APC in the state held on May 19, 2018, in Awka, in the face of multiple applicants to the office ought to be by a democratic process, adding that the court should also declare that the election for the office of chairman of the state APC fell short of section 223 of the 1999 constitution, as amended. The court granted issues 1-5 in the originating summons in favour of the plaintiff and refused issues 6-9 which sought to stop the former chairman from re-contesting in the primaries on the ground of non-resignation of his office before the congress. The plaintiff counsel, Chief Tagbo Ike, said they approached the court after the purported congress because of what they saw as a rape on democracy. He said section 223 of the Nigerian constitution enjoined all registered political parties in Nigeria to conduct their primaries in a democratic manner, but that in Anambra APC, a group of select people who called themselves stakeholders sat in a hotel room and chose their stooges after other aspirants had purchased forms and campaigned for the various offices. He said it was a mockery of democracy. Chief Ike applauded the judgment and speedy dispensation of justice. He said he would convey the judgment to the party hierarchy for appropriate action. The plaintiff also lauded the court, adding that he had been vindicated. He said he would go back and prepare for a congress election that would reflect the minds of the generality of party faithful. “I thank God. If you must go to equity you have to go with clean hands. I have maintained that there was no congress in Anambra and the court has confirmed it. “I will go and prepare. If I win, I win and if I lose, I will be happy that justice has been served,” he said. Reacting, the embattled chairman of APC said he will appeal the judgment which nullified his election. Ibe said on Thursday that he remained the state chairman of the party pending the decision of the Appeal or Supreme Court. According to him, “I am yet to study the judgment, but will appeal it after my team of lawyers must have studied it.”