Senate Deputy Chief Whip, Senator Francis Alimikhena, has expressed confidence that the All Progressive Congress (APC) will suffocate the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the forth coming general election across the nation. He stated on Sunday during an enlarged meeting with the APC leaders in Weppa Wanno, Etsako East Local Government Area, boasting that “PDP will gasp for breath after the eminent suffocating defeat that awaits them in various parts of the nation. “The fact that Atiku was called from reserve seat to come on board is a display of shortage and imcompetent human resource within the PDP who cannot come clean to face President Buhari” He said the jittery PDP leaders are on the field searching for retired members to cover up their reproach and be part of the suffocating defeat ahead of them. “The victory of APC is irreversable  and Nigeria will be better for it. Nigeria may starve to death if PDP is allowed to rule us again. The Edo North Senator maintained that his achievement for three years as a Senator cannot be compared with  Engineer Abubakar Momoh of the PDP who was in the National Assembly for eight years without any physical project to show. He called on the people not to be distracted with antics of the PDP, advising APC leader to work together as a family. “Victory is sweet when it is won collectively. We cannot make it as a divided house”. He appealed to everyone to lay aside individual interest and vote for him and the House of Assembly members. “Vote for me for Senate and vote for Kingsley Ugabi for House of Assembly. It behooves on all of us as Weppa Wanno clan to return Kingsley Ugabi for a second term to the House of Assembly to enable him attract more development and employment for our youths. He assured that all ongoing NDDC projects will be completed in no distance time. “All ongoing or newly awarded Edo North project from the NDDC must be completed”. I am not a sleeping Senator, I am vocal, active and result oriented. The Edo North development project has been evenly distributed and every community will have their share of development” “As we continue in the forth coming budget. APC have brought succour to the people of Edo State and we are not in doubt that PDP will suffer the greatest defeat from all the South South States particularly Edo State because charity begins at home” he added.