Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have reached a final agreement over custody of their six children after more than two years of bitter negotiations. The actress’ lawyer Samantha Bley DeJean confirmed on Friday that the former Hollywood couple had signed and closed the lengthy legal battle ‘weeks ago’, thankfully avoiding the need to go to trial. ‘A custody arrangement was agreed to weeks ago, and has been signed by both parties and the judge,’ Samantha shared in a statement to Reuters. ‘The agreement, which is based on the recommendations of the child custody evaluator, eliminates the need for a trial. The filing and details of the agreement are confidential to protect the best interests of the children.’ The statement did not say how custody of Maddox, 17, Pax, 15, Zahara, 13, Shiloh, 12, and 10-year-old twins Knox and Vivienne would be divided. But a source close to Angelina told the Daily Mail Online she is ‘very pleased to be entering the next stage and relieved with progress for the health of their family.’ The news comes after The Blast claimed the estranged couple were ‘close’ to settling the terms of their custody case after a trial date was tentatively set for 4 December before a private judge in Los Angeles. Sources close to Angelina told the publication the pair had found ‘common ground’ and realised that the custody agreement and divorce needed to be finalised in order for their family to move on. Legal proceedings regarding the former couple’s children began shortly after they announced their separation in September 2016 after a nearly 10-year romance and two-year marriage. The acrimonious court battle has been littered with public spats, with both sides accusing one another of trying to manipulate media coverage in their favour. Angelina, who had been seeking primary custody of all six kids, also claimed her ex-husband had been abusive towards the children – accusations for which he was investigated and cleared. Now that the custody battle is closed, Brad and Ange can now turn their attention to the financial aspect of their divorce settlement. The Lara Croft star is said to have handed over her financial information to Brad’s legal team recently, with the pair asking the judge to give them until next June to come to an agreement.