Ellis joins SoundCloud as a Principal Partner at Provenance Ventures, a holding company for Provenance Media, a television and digital content development and production company, and also Provenance Films, a feature film development and production company, where she will continue to serve in an advisory role. Prior to joining Provenance Ventures, Ellis was Operating Partner at Fireman Capital Partners where she was an investment partner and advisor to the high growth luxury team that focuses on consumer products, fashion, sports brands and consumer retail. She continues to work with the group as an advisor on special projects. Before Fireman Capital Partners, Ellis held multiple roles at Sony Music Label Group. This included Executive Vice President, Sony Music Label Group, where she oversaw overall label creative and operational management for Columbia and Epic Records, in addition to the digital business and initiatives within all of the labels under Sony Music Label Group; and President and General Manager of Sony Urban Music where she launched and developed careers for artists on the Columbia and Epic Records rosters. In addition, she held the role of Senior Vice President, Strategic Marketing and Television / Film / Commercial Music Licensing, as well as a number of leadership positions within its radio promotions teams. Over the span of her career, Ellis has played an instrumental role in the development, planning and branding of many artists such as Prince, Michael Jackson, Destiny’s Child, Beyoncé, Mariah Carey, Ricky Martin, Marc Anthony, Will Smith, Jessica Simpson, Lauryn Hill, John Legend, Nas, Maxwell, Three 6 Mafia, Cypress Hill, and Kanye West’s label G.O.O.D, the SoSo Def roster, and Loud Records, among others. Ellis is a member of the Board for Nat King Cole Generation Hope, and an Advisory Board Member of Girls Make Beats, a non-profit that focuses on developing female producers and songwriters. “Among Streaming Platforms, Soundcloud Stands Out As Truly Differentiated,Offering By Keeping Creators At The Center Of Everything They Do.” LISA ELLLIS “Lisa has spent decades championing artists,” said Kerry Trainor, Chief Executive Officer, SoundCloud. “She’s a passionate music executive, whose leadership, experience and strategic vision will be an asset to the team and our partners. “Her connection to the creative community, understanding of the unique role SoundCloud plays in launching creators’ careers and helping them connect with fans is invaluable, and will help us continue to empower and grow the largest, most diverse community of audio creators.” Ellis added: “Among streaming platforms, SoundCloud stands out as a truly differentiated offering by keeping creators at the center of everything they do. “I’m excited to work alongside a dynamic, forward-thinking executive team, and join a company that provides a unique discovery experience by bringing together music and technology to support, elevate and celebrate creators of all kinds, with a particular focus on emerging talent.”Music Business Worldwide