XAVIER NDAH and TITILOPE JOSEPH LAGOS – Police detectives attached to the Police Ogun State Command have arrested two men who robbed a woman lecturer at Unity area of Iyesi Ota in Ado- Odo Ota Local government area of the State. Dependable Police sources said the two suspects, Akindele Ramon,22 and Paul King, 20,were arrested following a distress call received from the victim one Busola Oke Salako at about 11:00pm that her house was under siege by some armed bandits. It was gathered that on receipt of the information,the Divisional Police Officer, DPO, Onipanu Division Superintendent of Police Sangobiyi Johnson quickly mobilised his anti-robbery men to the scene where the two suspects were promptly arrested with the help of members of the Community. Police sources said the lecturer after the arrest of the suspects explained to the police that she was inside her house with her house maid when her generator suddenly went off and she asked her maid to go and check what the problem was. She said immediately the girl opened the door, the two marauders held her and covered her mouth with cloth and threatened to kill her if she makes noise. It was gathered that sensing trouble the woman quickly bolted the door from the behind before making a distress call to the Police and some members of the Community who raced to the scene. The suspects we gathered were arrested by the police as they scamper to escape. “Upon interrogation, one of the suspects Akindele Ramon disclosed that it was Paul King who gave information about the victim to him and one Rapheal Solarin now at large. He stated further that Paul King lives in the same neighborhood with the victim which gave him the opportunity to know more of the woman’s movement.”Police said. When contacted on phone the state’s command image maker Abimbola Oyeyemi said One UTC Knife and one ordinary knife were recovered from the suspects. According to him,the Commissioner of Police Cp Ahmed Iliyasu has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to FSARS for discrete investigation and prosecution.