Emma Nzomiwu and Patience Ogbodo-Iwuagwu Enugu – John Nnia Nwodo, President-General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has commended Independent Newspapers Limited (INL), publishers of Daily Independent, Saturday Independent, and Sunday Independent, for nominating him Bridge Builder of the Year 2018, just as he dedicated the award to Ndigbo. He gave the commendation when he received Ade Ogidan, Managing Director, Independent Newspapers Limited, and other members of the management team in Enugu on Wednesday. The award will be formally conferred on the President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo at an award ceremony scheduled to hold on January 12, 2019 at Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. Nwodo dedicated the award to Ndigbo who gave him the opportunity to serve them as their chief steward. He said, “I am not the bridge-builder, it is the Igbos that I represent that are the bridge-builders because all the thoughts I have represented are thoughts that were  championed in their various committees, and I’m only a mouthpiece of the Ndigbo. “So, I am very grateful, and I accept the award with all the credibility. “This award shows that you are looking for ideas about how we can build bridges of unity and love across the nation, and I assure you of my commitment to the unity of our people, and I am grateful to you and your board of management for this honour. “I am also happy today because the presentation of this nomination letter coincided with the celebration of my birthday with some of my friends and family, so it’s a pleasant surprise and memorable day.” According to Nwodo, the only thing that makes a leader influential in the society is his reputation and integrity. “The only thing that survives us are our reputations, because our materials and bank account are never known to the public, but what the public remembers about us is the thought we represented, and I am happy to be recognised with bridge-building in my country,” he said. Presenting the nomination letter, Ade Ogidan, who was flanked by Chairman, Editorial Board, Donatus Duru, and Regional Editor, Ben Ndubuwa, said his selection was based on his efforts in repositioning the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation which has re-launched Ndigbo into higher reckoning in the country, as well as working with other parts of the nation for the overall development of Nigeria. Ogidan said: “Noteworthy is your desire to work with the Igbo civil society, the Diaspora community, town unions, governments, the political elite, and other groups in the country to bring out the best of the famed Igbo resourcefulness, intellect, and collectivism for the socio-economic and political transformation of Igboland in particular and Nigeria in general. “Only recently, you played a leading role in staging a summit for an alliance between the South-West and South-East, seeking to remove old animosities and rivalries between the citizens of the two geopolitical zones of Nigeria. “The summit, known as ‘Handshake Across the Niger’, is expected to address the myriad of problems facing the country. “Indeed, if these two formidable blocs come together and work for the good of this nation, Nigeria will be better for it.” According to him, the President General of Ohanaeze was the second recipient of the award since Independent annual award was initiated. “The first awardee was the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, and after looking round the country, we know that you deserve it as the second recipient,” Ogidan added.