Samuel Ogidan and Ahmed Musa Abuja – Protesting staff of the National Assembly, under the aegis of Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN), told the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, on Tuesday that without ‘alert’ there would not be plenary. Interrupting the Senate President when he was addressing them, the staff rejected the assurance given by Saraki that they would meet the conditions of the staff. Just when Saraki was thinking that the staff were on the same page with him, the repeated shout of ‘no alert, no sitting’ rented the air. This development made the President of the Senate to pause awhile before he continued addressing the staff who were dancing around the lobby of the National Assembly with a mock maze. Accompanied by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, Saraki, who promised to implement the demands of PASAN, said, “Let me make a commitment on behalf of the entire leadership of the National Assembly that we are all on the same side. “It is our interest to be sure good and mental condition of service and better working environment, and we are fully committed to this. We will work tirelessly to make sure the conditions you have listed are met. “As the leadership of the National Assembly, the responsibility lies on us to address these, regarding the condition of service. “Regarding the CONLESS (Consolidated Legislative Salary Structure), let me assure you that we are on the same page to ensure the implementation. We are not in direct control of the issue, but we have asked your leadership to give us from now till Friday. “What I am committing to you alongside the leadership is that we must find money to ensure the implementation of your demand. “But for us to find a solution, we must be able to sit down and hold a meeting. We want you to be paid but we must be able to sit down and discuss with the management on how to go about this. You should give us time to hold a meeting. “If you allow us, the report on the condition of service will be considered immediately by the two chambers so that we can pass that immediately. We want to meet with you and communicate to you on the way forward, but for that to happen we must be able to sit.” Earlier, while addressing newsmen, the Clerk of the National Assembly, Sani Omolori, said the management hoped to pay the staff from the addition to the 2018 budget. He, however, noted that if the money was not released, there was no way the management could pay the staff. Speaking to Daily Independent on the development, a sergeant-at-arm who pleaded anonymity stated that the decision to picket the National Assembly was long over-due. He said: “Successive managements have been taking staff welfare for granted, particularly as regards the implementation of the Consolidated Legislative Salary Structure (CONLES). “The new structure, according to documents made available, raised staff salaries by 28% across board and had been approved since October 2010,” he said. Asked why he and his colleagues in the security arm of the Assembly had to jeopardize security in favour of the protest, he said union leaders sent taskforce to monitor members who would violate the picketing order. “You should know that they are fighting for our own collective good and not joining others to obey the directive would amount to sabotage on our part,” the source said. Ike Ekweremadu, the Deputy President of the Senate, who entered the National Assembly lobby about 10:22a.m, was also prevented from entry into the chamber by the staff numbering thousands. Other lawmakers from both chambers who came earlier before Ekweremadu suffered the same fate. Not only were the lawmakers prevented from gaining access to the chamber, but the entrances of both chambers were also blocked by the staff, especially women. The staff carried placards with such inscriptions as, ‘NASS is not Omolori’s farm’; ‘Omolori is now a contractor’; ‘Omolori pack and go’; ‘Probe NASS management now’; ‘Bank loans are killing us’; ‘Pass our condition of service, Speaker’; ‘Enough of monkey dey work, baboon dey chop’; ‘Release our promotion letters’, among others. They started shouting when they saw Ekweremadu and other lawmakers, insisting that there would be no plenary session. The shout, ‘No sitting, no sitting, no sitting; don’t address us, don’t address us,’ and other songs rose when Ekweremadu was still trying to make his way through the crowd. It was gathered that the tenure of the Clerk, Sani Omolori, had expired and that he was supposed to proceed on terminal leave from last November. It was further gathered that the Clerk had been lobbying those concerned, especially the principal officers, to extend his tenure. Recall that the staff had at the weekend warned that they would picket the Assembly from Tuesday to Thursday and would eventually embark on an indefinite strike on December 14 if their demands were not met. The demands of the staff, among other things, had been that the management should address “all pending staff promotions, and conversion letters be released with arrears fully paid, while the 2018 promotion eligibility list be released and promotion exams conducted on or before December 31.” Meanwhile, Saraki and Dogara have directed the National Assembly Management Committee headed by the Clerk, Alhaji Sani Omolori, to resolve all issues raised by protesting members of staff and report back to them by Friday.