LAGOS – Against the backdrop of moves by the National Assembly to override President Muhammadu Buhari’s veto of the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2018, indications have emerged that the All Progressives Congress (APC) federal lawmakers may allow such decision to be reached. The president had last Friday, for the fourth time, declined to give his assent to the Amendment Bill, citing the closeness to the 2019 elections as the reason for his action. The president’s latest decision came in a letter dated December 6, 2018 and addressed to both chambers of the National Assembly. Senator Gbenga Ashafa, lawmaker representing Lagos East, who spoke in Lagos, stated the APC lawmakers, known as Progressive senators, would stand against any plan by the National Assembly to override Buhari’s veto of the bill. Ashafa, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Land Transport stated: “I have had the opportunity of looking through the well thought out reasons adduced by His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, for not assenting to the version of the Bill which has been forwarded to him and I am quite in agreement with him. “Both the president and the National Assembly have shown good faith in the back and forth caused principally by drafting inconsistencies, that have delayed the bill till now. “We must all understand that both sides must be dispassionately painstakingly disposed to ensuring that there is no loophole in the final result of the proposed amendments, considering the sensitive nature of the Electoral Act and overarching effect of same on National security and stability of the polity. “It cannot be in tandem with any standard democratic ethos to introduce new rules to the field of politics less than two months to a general election, we must be fair to all concerned.” On the possibility of a veto of the president’s decision by his colleagues, Ashafa stated: “It is a game of numbers and to conduct a successful veto of the president’s position, the National Assembly would require a vote by two thirds of both houses, I am certain that the Progressive block of Senators who have already seen reason with the president would not be in support of such a veto.” In declining assent to the Electoral Act 2018 Amendment Bill, Buhari had written to both chambers of the National Assembly, communicating his reason for his action. Before the latest version was submitted, he had withheld assent to the document about three times, attributing the decision to “errors” in the amended Bill. The lawmakers quickly incorporated the areas the President raised objections to and sent the bill back to him for his assent on November 7. The new bill has provisions to improve on the country’s electoral process ahead of the 2019 general elections, including the use of the card reader as the sole means of accreditation of voters. However, the Senate in resolving to veto the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2018, said the draft was very significant to the conduct and outcome of the 2019 elections. Senator Ben Murray-Bruce, Vice Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, said the upper chamber of the National Assembly would lobby APC members in the chamber to veto the bill. Murray-Bruce said the amendments to the bill would guarantee free and fair general elections in 2019, stressing that the Senate would do everything possible to veto the bill. According to him, “We think it is a mistake not to sign the bill. We think Buhari should have signed it. We want the APC senators and all Nigerians to understand that, that bill was the right thing to do at this period of our national life. “We will do everything possible to work with the Progressive APC senators to get the right number of votes to override it. We will override it.” He added, “We want credible elections and that was why we hoped the President would sign the (amended) Electoral Act. Now that he has refused to sign it, we will talk to the APC members in the Senate to look at Nigeria and not their party. They should look at Nigeria and not their party. “There are aspects that INEC can implement on their own without the law.” The House of Representatives said it would take action on the assent withdrawal after Dogara had read the letter to lawmakers in plenary. Abdulrazak Namdas, Chairman, House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, said, “The House can only take a decision after the letter had been read on the floor of the chamber.” However, the leadership of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) would soon hold a crucial meeting with the leaders of political parties towards the coming 2019 general elections. Buhari’s decision to withhold assent to the Electoral Act (Amended) Bill 2018, it was learnt, would top the agenda of the meeting. Despite threats by some federal lawmakers to override Buhari on the rejected bill, opposition political parties feared that the National Assembly as currently constituted, might not get the required number of members to do so, hence the need for them to look beyond the parliament in finding a way out. Imo Ugochinyere, first national spokesperson for the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), confirmed the planned meeting. He said: “The leadership of political parties will be meeting with INEC this week and top on the agenda of the meeting is that now that the President has refused to sign, it is now left for the electoral commission. “There are some powers given to the commission under the 1999 Constitution and the Electoral Act to ensure free and fair conduct of elections. “There are some provisions that INEC can amend the election guidelines with or without the President signing the law. Some of them include the use of card readers like the commission did in Ekiti and Osun states. You can see that the number of voters did not skyrocket in those states because INEC did not use incident forms.” He added: “INEC can also allow agents to have access to electoral materials, verify them and even do video recording of the materials without any law. “The issue of ensuring that no result is announced without agents of political parties being present at the spot, stopping the police and soldiers from chasing away party agents so that they can doctor the results, the issue of ensuring that results are announced at every polling unit, the issue of collecting electronic results by INEC to compare, issue of serialising ballot papers for each polling unit, all these the INEC can do with or without the President. “The first thing the INEC chairman must do, or else all political parties will pull out of the election, is that he has to announce to Nigerians that there will be no use of incident forms.” The PDP Presidential Campaign Council has however the National Assembly to immediately override the President’s refusal to assent the bill. Kola Ologbondiyan, the Director, Media and Publicity of the council, in a statement said overriding Buhari would save the nation’s democracy He added that the legislative action had become imperative as Buhari’s decision was a calculated attempt to inject crisis into the electoral process. According to him, Buhari’s refusal to sign the Act could ultimately scuttle the conduct of the 2019 general elections. Ologbondiyan said, “President Buhari’s repeated refusal to sign amendments passed to check rigging in the election, raises issues of his sincerity of purpose and has the capacity to trigger political unrest and violence, which can, in turn, truncate our hard-earned democracy.” According to him, Buhari is afraid of the amendments because they essentially checked the APC’s alleged rigging plans. He also charged all political parties, other critical stakeholders and Nigerians in general, to rise in the interest of the nation and demand the entrenching of rules and processes that would guarantee the conduct of free, fair and credible elections.