Ahmad Tijjani Abdul Kano – Abdullahi Umar Ganduje,  the Kano State Governor, has approved the appointment of a committee on state-sponsored wedding of 3,000 widows, divorcees and spinsters in the state. A statement made available to Daily Independent and signed by Muhammad Garba, the Commissioner of Information, Youth and Culture, noted that the 23-man committee is shouldered with the responsibilities of selecting and screening eligible beneficiaries across the 44 LGAs. The statement explained that the committee would also organise and conduct befitting mass wedding ceremony among others for beneficiaries. The committee has  the Chief Imam, Kano Central Mosque,  Prof. Sani Zahraddeen as chairman, while the Special Adviser to the Governor on Religious Affairs, Ustaz Ali Baba Muhammad Agama Lafiya would also serve as co-chair. Other members of the committee are Murtala Sule Garo, Commissioner for Local Government, Sheikh Qaribullah Nasiru Karaba, Chairman, Shura Council, Sheikh Yusuf Ahmad Gabari, Sheikh Tijjani Usman Zangon Barebari, chairman, Shari’ah Commission, Malam Sani Abdullahi Tofa, Director-General, Shari’ah Commission. The statement further announced Sheikh Ibrahim Shehu Mai Hula, Chairman, Hisbah Board, Sheikh Aminu Ibrahim Daurawa, Commander-General, Hisbah Board, Malam Abdurrahman Abba Sufi, Director-General, Hisbah Board and Sheikh Dr. Abdullahi Saleh Pakistan as members. Also appointed were Dr. Malama Zahra’u Muhammad, Deputy Commander-General (Women), Hisbah Board,  Malama Fatima Muhammad Fagge, Malam Usman Yusuf Makwarari, Chairman, Zakkah and Hubsi Commission, Malam Safiyanu Ibrahim Gwagwarwa, Director-General, Zakkah and Hubsi Commission would also serve in the committee.                                                                                          – Mustapha Hamza Buhari, Special Adviser to the Governor on Political Affairs, Dr. Tahir Adam, Dr. Aminu  Ibrahim  Tsanyawa,  Hajiya Bilkisu Saleh (Murtala Muhammad Specialists Hospital) made the list of the committee. Other members are Dr. Maryam Sulaiman (Abdullahi Wase Specialists Hospital), Dr. Hauwa Muhammad  (Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital), Dr. Ashiru Rajab, SACA, Kano, while Abdullahi Balarabe, DAGS, Contributory Healthcare Agency would serve as Secretary.