The leadership of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has decried the constraints that the business environment was faced with in the country. The chalbr said that the outgoing year had been an eventful year for it. The observation of the chamber on the state of the economy was made by Mr. Babatunde Paul Ruwase, President, LCCI at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). According to Ruwase, “The outgoing year was characterised by numerous opportunities, achievements and challenges. In all, it has been a very eventful year for our chamber. However, as investors, we had to contend with the usual constraints of the business environment. “There was high interest rate, weak Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, weak consumer demand, traffic gridlock on Lagos port roads and insecurity in some parts of the country, among others. The economy was able to maintain a positive growth trajectory driven by the recovery of oil price for most part of the year. “This gave a major boost to the macroeconomic fundamentals. Nigeria remains a robust economy with a large market, abundant natural resources and a productive population.” However, few weeks ago, we saw a sharp decline in oil price to $60 per barrel, from a peak of $86 in early October this year.” He explained that LCCI had remained committed to the promotion of polices that supported private sector development and the general progress of the economy, adding that the chamber had been consistent in its policy advocacy and kept its promise of providing business development services to its members and the larger business community. While presenting the annual report of the Chamber for the year 2018, Ruwase noted that the presentation was in two parts, comprising of the business and economic environment on one hand, and the activities of the chamber during the year on the other hand. On business and economic environment, the chamber said the “Data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed that the economy grew by 1.5 per cent in the second quarter of 2018 from 1.95 per cent in the first quarter. “This underlines the fragile nature of the economy and the need to accelerate the economic diversification process.  With a population growth rate of about 3 per cent the implications of the current economic conditions for poverty and welfare are quite worrisome.” Ruwase explained that the Interest rate regime remained difficult as rates were high across segments of the financial markets, with commercial banks’ lending rates at between 20-35 per cent. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria, he said maintained a tight monetary condition throughout the year, with key policy parameters unchanged. He added that the chamber showed appreciate the introduction of the differentiated Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR), which was meant to ease credit to the real sector. On the ease of doing business, he said the 2018 World Bank ease of Doing Business report ranked Nigeria 146 out of 190 countries, thereby taking a step backwards from the 145th position in 2017. He added that the ranking takes into account, trading regulations, property rights, contract enforcement, investment laws and availability of credit.