MAKURDI – No fewer than 30 persons who are also members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue State may have lost their lives in a tragic road accident in the state. Bemgba Iortyom, State Publicity Secretary, PDP said the party has been thrown into a state of mourning following the loss. Meanwhile, the State Governor Samuel Ortom, the state PDP Chairman, John Ngbede and Comrade Abba Moro have condoled with families of the victims. Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered that the incident took place on Friday while the party members were on their way to the flag-off of the Senatorial Campaign of Abba Moro, the former Minister of Interior. Abba Moro is the PDP candidate for Benue South senatorial district, also known as Zone C. The flag-off has been put off indefinitely as a result of the loss of lives in the incident. The incident took place in a multiple road accident that happened at Ojantale-Ataganyi along Apa/Agatu road, Agatu Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State. According to an eye witness, the victims who are mostly from Oju LGA of the state were on the entourage of the former Minister enroute to Agatu when the accident happened. He explained that one of the vehicles tried to avoid hitting a commercial cyclist (Okada) which resulted in his veering off the road and colliding with other vehicles. The identity of the victims involved in the accident was uncertain as at the time of filing this report. However, the eye witness told Saturday INDEPENDENT that the figures of death recorded in the accident could be higher, just as he observed that survivors of the accident were taken to St. Charles Hospital, Adoka, where they are presently receiving treatment. In a statement, the Benue State chapter of the PDP on Friday, the party described the loss as tragic. Bemgba Iortyom, State Publicity Secretary, who signed the statement on behalf of the party said “PDP has been thrown into great grief and mourning following the tragic loss of over 30 party faithfuls in a road accident earlier this morning in Zone C Senatorial District of the state. “The party faithful were travelling to the venue of the flag-off of the Senatorial campaign of the candidate of the party in Benue-South senatorial district, Comrade Patrick Abba Moro, which was slated to hold in Agatu today (Friday) when the accident occurred.” He explained that following the development “The event has hereby been postponed in honour of the dead and a new date will be scheduled for it soon.” But, in a statement issued by Terver Akase, Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Ortom said, “Governor Samuel Ortom has symphatised with families of PDP supporter who lost their lives in an accident today (Friday) on their way to Agatu for the party’s senatorial campaign flag-off.” The state PDP Chairman, John Ngbede and the Senatorial candidate, Abba Moro who described the incident as “shocking” also condoled with families of the victims. Governor Ortom, former Senate President, David Mark and other PDP leaders later moved to St. Charles hospital, Adoka, where they paid a visit on the survivors of the accident.