Lagos – A new report from Nielsen has revealed that low minimum wage is taking its toll on Nigerian consumer spending habits, especially during the holiday windows. The report, which x-rayed the third quarter of 2018, however said Nigeria was experiencing a slow, but steady recovery. According to the latest Nielsen Africa Prospects Report 2018, Nigeria reached its best level in three years on the prospects ranking. The report noted however that in the third-quarter 2018, consumer confidence was slightly dampened, blaming the combined effects of low economic growth, the strain of continued, high inflation and the political climate on the upcoming elections, which it said had led to a drop in consumer confidence of four points to 118. “Wallets remain stretched, with consumers struggling to make ends meet. The opinion around minimum wages being too low has also taken its toll on confidence levels and is reflected in consumers’ spending habits. The waning sentiment means consumers are more cautious, reverting to a savings mindset,” the report said in part. The report showed that at a total basket level, FMCG spend continues to show value growth, however, the annual growth had slowed from the previous year. Globally, the economic and spending trends stay positive past the year’s midway mark, adding that as 2018 winds down, economic and consumer spending trends for a majority of markets around the world were in better standing than they were earlier in the year. While an array of factors could contribute to economic and spending conditions from market to market, inflation remained a relative constant across many markets, and was behind the modest FMCG sales upticks that some countries reported in the period. The report noted that across Europe, volume of sales dipped in just five countries, especially in North America where both the U.S. and Canada saw a return to modest dollars sales growth, but inflation continues to keep volume sales relatively flat. “In Latin America, the economy remains the top concern among consumers, which we see reflected in their spending, as dollar sales dipped quarter-over-quarter. Nevertheless, the region’s economic conditions are better than they were at the start of the year, with nominal FMCG growth in the third quarter of just under 4 per cent. “From an economic standpoint, Asia-Pacific stands out globally, as six of the 10 countries in the region boast the highest GDP growth globally. And across Africa-Middle East, the region’s mild economic rebound grew in the recent quarter, suggesting a favorable FMCG outlook for the year end.”