ASABA – Peace is still far from the crisis between the people of Ekiugbo community in Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State and Catholic Mission in the area. Recently, the community issued a two-week ultimatum to the catholic mission to hands off their claims of ownership to the government school in Ekiugbo. Since the expiration of the ultimatum with nothing serious achieved in terms of settlement, there has not been no love lost within those who are Catholics and non-Catholics in the community. Speaking during a peaceful demonstration by some community members, the President General of the community, Mr. Ovwigho Emmanuel, said that the community did not sell the land to the catholic mission but was leased to them. He stressed that the claim to ownership by the mission was erroneous which he said informed why Ekiugbo community issued a two-week ultimatum to the catholic mission to hands off their claims of ownership to the government school in the community. Ovwigho, who lamented that they were surprised that the school, which was expected to open for the new academic session after pupils were given admission could not, because the mission stopped the government, claiming that the land belongs to the community. “On our side, we the community, the owners of the land, told the mission that we didn’t sell the land to them”, and in as far as they want to deprive the common man and their children from going to school, we will equally disturb”, he said. Speaking further, he disclosed that Ekiugbo community gave the mission two weeks ultimatum to rescind their claims to ownership of the land and allow the school to open or be forced to quit the land. “We gave two weeks ultimatum and at the expiration of the two weeks, if they refuse to hands off from the school, we shall forcefully ask them to quit the land because we did not sell the land to them”, he stated. Ovwigho disclosed that before the protest, they wrote to local and state governments informing them of the protest which he said was the first stage of their action. The President General said what they were doing was for the interest of the common man, adding that school fees of the mission school was unaffordable and that they would not relent in their fight to get the school back to government. They were also at the palace of the Ovie of Ughelli to express their grievances, where the Ovie, Dr Wilson Oharisi III, JP, expressed his concern for the interest of the community but told them to exercise caution while fighting for their rights.