Tyra Banks has hit back at Winnie Harlow after she claimed America’s Next Top Model did nothing for her career. The star appeared on Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen, and was put in the hot seat during a quick fire round of fan questions. Phoning in from home, one viewer dared to put forward the question we have all been wanting to know the answer to. Asking Tyra about her thoughts on Winnie’s comments, she said: ‘What do you think about model Winnie claiming that America’s Next Top Model does nothing for anyone’s career and is nothing but a reality show?’ Things felt a little tense as Trya smirked: ‘Did she say that? I discovered her on Instagram.’  As the audience cheered on the 44-year-old, she added: ‘Well, I discovered her on Instagram, and she’s on this show, so what do you think that means?’ Tyra then went onto continue how she has ‘nothing but love’ for her girls, even for the ones who ‘act out.’ She told the host: ‘They all come from so many walks of life and so much pain and so much hardship and so much story. ‘And a lot of the times when people express themselves in certain ways there is a reason. I will respect her confidentiality and her life but… I have to give love to her.’ She concluded: ‘They’re all my babies even the ones that act out, they’re still my babies.’ In a previous episode of the same show, Winnie had expressed her views on the reality show and told her fans that it wasn’t what she had signed up for. She said: ‘So I really started after the show because that really didn’t do anything for my career, which it doesn’t do for any model’s career realistically.’ The shade of it all. Winnie then went on to reveal how a photographer after the show had asked to do a shoot, which she claims went viral and her career hasn’t stopped since. The 24-year-old continued: ‘I thought that was going to be a career started but it was really like a reality TV show – that’s not what I signed up for. ‘It was still a part of my history and I am really proud of everything I’ve done to get where I am.’ 