Kaduna – In pursuit of a lasting solution to the lingering farmers-herders crises that have bedeviled the country in recent times, a one-day conference on “Crop and Livestock Farmers’ Dialogue for Peace in Nigeria,” was held in Kaduna State on Thursday. At the conference, stakeholders noted with dismay that the Federal Government had fallen short of expectations in its efforts at providing lasting solutions that had placed many lived at harms’ way. The conference, which was sponsored by the King Abdulah Bin Abdullazeez International Centre for Inter-Religious and Cultural Dialogue, in collaboration with Interfaith Mediation Forum for Peace, noted with concern that the inclusiveness and peaceful coexistence enjoyed by all in years past, have been eroded and replaced with mistrust, suspicion and hate for one another. Stakeholders at the conference, which was drawn from MACBAN, Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), traditional rulers, among others, noted that trivial issues, which could be amicably resolved, had assumed ethnic and religious colouration, thereby undermining the unity of the country even as they observed that government needed to involve all major stakeholders and invest where it wants to invest or engage public-private partnership. At the end of the conference, a communiqué, which was signed by Amina Kazaure of the Women Interfaith Council), Ruth Joshua Magaji (CAN Women Wing, Kaduna State), Haruna Usman (MACBAN Chairman of the Kaduna State branch), Usman Ibrahim Michika (AFAN chairman, Adamawa State Chapter) and Charles U. Ndukwe (Interfaith Mediation Centre, Kaduna), stated that the three tiers of government should come up with articulate guidelines on how to address the issues in the communities. Others are Imam Nurayn Mohammed Ashafa (Interfaith Mediation Centre), Mohammed Yusuf Ahmed (AFAN Kaduna State) and Saleh Alhassan (Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore). According to the communique, members advised that drivers of conflict should be identified and prosecuted. It also advised that professionals in conflict management should be engaged to revive community relations for unity. “We should harness internal and external collaboration to find sustainable solution to the crises”. “Government should avoid policy summersault and come up with a deliberate and workable policy to address the crises; “The regional and urban planning laws should be deliberately designed to encourage intra and inter ethno-religious habitation; “Efforts should be made to recover existing grazing reserves, trans-human stock routes, resting points and watering facilities for livestock farmers, and “Livestock and Crops Farmers Commission should be established. At the end, it enjoined government to have an incentive for the livestock farmers like they do for their crop counterparts such as the anchor borrower program. Participants at the conference noted that security agencies should be more thorough and unbiased in investigating the root causes of the crises. The participants equally observed that the problem of proliferation of small and light weapons, illegal security uniforms, hard drugs and influx of aliens should be effectively monitored. It called for capacity building for crop and livestock farmers along the line of agricultural value chain while urging all the three tiers of government, traditional and religious institutions, as well as community-based organizations to join hands in fighting the menace. The participants urged the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) to regulate the activities of the vigilante groups. The meeting observed that the criminal justice system should be quick in the dispensation of justice and enjoined government to address poverty and youth unemployment.