HABEEB HAZEEZ, INNOCENT OWEH Sokoto/ ABUJA – Former President, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, is dead. Nuradeen Mahe, a grandson to the late President Shagari, who confirmed his death to our correspondent in Sokoto, disclosed that he gave up the ghost about 6.20pm at the National Hospital, Abuja. “You know that he had been down for long with age-related sickness. His situation deteriorated that he had to be flown to Abuja on Tuesday. “But, Alhamdulilah, he gave up the ghost at around 6.20 pm today (Friday), at the National Hospital, Abuja,” Nuradeen Mahe, a grandson to late President Shagari stated. As at the time of going to press, the Sokoto State government had not reacted to the nonagenarian’s death. Phone calls put across to the Abubakar Shekara, Director-General, Media and Publicity to Governor Aminu Tambuwal, were unsuccessful. Aged 93, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, was Nigeria President between October 1979 to December 1993, under the platform of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN). His second tenure was truncated by a coup d’etat, that saw incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari, assuming office as Head of State and Commander-in-Chief, in December 1983. His remains will be flown to Sokoto tomorrow for burial according to Islamic rites. The former leader was born February 25, 1925 in Shagari, in Sokoto. After his early education, he worked as a teacher for a brief period before entering politics in 1951. In 1954, he was elected to the federal House of Representatives. He served seven times in a ministerial or cabinet post as a federal minister and federal commissioner from 1958–1975, before he was elected president in 1979. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed great sadness at the news of the passing away of Alhaji Shehu Shagari. President Buhari said, “On behalf of my family, the government and the people of Nigeria, it is with immense sadness that I received the news of the passing away of the First Executive President of Nigeria, Alhaji Shehu Shagari which event happened   Friday in Abuja.” The President described the death as the departure of a  patriot whose life of service and humility was widely acknowledged. He recalled part of the birthday message he (Buhari) sent to him last February when he said, “we are enthralled and regaled with the many years of unequalled patriotism, sacrifices and contributions to national development. More specifically, we celebrate the role modelling qualities of integrity, diligence and humility that have been the hallmark of your visionary leadership.” Buhari, in a statement by his media aide, Femi Adesina however said he was grateful to God that Alhaji Shagari lived to a ripe age and led an exemplary life, which he urges Nigerians of all walks of life  to emulate. “Nigerians held him in the highest esteem even when he was out of office until his demise and will forever miss his wise counsels.” He prayed that Almighty God  will comfort the family of the ex-president and all those who mourn him and will grant the soul of the late nonagenarian  eternal rest. Also, Former Delta State Governor, Chief James Onanefe Ibori has said that Shagari was a gentlemanly President who showed that power, no matter how mighty, could be used moderately. “He showed us that a President was first of all a citizen just like every other Nigerian and was only a President to servwe the cause of the citizenry.” Ibori said that Nigerians should do well to learn the right lessons that abound in  the life of Shagari. “Even after leaving office on the first day of 1994, he maintained a dignity that was uncommon in our shores. He gave his advice to the nation or the leaders when it was necessary, always desirous of pointing out the right way in every matter, never forgetting for once that as a man who was voted into the exalted office of the President, the nation had become his constituency.”