The Acting Chairman, Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC), Mr. Victor Muruako, yesterday charged some Federal Government agencies, including the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to promptly remit operating surplus into the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF). Mr. Bede Anyanwu, Acting Head, Strategic Communication Directorate, FRC, in a statement made available to our correspondent, said Muruako gave the charge at a stakeholders’ meeting with the managements of the said agencies. Other agencies are the Nigerian Tourism Development Commission (NTDC), National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA). Muruako accused the listed agencies of not submitting their annual audited accounts, receipts of their remittances, budgets and Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) to the commission, thereby hampering prompt and accurate determination of operating surplus liabilities. He observed that the independent revenue drive of the Federal Government was not encouraging and accused the agencies of non-compliance with the provisions of Section 21, 22 and 23 of the Fiscal Responsibility Act (FRA), 2007. The statement also quoted Mr. Ola Tijani, the Head, Monitoring and Evaluation of FRC as saying “the aforementioned agencies may have been doing some things right to ensure compliance’’. But, however, said that there must be proof of prudence, accountability and transparency in financial reporting to be in line with the FRA. The statement added: “Compliance entails that the agencies prepare and publish their audited financial statements not later than 90 days after the financial year. Without audited financial statements, there is no way the commission can determine appropriate liabilities. “There is therefore, the need for agencies to reposition their operations to comply with the provisions of the Act.’’ Tijanni said that the commission was ready to offer capacity building on the provisions of the FRA, particularly on the preparation of MTEF and the correct application of FRC Operating Surplus Template. Responding, Mrs. Nike, Aboderin, pleaded for time to enable the agency make all the necessary documentations that would henceforth make it possible for them to pay operating surplus. Aboderin, who was represented at the occasion by Mr. Adegbesan Abiodun, General Manager, Finance, FAAN, said there was the need for the preparation of improved estimation of MTEF with efficient narratives to highlight the activities of the agencies. She declared that the figures submitted in MTEF were not adequate to satisfy the need for prudence, transparency and accountability. He, however, assured the commission that FAAN was ready to collaborate with the FRC in its efforts to improve the independent revenue generation drive of the Federal Government.