JOHN OMACHONU Nigerian politicians have become harbingers of hate speech, with those in power and opposition flouting the rules of engagement by the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) and the Abdulsalam Abubakar led Peace Committee. Also, lack of clarity and tardiness on some economic policies, with other external forces like tightening global financing conditions, which has resulted to capital outflows, elevated global risk aversion, among others have continued to put pressures on the local currency with the attendant impoverishment of the citizens. Consequently, the heightening political tension may have relegated economic issues and actions to the background, while also putting investors on the edge, posing some of the biggest risks to the Africa’s biggest economy. Despite signing an undertaking by the parties to embark on issue-based campaigns, what we have witnessed so far, seem total disregard by the political gladiators. The worst culprits, so far, are the politicians of the ruling APC and opposition PDP, who have been enmeshed in the issues of cloning or visa for entry to America, by the two flag bearers. The states are not faring better either as some of the incumbents are at daggers drawn with their political godfathers. Consequently, some of the governors have left governance completely for their political relevance strategies and particularly, seeking alliances with opposition parties to outwit their godfathers so as to win re-election. Analysis by Sunday INDEPENDENT reveals that while the politicians continue with their scaring allegations and counter allegations under the guise of campaign, the economy remains anemic with rising risks of defaults on the few facilities by some banks due to lack of conducive environment for investments. “The current happenings in the country are evil winds that do nobody any good, and the better the politicians realize it the better for all of us. What we are experiencing on daily basis are hate speeches, campaigns of calumny and character assassination, that are further heating up the polity and scaring investors. The environment is becoming business unfriendly to the extent that you cannot invest in anything new due to tension, while banks have completely withdrawn to their shells, with few of them giving to only high net worth individuals, with less repayment risks. Is this all elections and politicking all about,” laments Friday Ameh, Lagos based analyst. Bloomberg Economists recently alluded to the development, saying   the year ahead probably won’t bring the end of the cycle, “but risks are growing and new sources of fuel are needed.” Bismarck Rewane, chief executive of Financial Derivatives Company said in his recent publication, “As we approach the 2019 elections, investors are being cautious about the likely changes and implications of economic policy before and after the elections.  However with a 5.08% decline in External Reserves, a 0.05% rise in inflation and a fall in consumer confidence, investors are now more nervous than optimistic about 2019.  For now all eyes are on the release of the long delayed unemployment data.  The cheery news is that oil production is back up to 1.8mbp.” According to analysts at the Renaissance Capital, “Nigeria’s revenue collection came in at 52 per cent below its target in the first 8 months of the year, with the shortfall largely due to oil revenues that were one-third below target.” Oil price decline at the international market is currently adding to the unease over the economy, with the likely review of the 2019 budget. This is because the continued nose-diving of the commodity price is threatening the $60/bpd in next year’s budget. Africa’s biggest oil producer relies on crude oil sales to fund its budget and is responsible for over 85 percent of the country’s revenue and a fall in revenue as currently being experienced, means, another round of threats to the economy. For instance, current Fitch Ratings on emerging markets, which Nigeria is one, showed that Emerging Market Sovereign Pressures would persist in 2019 According to the November 19, report, the ratings agency says that the key sources of the pressure on emerging markets (EMs) over the summer remain in place. The impact of tighter US monetary policy, a strengthening dollar, and risks to global trade and growth will continue to be felt in 2019. Global economic growth remains supportive of sovereign credit quality generally, and the sustained recovery in hard commodity prices since 2016 has given a boost to EM exporters. However, a combination of country-specific events and risks, and wider developments – including US rate rises, tighter financial conditions and trade protectionism – have resulted in Fitch reducing its growth forecasts for several EMs during 2018. Some external adjustments are under way and policy responses are being mounted, but these are not costless. For example, interest rate rises may help contain pressure on EM currencies, but monetary tightening from a relatively loose starting point is another barrier to growth. And while many EM central banks typically say that they only intervene in currency markets to smooth volatility, data suggests that they may spend reserves to prevent even greater depreciation, depleting external buffers. For instance, Nigeria’s Central Bank may have done well by keeping the local currency, naira, stable, but with great cost, in the areas of dwindling foreign reserves and yields rise. Similarly, according to Bloomberg, Carlyle’s Travails in Diamond Bank Show Hazards of Investing in Nigerian Banks According to the December 3, report, “If any investor wanted to get a sense of how tough the Nigerian banking sector can be, they could do worse than speak to the world’s third-biggest buyout firm.” According to Bloomberg, Carlyle Group LP, made its first investment in Nigeria in August 2014, buying $147 million of shares in Lagos-based Diamond Bank Plc. At the time, it said the lender was well-positioned to benefit from Nigeria’s status as one of the fastest-growing economies on the continent and enthused how it could become one of the largest financial institutions in West Africa. Since then, the bank’s shares have lost 94 percent of their value in dollars, and Carlyle is yet to make another Nigerian purchase. The trigger for the collapse was the 2014 oil-price crash, which started just as Carlyle made its investment. That hammered Nigeria’s economy — growth was 0.8 percent last year, having averaged more than 6 percent in the first half of the decade — and caused non-performing loans to soar. Lenders also had to contend with a shrinking economy in 2016. Diamond Bank had a dire November, with its stock dropping 54 percent amid downgrades by Moody’s Investors Service and S&P Global Ratings, its worst monthly performance yet. Some traders also fretted about whether it would have enough cash to repay a $200 million Eurobond maturing in May, which the bank’s management has said won’t be a problem. Diamond Bank’s scarcely the only Nigerian lender to suffer in the past four years. Even bigger rivals, including Guaranty Trust Bank Plc and Zenith Bank Plc, have seen their share prices fall by more than 45 percent in dollar terms. The stock of Bob Diamond’s Atlas Mara Ltd., the main holding of which is Union Bank Nigeria Plc, is trading near a record low and down 81 percent since it was listed five years ago. With tense presidential elections scheduled for February and the naira coming under pressure amid a fresh slump in oil prices, investors don’t seem to think there will be an improvement soon.