LAGOS – It seemed like mere social media propaganda when Aremu Afolayan, filmmaker and actor son of the late entertainer, Ade Love took to social media to rant about his perceived mistreatment at Nigeria’s Lagos Airport. But when Kemi Adetiba, producer of latest box office hit, shared her experience in a number of threads via her Twitter account, Saturday INDEPENDENT decided to give the airport situation a second look. It is no news that thousands of Nigerians and foreigners travel out of the country on a daily basis and more than half of that number go through the Murtala Mohammed International Airport in Lagos. For many years now, travellers through the Lagos airport have constantly complained about the level of extortion at the airport. From the officials at the point of entry to the terminal, to the airline officials designated to check in passengers, tales of corporate begging and outright extortion have been shared. Listening to many of the stories, it seemed almost surreal. To enter Lagos International Airport, passengers are met with officials known as Aviation Security personnel. Airport users sometimes mistake these officials for immigration or customs officers, but they really are not. They are merely airport security men charged with the duty of overseeing threats to security and easy flow of human traffic. Their job is also to prevent people without evidence of travelling from gaining access to the airport terminal. About two months ago, on an unofficial and unplanned visit to the airport, Saturday INDEPENDENT was met by officials who insisted on knowing why we wanted to go into the terminal. While standing outside, a woman who identified herself as Eunice said we should have simply tipped them to gain entrance. “Just squeeze small money and give them and you will enter ‘free’,” she said ironically. Just like a prophetess, a man who was evidently travelling and was escorted by two women was seen folding a couple of Naira notes into his passport before handing it over to the officials. The official was seen surreptitiously sliding out the notes before handing the passport back to the traveller, after which he was let into the terminal accompanied by his companions. This is just one story of many. Michael, an IT official in a reputable firm in Ibadan also shared his experience while travelling to South Africa. He said, “Before I checked in, the woman at the counter insisted that she must know how much I had in my account before she would let me go. I told her I had money, but she insisted that she must see the money. One of her other assistants now called me aside that if I stay there and continue to prove my right, that I would miss my flight, and that the airline would still fine me for no show, so instead of wasting that money and time, I should find ‘something good’ for them so that they would let me go. At that point, I didn’t have a lot of Naira on me, so I took out all I had on me, which was N5000 and placed it in my passport. I walked up to the counter again with renewed hope, and when she asked me how much was there and I told her N5000, she just laughed and said I was not serious yet and I would definitely miss my flight. She then told me that unless I give her N20,000, I was going nowhere. That was when I got angry. I ran down with my ATM card to a cash machine and withdrew N100,000, converted it at a bureau de change within the airport to about 4000 Rands and ran back to the counter. By this time, I had barely 30 minutes left. Immediately she saw me with the money, she smiled and allowed them checked me in. After all the stress they put me through, she had the audacity to ask if I was not going to make her ‘people’ happy, that I can’t go without ‘shaking body’. I was furious but I just walked away from them. That was my first time flying out of the country, and they made it a horrible experience for me. Whenever I need to travel now, I budget about N10,000 for tips so that no one will give me any trouble.” Adetiba and Afolayan’s story, while different, have the same undertone of extortion and begging by officials. On Adetiba of Nollywood blockbusters ‘The Wedding Party’ and ‘King of Boys’ fame, she shared her experience in a series of tweets: “My flight from Paris was delayed for almost six hours yesterday. If I thought that was the worst my day could get, I was wrong. I got back into Lagos at about 2am and this is where a series of unfortunate events unfolded… Right there at ‘my’ country’s airport. “Going through immigration and picking my luggage was a relative breeze. As I approached customs, I knew all would not be well as I saw a lady’s eyes light up like I was a fowl approaching a den of hyenas. I was still a good distance away when she beckoned for my porter and I to pull aside. Now I had only been gone a week (to give a ‘keynote’ speech) and then took out a few days to rest before returning to Nigeria, so I didn’t do any shopping asides a bottle of perfume I had bought for a friend. Mildly irritated, I stepped aside and reached in my bag to get my passport and keys to my suitcase. Luckily, I had bumped into a friend in Paris. We ended up hanging together and as luck would have it, he sat next to me on the plane. He was there with me. “She asked to open all the bags, but not finding anything, zeroed on the perfume gift and my small travel speakers. She asked I show her an invoice for the speakers. I told her I no longer had it, and asked her why, as it was a personal item. By the way this lady’s name is ‘Ojo’. “She then leads me to a counter where she pulls out a booklet (I’m assuming rules manual), she drops the manual and pulls another one (no difference) then opens a page, and without showing me what was inside goes, ‘you know we charge duty on items more than N50,000, right?’ “I said, duty on a personal/used item? She starts getting nervous. She goes back to the perfume and asks I open it. That’s when my patience starts to wear thin and I firmly told her I would not open the bottle of perfume as it was a gift. Luckily, my friend with me was present at the time of purchase, so he also decides to buy one for himself as well. As it was for personal use, he offers to open up the packaging of his own bottle for them to see. I apologise to him that he has to do this. Seeing she wasn’t winning there she goes back to my speaker and demands an invoice for it. Friend reiterates that it is a personal, used belonging. She insists on an invoice, I insist she’s joking and she can call her supervisor. She starts getting nervous as she sees I’m ready to take this to the end and will not be shaken down for money. “She makes an uninspired call for ‘valuation’, but no one shows up. Of course, another rues to rattle me. I ask for the guy handling valuation, someone now says, ‘he’s praying’. How convenient. Seeing as I was ready to take this on she transfers me to another gentleman ‘Eni . O.’ “He asks for the invoice for the speaker. My friend again points out that it is a personal item. Just the same way he shouldn’t ask for the invoice of my laptop, why is he asking for this one. I give him the speaker to inspect. “He says something to another colleague which I mistake for him talking to me. I say, ‘I beg your pardon’, he rudely says ‘Madam I was not talking to you’, like he was beneath speaking to me. A woman. He then turns to my friend to speak to him about my speaker. “Each time I try to add to the conversation concerning my speaker with my male friend, he eyes me and rudely says, ‘Madam, we are not talking to you.’ Like it was a man’s club and I wasn’t invited to participate. Meanwhile on my property o. “At this point, I lose it and get on my phone. Sensing something might be happening, he asks my friend whom I am calling? And why am I getting so worked up. My friend responds we’ve had a long flight, everyone is tired yet we get out to them chasing red herrings in a suitcase. “My friend asks a valid question, ‘why didn’t you ask for the invoice of my laptop or my phone’, man couldn’t answer. He obviously knows he’s been caught out, but is still dancing around not wanting to lose face. Ms Ojo has fled completely. “At this point, I interject again asking, “Just so I am clear, what you are saying is that you insist on an invoice and charge duty on any item, regardless of if it is personal, or used?’ I can see he is troubled by my need of clarity. He doesn’t answer. Just says again ‘Madam I was not talking to you. I am talking to your friend.’ “I reiterate at this point that the item in issue has nothing to do with my friend. We didn’t travel together. It belongs to me, yet he still insists on dealing with my friend on the matter instead? “He doesn’t know how to answer. I make a mental note of his name and he catches me looking at his nametag. He freaks out asking why I am taking down his name. I respond that the reason they wear nametags at all is so they can be identified. Now he is really nervous. “He calls my friend aside and ask him why I am taking down his name. Their shake down ends 10 seconds later and they want us to go. If they had good intentions, why wrap it up as soon as you see me taking down your name.” Adetiba ends her epistle with the tweet, “The government really needs to do something about customs officers. Not all custom officers are bad (I have met some very pleasant ones) but there are very bad eggs that use the power to shake weak people down for money. “I was only lucky because I was firm, I refused to be intimidated, I knew my rights and I was ready to act on them. There are thousands of people that walk through those doors that don’t and unfortunately fall for this intimidation scam. “We all know this happens, yet nothing is done about it. I was speaking to an expatriate, just hours before in Paris, and he was complaining about his treatment at Nigerian airports. At every single stop, they try to get money off him by cuddle or by force. Corruption has eaten so deep into our core and it is an absolute shame. We shouldn’t allow people use their offices or uniforms to ‘rob’ or frustrate Nigerians or any other people. Our airport needs an entire overhaul. From the workers to the actual infrastructure. “Anyway, I have vented enough. But Ms. Ojo and Mr. Eni. O. – una try yesterday, but unfortunately for you, I try pass una.” Adetiba’s rant has inspired the ‘me too’ campaign on the treatment of people and extortion that goes on at Nigerian airports. According to Tayo Adekoya, a travel journalist who recently passed through Nigeria to Ghana for the just concluded All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA) that took place in Ghana a week ago, her experience on the Nigerian side of the trip was ‘hell’, while the Ghana end felt ethereal, a complete contrast. She shared that, “at the point where you have to take off your shoes and bags to be searched, the lady official who was conducting the search and had to rub certain parts of my body as required, kept whispering to me ‘how far na, fine sister. Anything for me?’ I felt violated. I wasn’t sure if she was asking for a sexual favour or a monetary favour. All I know is that she was shameless about it.” Saturday INDEPENDENT spoke to Mr. Babajide Fadiya, a stakeholder in the aviation industry, and CEO, Baggage Support Services Limited, Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos. He said, “The environment in which we are, the Nigerian society itself, gives room for a lot of lapses in the system, which also give room for people to do such thing in the economic situation. I cannot dispute that such activities take place, but the question is the airport authority has put in so much effort to prevent such misrepresentation or act, by saying that every official in the airport, especially the uniformed people should display their name badges. Not only pinned to the uniform, but sewn to the uniform. So if any official requests for any undue funds from anybody, the names are there. The names and departments are displayed on the uniforms. “In the first place, why are you giving money if you are legitimate? If I am coming to the airport for a genuine reason, why should I pay anybody, or why should I be put under pressure to pay any money or to consent to pay that money if I am fully legitimate? So I want to categorically state that it is illegal people dealing with illegal people. No legal official will want to put his job on the line by openly demanding for undue money. For what? If I have come to buy a ticket from the airport and I am coming to the ticketing officer for the airline, I’ll present my documents if I am so asked to and I move on. If any official asks me for undue money, I would ask for what reason, and that he would issue me a receipt for that. But if I agree to give such money to such official, it means what I am coming to do is not genuine. It takes two to tango. There is always a giver and a receiver. And in the law of contract, there must be offer, consideration and acceptance to make it a contract. So why am I offering or accepting? The moment I give, that means I have given consent and am also involved in the illicit act.” When asked about the restrictions placed on entry to the terminal, Fadiya said: “That is there to control crowd. One may say the airport is a tourist centre for people to come around, but then there are restricted areas in the airport. You would see one person travelling and the whole village comes to see that person off and they all want to come in. If you have an average of 5000 travellers, and you have three or four people escorting one person, that means it would become overpopulated and congested. Is that even good for the health of the people involved? So there should be measures to control the crowd. Don’t also forget that they have to guard against so many security risks. There are people who have come as touts, who have come to dislodge passengers of valuables. Don’t also forget that there are businesses operating within the terminal, and the airport authority has the responsibility to secure those businesses. So there should be measures to reduce and control the influx of people into the terminal. That is why that check is at the gate.” Efforts to reach the public relations officer (PRO) of Nigerian Customs Service, Mr Ephraim Haruna did not yield needed result. While receptive to the questions, he said he was busy and offered to respond to the questions later. But Saturday INDEPENDENT received no response as at press time. Airports, they say, see more sincere kisses than wedding halls. That’s because it is a point of parting and reconnecting and those emotions leave lasting memories. But in the case of the Nigerian airport, there is more to that story as it is not one of longing departure or sweet reconnecting, but a new haven for corporate begging and back room deals that impact on our image as a nation.