Jos – Simon Lalong , Plateau State Governor, has promised  to team up  with President Muhammadu Buhari  administration towards ensuring  that 2019 general elections are free, fair and credible polls that will meet international standards. Governor Lalong  in an interview  in Jos at Jos Law week organised on Monday  by  Nigeria Bar Association, Jos Branch stated  that the Nigerian Police should exercise their constitutional responsibility on the implementation of  the law against vote buying to serve as deterrent to those who see the criminal act as business. According to him, the conduct of free, fair and credible election does not only lies on Government but the citizens of Nigeria has a great role to play. Today we are approaching 20 years of uninterrupted democracy, I will support President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Government in the conduct of free, fair and credible elections in 2019. “We will continue to amend our laws to address our attitudes towards election and that will guarantee sustainable democracy in Nigeria. The conduct of free, fair and acceptable election is everybody’s business, government is going to embark on a lot of sensitization and to let people know and understand that their vote is their strength.” He urged Nigerians to be conscious of politicians who will want to influence their opinion against the current administration and advised them to resist such people. “People should not allow anybody to toy with their votes, they should vote based on their conscience for the enthronement of credible leaders in the country in 2019. “A committee has been constituted to work against vote buying in 2019 and there are laws about vote buying, all we need at this point is implementation by the Nigeria Police, that will serve as deterrent to those who see it as business.” Key note speaker  at the occasion who is the former President of Church of Christ In Nations, Rev. Prof. Pandang Yamsat,  charged Lawyers  to demand for the conduct of free, fair and credible elections in 2019 to avoid unnecessary litigation.