ILORIN – A 27-year –old final year student of the University of Ilorin has reportedly committed suicide in his residence at an area off the campus of the institution in Ilorin The deceased, identified as Adigun, Olawale Emmanuel, we gathered was supposed to have graduated at the just concluded 2017/2018 academic session of the University but had to repeat his final year because he could not be through with his research work. It was gathered that the deceased in the Faculty of Agriculture of the university had reportedly been disturbed by his failure to graduate in last session before he allegedly committed the suicide. The deceased who reportedly left a note behind in the social media was said to have died after he drank a pesticide, Sniper. In his note he indicated that he had been accused of ‘copy and paste’, a reference to plagiarism in research works. The incident happened on Thursday night at Oke-Odo, a student-populated area in Ilorin, Kwara state, but the corpse was only discovered on Saturday after neighbours noticed a foul smell oozing out of his room. When the door was broken, his bloated body was found on the floor. Some neighbours claimed the deceased had been subject to depression since he failed to make the last graduation list of the institution. It was gathered that the deceased had communicated his intention to end his life to a female friend who however pleaded with him to have a rethink and face the challenge like most other men in life. According to available records from his social media interactions, the deceased had uploaded a picture of the Sniper on his WhatsApp page at about 5.14 pm, some two hours after he had lamented online about his situation to his friend. He had opened the conversation at about 3.39 pm when he said in short statements: ‘same research work. He said I did copy and paste. Ever since den, things changed from bad to worst. Am in a deep mess @the moment. My life don tire me. I feel like dying. I wish I can sleep and wake not wake up again”. His friend however responded with words of encouragement, “Don’t give up bros, it gets better”. And as if he had accepted the admonition, the deceased had then responded, “I pray xo, Thanks a lot for ur concern. I appreciate a lot. May God continue to bless you. Amen.” However by the time he uploaded the Sniper picture, his friend apparently became frantic and pleaded with him not to take any wrong step. The friend said: “Wale Abeg, Calm Down. Abeg You In the Name of God. Nothing Happen wey God no know about ooo please don’t do anything stupid ooooo”. Director of Information of the university, Kunle Akogun, said he was yet to be briefed about the incident. Spokesman of the state police command, Ajayi Okasanmi, he had not received any report on it.