Lagos – Senator Gbenga Ashafa, lawmaker representing  Lagos East senatorial district  has appealed to Nigerians to support President Muhammadu Buhari and his deputy, Vice- President Yemi Osinbajo in next year’s presidential election. While calling on Nigerians to vote for all the candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC), he also appealed to Lagosians to ensure continuity of the good works in the state by voting for  Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the governorship  candidate of the party as well as his running mate, Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat. The  ranking lawmaker who stated this in his Christmas and New Year message  also enjoined Nigerians to spread joy this season and to be their brothers’ keeper at all times. Ashafa, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Land Transport also appealed to Nigerians to keep the ideals of Christmas even after the celebrations while also urging them to treat others how they want to be  treated. His message reads “I use this medium to wish my Christian brothers and sisters in Lagos East, Lagos State and entire Nigeria a joyous celebration of Christmas. The yuletide season commemorates every good, precious and pure ideals that we share”. “I encourage each and every one of us to allow ourselves be infected by the spirit of joy this beautiful season as you mark the birth of Christ”. “It is important that we all remember that behind Christmas is the idea that we are to be our brother’s keeper and our sister’s keeper; that we should treat others as we would want to be treated and to share our love with all and sundry. It is my hope that this Christmas reminds us of these values as we keep them even after the celebration. “While we are in the festive mood, let’s all be consciously reminded that the 2019 general elections is just around the corner. It is on this note that I implore each and every one of us for the good of our dear state Lagos State and great Nation Nigeria to go out enmasse to galvanise support for the All Progressives Congress (APC) from the Ward to the National Level”. “As we celebrate, it would be a good platform to equally share our support for President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, the APC candidate for Lagos State Gubernatorial election,  Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his running mate,  Obafemi Hamzat as well as all other candidates running on the platform of the APC. Once again I wish us all a merry and joy filled Christmas”.