President of Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, at the weekend stated that the current efforts of the Federal Government at diversifying the economy to an agriculture centered one remained the viable solution to creating a healthy economy. Dangote who, was speaking his office during a meeting with some business men from Asia, in Lagos said it was because of his belief in the government approach at re-energising the economy that made him to step up his investment in agriculture especially in the area of food sufficiency. According to him, Nigeria had wasted so much foreign exchange importing foods that ordinarily should be produced locally and even exported and that until a new approach at redirecting the economy from import dependent to an export one, which the present government was leading, no meaningful changes could happen. He said: “We have invested massively in rice, sugar, dairy products and tomatoes. Our rice-out grower scheme will produce rice by next year that reduces our rice import to nearly zero because Nigeria imports more than half of the rice it consumes. We have expanded our sugar operations with our operations in Tonga in Nasarawa in addition to Numan sugar projects where sugarcane is cultivated planted for raw sugar production that will be refined. “Some months ago, we laid the foundation for the construction of ultra-modern rice processing integrated plant that will process 16 metric tons of paddy rice in one hour, by the time you multiply this by the number of hours and days it operates, you will understand that this is huge. The interesting thing about investment in agric is that apart from food production sufficiency, the job potential is unquantifiable.” Dangote told his guests that his company was investing massively in agribusiness, promoting industrialisation through the backward integration process to ensure Nigeria became self-reliant in food production in good time and save it of the much needed foreign exchange hitherto being spent on importation. He explained further that in the second phase, other mills will be built in Nasarawa, Kogi, and other states, noting that with the six mills, the company would achieve a capacity of 700,000 metric tons per annum of Par boiled rice. 