Nigerian entertainers are not known for mediocrity. They explore genres that many African artistes wouldn’t even consider, and this has numbered them among some of Africa’s and the world’s best. Olanrewaju Fasasi, popularly known as Sound Sultan, however, does not belong to this genre of entertainers; he has maintained a satiric streak over the years that have been as unchanging and unwavering as his looks. Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade caught up with him in the beautiful city of Accra at the All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA), and he answered questions on music, fashion and his many other exploits. What has the year 2018 been like for you? I’d say mixed feelings, but then again, positive feelings top it all because I’m still here to thank God for a successful year. When you look at it, a lot of people are not with us anymore and that is just the reason for the mixed feelings. But again, God knows best, and life goes on. So far, this year has been very wonderful. I had my concert that I had been dreaming about, it has been very successful musically and a lot of other milestones, I have been able to make. Why did it take you so long to host a concert having been in the industry for so long, about 25 years? I did one in 2012, which is about six years ago. That’s why I tell people that it is not how far, it is how well. This one show of mine will cover for many people’s show that they have done. I’m not bragging, but it’s the amount of content and time I put into it. If you watch it, you will understand what I am saying. It’s a story about the nation and dates as far back as pre-colonial era to recent times. The stories, sarcastic stories and satires. About 25 major celebrities were part of it. It was a 70-man crew, so seriously, it is not something you want to do every other day. It’s not easy. It’s beginning to look like you are not aging even though you have been around for a while. You have been married for years, you have children. How do you maintain these looks so well that you can pass for a GQ model? When you get married as a man, what do you think happens? That they give you a fattening agent? Okay, but even facially, you look so young? That’s just God given, it’s not really me. I feel like sometimes it’s all in the genes, and all you have to do is make sure you package your genes well. You are one of the fashionable ones in the industry. In this era of beard gang and keeping facial hair, not for once have you tried to keep a strand of beard, why? I just want to pass on that because I’m not really down with the beard thing. Then again, I can’t grow one. Let’s talk about your other exploits in the industry. Yes, we are planning a movie next year, I won’t disclose the name. My brother will of course be part of it. The film will star a very big artiste/actor. Of course, my album is ready. I have about two albums ready. Travelling to Ghana, we turned my room into a mini-studio, and we recorded about three hot songs. I can’t wait for people to hear them. Who is your favourite now in the industry with all the good and the bad out there? I don’t pick favourites. I really appreciate and love a lot of these major players right now. I think that Nigerian music has come of age, it is very global, and it is not fair to say that it is rubbish music that is out there. These guys are really brilliant. If you think of how they come up with the songs, how everybody has been able to push and understand the peculiarities of our Nigerian industry, and still push the music and let it roll, you will understand what I’m saying. But for many new age artistes, people argue that most of those who have content, glorify sex, drugs, women, booty shaking, wire-wire, fraud and the likes; what do you think? This is what I’m saying. A lot of people do music to feed their families and themselves. It is a marketplace now. Creativity might not be a direct road to the market sometimes. In a situation like this, the people that are complaining are the ones buying, so it is a very funny and confused state. If the whole of Nigeria is complaining that the music is trash, and at the end of the year, you call everyone that you are calling their music trash to come perform at your shows, you are the one buying it at the end of the day. So if they know that they are getting money for it, why won’t they continue? They have sponsors. When you have sponsors and you do songs with meaning and it is not flying, they will tell you that you have to change it. They would say, ‘Empty out your content and let’s make some money’. Not everyone would have the will and mind of people that started when it wasn’t this commercial. Who knows, if I had come at this time, maybe I would also have been watered down. But I came at a time when it was more of passion than the money. The money kind of grew on us.