Lagos – Though it was a day for feasting, the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP), Lagos State chapter, last week added value to the state’s Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development by boosting the landscape of the ministry through planting of flowers along its corridor. The event, which took place at the state’s secretariat, Alausa, Lagos, was the last official engagement of NITP, Lagos Chapter this year. Members of the institute and other well-wishers, who attended the event, expressed delight over NITP’s initiative boost the state’s landscape. Mrs. Dapo Thomas, Permanent Secretary of the ministry, who received the professionals, assured them of government’s continued support and engagement with NITP. Thomas, who was represented by Mr. Balogun Adekunle, HOD, Technical Intervention Services Department of the ministry, said: “We are very delighted with this gesture.  And we shall continue partner with NITP Lagos, as we strive to ensure a saner neighborhood in our dear state.” The professionals, having deemed it necessary, ended the year with a party. In his welcome address at the family picnic, love feast, Tpl. Adedire, Adebisi, NITP chairman, who noted that 2018 was a busy year for NITP Lagos State Chapter and the Institute at large, said it was good that they should gather to relax. “In the year, we had the Femi Olomola Annual Lecture, NITP Lagos Family meetings, regular monthly meetings, MCPDP, national conference, Lagos Annual General Meeting among others.  So, after such an eventful year, we need a time to cool off and relax.  As it is being said, ‘a boy that works daily needs time to relax’. I must say emphatically that members of NITP Lagos State Chapter have worked tirelessly this year and definitely are entitled to at least one day of relaxation and merriment. It is therefore my pleasure to welcome all members of the chapter, their families, loved ones and well-wishers to this year’s family picnic.  Today is not for long speech but of eating and drinking, so I won’t say much other than warmly welcoming you all.  Please, be free to eat, play and interact, as you like.” Adedire appreciated his members for the support he and his team members have been enjoying since they were elected to serve their institute.  “Let me, however, use this medium to appreciate everyone for the support that has been shown to this administration since its inception.  We are so elated at the contributions we have all made to the progress of the chapter and importantly all activities that have been embarked upon.  We solicit your continued supports and we are optimistic that with your backing, we would achieve greater exploits in the coming year.”