AWKA – The Wife of the governor of Anambra State, and founder of Caring Family Enhancement Initiative (CAFÉ), Mrs. Ebelechukwu Obiano (Osodieme), last Wednesday took her philanthropy a step further when she handed over four more houses built for three widows and an indigent family at Ogbunike, Oyi Local Government Area and Aguleri in Anambra East Local Government. Mrs. Obiano handed keys to the two-bedroom bungalows built under CAFÉ Housing for the Indigent and Widows project, a flagship programme of the NGO with support of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to Mrs. Roseline Ekezie of Ndiagu, Osile Ogbunike, Mr. & Mrs. Chito Nwobi, Mrs. Awele Somudi of Ogbeagu, Eziagulu and an octogenarian, and Mrs. Josephine Chiokwe of Umuga, Eziagulu, Aguleri respectively. Presenting the house keys to each beneficiary, Osodieme said that the era of people living in dilapidated thatched mud houses was over and assured that CAFÉ was committed to building more houses to improve the living conditions of widows and indigent families. She said: “I feel satisfied any time I see each beneficiary of our modest gesture express happiness after receiving keys to their new houses. It is a social intervention contribution to their well-being. I must emphasize that the house belongs to the beneficiary and no one should disturb them. The water borehole component is meant to serve occupants of the house and neighbours are free to fetch from the reticulation point outside and ensure it is well maintained.’’ Mrs. Obiano explained that CAFÉ has so far built and donated over 22 houses under its free housing scheme; with the latest four executed with the support of UNDP as a practical step towards improving human living condition. She also commended a businessman, Mr. Tony Ezeani, who graciously furnished two of the buildings with furniture, settee, electronics and kitchen equipment, and urged others to emulate the quiet philanthropy and thereby obtain God’s blessings for positively touching lives of the less privileged. In her brief remark, wife of Deputy Governor of Anambra State, Mrs Oby Okeke, commended Osodieme for demonstrating love for neighbour through CAFÉ projects and urged the host communities to support her efforts. Also in their separate remarks, the Transition Committee chairman of Oyi and Anambra East Local Government Areas, Nnamdi Nwadogbu, and, Chief Pius Ifeadi, expressed satisfaction on behalf of their respective council areas for the free housing for the windows and the less-privileged, by the governor’s wife and thanked her for remembering persons in their areas. On his part, Commissioner for Transport Anambra State, Chief Uchenna Okafor, said the governor’s wife, through her persistent magnanimity, has established an ideal model for human development, which is unparalleled. He called on the people of Ogbunike to support the initiative by living in peace as advocated by Osodieme, the donor. In another development Mrs. Obiano has empowered 350 graduands who had acquired various skills in a six months programme she sponsored in tailoring and fashion designing, soap making, bakery, bead making and others who were trained by Mary Sumner vocational institute, owned by the Anglican Church. Speaking on her method of selection of the graduands, she said: “I do not want to know if you are of on Anambra or not, but so long as you reside in Anambra our goal is to make your self-sufficient. I know that a lot of you here are not from Anambra, but because you reside here, we must empower you. “I am particularly happy that most of this year’s graduands are women. This is the fifth batch, and we have trained a total of 4,350 persons in various vocations. “Women must be given the opportunity to work and complement the role of their husbands in the house. I am empowering you today to go and succeed, to that you will not only sit and eat your husband’s wealth, but partake in creating them.” Each of the 350 got equipment for their preferred vocation, including sewing machines, ovens, laptops, dryers and others. Each also got N20,000 as startup capital and additional N2,000 to take home their equipment.