The police have vowed to arrest other suspects in connection with the murder of Alex Badeh, former Chief of Defence Staff, who was shot dead by assailants on December 18, 2018 while returning from his farm along Abuja-Keffi Road. Jimoh Moshood, a Deputy Commissioner of Police and the Force Public Relations Officer, made this know through a press statement in Abuja on Thursday. Moshood, while revealing that two principal suspects and three others in connection with the killing of the retired air force chief had been apprehended, revealed that those already arrested were in police custody, even as he said that investigation into the crime was being intensified in order to arrest other suspects still at large. He said that the parade of the two principal suspects and the other three in connection with the crime, earlier scheduled for Thursday, would not happen in order for the ongoing investigation not to be jeopadised. Moshood promised that all the suspects in connection with the murder would be paraded before the media on completion of the investigation into the crime, vowing that the Force would not relent or leave any stone unturned in getting to the root of the killing and bringing all perpetrators to justice. In another development, the Force headquarters have paraded suspected vicious and notorious armed robbery, car snatching and burglary syndicates, who specialise in snatching vehicles at gun point from where they are parked, among other criminal activities. Jmoh Moshood, the Force image maker, said in a report made available to newsmen that the suspects were committing the crime in Abuja, Kaduna, Kano and Edo states, among other places. Some of the suspects paraded include 27-year-old Zaka John and 34-year-old Austin Samari. Items recovered from them included blue Toyota Avensis car with registration number GWA 745, as well as a Vento car and Volkswagen Golf. Moshood noted that the IGP Special Tactical Squad on Kidnapping and Other Violent Crimes, on December 19, 2018, gathered intelligence report that a gang of car snatchers used a location in Kwali Area Council as their criminal hideouts where they keep stolen vehicles robbed at gun point from innocent members of the public and some of the vehicles stolen where parked.