Lagos – The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) said it has sanctioned four erring indigenous operators for various degrees of violations, while it also suspended the air operators’ certificate (AOC) of another for 180 days. The regulatory body in a statement by Sam Adurogboye, General Manager, Public Affairs, said the erring operators were imposed with a sanction of N1.5 million to N2 million each for violating safety regulations. The agency was, however, silent on the names of the sanctioned operators, but investigation by our correspondent indicated that a charter operator, Skybird Aviation, was the airline that was sanctioned by the regulatory body. It was not, however, clear why NCAA suspended the AOC of the airline for 180 days, but it said it was due to “deliberate violation of the regulations.” Its suspension of AOC, it was gathered, may not be unconnected to the Abuja runway incident it had last September. The charter operator had reportedly overshot the runway on landing at the airport, an incident which led to the closure of the airport for some hours. The aircraft, a Gulfstream with registration number 5N-BOD, had overshot the runway on landing at the airport in the evening. The incident, however, disrupted early morning flights to and out of Abuja airport as airlines could not operate into the city. The charter airplane had a passenger onboard with five crewmembers – pilots and cabin crew. A statement on Sunday by Adurogboye said that the operators, which included scheduled and non-scheduled, were sanctioned for various degrees of violations. The statement hinted that during a spot inspection carried out by NCAA Aviation Safety Inspectors (ASI) on those operators, a number of deficiencies, including non-implementation of training programmes of maintenance personnel as required, irregularities concerning helicopter flight identification, deliberate violation of the regulations, performing maintenance programme without necessary approval and using outdated manual were discovered. He declared that all these findings were found to be in violation of the regulations. The statement added: “Consequently, the various operators were fined ranging from one million and five hundred thousand naira only to two million naira only. “While the operator involved in deliberate violation of the regulations had its air operators’ certificate (AOC) suspended for 180 days. “However, the authority has ensured that the affected personnel in question in the employment of one of the airlines are trained accordingly. “NCAA wishes to re-assure all stakeholders that it will continue to ensure that standard operating procedures (SOPs) are strictly followed. The authority expects strict compliance with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations in the future and violations will be viewed seriously.”