Venerable Funso Awe, Anglican priest, activist and politician, is the governorship candidate of National Conscience Party (NCP) in Lagos State. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on his strategy and plan to defeat his APC and PDP opponents, even as he opens up on President Muhammadu Buhari and Atiku Abubakar candidacy. Excerpt: With the commencement of campaigns for the 2019 general elections, what have you been doing so far? We are moving on. We have been going from place to place. We have had town hall meetings in Badagry, Oshodi, Alimosho, Ikorodu, etc. we are working with some groups that are helping us. Some are ethnic groups and organisations, trade groups, religious associations, town and village unions, etc. we have been talking to them. W are in contact with a lot of individuals who have influence. One who have influence and controls from 10 people, we talk to them. Apart from their votes, these people they control have their own votes. Election needs a lot of money for logistics. And campaign materials. We are appealing to people so that together, we can make a difference. Except you are a moneybag, with the little you have, you cannot go far without people. So, we also appeal to people to make their little contributions for the election. You may have been seeing posters of candidates. Ours will still come. But, posters do not win elections. A lot depends on one-on-one meeting of people. We are coming out with radio and television jingles. We are coming also making use of social media to get our messages across to the people. How successful are your town hall meetings and grassroots mobilisation efforts? They are successful. For everybody we talked to or reached, their support has been massive. We are sure those we are able to reach, we will have their votes. In the places I have been, I have seen people who are really looking for alternatives. People are tired of what is happening in the country. Nigerians really want an alternative to APC and PDP. Whenever they see us and hear what we are bringing on the table, they are eager to embrace a paradigm shift. It has been a tremendous support everywhere we have been to. Would you say that you can defeat both the Babajide Sanwo-Olu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Jimmy Agbaje of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) whose parties’ structures are most formidable in the state? Structure is very important in a political party. But, I will tell you that structures do not vote. Structures are used to attract voters. But, there are other ways to attract voters. Majority of those in the streets do not belong to political parties. They may support us and vote for us.in this election, you may see a party without structures defeating those with structures. The possibility of our becoming victorious is great. There is nothing that says we cannot win. I believe that people are ready to vote and defend their votes. They may be surprised that people may take their money and may not release their votes for them. Talking about taking money from candidates or political parties, have you heard the allegation that some people have been approaching traders, demanding their PVCs in return of cash in parts of Lagos? This morning, about three people called me over the same issue. Agents of some political parties ask the people of their PVCs and give them as much as between N5,000 and N10,000. I don’t know what they want to do with people’s PVCs. But, it means that people can also be provided with PVCs on election days and asked to use them to vote. What we experienced in Ekiti and Osun governorship elections may be much smaller than what will happen in the 2019 elections. But, we tell people to take their money, but vote according to their conscience and defend their votes. Of course, we tell them to vote for the National Conscience Party (NCP). So, already, some parties are engaging in vote buying. I have heard two or three people telling me this. We know the two parties involved in it. It is always APC and PDP. They dis it in Ekiti and Osun. Even in their parties’ primaries, they buy votes. However, both Babajide Sonwo-Olu and Jimmy Agbaje are not unbeatable. Elections are not decided until the votes have been counted. Voters are known to have shifted base few hours to the elections. How have you been relating the other candidates of your party for the various positions? We learnt that your and the other candidates of your party are running a joint campaign. How is it possible? We will continue to relate together. The elections for governorship and the House of Assembly will take place same day. As ballot paper for the governorship is given, they also give you ballot paper for the House of Assembly. Experience has shown that people normally vote for the same party in the two elections. On the ballot papers, what you have are logos of parties and not named of candidates. We are making the NCP logo very popular so that people will vote for it. We make our House of Assembly candidates part of the campaign structure. We have 25 candidates in the state House of Assembly election. When they are campaigning in their constituencies, they are also campaigning for the governorship candidate. So, we are running a joint campaign. We are also going to have joint posters. We will make the party logo very popular because that is what people will vote for. The party’s logo is the most important thing. So, we are running a joint campaign. What impact do you think other parties, other that APC, PDP and NCP can make in this election? Would you say they are really in the race? They are parties and there are parties. Apart from the two major parties, APC and PDP, we have 89 other political parties. Out of this 89, if you mention some of their names and acronyms, it seems they are church societies. They are not known. Some are registered late. I am happy that our party, the NCP, is well known. NCP is the oldest party in Nigeria. There is no one who does not know the party established by the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi. That is NCP. In Lagos, we have 41 parties presenting candidates for governorship. There is no way we are not going to  fall among the first four or five, but, because of the fund available to APC and PDP, it becomes very difficult for other parties to make noise, not to talk of winning. This is exception of the NCP. Money, we do not have. But, we have credibility and antecedent. We know where we are going. How do you see President Muhammadu Buhari’s ‘Next Level’ and Atiku Abubakar’s ‘Making Nigeria Work Again’ campaign programmes? Are here really an alternative to both candidates? What is Next Level? My question is: Next Level of where? The first election that brought them to power, they talked about ‘Change’. We have seen the Change. So, when they talk of Next Level, is going to form frying pan to fire. Next Level of corruption; next Level of hunger. Next Level of poverty, Next Level of government that is not working. Next Level of what? It is just using words, Next Level. Nigerians should be very cautious so that they do not get into another four years of suffering in greater dimension, which is the Next Level of suffering. As for ‘Making Nigeria Work Again’, when actually did Nigeria stop working? Are implying that we are going back to when Nigeria was working. Has Nigeria really worked? Perhaps when Nigeria worked was during the colonial era. Since then, Nigeria has been going down. May be they want to ask colonial government to return. PDP was in government for 16 years. APC with PDP was in government for another four years, because Atiku and several of them were in that government. If a man is sick and he is given a drug that does not give an improvement, if they continue to give him the same drug, the man will die.  If a drug is being used and there is no improvement, the person needs another prescription. PDP cannot ‘Make Nigeria Work Again’. I do not see a messiah between Muhammadu Buhari and Atiku Abubakar. The two cannot offer Nigeria anything new. Buhari cannot do anything better for Nigerian. He is still the same. The Bible says, “One cannot have a new wine and put it in the same old wine skin.” The two cannot offer Nigeria anything new. Nigeria has other presidential candidates. Let us try these and see what they can offer.