LAGOS – The Administration of President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), led by its Group Managing Director, Dr. Maikanti Baru, have received kudos from Nigerians across all walks of life. For ensuring adequate supply of petroleum products this festive season, the appreciative Nigerians said the Federal Government and the NNPC had made their joyous occasion worth the while. The commendations by motorists and petroleum products marketers came when the NNPC GMD undertook an on-the-spot assessment of products supply and distribution situation across some fuel stations in Abuja and its environs. Dr. Baru, who visited several service stations during the tour was heralded at every point with chants of commendations and appreciation by Nigerians all echoing “well done, thank you sir”. A customer at one of the independent service stations along Kubwa Road, Mr. Abiodun Oluwole, to whose vehicle the GMD dispensed petrol, said the fuel supply situation delighted him, adding that many motorists were pleased to see the nation escape the annual ritual of products scarcity at the year end. Mr. Oluwole enthused: “We are very happy at the fuel supply situation; we never thought it would come to this again, thank you very much, Sir. By this time last year, we were sleeping at filling stations. But thank God you and your team have save the situation’’. Lami Ahmed, another dealer with a major marketer, expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari and the NNPC for ensuring that the country did not have a repeat of last year’s situation, adding, “all we have to say is to express our gratitude for this Christmas period, the station is wet, you can see that we have a lot of trucks to be discharged all through the holiday period, we are grateful to the government, the President and NNPC for ensuring that this Christmas is spent in this beautiful manner’’. Addressing the press during the tour, Dr. Baru explained the enormous challenge NNPC had to overcome to change the supply trajectory, saying much of the success could be attributed to the support NNPC received from President Muhammadu Buhari.