LAGOS – Stakeholders in the nation’s oil and gas industry have advocated the need for some of the statutory fees currently paid in foreign currency to be considered for payment/imbursement in our local currency. They said the development was necessary in order to ensure that some of the companies operating in Nigeria were given ease of remitting such fees into the coffers of the Federal Government. They also said illegal artisanal refining was now a major source of pollution and needs to be tackled, through immediate multi-stakeholder’s engagement among operators, regulators, government security forces and community leadership. According to the stakeholders, the Federal and State governments needed to address the underdevelopment and feeling of neglect in the Niger Delta, maintaining that this remained a challenge to improved environmental stewardship. The body bared their minds yesterday in a communique issued at the end of the 18th biennial International Health, Safety and Environment(HSE) conference on the oil and gas industry in Nigeria, which was signed by Dr. Musa .M. Zagi ,Chairman, Conference Planning and Management Committee. They said the passage of the long-awaited Petroleum Industry Governance Bill remained an important and urgent step towards improved stakeholders’ environmental stewardship. They added that the much spoken about harmonisation and cooperation across regulators cum regulatory functions needed to be urgently addressed. “Improved collaboration across key industry players; the Regulators, International Oil Companies (IOCs), indigenous oil companies, service providers and communities is required. “Continuous investment in stakeholders’ engagement, capacity building, technology advancement and allocation of budget are key to sustained HSE performance in the industry. The IOCs HSSE performance should be sustained and improved upon, while indigenous oil companies urgently need to improve their HSE performance,’’ they added. They further emphasised an urgent need for establishment of a National Environmental Database for the oil and gas industry, adding that the Department of Petroleum Resources should lead this effort.