The Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) said on Thursday that it generated N1.1 trillion revenue and seized contraband goods worth more than N40 billion between January and November. The Public Relations Officer of the service, Deputy Comptroller, Joseph Attah, disclosed this to newsmen in Abuja. Attah said that the amount realised had far surpassed the N1.03 trillion generated in 2017. The spokesperson also said that 59 containers of tramadol and other controlled drugs were confiscated across the commands within the period. He said that 40 containers were seized in Apapa Port, 10 in Tin Can Port and nine in Onne Port in Port Harcourt, Rivers. Attah said that the quantum of seizures was a testimony that the service had been able to block leakages and enforce the anti-smuggling law stricter this year. He also disclosed that the automation of the Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System (NICIS) had been upgraded. According to him, the strategic deployment of officers and men of the service and establishment of strike force as the third layers of security, have impacted positively on Customs operations. “We are aware that our insistence on compliance, arrest and prosecution of smugglers and increasing disposition of Custom officers to place national interest above self, is against the interest of some people. “With these achievements, we must have stepped on toes, and that is why some enemies go to town with misleading information by accusing the service of nepotism, non-facilitation of trade and corruption. “It is curious that such people will choose the time when officers are turning down bribes like the case in Apapa. “Our officers rejected N150 million bribe offered by arrested suspect, to save the nation from consuming 40 containers of dangerous drugs. “Customs, under the current Comptroller General, Col Hameed Ali (rtd), cannot be cowed into relaxing its hard stands on enemies of the state. “We will insist that all international trade actors comply with the fiscal policy of government”, he said. The spokesperson said that the service, charged with the responsibilities of implementing fiscal policy of the government, would not allow blackmail to deter it. He noted that security of the nation was everybody’s business and called on border communities and port users to give relevant information that would lead to the seizure contraband goods and arrest of smugglers.