Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Organization (PPCO) yesterday rejected the planned nationwide military ‘Operation Python Dance,’ describing it as plot by President Muhammadu Buhari to use military to rig the 2019 poll. The party further pointed out that the planned military operation is to legitimize Buhari administration’s ploy of using the military to intimidate voters and rig the 2019 presidential election, having realized he cannot win in a free and fair poll. PDP Presidential Campaign Organization, in a statement by its Director, Media & Publicity, Kola Ologbondiyan said, “This plot is in consonant with the desperation of the Buhari Presidency to foist a siege mentality on the nation ahead of the 2019 general elections, harass voters and create a sense of escalated insecurity, so as to stalemate the electoral process, once it becomes clearer that the All Progressives Congress (APC) was losing. “Our investigation shows that part of the plot is to use the military operation as a subterfuge to unleash heavy security presence to intimidate, harass and instill fear in voters in PDP strongholds across the country and pave the way for the allocation of fictitious votes to President Buhari and the APC. “Further investigation reveals that agents of the Buhari Presidency are working in cahoots with some compromised top officials of the Prof. Mahmood Yakubu-led Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to use soldiers to provide cover for diversion of electoral materials, as well as aid APC agents in their plan to unleash violence and disrupt the electoral process in areas where the PDP is winning. “In spanning the military operation to February 28, 2019, the Buhari Presidency betrayed its anticipation of public rejection or violence, which can only come when a result that does not reflect the actual wish of the people is announced. “Everybody in Nigeria and world over, including the Buhari’s Presidency, know the direction the 2019 presidential election tide is flowing and that Nigerians are eager for a new President, having lost confidence in President Buhari, due to his failures in governance. “The PPCO, therefore, rejects this deliberate attempt by the Buhari Presidency to set our military on collision course with Nigerians, bearing in mind the collateral damage that usually occurs whenever the civilian population clashes with military. “Our nation is a democratic state and we are not in a state of emergency that requires the militarization of our electoral process.” Meanwhile, the National Chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus has said that the raid on Senator Dino Melaye’s house by the police shown that the nation is gradually turning to a police state. He said its a clear sign that the country’s security situation has deteriorated greatly into a police state.