Lagos –The Lagos State House of Assembly has condemned the increasing rate of armed robbery activities on Lagos roads, especially in traffic hours. The members on Monday agreed that undercover police should be posted all over the state to check the menace Desmond Elliot, representing Surulere Constituency 1, who brought the issue under matter of public Importance during plenary, pointed the attention of the lawmakers to the high incidents of robberies in Surulere during traffic hours. He said that the men of the underworld capitalise on the traffic jams to rob motorists, adding that there should be security on the roads on a 24-hour basis. “The police should increase undercover police, secure all the black spots on our roads, and articulated vehicles should be made to ply one lane by the Commissioner for Transportation as expected, while the Director General of the Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC) should ensure that his men properly man our roads,” he said. Rotimi Olowo (Shomolu Constituency 1), supporting the matter, said that street lights provided in Shomolu area do not function at the appropriate period. He suggested that Public Works Corporation (PWC) should be mandated to block the pot holes on Lagos roads, while men of Lagos State Neighbourhood Security Corps (LNSC) should work closely with the police to ensure security on the roads. Also Oluyinka Ogundimu (Agege II), who stated that armed robbery is not limited to any area in the state and that Agege is no exemption, added that the police know the black spots, and that they should go there and arrest the criminals before they move, and the government should ensure the immediate repair of roads. Bisi Yusuf (Alimosho 1) urged that street trading should be discouraged, as some of the armed robbers disguise like traders on the roads, as well as “the boys intentionally cut the roads so that they could commit crime.” Also, Tunde Braimoh (Kosofe II) commented that there is always upsurge in crime during the end of the year and at electioneering period. “What we need is beyond patrol by police. They cannot patrol when the roads are blocked. They can station themselves in strategic places and work with the LNSC men to arrest the robbers,” he said. Dayo Saka-Fafunmi I(fako/Ijaiye Constituency 1) stated that security has always been an issue during ember period. Fafunmi said that the bandits either come as traders or motorcyclists, adding that the state needs to restrict movement of motorcyclists in some places. He added that men of LNSC needed to be involved and that they should move around to ensure security, while lamenting that Nigerian policemen usually mingle with people and compromise the security of people. Olumuyiwa Jimoh (Apapa II) advised that the issue called for a conference rather than just a discussion. He said that armed robbery has always been there since the 70s and 80s, and that the state should go back go to the issue of odd and even number to reduce the number of vehicles on the roads. “We can go back to rail system so that most of our goods would be moved by rail. We have about four ports in Apapa. This is the largest in the country and the trucks are spoiling the roads,” he said. Sikiriu Oshinowo (Kosofe 1) said that crime is an umbrella for kidnappers, robbers and others. Oshinowo stressed that no country has curbed crime, but that they can only reduce or prevent it. He said: “We need undercover police in many places, where they would pretend to be criminals so that they could catch the bandits. We can alert the Inspector General of Police through the Commissioner of Police to increase undercover police to monitor our roads and streets in Lagos.”