The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is currently on aggressive move to deepen the acceptance of e-dividends by shareholders in the country. In this report, MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR explore the problems and prospects of the new system in reducing the volume of unclaimed dividends by shareholders. With over N80 billion accumulated dividends by shareholders in the country some years ago, it was obvious  Nigeria’s capital market was riddled with leakages and in need of measures to block same with a view to  safeguarding investors confidence therein. As part of the measures  to reduce unclaimed dividends in the market, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in 2015 partnered with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Nigerian Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS) to launch Electronic Mandate Management System (E-DMMS) platform which allows shareholders to receive dividends directly into their bank accounts. Since the introduction of the platform, SEC has been encouraging investors to register for e-dividend instead of waiting for dividend warrants. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) disclosed that it has spent N315 million for free e-dividend registration for shareholders across the country. According to the Commission, the figure arose from bearing the cost of registering 2.1 million shareholders on the e-dividend platform at N150 per mandate. Former Director General of SEC, Mr. Mounir Gwarzo, so far about 2.2 million shareholders have mandated their accounts as at the end of April, 2017. But the regulator declared that from July 1, 2017, dividend warrants would no longer be issued. Although SEC said that such dividends would remain with the registrars until the shareholders comply and comply with the e-dividend requirement, stakeholders are of the opinion stopping the issuance of dividend warrants may increase value of unclaimed dividends in the market. Benefits of E-dividend platform The electronic registration is expected to help investors receive from the banks unclaimed dividends from their investments in stock and equities in the capital market valued at over N90 billion. Companies listed on the stock exchange have been encouraged to help in sensitizing their shareholders on the need to embrace the new dividend platform within the deadline. The introduction of the e-dividend is designed, according to SEC, to curb the growth of unclaimed dividend in the capital market and allow investors collect dividends electronically. It also allows all accrued dividends to be credited to investors’ Bank Accounts. The e-dividend has the potential to further deepen the capital market and ensure security of returns on investments. It has the added benefits of ensuring that you never lose your dividends and that they get paid to you on time. The e-dividend form could be obtained and properly filled at bank branches or in the office of a registrar and stock broking firms, or could be downloaded and filled by individuals Gwarzo had explained that the platform would address the lingering problem of unclaimed dividend, which the market had sought solution for the past 20 years. According to him, the era of stale dividends and huge unclaimed dividends in the market will be a thing of the past with the launch of e-dividend payment platform. We are determined to see the full implementation of the system to facilitate effective payment of dividends to investors. Also speaking on the benefits, Head, Business Process, NIBSS, Samuel Oluyemi said that e-dividend portal was developed under the auspices of zero tolerance on unclaimed dividends being pursued by SEC. The platform, he explained, would allow direct payment of dividends into investors’ accounts once the mandate form was completed appropriately. Oluyemi said investors would supply bank account number; registrars’ shareholders account number, clearing house account number and bank verification number in the mandate form to facilitate payment. According to him, the portal would also accept payment of dividends into dormant accounts, adding that an investor could only withdraw the money after revalidating the account. He added that The registrars have been mandated to provide online access of the mandate forms to investors in Diaspora for efficient implementation of the e-dividend payment platform, he said. Concern In November last year, the  Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, yesterday disclosed that the initial interest shown by investors toward e-dividend initiative seems to be waning as the level of registration had  dropped in the last three months of 2017. The former Director General of SEC, Mounir Gwarzo, said that only about 147,176 registrations were recorded in the last three months between August and October 2017. He, however, said that despite the low registration, the December 31 deadline set by the Commission for stoppage of underwriting cost for e-dividend still stands; saying that at the end of the date, investors that have not keyed into the e-dividend registration should be prepared to pay the N150 fee.