Chief Charles Aderemi Akintoye, is a Board of Trustee (BoT) member and former Acting National Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as well as former Commissioner of Agriculture in Lagos State. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the ability of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to deliver credible elections, among other issues. Excerpt: The 2019 elections are fast approaching. What are your plans? Well, I am not eyeing any elective position. There are younger generations that should be eyeing political and elective positions as well as appointments through which they can improve the nation. We of the older generation cannot continue to hold on to power when there are younger ones who are yearning to be in elective positions. They must be given the chance to have a taste of power. How would you assess governance in Lagos State? Governance in Lagos has been very good. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu laid a good foundation. Fashola built on it and Governor Ambode is building massively on it as well. I wish Lagos State all the best. What is your reading of the political dynamics that will shape 2019? The most important thing is free and fair election. The Independent national Electoral Commission (INEC) should be a neutral umpire. It should try its possible best to be neutral. I am quite sure that they have the capacity to be neutral and for credibility. They must not only be neutral, they must be seen to be neutral locally and internationally. How would you rate the human development capacity of President Muhammadu Buhari administration over these past three years? It has been notable that history judges administrations when they leave office. Like now, history is judging ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo, ex-President Goodluck Jonathan. History will judge any administration at the expiration of its tenure. History does not lie. It always embraces the truth, nothing but the truth. That is how it has been right from time from immemorial. The judgment of history is like the judgment of God. There is no escape from it. So, it is only left for one to make a choice. It may either be a good choice or a bad one when history passes its verdict Don’t you think there is disconnect between what government says and what people feel and say? Usually, in the study of public administration, there is always a standard question that says: Why is it that politicians cannot fulfill their during campaigns? That answers come up every year and it is like bureaucracy in another matter in public administration. And bureaucracy is part of government administration that work for development of any country. Would you say that Nigeria is better now than what former President Goodluck Jonathan left? We should look at the statistics and the indices to be able to answer that question correctly. There are a lot of indices one has to look into to be able to judge accurately. Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan was in office for six years, while President Muhammadu Buhari is yet to complete his four year tenure. So, for now, one cannot really say or judge. Do you really think a free, fair and credible election is possible under this current INEC leadership? Yes, but the independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should be neutral and they must be seen to be neutral and they ought to be neutral. If they are neutral, there will be fair and free election. There is no doubt about that. INEC needs to sit at the fence to be an unbiased umpire. In that way, they will gain honour and dignity globally. How would you appraise various polices and reforms of the Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari these three and half years of his administration? Would you say the country is on the path of economic recovery? There is no doubt about that. I think, we are on the right path towards economic recovery. We should give this administration some credibility in terms of areas where they have achieved enough for the nation. I am sure that the economic indices will later answer this question correctly. How would you assess the current security situation in the country? It should be very well improved. The government must put in more efforts to ensure the sanctity of lives and properties which is part of what government should concentrate on now. It is part of governance to protect individuals and properties so that everybody has the right move freely. To address the security situation, the government must strengthen the security agencies to be proactive, especially in the area of intelligence gathering and investigations. It is believed that the Fulani herdsmen are still killing farmers in some parts of the country. What should the government do now as a solution to this situation? The government should look at the matter closely and do the right thing. It is not a good thing that people should be killing themselves. Lives are too precious to be wasted. Enough is enough. Thousands of lives have been wasted thus far. If only we are to live together as one nation, this nonsense must be stopped. Human lives are more precious than cows. The government must try to stop these killings. Would you say the Nigerian masses have been faring better under Buhari? An answer to this question is better through accurate statistics or indices provided by experts. Life is relative. I have never asked anybody if he feels better or not. But, government must do everything to make everybody feel better. It is its duty. It cannot run away from it. Government should put smiles on the faces of the people through the implementation of good polices and building of infrastructures. In terms of dividends of democracy, there are some areas that we are enjoying and there are some other areas that we are not. The nation is part of 196 others going through global recession. Thank God that Nigeria did not go bankrupt, but was only depressed and we are getting out of that depression. So, I am sure that the resuscitation of the economy is being embarked upon to ensure that the nation survives. What are your last words for Nigerians especially as the people are going into an election year? I pray for Nigerians. I pray for everybody. The government, the leaders and the followers should look at Nigeria as our only country. All of us must join hands to build the nation and make it better. It is the duty of everyone to ensure that the 2019 general elections are peaceful and that the nation remains one and a united nation after it.