A midst controversies over President Muhammadu Buhari’s refusal to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law, the Senate President Bukola Saraki, on Thursday advised him (the President) to ignore those he termed “anti-democratic elements” and sign the all-important bill into law. The new law is supposed to be used to conduct the 2019 general elections which have been scheduled for February, less than three months from now. The National Assembly had on October 23 passed the Electoral Act Amendment Bill and transmitted same to the president on November 7. This was after the federal lawmakers had reworked two earlier versions of the bill, which they had forwarded to the president for assent, following certain observations Buhari raised. By the provision of the law, the president has 30 days within which to sign any bill transmitted to him or decline assent to it. The 30 days expired on Thursday. Saraki, in a statement in Ilorin on Thursday, signed by Yusuph Olaniyonu, his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, urged the president to rise above petty politics and act without further delay in the best interest of the country and its democracy by signing the Electoral Bill into law. He said he had been inundated with telephone calls and discussions by members of the National Assembly who expressed concern about the delay in signing into law of the Electoral Bill as the 30 days period elapsed. He added that many of the legislators who contacted him were particularly disturbed that certain individuals who were said to be chairmen of political parties, had approached a Federal High Court to stop the president from assenting to the bill. He urged President Buhari to dissociate himself from what he termed “these ugly antics”, and sign the bill which he said, had comprehensively addressed issues that usually clog the process of free, fair, credible and peaceful elections. Saraki said: “It is the prerogative of the president to either sign a bill into law or refuse it assent. He is free to exercise this prerogative the way he likes in this case. “What I found surprising is a situation where some people now want to adopt a wrong tactic of abusing the court process to stall the matter. That will be unacceptable and I am sure our judiciary will rely on the lessons from the past and not allow itself to be used. “We do not want the president to allow the setting of a bad precedent in which somebody will go to court in future to stop the passage of an appropriation bill or any essential law, which will be important to the development of the country. “My position remains that the president, his aides, the entire country and the international community are aware that all the concerns raised by the President on the past three occasions he withheld assent to the bill, have been addressed by the legislature. “We bent backwards on each occasion to accommodate the wishes of the President. We started work on this law since 2016 to prevent a situation where it would become part of the election controversies.” CUPP Reacts The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), a major coalition of about 40 political parties, on its own, raised alarm that the President would not give his assent to the bill. The CUPP expressed worry that the President would not sign the bill due to his fear that the legalisation of use of only smart card readers for accreditation of voters in the bill would work against him in the forthcoming poll, should he sign the bill into law. The coalition also alleged that over 5.6 million out of the 7.1 of the votes garnered by the President in the 2015 election in the North West geopolitical zone, were without the use of smart card readers. The CUPP is a coalition of 40 opposition political parties, including the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC) – a faction of the ruling APC, among others. Presidency Explains The Presidency had in its explanation of why President Muhammadu Buhari declined assent to Electoral (Amendment) Bill 2018, attributed the development to “some drafting issues” that remained unaddressed following the prior revisions to the bill. Sen. Ita Enang, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), in a  statement, said the president had communicated his position to the Senate and the House of Representatives on August 30. He said: “Mr President is declining assent to the Electoral Amendment Bill due to some drafting issues that remain unaddressed following the prior revisions to the Bill. “Mr President invites the Senate and House of Representatives to address these issues as quickly as possible so that he may grant assent to the Electoral Amendment Bill.’’ Enang listed the outstanding issues resolved to include a cross-referencing error in the proposed amendment to Section 18 of the Bill. “The appropriate amendment is to substitute the existing sub-section (2) with the proposed subsection (1A), while the proposed sub-section (1B) is the new sub-section (2A). “The proposed amendment to include a new Section 87 (14) which stipulates a specific period within which political party primaries are required to be held. “It has the unintended consequence of leaving INEC with only nine days to collate and compile lists of candidates and political parties as well manage the primaries of 91 political parties for the various elections.” He explained that the Electoral Amendment Bill did not amend Sections 31, 34 and 85 which stipulated times for the submission of lists of candidates, publication of lists of candidates and notice of convention, congresses for nominating candidates for elections. According to him, neither the Constitution, nor any written law allows a President or a Governor to whom a bill is forwarded by the legislature to edit, correct, amend or in any manner alter the provisions of any such bill to reflect appropriate intent before assenting to same. Buhari Can’t Be Stampeded Into Signing The Bill – APC Reps Hopeful Ganiyu Johnson, House of Representatives candidate for the Oshodi/Isolo 2 federal constituency on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), asked: “When did they pass the bill to him? Remember that the National Assembly went on recess when they were supposed to be busy doing all these things, because the election is now around the corner they quickly rushed something that was with them for that long and they decided to go on recess. “If they want to blackmail the president that is not the way. The electorate did not cry out when they went on break and as soon as they resumed, they went on another break. It will also take him time to also study. I will say that it is in the process.”  Buhari, APC Wants To Rig The Poll – SDP Guber Candidate Dr. Adetokumbo Pearse, Lagos State governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), stated: “President Muhammadu Buhari does not want to sign the Electoral Bill into law because he wants to rig the election. He does not want to have free and fair elections. He does not want the electronic card reader to work so that the APC-led government will have chance to manipulate the 2019 elections.” Nigerians Should Compel Buhari To Sign The Bill – Politician Bulus Datung, a Minna-based politician, said: “The implication of President Muhammadu Buhari (PMB) not signing the Electoral Bill into law is uncertainties that there will be successful conduct of the 2019 general elections in Nigeria. “I do not have details of the contents of the bill transmitted by the legislative arm of government as expected in any given democracy. But, what I do know is that the content if, passed, will help Nigeria’s electoral umpire, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), for kick-starting next year’s election. “Buhari, the President and Commander-in-Chief of this country on whose power it is to give go-ahead for anything that has to do with the collective interests of every Nigerian, home and abroad, hence his not signing or refusal to sign the bill means he is not approving the election. “For that reason, it means Nigerians must find a way of compelling the President to do so in order not to be a clog in the wheel of progress of this country. It is unfortunate that the President or the ruling APC government is not telling Nigerians anything. But, I think the delay or refusal to sign the bill is because the content of the bill, as sent by the National Assembly, will not be in their favour. “But, on whose interest is such document meant to protect, Nigerians or an individual? Buhari and the leadership of the APC are not even worried that members are dumping the party because of its near loss of focus and holding unto draconian mentality in doing things as attested to by many professionals or economists like former Ministers, Ngozi Okonjo Iweala, Oby Ezekwesili, the former Governor of the Central bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Emir of Kano, Alhaji Sanusi Lamido Sanusi and a host of others. “I think that President Buhari, a core soldier, has refused to heed the voices of his advisers, if really he has sincere people around him that will draw his attention that the way he is going will not earn him anything beyond 2019. “Nigerians should be able to read the handwriting of these manipulators holding the country to ransom on the wall by what is happening in the corridors of power today. These same forces will ensure that their selfish interests is protected against that of the Nigerian population by continuing manipulating President Buhari not to sign the Electoral Act Bill into law, so that Nigerians will not effect a change in government in 2019.”  NASS Should Invoke Its Constitutional Powers To Make Bill Becomes Law – Don Dr. Fabian Onobitaire Ojaiko, a Benin-based university lecturer, said: “I suspect that the refusal of the President to sign the Electoral Act Bill could be one of the grand designs to derail the electoral process. “Nigeria is country and not a Banana republic. Nigeria is bigger than any individual. No single individual can hold the nation to ransom. Since the time table of 2019 general elections has already been drawn up by INEC, there is no way the elections will not be held. “Under which law will it be held? The National Assembly is also vested with some powers by the constitution to be exercised in a situation such as the one we are about to witness. “So, the implication of the president not signing the amended Electoral Act Bill into law less than 90 days to the election is that the National Assembly will invoke the relevant sections of the constitution for the election to be held.” Nigerians Should Not Lose Sleep Over Buhari’s Action – BNPP Scribe Chief Emeruo Nkwachukwu Igwe, Secretary, Better Nigeria Progressive Party (BNPP), Owerri West LGA, Imo State, stated: “I agree with most Nigerians that the president ought to have signed the Electoral Bill into law by now. However, since he has not done so till now, I do not think that we should lose sleep about it. “Our desire should be for INEC to conduct free and fair elections that will be acceptable to all and members of the international community. “The Electoral Bill is envisioned as a panacea for us to strengthen our democracy. But now, it has not being signed into law. I will only advise the electorate to come out en masse and exercise their franchise and protect their votes.” Buhari’s Action Portends Danger To Nigerian Democracy – PPC Chief Ignatius Nwadinkpa Iwumba, ex-council chairman and member,  Providence Peoples Congress (PPC), said: “Those who came up with the Electoral Act Bill are not fools. But, the president has made them to look like fools by not signing it into law. “The action of the president portends serious danger to our nascent democracy because it will dampen the spirit of patriotism of most Nigerians in the electoral process. Do not forget that insinuations of hidden agenda by the president and his APC members are rife as a result of this.” Buhari’s Action Will Adversely Affect Nigeria’s Political Growth – Activist Wale Odediran, an Osogbo-based human rights activist, has observed that not signing the new Electoral Bill into law by President Muhammadu Buhari portends great danger to the nation’s democracy. Speaking on the implication of President Buhari not signing the Electoral Bill into law, Odediran stressed that the development was an aftermath of the crisis between the legislature and executive, which is retrogressive and anti-democracy. Odediran, who foreclosed any change of attitude by the current leadership until a new set of political class come into office in 2019, said since the Electoral Bill in question contains new amendments to existing law, not signing it into law will have serious implications to the country’s growth and development politically. According to him, the President might have felt that he had no input in the Electoral Bill and the manner it was passed by the lawmakers might not have the backing of the executive arm of government. He added: “In a situation where the lawmakers work at variance to the interest of other arms of government, there is bound to be crisis. Even if the Electoral Bill is good and executive arm is not disposed to it, there will be crisis. “It is an indication that there is not good government in place. The political class is not mature to handle affairs of the country. They are only trying to promote their own interests and not general interest. “Governance is collective thing. When an arm of government fails to lobby other arms into a position or decision, it does not augur well because there is no reason arms of government could not agree for the sake of Nigerians. They are actually after their personal will and interests. “Under Buhari, democracy is not at work. The political class caused the crisis. In a situation where two elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers, in this case, it is the poor masses in Nigeria will suffer for it.”