Abuja – The upper chamber of the National Assembly on Thursday moved to avoid the looming fuel crisis due to non-payment of approved subsidy arrears to oil marketers. To this end, the Senate has urged the executive arm to direct all the concerned agencies to immediately pay the subsidy arrears as approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) and passed by the National Assembly within two weeks. The move by the Senate was to avoid the repeated occurrence of fuel scarcity during yuletide celebrations which makes travelling difficult. The Senate, in its resolutions, urged oil marketers to rescind their seven-day ultimatum to allow the Federal Government a little more time to look into their demands. It called on the Federal Government to engage marketers and agree on outstanding liabilities with a view to bringing an end to the disagreement. “Marketers and the Debt Management Office (DMO) should engage themselves to agree on the instrument to be used in payment,” the Senate urged. The position of the Senate followed the adoption of a motion sponsored by Kabiru Marafa, who chairs the Petroleum (Downstream) Committee. Leading debate on the motion titled, ‘Urgent need to avert looming crisis in fuel supply due to non-payment of approved subsidy arrears to oil marketers,’ Marafa noted that the debt forced some marketers out of the market, while most marketers were currently being subjected to Mareva injunctions (freezing of assets). He expressed concern that the continuous delay in the payment of the arrears had increased the debt from about N429 billion to close to N1 trillion between June, 2017 to date. He said the debt would continue to increase due to bank interest charges and forex. Revealing that the debts date back to the administration of President Olusegun Obasanjo in 2006, the lawmaker noted that the action of the marketers, if not well-checked, might result in artificial fuel scarcity that could span the election period. Even though he noted that government, through the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), had stored enough fuel that would last throughout the Christmas, the New Year, and the election period, the lawmaker expressed worry that the consequences of scarcity would impact negatively on the Nigerian masses if the marketers made good their threat. Ahmad Lawan, Ibrahim Dambaba, and Emmanuel Paulker said the executive arm was sabotaging itself. Dambaba and Paulker specifically noted that the executive was responsible for the looming crisis. Dambaba said, “In actual sense, some of us have reservations on the issue of how this liability came to being. It is not a question of anybody wanting to sabotage the government. Who is responsible for calling the relevant agencies to order? “As long as people are not held responsible for their shortcomings, we will continue to have this problem. There is no issue of sabotage in this matter. If there is anything like that, it is the government that is sabotaging itself.” Paulker, on his part, said: “I recall that one of the cheap political points scored by this administration was this issue of subsidy when they came to power. “This government owes the generality of Nigerians the duty to supply fuel without any restrictions. It is a sad commentary that from the about N429 billion approved by this Senate, we are now talking about around N1 trillion. “Is there no leadership that can put punitive measures to sanction those within, who are trying to sabotage the government?” Questioning the rationale behind the motion, Barnabas Gemade, who said that since the Senate had already approved payment for the arrears there was no need to revisit the issue, adding that the executive arm should fulfil its own financial obligations to marketers to avoid the looming fuel scarcity. He said, “The matter has passed the required procedure and the only remaining duty is that of implementation, and all agencies responsible for that are under the executive. We’ve come here to do what is not our responsibility: worrying over who has not implemented. “Is it the DMO that is stopping the payment, or the central bank, or Ministry of Finance? All those do not answer to the National Assembly. I do not see why we should come here to urge the executive to do its work.” Suleiman Hunkunyi, on his part, said, “There could be sabotage, but it’s also very clear, if there’s sabotage, that is definitely from within the executive itself. It must purge itself of those within it that are trying to sabotage the activities of government.” Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, who presided at plenary, said the executive arm must initiate steps to honour its financial obligations to oil marketers to avoid the crisis. Ekweremadu said, “Government should be able to keep to its agreement with people, not just these marketers. Once you reach an agreement, that agreement has to be kept.” Oil marketers on Sunday in Lagos gave the Federal Government seven-day ultimatum to settle outstanding debts totalling N800 billion, failing which depots would cease operation across the country. Meanwhile, the Federal Government says it has reached an agreement with oil marketers over the disputed N800 billion fuel subsidy claim. But the marketers said meeting with the government was still ongoing and there were no conclusions yet. Both sides met Thursday in Abuja in a bid to forestall another fuel crisis. Although government responded with an offer of N340 billion, the marketers rejected it, saying they needed cash to help them resolve the immediate challenge of paying their workers outstanding salaries and other obligations. A statement late Thursday by the finance ministry, said all parties had agreed on “settlement terms”. The statement, however, did not state the details of the agreement. But it said all parties agreed to ensure operations at all petroleum products depots and sales outlets continue uninterrupted till further notice. In attendance at the meeting were representatives of the petroleum products marketers, namely Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association (DAPPMA), Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria and Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria. Others were officials from the Federal Ministry of Finance, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Central Bank of Nigeria, Budget Office of the Federation, Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation and the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency.