BENIN – Not satisfied with the judgment of the Delta State High Court sitting at Oghara, headquarters of the Ethiope West local government, setting aside the revenue court verdict, the council has appealed the ruling in the suit between it and Pan Ocean Oil Corporation Nig. Ltd over the oil company’s failure or refusal to pay tenement rate to it. In the appeal filed at the Benin Division of the Court of Appeal by the local government’s counsel, Mr. D.A. Awosika, the appellant averred that the trial judge erred in law when he set aside the judgment of the state revenue court. The council held that the trial court lacked the jurisdiction to set aside revenue court verdict and or entertain the subject matter of the claim before it. The appellant stated that the claim before the trial court, as shown on the face of the claim, is for the assessment of tenement rate of the year 2013 of the respondents and their refusal to pay. The appellant further explained that by virtue of the provisions of Section 4 (1) and (2) of the Revenue Court Law of Delta State, its claims being on revenue due to the council and left unpaid, falls within the jurisdiction of the trial court. It added that its claims does not fall within the purview of Section 251(1) (n) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (1999) (as amended) as it relates solely to tenement imposed on property of the respondent by the appellant and not on its oil exploration  activities. On its second ground of appeal, the appellant said the trial judge erred in law when he held that “Exhibits B and C clearly  show the properties on which the tenement rate was imposed as concrete and steel structures for office and industry not for residential purpose. “Taking into consideration the provisions of Section 7(1)(i) of the Fourth Schedule to the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), and the decision of the Court of Appeal in Shell Petroleum Development Company vs Burutu LGC , tenement is limited to the assessment of privately owned houses” The appellant said that by this decision, the court came to a perverse decision occasioning serious miscarriage of justice. According to the appellant, “By virtue of exhibits B and C,it is clearly show that the properties on which the tenement rate was imposed are concrete and steel structures used as offices by the Respondent”. The appellant, therefore urged the appellate court to set aside the judgment of the lower court made on the 22, July 2018 and other consequential order or reliefs. The court has fixed May 5 2019 for the commencement of the case.