ABUJA – Sylvanus Tahir, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) counsel prosecuting Robert Aziboala, a cousin to former President Goodluck Jonathan, on Tuesday failed to cross-examine the defendant, who is facing trial over allegation that he received the sum of $40 million from the former National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd), without executing any contract. Having ended his evidence-in-chief as defence witness (DW 1), Aziboala tendered seven voluminous documents, which he relied on in order to prove his innocence. But due to the bulky nature of the documents, which Justice Nnamdi Dimgba, observed was “big and intimidating”, the EFCC counsel applied for time to enable him go through the contents of the documentary evidence. In the circumstances, he applied that the earlier date fixed for continuation of trial be vacated. Effort by Goddy Uche (SAN), representing the defendant, to have the trial proceed on Wednesday December 5, was opposed by Tahir, who insisted that he needed time to read through the document and prepare for cross-examination. Consequently, the matter was adjourned to January 21 and 22 for continuation of trial. Recall that in October, Aziboala, while being led in evidence-in-chief by his counsel Uche, said the money he got was for the execution of an “assignment” given to him by the former National Security Adviser. He stated that when the assignment was given to him, he opened an account with his two companies, Darkata -One-Plus Reserved account, where the $40 million was released by the NNPC on the directive of the former NSA. “If the 40 million Dollars was not meant for an assignment, I would have returned it because I have ample of integrity in me,” Aziboala stated before the trial judge, Justice Nnamdi Dimgba. He explained that between 2007/2008, the late General Andrew Azazi, the Chief of General Staff, was well conversant with his activities in Niger Delta. “General Azazi approached me and asked if there was any assistance I could offer in a bid to curb militancy, oil bunkering, spillage, kidnapping, among others, in the Niger Delta. “I held several discussions with General Azazi, and incidentally, in 2010, Goodluck Jonathan took over as President and appointed him the National Security Adviser. “Azazi asked if there was anything I could do in respect of the oil spillage, bunkering and other clandestine activities going on in the Niger Delta, and I said yes. “I took risk and went into the creeks to help Nigeria checkmate the issue of oil spillage, pipeline vandalism, oil bunkering, among others.