LAGOS – The Provost of College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Prof. Lesi Afolabi has emphasised the need for the Federal Government to deepen in the education sector, saying the development would help fix the nation’s economic challenges. He also implored private sector and stakeholders to assist the nation’s education sector by endowing research in its institutions of higher learning in order to create avenue for same to expand its knowledge base and add value to the development of Nigeria. He spoke at a gathering in Lagos to initiate the N2bn College of Medicine High Table/Fund Raising Dinner, where he also said the institution was set to raise the bar in medicine and medical research in Nigeria and the wider world. The dinner, which  is billed to hold on February 2, 2019, is expected to be graced by the Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiola, other traditional rulers, government functionaries  as well several alumni of the institution. Also speaking, Prof. Oladapo Ashiru, explained that the vision of the institution was to become a world class, continental centre of innovation driven by the core values of excellence on research, learning and teaching using innovative curricula delivered in a conducive environment. He said: “To achieve our objective, we want to resuscitate the High Table Dinner, which is going to be a black tie event. We plan that this will be the beginning of a continuous tradition similar to Oxford and Cambridge Ball, Harvard Alumni Dinner or Trinity College Dublin Dinner. “The College of Medicine, University of Lagos is using the High Table Dinner for a fundraising event as well as using the alumni as a driver to showcase our achievements and present our compendium brochure for projects soliciting for support from friends of the College, philanthropic individuals, parents, multinational corporations and foundations among others. He said in the last 50 years, successive leadership of the college had worked tirelessly towards the realisation of the lofty goals of making the medical school the foremost college of medicine in the University of Lagos and the nation’s pride. According to him, the college had hitherto produced over 6000 graduates in medicine, dentistry, microbiology, physiotheraphy, physiology, radiography and pharmacology. ‘’Several of our alumni have distinguished themselves in various fields. We have produced Ministers of Health, Commissioners of Health, Federal Government Ambassadors, Physicians to the Presidents and Vice Presidents, Senators, Vice Chancellors and many more,” he added.