Weststar Associates Limited, the authorised general distributors of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria has launched the new A-Class Mercedes- Benz in the country. The auto company in a statement by Oluwatobi Abimbola, its Public Relations Officer said that the new A-Class Benz is the benchmark of the compact car class. The statement hinted that the car remained youthful and dynamic as ever, and had grown-up and comfortable like never before. The company emphasised that since its world premiere in March 2018 the new A-Class has solidified its position as the top choice for compact and comfort oriented vehicles with more revolutionising technology and an increased appeal to comfort and connectivity. The statement quoted Mr. Mirko Plath; the Managing Director of Weststar Associates Limited as saying that the new A-Class took personalisation and social interaction to a whole new dynamic. “The Mercedes-Benz User Experience (MBUX) gives drivers a whole new experience with the voice control feature and an inbuilt learning capability personalised to the taste and needs of the driver. “The safety systems in the new A-Class are also best in its class with even more technological advancements and there is increased spaciousness in the front and the rear in comparism to its predecessor,” Plath said. The Mercedes-Benz A-Class completely redefines modern luxury in the compact class, and revolutionizes interior design. All models of the new A-Class are also powered by new, efficient petrol engines. And although Mercedes-Benz has retained the sporty appearance, the utility value has increased. Technologically the A-Class stands out among its competitors with MBUX – Mercedes-Benz User Experience; it offers a number of functions that were previously the preserve of the luxury class. Here are some key facts and features of the new A-Class. “The completely new multimedia system MBUX (Mercedes-Benz User Experience) in the A-Class creates an emotional connection between the vehicle, driver and passengers. It is enhanced with an inbuilt learning capability thanks to artificial intelligence and can also be personalised to the taste and needs of the driver. “The MBUX multimedia system comes with a comprehensive touch operation by touchscreen, touchpad (optional) on the center console and touch control buttons in the steering wheel, there is also an optional intelligent voice control with natural language comprehension and activation using the keyword ‘Hey Mercedes.’ Other key features of the MBUX include a navigation display with MBUX augmented reality technology and new ‘Mercedes me’ services,” the statement added. The A-Class is highly distinguished in its segment with the intelligent drive system, for the  first time, the A-Class is able to drive semi-autonomously in certain driving situations. It has also been able to achieve the highest safety standard in this segment thanks to extended driving assistance systems with S‑Class functions as optional equipment. Other features like the Active Distance Assist Distronic And Active Steering assist now support the driver even more conveniently in keeping a safe distance and steering, the vehicle speed is now also automatically adjusted on bends, at road junctions and on roundabouts. PRE-SAFE PLUS can recognise an imminent rear-end collision. If the danger of a collision persists, the system can also firmly apply the brakes of the vehicle when stationary, thus minimising the risk of injuries by reducing the forward jolt caused by an impact from the rear. There are also other additional features like the Active Emergency Stop Assist and the intuitively understandable Active Lane Change Assist. Drivers are in for a treat as the A-Class is enhanced to give more driving pleasure and ride comfort compared to its predecessor. There is further improved suspension with MacPherson front suspension with aluminum transverse control arms and multi-link rear suspension. This is also further enhanced with 4MATIC and more powerful engine variants: four-link rear suspension. The active damping adjustment comes as an optional equipment with electronic control: in conjunction with the standard DYNAMIC SELECT (four driving modes), there is a choice of comfortable or sporty damping characteristics. Modern luxury is redefined in the A-Class. The Avant-garde styling of the dashboard and a cockpit with no cowl create a unique architecture, the two displays measuring up to 10.25 inches (26 cm) each blend together under a shared glass cover (except with the basic variant with two 7‑inch displays) to form a completely free-standing Widescreen cockpit. There is also ambient lighting with 64 colours and illuminated air vents in a turbine look, this comes as an optional extra. There is more shoulder room (+9/+22 mm front/rear), elbow room (+35/+36 mm) and headroom (+7/+8 mm), as well as easier entry to the rear.