Abuja – Striking workers of the National Assembly have made good their threat to embark on a four-day warning strike by barricading all entry points leading to the Assembly complex, Daily Independent reports. The striking workers, who were seen turning away vehicles belonging to senior staff and legislative aides, however, said their action would not be targeted at President Muhammadu Buhari’s proposed presentation of the 2019 budget estimates to the National Assembly on Wednesday. But in another breath, they issued a threat to shut down power and water supplies to the complex throughout the duration of the strike. The Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN), at whose instance the action was called, had – during an address to colleagues – said it was not a picket as no one would be stopped from accessing the National Assembly but members of the union would not be allowed to carry out their duties. Odo Chris, a union executive who gave the address, said neither lawmakers, management staff from Grade Level 14 and above, nor visitors would be barred from the complex for the duration of the strike. But observation by our correspondent revealed that many senior staff were prevented from driving into the complex, with members saying, ‘Go home and rest; no work until Friday’. According to Odo, “It is the members of the union that will not go to work, everybody else can go in and do whatever they want to do. “As a union, we don’t even have the power to stop Grade 14 officers and above from going in to perform their duties because they are not our members. “I am appealing to you to be careful and apply wisdom as we carry out this strike because we have a law that guides us. “This is not picketing; there should be no fighting, there should be no breakdown of law and order. “Right now, some of us will go in and shut off electricity supply, by the time the environment becomes unbearable for those that are working, they will leave as well. “The president can go in and present his budget if the place is conducive enough.” While sergeants-at-arms joined the protesting workers, armed security personnel, including mobile policemen, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), took over the security of the complex, with men on the ground to prevent possible breakdown of law and order. Officers of the Federal Road Safety Corps ((FRSC) were also seen coordinating traffic movements. Curiously, the strike set off an alarm of allegations against Mohammed Sani-Omolori, Clerk of the National Assembly. There were claims that the strike was caused by a series of failed promises and abuse of office by the Sani-Omolori-led management. Speaking to Daily Independent on Monday, some workers, who pleaded anonymity, said the Clerk of the National Assembly had taken the workers for a ride on several occasions. “When he came on board as CNA, he called a meeting of staff where he sweet-talked all of us into believing that things will be better under his management. “He told us on several occasions that staff welfare will form the hallmark of his tenure as CNA, that if it meant taking bank loans to clear all accumulated arrears, he would do so. “But since he made these commitments, nothing has changed. Each time we bring up the issue during meetings of union leaders and the management, he would reiterate his commitment to us, but we have realised that he was just playing with our intelligence. “You press people will think that we were covering for him whenever you ask us for information and we refused to talk. “It was because of the promises he made and the repeated assurances for fulfilling them. “But it’s now very clear that he was playing us, and we are ready for him,” a female member of staff said. Speaking further, she asked: “How can Omolori look us in the face and say that CONLESS (Consolidated Legislative Salary Structure), which was approved since 2010 and which our state counterparts have been enjoying has not been approved in the budget until this year? “Even the one that he said managed to enter the budget is yet to be released by the finance ministry, but no lawmaker is being owed a dime. He, himself has not been owed any allowance,” the visibly angry staff said. Another workers lamented the series of abuse of official powers by the CNA, saying that Omolori had sat on staff promotions approved by the out-gone National Assembly Service Commission. He said the CNA, since assuming office, had formed the habit of making decisions for the commission to which he was supposed to be answerable. “The commission wrote to the management asking for a list of available vacant positions, the CNA said there was no vacant position. “He decided to send the numbers of staff due for promotions instead. And when the commission approved their promotions, Omolori held on to the letters and refused to release them. “As I speak to you, all the official responsibilities that those promoted staff are supposed to handle have been contracted to consultants. “This is the same man who always appeals for understanding and calm due to lack of funds to pay training allowances and CONLESS. Where does he get the money to engage consultants? “Why should our own careers be sacrificed on the altar of selfish interest of an individual? “Now, our international training fund has become pocket money for them and their concubines, while we remain stagnant and poor,” the union member alleged. Bala Hadi, National President of PASAN, who is also a staff of the National Assembly, told our correspondent that the union had several means of expressing their grievances. “We have many strategies of executing our plans. This is just one of them, and since this one is succeeding, we will stick with it, or introduce another one to ensure we tighten the noose harder,” he said. In fulfilment of their decision to shut facilities at the complex, both water and electricity supplies went off, forcing everyone, including bank staff within the premises, to vacate the premises. business activities were paralysed. PASAN, through a December 14 statement by its Chairman, Musa Muhammad, had issued the notice for the warning strike, expected to run till Thursday. The workers are demanding payment of their outstanding salary arrears, allowances, and other welfare packages. Banks, travel agencies, restaurants, and other businesses in the vicinity were closed. Also, the Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) were not working as electricity in the complex was paralysed. Bank customers left in disappointment.