Lagos – In order to help Nigeria reduce the number of its out-of-school children which according to UNICEF is put at 10.5million Eat ‘N’Go, a food franchisee for Domino’s Pizza, Cold Stone Creamery and Pickberry frozen Goumet yoghut has partner Slum2School Africa, a volunteer-driven developmental organization that provides quality education to disadvantaged children. Patrick McMichael, Chief Executive Officer, Eat’N’Go Limited  while addressing newsmen in Lagos said that the collaboration aims to provide 1000 underserved Nigerian children with access to quality education through targeted funds raised from December 1, 2018 to November 30, 2019. He said that the initiative seeks to directly contribute N50 million generated from proceeds of selected products from Domino’s Pizza, Cold Stone Creamery and Pinkberry Gourmet Frozen Yoghurt to the course. “For every Cinnastix purchase from Domino’s Pizza, N100 will be donated to this cause, for every waffle purchased at Cold Stone Creamery N100 will also be given back while Pinkberry will donate N100 on every bubble waffle purchase. “Valued at N50,000 per child, these 1000 underserved kids will receive quality education including psychosocial support encompassing school needs such as; instructional materials, uniforms, shoes, books, excursions, medical support, extra-curricular classes, tech classes, teacher support, and more,” he added. Speaking further McMichael said that the company is passionate about putting smiles on the faces of customers but also about improving the lives of the people in Nigeria. “At Eat’N’Go we are not only passionate about putting smiles on the faces of customers with our products, but also about improving the lives of the people in Nigeria. We believe that as individuals and corporate organisations, we have a collective role to play in improving the state of education in the country. “We understand the value good quality education contributes to an economy and it is our responsibility to ensure we expand our support in partnership with NGOs like Slum2School who can help us achieve these goals. We are thankful for this opportunity to lend our support to the development of the educational system for children in Nigeria and we cannot wait to do even more,” he said. Otto Orondaam, Founder Slum2School Africa, said that the number of out-of-school children in the country remains a looming threat to the economic prosperity, social security and developmental sustainability of the nation. “Every child has a right to quality education, which is why we partner with organisations across the world to support as many disadvantaged children in Nigeria, as possible. We are grateful to be working with Eat’N’Go supporting our “Hope For Every Child” initiative, and we hope that in the coming years our goal would increase to cover thousands more,” he said.