Gernot Rohr is the Super Eagles Coach. In this interview with MICHAEL OLADAPO during the Super Eagles and Cranes of Uganda friendly  in Asaba, the coach talked on the chances of his team in the coming AFCON competition and other issues. Can you clarify the issue about your missing items when you were in Asaba for the Federation Cup finals? I only lost my phones not my wallet, I got another one. Though I could not get some addresses and pictures but mainly I got some. It is in the past now, such a thing can happen anywhere. I was on the field and there were so many people around, perhaps I lost it or someone took it. It was my phone and my Visa card, but I have all my documents so I am not worried as they would not push me out of the country. What do you think about the facilities in the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba? I can see that the pitch is now better, it has improved and I told the Governor this and appreciated him. They have done a good work, though it is not like South Africa or other countries that have better conditions like we have here. As a result, I prefer officials and Sports Minister to do some certain things. We need infrastructure, we need good grass. We cannot play in Abuja, we cannot play in Lagos, we are the only country that cannot play in the capital. I hope now, with the success we have by qualifying for the African Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon, we can get the things we need to play in the Capital. Why did you opt to use the 3-5-2 formation against South Africa? This formation is the same we used against Iceland in the World Cup, if you remember well. We had three center-backs and Musa and Ihenacho as our forwards. We had this complicity and we had just four days to prepare that is why I opted for that formation. We had to change in the midfield and in both sides because Ndidi is injured. Then we had opted for Kalu on the right side, who did very well. He is doing well already in Bordeaux and we are happy to have him doing offensive and defensive work. He was also involved in the goal against South Africa, as it was a decisive cross from him. The system was good and when I hear the commentators in the game between Nigeria and South Africans that the latter had no opportunity to score, I was happy about it. Now that we have qualified are you assuring that we can win the AFCON in Cameroon? I believe we have chances of winning the AFCON but l am not saying we will win. We have bigger chances of winning the AFCON than winning the World Cup because we have a young team which can improve and if we have good preparation. Unlike the last match against South Africa when some key players were missing, we had to replace four players, Shehu, Uzoho, Ndidi and Ighalo but my players still did well. Why is Mikel Obi continually absent for the National Team? Mikel is injured, has problem with his knee. He played again and was injured again, so he was not available. I have been in touch with him and the day he will be fit, the door is open to him. Why did you hold a friendly immediately after qualifying for the AFCON? Our preparation for the AFCON has started, we only have one FIFA window in March and I have to give my list in April and May. The first list in April and the final 23 in May, I want to see all my players and now we have the opportunity to play so it is important we start early. Do you still have plans to scout for players within the Nigerian Professional Football League? If you want to scout there must be games but if I remember, the last game of the league were two or three months away. You cannot scout when there are no games that is a problem of the organization of the championship. The Super Eagles have found it difficult to score in their last outing. How do you tend to solve this problem? We scored valid three goals in South Africa but only one has been valid. Unfortunately, we cannot see same time coach and referee but I want to tell you that it is difficult for linesmen to have the same speed as Ahmed Musa. We scored at least three goals in the last three matches, they were four against Libya in Uyo.