Lagos – Abeokuta, the capital of Ogun state was the cynosure of all eyes last week Thursday when the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) flagged off its campaign for the 2019 general elections. The event, held at the MKO Abiola Stadium in Kuto area of the state witnessed a mammoth crowd which many of the attendees claimed has never been seen before at previous programmes held in the stadium. Aside unveiling its governorship candidate, Hon. Abdulkabir Adekunle  Akinlade popularly referred to as ‘Triple A’, and presentation of flags to all its candidates, the party also adopted President Muhammadu Buhari as its presidential candidate citing good governance and his commitment to the anti-corruption war. APM- Ogun’s Ruling Party? Though the All Progressives Congress (APC) is the official ruling party in the state since it is the party the state governor, Senator Ibikunle  Amosun belongs to, nothing on ground shows that APC is a factor to reckon with in the state   as APM, one of the newly-registered political parties in the country has dominated the entire political space in the state. With banners, posters and party hundreds of supporters donning APM branded clothes, anybody visiting Ogun state for the first time would have thought APM is the only political party in the state. To many political analysts, the fact that APM, which was only registered on the 14th of August 2018 by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) could pull such a massive crowd at its flag off shows the kind of loyalty, and political clout which Governor Amosun commands in the state widely referred to as the ‘Gateway State’. Though many expected that he will attend the rally in order to show his support for his anointed candidate, Governor Amosun decided to stay away, a move which was commended by many as it demonstrates his loyalty to the APC, a party in which he is a critical stakeholder and on whose platform he will be seeking to represent Ogun West senatorial district in the 2019 elections. Speaking with Daily Independent on why the APM has quickly become a party to reckon with in the state, a chieftain of the APM,  Chief  Wasiu Kasali said many indigenes of Ogun willingly joined the party to protest the injustice meted out to Governor Amosun and his anointed candidate, Akinlade by the national leadership of the APC. He also claimed the people of Ogun are united in their quest not to allow their state be in control of a vassal in Lagos. “ It is simply because we sympathised with our dear Governor Ibikunle Amosun for the daylight robbery visited upon him by the APC leadership, Adams Oshiomhole who is being used to destabilise the APC by some vested interests. We all agreed that Akinlade is our governorship candidate and he emerged by consensus, but they rejected him saying it has to be through direct primary. We agreed and conducted the direct primary, he still won but they rejected it again saying it wasn’t recognized, yet they recognised the one that was conducted in Lagos. That is double dealing and we rejected that”. “Second, we appreciate what Governor Amosun has done in the last 7 and half years in rebuilding our state.  We want continuity of these good things as they have it in Lagos but some powerful individuals, because of their selfish interests said good things must not continue and as such want to install a stooge who will be doing their bidding and taking all the resources of our state outside”. “We are not slaves in Ogun and that is why the people said they will take their destinies into their hands and elect the governor of their choice. Since Akinlade has decided to pursue his mandate in APM, we all decided to join him there. Even if he has chosen zero party, this place will still be filled to capacity. It is not about political party now, it is about ensuring that justice is done” he said. Addressing the crowd, Chief Sarafa Ishola, former Minister of Mines and Steel Development who is the Director-General of Abdulkabir Akinlade Campaign Organisation, in his opening remarks said the large turnout at the rally was a testimony that the people of the state abhorred injustice and were determined to resist slavery. According to him, Akinlade won the APC primary election but the result was manipulated. He also added that there is need for continuity in governance in the state. While announcing the adoption of President Buhari as the party’s presidential candidate, Ishola said that two senatorial districts had been conceded to the APC ahead of the elections. He listed the districts to include Ogun West (Amosun) and Ogun East (Lekan Mustapha). “We need continuity in Ogun State and that continuity and orderly succession are residing in our son and candidate, Abdulkabir Akinlade. “APM has decided to adopt President Muhammadu Buhari. In APM, we have adopted Senator Ibikunle Amosun as senatorial candidate in Ogun Central. We don’t have senatorial candidate in Ogun East and we have adopted Lekan Mustapha as our candidate. Other candidates will be discussed later.” Our Victory Is Assured In 2019 – Akinlade Addressing the crowd which comprises of various unions such as Articulated Motorcycle Riders Association Of Nigeria (AMORAN), Association of Commercial Motor Cycle Riders of Nigeria (ACOMORON), National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), National Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) and representatives of 60 political parties as well as the Hausa, Igbo and non-indigene associations,  Akinlade who said he is confident of victory said Ogun State electorates through their actions had resolved to resist extension of political hegemony to the state by ‘external forces’ and have resolved to vote the candidate of their choice next year. On why he joined the APM, he said the injustice done to him and others at the APC made them to look for an alternative platform to realise their ambition. Joined by his running mate, Adepeju Adebajo,  Akinlade said having won the primary election of the APC two months ago, some unnamed persons who were out to hijack the governance of the state truncated his victory. According to him, the plan of the hijackers was to rubbish Amosun’s achievements and legacies which he wants to continue with if elected as governor. While charging the people to go back to their respective destinations and market APM to their friends and families, he described the APM as a new movement that would fight for the people’s freedom and welfare.  He said he and other APM members in the state would knock at every door to campaign for the president as they would campaign for other candidates of the party in the state. Akinlade who promised to be a servant leader urged the electorates to ensure they vote for President Muhammadu Buhari during the presidential election and all APM candidates during the elections. He also promised to sustain Amosun’s mission to rebuild the state by improving on road infrastructure, health care delivery, education, rural development, agriculture and youth empowerment. His words “The journey to this historic flag-off has been tortuous and challenging. We have had to stand up to some political hegemonists who were out to hijack the government of Ogun state and truncate the great achievements of our dear Governor, Senator Ibiikunle Amosun CON, FCA who has not only raised the bar of governance high in the state, but has actually demonstrated that with right vision, determination and good leadership, Ogun state has the potentials to be one of the greatest states in Nigeria”. “Since 2011 when it pleased God to put him in the saddle as the governor of Ogun state, Governor Amosun CON, FCA has set new standards in virtually all areas of governance, so much that we have no alternative but to build on the solid foundation he has erected. Under him, Ogun state has become the destination of choice and the industrial hub of Nigeria. The records have confirmed that Ogun state is playing host to over 180 companies which have invested between $200Million and $2Billion”. “Ogun state has witnessed an unprecedented development in infrastructure which is indeed a major factor for the influx of foreign investors into the state. These achievements have been replicated in other areas of governance such as agriculture. Today, Ogun state is one of the largest producers of rice in the country and the focus on our indigenous Ofada rice has put Ogun state in the map of major producers of rice globally”. “The achievements are many and very noticeable to all. The least we can do as a people is to ensure an orderly transition from this achieving government to another that will sustain the mission to rebuild Ogun state. Unfortunately, recent happenings in the politics of Ogun state have sought to truncate this peaceful transition and the consolidation of the gains of the past seven and half years”. “For about two months, we have had to fight for the freedom of our people to freely choose the government of their choice. We have had to contend with some forces that are determined to reverse the march to prosperity in Ogun state. Today, we are flagging off the campaign of the Allied Peoples Movement because this remains the only way we can continue the good work of the government of Senator Ibikunle Amosun CON, FCA who has set new standards for the government of Ogun state”. “It is my honour and privilege to tell you that I am a firm believer in the development of Ogun state in the fashion of Senator Ibikunle Amosun CON, FCA. I believe that the resources of our state should be used for the promotion of the welfare of the good people of Ogun state”. “I am a firm believer that the good people of Ogun state have the inalienable right to choose the leader of their choice without any imposition by some forces outside the state. I am also a believer in the great potentials that abound in our state, not only in terms of our natural resources but also in the immense human resources that abound in the state. I give my commitment to sustain the Mission to Rebuild Ogun State”. “Let me conclude by assuring our teeming supporters that our victory is assured in the 2019 gubernatorial election. If you look at this gathering, it is a gathering of who is who in the progressives’ family in Ogun state. Our reach extends to the nooks and crannies of the state. Our records in the service of our people remain untainted. Our people have tested us over the years and found us trustworthy. I have no doubt that victory is ours. I implore us to go about our campaign peacefully and avoid violence, even in the face of provocation. Our march to victory is assured”. Also monarchs under the aegis of Progressives Obas Forum led by Oba Fatai Akorede Akamo, Olu of Itori  said they attended the rally so as to show support for Governor Amosun because they want his good works in the state to continue through Akinlade. The traditional rulers, in their message, said as leaders of Ogun Central Senatorial District, they supported a governor of Yewa extraction in 2019, because it would promote unity and fairness in the state. It was also announced at the rally that about 60 political parties belonging to the state chapter of the Inter-Party Advisory Council  (IPAC) have endorsed Akinlade as their governorship candidate.