Chief Ode Ochi Emmanuel, the Chief Executive of Dominion Global Logistics Limited in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on issues relating the economic development of the country as well as the Chinese in-road into the country’s economy among other issues. Excerpts: With Nigeria celebrated her 58 years of Independence in October; how would you say the nation performed so far, especially in the area of economic development? Nigeria has performed well in the last 58 years, except that the nation’s wealth has been taken by the greedy people assigned to keep watch over us. The dividends of our natural resources are not being felt because of the actions of the greedy people. Nigeria is blessed with human and material resources. But, due to the activities of corrupt leaders, we are far from where we should have been. Nigeria is second to none in terms of natural resource deposits. God has great plans for Nigeria. But, our leaders have missed the purpose of God. So, Nigerians are thinking of the way out of this avoidable go-slow in development. Was it like this at the beginning? It was not like this from the beginning after independence. But, when the element of greed entered into the psyche of some of our leaders, it became pronounced. That has taken us to where we are now. It is very sad. What do you think should be the solution? The solution is for Nigerians to rise up and say ‘Enough is enough’ and team up in one in one spirit to overcome the current stagnancy. This should be in terms of leadership and the followership. The two can never be separated. The followers have been so docile. You cannot have a leader different from the followers. So, the determining factor should be: Who are our leaders and the followers? Are they both committed genuinely to the growth of the country? Nigerians should rise up and become more interested in the leadership of the country. That is the only way there will be development. You are known to be a key player in the maritime sector. How did the sector perform within these 58 years? From inception, Nigeria was positioned to play major role in the development of maritime and maritime related economy of the West African dub-region. But, this laudable aspiration has been downplayed by the lack of will power by the successive governments. That in itself has brought underdevelopment and under utilisation of the equipment and programmes put in place. In recent times, the government has abandoned the development of the ports by not using the 7% ports development surcharge to develop the ports and the access ways. This has really brought to a standstill the forward movement of the Nigerian ports, which should have played leading role in the development of the sub-region. The players are therefore not getting enough from their activities and things have been so bad in the sector. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) recently warned that the nation might go back into recession. How do you see this warning? Of course, it is imminent because governance has been relegated to the background. Politicking has taken over governance. Money that should have been released for capital projects are being ploughed into the propagation of political beliefs in order to outplay others contending power with them. The CBN is saying the obvious. What the CBN is saying is indirect indictment of the current federal administration. If the current government means well for the country, they should try to finish their tenure rather than abandoning governance to seek second tenure in office. I am worried about this government. I do not know what they will tell Nigerians about their activities and the projects they have completed and commissioned. If they have embarked on several projects within four years, one or two should have been completed for the benefit of the citizens and accountability for their mandate before they are given another. If they have performed, they do not need to spend energy in campaigning. Their good works will give them leverage over my opposition. But, they are over working themselves trying to justify their lack of performance for over three and half years. That is making their campaign for re-election an uphill task. A good product does not need expensive marketing. The attention of both the Federal and State governments seems to have shifted from USA and Britain, its traditional partners, to China. What is your take on this Chinese in-road into the Nigerian economy? The developed world is fighting for colonies in other continents. Africa happens to be a fertile ground to colonise once again. That is why the Chinese are coming with banana and carrot to recolonise us again. It is not only Nigeria that is in their net. Almost all nations in Africa are being dangled with this banana and carrots and they have fallen for it because of underdevelopment caused by our greedy leaders who could not move their countries forward developmentally because of their selfish ends. Do you think Chinese love Africa more than China that they decided to invest huge sums of money in Africa? No. Chinese cannot love Africa more than China. They have seen the benefits of what they are doing. But, our naive leaders, because of greed, fall for them because of the booties, not knowing that these are booby traps that our generations unborn cannot escape from. On the long run, the Chinese will come in large number to take over all those corporations being established with their money. By the time we cannot pay, they will come to man these corporations and our people will be serving them as salves in our own land. It is unfortunate that this is happening in the 21st century when we thought we have outgrown the Stone Age. United States of America and the United Kingdom, our traditional investment partners, are just laughing at us. After they had left us as independent nation, they are laughing at us that we are still subjecting ourselves to another colonisation. God will never forgive Nigeria and our leaders because He has positioned Nigeria to lead the entire Africa out of the woods because of the unprecedented endowments given to this nation, which could be harnessed for the good of all Nigerians and Africa. For Nigeria to be falling on top of other African nations for the largesse from China calls for sober reflection and pity. All these Chinese investments are tied to loans. They are booby traps. For example, if I decide to build a mansion for myself in my village and say if I do not pay, you take over the estate, when I know I cannot pay and I agree, I have sold my inheritance to you. Chinese are just waiting for when they will take over our economy. They know that it is impossible for African countries to repay these loans. On the long run, they will come and take over our economy. You will mourn when you see the terms of agreement being reached between our leaders and the Chinese people. You will begin to see our country as a dead nation. With the prevailing economic situation in the country, would you say the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are living up to expectation? The government is paying lip service to the activities of SMEs. When businesses are failing by the day, people are not renewing their rents and they cannot renew their stocks, where lies the SMEs? The government is not bothered that SMEs are in severe dents. The state, local governments and Community Development Authorities (CDAS) come with different taxes. What are these monies used for? No one can tell. The government is killing the SMEs. Do you think the micro-finance banks have been contributing enough to boost economic growth in the country? They are not doing enough. For you to draw from them, you are already mortgaged. Due to harsh business environment, your business cannot yield anything to pay back. The business cannot blossom to pay. That is the multiplication of problems the Nigerian people are going through. Many parts of the country have been devastated by floods How would this impact on the economy, especially the agricultural sector? I foresee unimaginable famine in Nigeria next year. As if the herdsmen attacks that displaced that farmers are not enough, the floods came again to give a devastating blow on what should have been the remnants of the farmlands and their produce. It is really a hard time for foarmers and Nigeria as a whole. These are not settlements or farmlands acquired recently, but passed down by great grandfathers. So, the warnings by meteorological departments do not have effect. These people have managed their farms for years. One may even wonder if the world is coming to an end because these are the signs of the end-time when natural disasters are rampant. The floods come sometimes from man-made actions like the release of water from dams in addition to existing overflow of banks of rivers doe to heavy downpour. To check all these, the release of water from dams should be controlled in order not to aggravate the already bad situation in flood-prone zones. The issue of the Paris Club was brought to the fore once more with the reported recall of the fund from some states by the Federal Government. What is your take on this? The issue of Paris Club Refund has been made political, which should not be. When the Rule of Law is relegated to the background, we are bound to see that happening. The rule is that the law of legitimacy, which is a constitutional matter, should not and cannot be trampled upon where the rule of law is respected. But, this is not what we see. It is a sign of bad things to come. The control of what happens in and around the states is being left in the hands of godfathers where the emperors decide according to their whims and caprices. That is why many people are saying that the country is tilting towards the state of anarchy. The politicians should learn their lessons from history so that the current political dispensation is not truncated. How do you see the controversies that have surrounded the issue of new National Minimum Wage for the Nigerian workers leading to the Federal Government singing different tune with the state governments? The government boxed itself into a corner. The government set up a tripartite committee and there were various proposals. The government came out with an announcement that at the second quarter of the year, a new minimum wage would come into effect. The government said it was no longer feasible in the second quarter, bur at the third quarter. When it got at the third quarter and it could not say why they could not give the workers the new minimum wage, and the workers could not hear from the government, the workers have to protest by threatening to embark on a nationwide industrial action. This make the government to be in a fix. The government lacks the political will and resources to meet this obligation of a new minimum wage. It is really a sad situation it is the government that inflicted that controversy and tension on the nation. And it was unfortunate. It is sad that the leaders, both at the federal and state levels, who go home every month with huge amounts, cannot give the Nigerian workers a living wage. It is an irony. Nigeria can afford what the workers are asking for as minimum wage. What is your take on the massive infrastructure development in Lagos and the allegation of secrecy which has shrouded the cost of these projects? I think Governor Akinwunmi Ambode was so eager to develop Lagos, but, in his eagerness, he disregarded so many things, which can be regarded as grievous mistakes. I do not know how contractors are selected to handle some of the projects. But, there is a lot of secrecy in the award of these contracts. I am afraid that some of these projects, only few will be completed and handed over as democracy dividends at the end of his four-year tenure. He cannot as of today point how many specific projects he has been able to complete close to four years of his tenure. This is sad.