The Super Falcons of Nigeria, in the on-going CAF Women championship, lived up to their billings by qualifying to play the South African female team, Bayana-Bayana in the very final of the event holding in Ghana. Recalling that in their opening game against the South African Women, the Falcons fell 0-1 to the amazement of football pundits, who had earlier predicted that even though Nigerian Falcons, having stayed for a very long without a coach and not played top graded friendly matches, will definitely carry the day, given their antecedents in the continent and as the defending champions. Unfortunately, that postulation was proven wrong! But contrary to this views, the Bayana-Bayana outplayed the Falcons in that opening encounter and handed a one goal win to the Nigerians in a surprising style that brought to the fore so much criticisms. Even the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) was not spared as the football governing body was said to have neglected the Falcons, in terms of giving them quality preparation ditto a coach that did not come until the eleventh hour.  These, among other issues, they said, were the reasons the Falcons could not fly against the much improved South Africans. It was also believed that the Falcons may not qualify for the final but eventually our doubts have become illusion after all. The Falcons are meeting again their first opponent in the tourney, the South Africans, at the final on today’s evening, by 5pm! It is no longer news that the Falcons have lived up to their billings whether we like it or not. First and foremost, they (Falcons) have qualified for the FIFA Women World Cup fiesta holding next year in France. Consciously or unconsciously the Falcons came back from their slumber after the first match defeat, beating Equatorial Guinea and the Lioness of Cameroon via penalty shoot – out which ended 4-2 after an extra time to qualify for the final of the AWCON Championship. Yours truly must commend these Falcons for totally exhibiting rare patriotism in this championship, not letting their country (Nigeria) down, holding on to theirs as defending champions and ultimately berthing their arrival in France come 2019! Female football like I have always discussed in this column has gone scientific and dynamic; therefore, Nigeria, which had always been a dominating factor in this regard most also improve on her game as most African countries are no longer minnows. Every country wants to be like the Falcons or better the Falcons to measure their level of football development. The Falcons have won this trophy at stake today for keep severally; hence, it is almost like their birthright but one thing is undeniable today, the Falcons must confirm their champions status in today’s match, given their forthcoming  flight into France to battle the rest of the women in the World Cup in 2019! The coach of the Super Falcons must do a lot to making sure that the trophy is won. The Nigeria goalkeeper has proven to be a very good on the goal line. For saving two penalties and grabbing one of the two like a magnet was the height of the pair of her safe hand. She actually did a marvelous job in picking up that penalty shoot. It reminded me the good old days of goalkeeper Peter Rufai (Dodo Mayana) who caught the penalty of  Lackdar Belloumi in Maroc ’88 Nations Cup. The number 10 wearing Jersey of Algeria got marveled when Rufai picked up his spot kick as if it was a pebble from the ground; Belloumi shook his head in disappointment and saw in Peter Rufai a goalkeeping wizard. Having said this, the Falcons must play together as a team from the defense, midfield and attack in order to justify their common purpose of reaching the final. They must play a formidable defense, a strategic midfield and a sharp and focused attack to get the needed goal considering that  these South Africans are coming in with so much pride and underestimation of the Falcons, and all these will be their undoing. If the Falcons can live beyond their first defeat to concentrate on how to demolish whatever tactical play the South Africans may want to adopt, the Falcons must not be complacent in any form; they must go for the win! And by the time they return with the trophy, Nigerians, including this Columnist, will chant ‘’AKWABA, AKWABA’’ Good morning.