The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) at the weekend disclosed that over N22 billion worth of substandard goods have been impounded so far in 2018. Osita Aboloma, the Director-General, SON, said that most of the goods seized included electronic cables, tyres, lubricants, LPG cylinders and unfortified sugar. Aboloma, who disclosed this at a maritime stakeholder’s awareness forum, held in Lagos, added that the essence of the workshop was to interact with maritime players, to discuss import/export businesses, with the objective of getting them deeply committed to doing the right things, especially concerning import processes and procedures. The SON helmsman represented at the occasion by Kabir Mohammed, the Director, Director General’s office, lamented that the non-involvement of SON at some Ports of entry in the country operations had continued to pose challenges, particularly to the agency’s compliance and monitoring units. He said: “In some ports, SON only gets invitation for cargo examination when ‘deemed necessary.’ The nation’s economy and the lives of Nigerians are also further endangered due to the influx of substandard goods.” He said the theme of the Workshop ‘Stakeholders’ collaboration as a tool for zero substandard imports,’ was key to achieving the goal of zero importation of substandard products into the country, imploring stakeholders to join hands with SON to sensitise and educate all importers and the public on the importance of quality goods and products. He emphasised that the work of standardisation, quality assurance as well as campaign against the menace of substandard products remained a collaborative and partnership endeavour among SON and its stakeholders. He however stated the workshop would provide a veritable avenue for cross-fertilisation of ideas, views, suggestions and solutions on how to move the nation’s maritime sector forward, especially in furtherance of the Federal Government’s Ease of Doing Business policy relative to electronic clearance, destination inspection and the on-going repositioning of the nation’s ports. “Stakeholders need to be properly and adequately enlightened on the right things to do in relation to SON’s regulatory tools and requirements. The forum thus acts as a clearinghouse for all stakeholders and operators to smoothen all rough edges, with a view to moving the nation forward. “We need to disabuse the minds of those who think that SON is out to shut down their businesses by insisting on the enforcement of quality and standards requirements,” he added. He noted that at the end of the forum, stakeholders would have had a clear and enhanced understanding, knowledge and cooperation concerning SON’s processes and procedures especially in e-product registration and certification, SONCAP, MANCAP, NICIS, NIS, FORM. Also speaking at the event, Boniface Aniebonam, the Founder, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), commended SON for its tireless commitment and efforts to rid the nation of substandard goods, stressing that its members would support SON to deliver on its mandate. On his part, Dr. Kayode Farinto, the National Vice President, Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), said the move to sensitise stakeholders in the maritime industry was a welcome development, saying that ANLCA would ensure that before any cargo was cleared at the nation’s ports, it must have SONCAP certificate. “We are also working closely with SON to address the issue of false declaration. We must collaborate with SON to make sure that we stamp out substandard goods in our community, “he said.