Mohammed Shosanya and CHIDI UGWU The Depots and Petroleum Products Marketers Association of Nigeria (DAPPMA) yesterday in Lagos denied reaching an agreement with the Federal Ministry of Finance on the payment of the N800 billion subsidy arrears. The marketers in a statement signed by the Executive Secretary, Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association of Nigeria (DAPPMAN), Mr Olufemi Adewole, reiterated that there was no agreement, claiming that offers by ministry failed to meet the legitimate demands of the association. He said: “We refer to the press release from the Federal Ministry of Finance on December 6, following the meeting with marketers under the aegis of Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN), DAPPMA, and Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), said the marketers had agreed to resume operations. We did not sign the purported document with government as claimed. We still stand by our ultimatum. He also said with the development, the ultimatum still stand, adding that the marketers could not continue to borrow money to pay staff salaries. The oil marketers had on December 2, this year gave the Federal Government seven-day ultimatum to settle outstanding N800 billion subsidy payment debts. They said failure of the Federal Government to make the payment of the arrears would lead to depots ceasing operations across the country. Also, the Federal Ministry of Finance, on December 6, said that the Federal Government and petroleum marketers had agreed on the settlement of outstanding claims. The ministry in a statement issued by Mr Paul Abechi, Special Assistant on Media and Communications to the Minister of Finance, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, in Abuja assured that operations at all depots and sales would continue until further notice. Abechi said it was contained in a statement jointly signed by officials of the Federal Government and representatives of the petroleum marketers after a joint meeting. According to him, the petroleum marketers expressed satisfaction over the arrangement being made by the Federal Government to settle their claims and assured the members of the public of availability of petroleum products. He said that the meeting, which was held at the Ministry of Finance in Abuja, had in attendance senior government officials from the Ministry of Finance, the Debt Management Office (DMO), the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). However, the oil marketers said: “We   refer   to   the   press   release   from   the   Federal   Ministry   of   Finance   following   the meeting with marketers under the aegis of DAPPMAN, MOMAN and IPMAN and most respectfully refute its contents with the following clarifications. “DAPPMAN reiterates that there was no agreement reached because offers by government failed to meet the legitimate demands of the association and we did not   sign the   purported   document. “Hence, our ultimatum   stands   as   we   cannot continue to borrow from banks to pay staff salaries. “DAPPMAN’s demands made to the FG through the Honourable Minister of Finance and Debt Management Office was to pay cash and the   total   sum   of   indebtedness   to   marketers   within   the   time frame. “This was expressed   in   communications   with   the government, Ministry   and   other relevant office.” According to the marketers, this is to enable them   continue   in   business;  pay  staff   and   not   rely   on   facilities   from banks which are no longer forthcoming. They also said that in the past three years, DAPPMAN had highlighted the adverse impact those sovereign debts forced on marketers due to Federal government’s inability to comply with the terms of marketers agreement with PPPRA for its Petroleum Support Fund (PSF) scheme and the devaluation of the naira. “We   affirm   that of all stakeholders, MOMAN, IPMAN   and   DAPPMAN   that participated in the PSF scheme, DAPPMAN has the largest debt exposure in the downstream sector. “DAPPMAN has alerted the FG to this dire situation and specifically to the challenge our member companies face, leading to our inability to pay December 2018 salaries to our teeming work force without the immediate settlement of the debts owed by the FG. “Most unfortunately, this has not been heeded. “Since government globally is recognised as a continuum, FG is obliged to settle   all   legitimately   incurred   and   verified   Sovereign   debts   due   to   marketers promptly,” they said. The marketers stressed   that   those   debts   owed   to them  actually   belong   to banks, their shareholders, depositors and other Federal Government Agencies such as PPPRA, PEF-M-B, AMCON. Meanwhile, the Federal government said oil marketers would be paid N236 billion out of N348 billion approved by the National Assembly as outstanding subsidy claims on Friday December 14. The Chief Operating officer, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Downstream, Mr Henry Ikem-Obih disclosed this to newsmen in Abuja on Saturday. “The Debt Management Office (DMO) will by next week, precisely on December 14, pay oil marketers first part of the subsidy arrears of N236 billion as agreed by both parties. “We agreed that after the first tranche is paid, the marketers will form committee to work on details of how the next tranche will be paid in 2019 and the last paid in 2020. “Government is fully committed to pay the first tranche as promised and will be paid through promissory note that will be issued by the DMO,’’ he said. Ikem-Obih said that oil marketers equally owed government some debt, which would not be deducted from the first tranche of payment.