Lagos – The 19th edition of the National Sports Festival (NSF) after series of postponements will finally commence on Thursday December 6-16, 2018 in Abuja the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). This will be happening after six years of interregnum of the biennial sports fiesta which last held in Lagos tagged “Eko 2012.” Interestingly, Abuja will be hosting the Sports Festival for the second time since 2004, immediately after she hosted the Africa Games – COJA 2003. Cross River State was handed the hosting banner after Lagos State, but financial strangulation has led to one postponement too many that brought the festival to this point where two editions were supposed to have held. The seeming unjustifiable long break, an ugly development, no doubt has cast a gloomy picture on the festival which was established by the founding fathers in 1973 for two principal reasons as a unifying tool among Nigerians. One of the main reasons of the NSF is for the promotion of peace and cross-cultural affiliation in Nigeria after the Nigerian Civil War in 1970; two, is to serve as serves as a developmental and training event to aid athletes prepare for continental and international meets. Both reasons, if for nothing, is most desirous at this moment of Nigeria’s history where there seemed to be a total collapse in the structure of the federation in all ramification. Without doubt, Nigerian has lost many athletes that would have been discovered within the last editions, just as the peace and unity that could have been achieved was also lost. It is also another way of saying that aside the aforementioned reasons for the festival, the visions the founding fathers could also have been lost even when the national anthem tells us “Thy labours of our heroes past shall never be in vain.” In this regards, it is thanks to the Federal Government of Nigeria who is organising the festival through the Federal Ministry of Sport where a state(s) may have failed – otherwise, athletes from the 36 States of the Federation and Abuja will now congregate for a competitive athletic showdown. The might of the participating states will be exhibited while the festival lasts; Delta State won the 2012 edition and have always been winning since “Abuja 2004.” Barrister Solomon Dalung, the Minister of Sports while unveiling the official Mascot of National Sports Festival recently, revealed that a total of 37 sports will feature in the festival. He said this is an increase from 25 sports in the past, with a landmark participation of over 10,000 athletes and officials. Dalung, giving in-depth explanation reaffirmed that the inability of Cross River State to host the event following several postponements, led to the take-over by the Federal Government. “The Federal Government realising the collateral damage that the unending postponements of the festival portend for sports development in Nigeria accepted the resolution of the National Council of Sports to take over the hosting and organisation of the games in 2018 with Abuja as the host city. “When I inaugurated the Main Organising Committee, I charged the members to rebrand and repackage the festival to make it attractive to sponsors. A partnership agreement was signed with Greenfield Assets Limited to work with the ministry to rebrand market and re-package 5 editions of the National Sports Festival.” The Minister stated that the objective is to give more Nigerians the opportunity to be part of the fiesta and have a sense of belonging. “As part of the packaging and rebranding of the games, a permanent logo which will serve as an identity of the festival has been designed and approved” Dalung said. In the same vein, the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory Abuja Mallam Mohammed Musa Bello stated that measures have been put in place to ensure a hitch free game. “The school calendar has been adjusted to accommodate the games. For the first time, schools in and around Abuja will vacate on the first week of December 2018. “We are working with all relevant agencies to ensure security of persons and facilities from the arrival of participants to the venues to their departure. “I can assure you that all transport logistics shall be in place before the opening ceremony of the games. In addition, all Commissioners in the FCT have been directed to give maximum cooperation to the LOC and MOC to ensure a smooth and hitch-free hosting of the games. With the 36 states of the federation converging in the host city of Abuja for the fiesta is no doubt that it is a “jamboree” – there will be match past with the participating states donning their colours and  displaying their rich cultural heritage. 2018 Festival Will Be The Biggest Ever In History Ugo Umeseaka, Managing Director of National Sports Festival Marketing and Management Company Limited in this regard enthused, that intense preparations were on to have the best ever National Sports Festival come December 6-16. Umeseaka reiterated before the press in Abuja that the 2018 NSF would also be the biggest ever in terms of the preparations and participation – giving an estimate of the athletes and medals to be won – just as went on to explain every detail that one would need to know about the festival. Hear him: “Preparations are in top gear to have the best NSF so far in the history of the festival. This is in view of the fact that this edition will have the highest number of events for athletes to compete in. “Also, a total number of 3,164 medals will be won, with more than 12,000 athletes participating in 37 sports events. “Out of these numbers, gold and silver medals will be 987 each, while bronze medals will be 1,190.’’ The official said athletics would be the biggest sport at the festival with 45 events and the largest number of medals — 195. Umeseaka added, “There will be 65 medals each in the three categories of gold, silver and bronze. “The swimming sport will also have 38 events, with 150 medals available, while 60 medals will be awarded in gymnastics which has 38 events. “The lowest number of medals in a sport will be awarded in deaf sports table tennis with only six medals.’’ He said further that notable Nigerians in both the public and private sectors have been contacted for the award of medals to the winning athletes as well as the teams. According to him, “What we are trying to do is to bring many Nigerians out to the venues of events, especially those personalities that we feel will be of help to the growth of sports development in Nigeria. “We have also contacted the media managers, because their contributions to the development of sports in the country cannot be over-emphasised. “We want to use this opportunity to attract everyone to the field of sports and l am sure they will all enjoy every moment of their stay outside their offices.’’ On the reason 37 events would feature in the 2018 festival, the Managing Director said the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, through the NSF Main Organising Committee was being proactive. He said: “The Ministry does not want to deny any youth the opportunity to showcase whatever talents they have. “In the last edition in Lagos, only 25 events featured. But, this time around, some events are featuring for the first time. “And what this means is that with the number of events increased, so also is the number of athletes, officials and medals.’’ Interestingly, winner of the theme song competition for the 2018 NSF which had long commenced will smile home with N1 million. However, all of these may come to naught if Dalung’s request of N1.3 billion from President Muhammadu Buhari fortnight ago to successfully host the festival is anything to go by. Dalung, revealed that the fate of the festival hangs in the balance after the initial private sector partner, which was supposed to contribute N400 million of the budget, backed out and left government with no option but to provide more than its own N900 million contribution. Dalung affirmed that he needed the President’s quick intervention to ensure the Federal Government provides the funds for a successful hosting of the festival even as it has not been staged in the past six years. This underscores the interests and investment in the festival by the organisers; the request for the huge funds, no doubt is imperative and deliberate attempt to revitalise the festival which seemed to have lost its glamour for more attention and attraction.