Also explaining the importance of telecoms industry to Nigerian economy, Mr. Stephen Bello, a former Commissioner of NCC, said a lot needs to be done to up the country’s GDP. He blamed the low performance of the telecoms industry on the general economy. According to him, “The general economy has gone down. This has seriously affected the telecoms industry. Do remember that the industry supports other industries. The more other industries are booming, the more viable the telecoms industry. The good news is that the telecoms industry has surplus capacity to make impact in Nigeria. To have a sustained and thriving telecoms industry, the government should do more by encouraging the operators in the industry on innovation and Value Added Services (VAS).” Mr. Leo Stan Ekeh, Chairman of Zinox Group, said the tech sector that is driving leading economies in the world but struggling seriously in Nigeria. And in spite of the great and sincere efforts of the present administration, the Nigerian economy is also fatigued as a result of its predominantly analogue nature. In his opinion, millions of Nigerian youths nurse big dreams and have the capacity to thrive in a new and futuristic economy that is technology-driven, but urgently need government support in terms of structured capital and tax concession during their incubation period. Continuing, Ekeh disclosed that, “If the Federal Government of Nigeria can invest 20% of what she has invested in the Agricultural sector in the Tech sector, over 75% of present unemployed youths would become employed or self-employed in a profession that has a future. I am not against investment in the Agricultural sector, but it is a sector of extreme passion today due to its present analogue nature. “Our leaders should ask their children who trained in quality institutions if any of them would want to do farming, for example. I’m sure the answer you will get is 100%. So, who do you expect his child to go into farming? Farming is good, but it is a profession of passion. You can’t force a young man or woman to farm,” he declared. Speaking with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, Dr. Krishnan Ranganath, Vice President Engineering, Medallon Communications Limited, said the telecoms sector’s contribution to Nigerian economy is declining because of economic situation in the country. “The telecoms sector is trying. But the fact is that, the level of contribution it makes to the country’s economy in the past years is not the same today. The IT subsector is the worst hit,” he quipped. The relevance of mobile and telecoms sector is so vital that any country that plays down on it in this 21st century will be tantamount to a pure disaster in the waiting. Because of how critical the sector is to the economy in Nigeria, NCC, has been insisted that the Code of Corporate Governance for the Nigerian telecom industry, which has to do with standard, transparency, accountability and the general internal affairs of telecom companies in the country must govern the affairs of the operators.. The Nigerian telecommunications regulator stressed that Code of Corporate Governance is a global best practice for the interest of telecom investments, especially Foreign Direct Investments (FDI), put at $68 billion. In its key statistics of the telecom industry as at November 2018, NCC said    Active Voice Subscriber base grew from 165,239,443 in October 2018 to 169,104,830 in November 2018. Also, Internet Subscription grew from 107,547,723 in October, 2018 to 108,897,679 at the same period. The industry recorded a total active broadband subscription of 58,965,478 on 3G and 4G platforms as at November 2018, while    broadband penetration moved from 22.9 it had as at early this year to 30.9 percent in November 2018. Overall, Telecommunications and Information Services Sector grew by 14.7% from Q1, 2017 – Q3, 2018. On how to move the telecoms sector to another level, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, recently stated that efforts are being made by the government to support the operators and ensure that subscribers enjoy the best services they deserve. “We also decided to look at how we can improve Quality of Service consistent with key performances indicators that characterize the quality of service. The information we are getting from the consumers as well what we source from network operators is that Quality of Service has improved. The experience by consumers through their accounts, also indicate significant improvement.” Challenges Hampering Sustainable Growth Experts have noted that lack of adequate terrestrial fibre still mother of all bottlenecks in Africa, including Nigeria. Speaking at the Africa Session of the International Telecoms Week conference in Chicago recently, experts described terrestrial fibre constraints as one of the major bottlenecks hindering increased Internet penetration on the continent. During his presentation on the theme “Enabling Content on the African Continent”, Chief Executive Officer of research firm, Xalam Analytics, Guy Zibi analysed the African digital journey, highlighting dramatic changes that have altered the dynamics of the digital transformation of the continent. According to him, “The international capacity challenge has been solved, with most coastal countries exhibiting an oversupply of subsea cables serving the continent. Efforts by the Federal Government to boost broadband penetration and expand telecoms infrastructure in line with proposed national broadband target of 30 percent penetration by the end of 2018 have recorded appreciable success.  Meeting the 30 per cent target was estimated to gulp a minimum of N17.4 billion from the federation coffers. Also, industry analysts said Nigeria will need at least 120,000 kilometres of metropolitan fibre networks interconnected across the country for adequate broadband penetration. Currently, the country has been able to cover about 40,000 kilometres of fibre, which is nowhere near enough to boost broadband penetration. The telecommunications industry is one that is characterised by significant upfront investment in spectrum licenses, equipment purchases, and network infrastructure roll-out among others. But at the very top of the list is bureaucracy. RoW is the legal instrument that gives permission to lay fibre-optic cables along specific routes through facilities that are typically government-owned like roads, water, power lines, etc. State governments request for as high as N25,000 as against a recommended charge of N145 per metre of fibre for RoW. This exuberant cost, among other expenses, is then transferred along the value chain which drives up the price to the end-users. The major hurdle for this slow pace of spread is the issue of Right of Way (RoW) which NCC has been finding ways to resolve. But a harmonised charge of N145 per meter unit price rate has been reached, according to Umar Garba Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman, NCC. The result came on the heels of Danbatta saying, “The Federal Government needs to ensure that all 36 states of the federation need to adhere to the resolution of National Economic Council on the Right of Way (RoW) charges, which stipulates N145 per meter for laying fibre network in every part of the country.” Danbatta showed uncertainty in the possibility of achieving the targets set for the national broadband plan in 2013, saying, “We cannot compel the state governments to charge N 145 per meter for fibre. The Federal Government can, however, meet with the governors and extract a commitment from them, to ensure that NEC’s provision is strictly adhered to.”