Lagos – A major crisis is looming at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA2), Lagos, over the withdrawal of Aviation Security (AVSEC), Marshallers, and Fire/Safety Cost by the management of Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) over irreconcilable debts of N2 billion. Apart from MMA2, FAAN also said it would withdraw services to two other airports, Osubi Airport, Warri, and Gombe Airport for the same reason. There are indications that major airlines operating from the terminal would relocate their services away from the terminal operated by Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL) to the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. So far, Arik Air on Sunday announced the relocation of its Omagwa Airport Port Harcourt flight out of the terminal to GAT, while other airlines like Med-View, Max Air, Azman Air, Aero Contractors and others operating from the terminal may follow suit. But Kingsley Ezenwa, Spokesman of Dana Air, said the airline was monitoring the situation, hoping that the crisis would be resolved immediately. He also said that the airline would continue to liaise with its passengers to give them updated information on the situation. FAAN, for almost a decade, had accused the terminal operator of huge indebtedness running to over N2 billion, but the terminal operator had also consistently claimed that the agency owed it over N200 billion. The imbroglio between FAAN and BASL had been on for over a decade with various threats issued by FAAN not complied with. A source close to the agency confided in our correspondent on Sunday that FAAN had notified all airlines of its withdrawal of services from MMA2, Osubi Airport, Warri, and Gombe Airport. FAAN had sent a notice to airmen (NOTAM) issued on Saturday, December 8, 2018, saying that it would be withdrawing aviation security, fire-fighting, and rescue operations from the affected airports from Sunday. A source close to FAAN confided in our correspondent that BASL owed the agency the total sum of N1, 943, 516.50 as at July 31, 2018. FAAN, in a letter in November addressed to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of BASL and personally signed by Engr. Saleh Dunoma, its Managing Director, had claimed that since the terminal operator commenced services from the terminal on September 7, 2007, it was yet to remit any amount of money to its coffers as agreed in the contractual agreement. The breakdown of the sum indicated that BASL as at July 31, 2018 owed FAAN N1,444,044,893.83 for provision of aviation security (AVSEC), another N143,466,896.96 for fire/safety cost. Others were for marshalling, N2,168,058.21, and management cost, which it put at N1,943,323,516.50. FAAN, in the letter to the management of BASL, also threatened to withdraw the services of its personnel from the terminal with effect from December 3, 2018 if the debts were not remitted to it, but had to delay the implementation of the threat by a week. The letter, with entitled, ‘Outstanding Personnel Cost for FAAN Staff Deployed to the Bi-Courtney Terminal – Final Demand and Notice of Intention to Implement Sanctions,’ said that FAAN, in line with its statutory responsibilities to provide security and safety services at all airports and aerodromes in Nigeria had continued to fulfil its obligations and wondered why BASL reneged on its own. FAAN insisted that non-payment for the services of these personnel leading to shrinking financial resources had started to impact negatively on its ability to continue to effectively and efficiently deliver on its services. The letter added: “We are therefore using the opportunity of this final demand notices to inform you that the Honourable Minister of State for Aviation has directed the grace of period of one month to be given to you to settle the outstanding debt of N1,943,323,516.50 failure which appropriate sanctions as stipulated in the authority’s Credit Policy Manual will be applied to extract payment. “Meaning that in this case, the services of our aviation security, fire and rescue personnel will no longer be available for the operations of your terminal with effect from Monday, December 3, 2018 in compliance with the directive of the Honourable Minister; and more so as we no longer possess the financial muscle to keep these personnel in your terminal working without payment.” Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, General Manager, Corporate Communications of FAAN, confirmed the development to our correspondent on phone. She said that before taking the decision, the agency had issued three months ultimatum to the Gombe and Delta State governments as well as the managers of MMA2 in Lagos to pay up their debts or face disruption of services. She added: “The ultimatum had expired on December 3, but FAAN added another one week, which expires Sunday midnight. We have even issued NOTAM to that effect.” Besides, following the withdrawal of services from MMA2 and others, Arik Air in a statement on Sunday confirmed the relocation of its flights away from the affected airport. Mr. Adebanji Ola, the spokesman of the airline said that the airline would be suspending its flights to Osubi Airport, Gombe Airport, and move Port Harcourt flights out of MMA2 from Monday, until further notice. Ola advised Warri passengers to use Benin Airport as alternate, while Gombe passengers were to use Bauchi Airport as alternate. He added: “All Arik Air flights to Omagwa Airport Port Harcourt will as from the same date operate from Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal One otherwise known as General Aviation Terminal (GAT). “Arik Air regrets any inconvenience the closure of the three airports may cause its esteemed customers. The airline hopes the issue between FAAN and the airport authorities will be resolved soonest.”