ABUJA – Victor Ndoma Egba, the Board Chairman of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), has urged his kinsmen in Cross River State to vote President Muhammadu in the 2019 general election, and that anything to the contrary would amount to an “uncharitable ingratitude.” The three-term senator said President Buhari has shown extraordinary faith and love for the people of the state, granting them seven appointments in his administration despite a paltry 28,000 cumulative votes he received from the state in 2015. He bared his thoughts during a chat with journalists at the weekend in Abuja, declaring that the return of President Buhari held more prospects for a Southeast to occupy Aso Rock villa in 2023. According to him, the Igbos must vote President Buhari if they are to realize their hope of ruling the country in 2023 Senator Ndoma Egba, who is flying the Central Senatorial banner of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in next year’s general election, also observed that the state has benefited significantly from roads and educational infrastructural via a better funded NDDC under the APC government. By comparison, he said what the state got in the 16 years of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration was a Kanu Agabi ministerial appointment and Liyel Imoke, who was a named presidential adviser before becoming governor of the state While admitting that the entire South South used to be a PDP enclave because of the sentiment attached to the President Goodluck Jonathan’s presidency, he pointed out that such regional sentiment would no longer be there when the electorates file out to cast their votes on February 16. He argued that the Cross River has justifiable reason to vote APC in the forthcoming election. “In 2015, President Buhari got a paltry 28,000 votes and in spite of the low level of support, see what he has done for Cross River. Cross River remains the only state that he has visited twice. The state is well represented in government. “We have the Chief Justice of Nigeria even though he is not a politician. You can’t run away from the fact that he became Chief Justice under President Buhari, but anything could have happened. The Head of Service of the Federation is from Cross River state, the Auditor General of the Federation is from that state, the Minister of the Niger Delta, the Chairman, NDDC, the Special Adviser on Prosecution are all from that state in addition to Chairmen of boards, all for a paltry 28,000. “What was the record under PDP? The best we ever had as a state under the PDP was when we had Kanu Agabi as Minister and Senator Liyel Imoke as Special Adviser. These are arguments that will be taken to the field in Cross River. “It will be the height of ingratitude for any Cross Riverian not to vote for President Buhari and it will be uncharitable ingratitude.”