Awka – After her tenure as Nigeria’s Ambassador to Spain, the other time Mrs. Bianca Ojukwu, wife of the late national leader of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) came into lime light was during the re-election campaign of Governor Willie Obiano in 2017. She accompanied the campaign team to virtually all towns and villages where the Governor went to solicit for votes. The former Miss Intercontinental Queen was very visible then, mounting the podium in all the campaign tour encouraged by APGA chieftains, the likes of Professor Charles Soludo, former Governor of Central Bank led by Senator Victor Umeh, Director-General of Willie Obiano Campaign Organization. With experience of the hind sight, it can now be conjectured that all her efforts were in anticipation of a Senatorial ticket. Barely 10 months after the November, 2017 Governorship Election came the dawn of Senatorial primary election and Bianca jumped into the ring. Her senatorial ambition attracted national attention. As wife of the party’s national leader, a good number of people expected her to pick the ticket without sweating for it. This view was strengthened by a group of people who even purchased the party’s nomination form for her.  The group made up of Hon Martins Ndujekwu, Comrade Peter Nwosu, Engr Chidi Anuligo, Chief Chukwuebuka Ileka among others claimed that as friends, they, out of their own volition, put together the money and picked the form to surprise her. Before then, she seemed to enjoy the support of wealthy people that cut across the South East, and who were believed to be ready to fund her campaign. She was even said to enjoy the support of the Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano. Apart from these, pro-Biafra activist and leader of Biafran Independent Movement (BIM) and Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) Chief Ralph Uwazuruike stood behind her and urged her on. Nevertheless, the rival pro-Biafra group led by Comrade Uchenna Madu opposed Mrs. Ojukwu’s ambition. The group held that Bianca, as a symbol of Dim Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, the Soul of Biafra , should be an epitome of Caesar’s wife, without blemish. It feared that should she fail in the election, all the honour accorded to her husband and as “Mother General” will vanish into thin air. At home, Bianca had even greater battles. The Ojukwu family in a meeting headed by Dr. Ike Ojukwu, the Director of Ojukwu Transport Company Limited organized a press conference to denounce Bianca’s ambition. Imputing tribal sentiment into their stand, Ike at the press conference was alleged to have said: “it would be a letdown to allow a woman from Ngwo in Enugu State to represent Anambra South Senatorial District”, adding that the district has several prominent people. He reportedly asked: “Is she from Nnewi? She is from Ngwo in Enugu State. If you ask me, I would prefer someone who is a son of the soil and because I come from Nnewi, I would like Nnewi indigene to represent us.” Also speaking at the same press conference, Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu (Jnr) who does not hide his disdain for Bianca reportedly said: “A young woman who was supposedly married to my father who is late; a young woman who could remarry tomorrow maybe from Abia State or later from Sokoto State. And you want her to come and represent us. I wonder if there are no other people in Anambra South that can  contest”. Nevertheless, Bianca felt she was the right person for the job. She said her presence at the Senate will further promote APGA ideology and acceptance of the Igbo nation by other states. But electoral contest in Anambra South Senatorial district is not a native dance that a woman participates in while clutching some snuff in one hand. The district is the home of ambitious millionaires. In politics, many of them have cut their teeth very early in life. For instance, Chief Nicholas Ukachukwu, a multi millionaire and winner of the primary election had been in the National Assembly and has nurtured the ambition of going to the Senate using many political platforms including Hope Democratic Party (HDP) in the previous election. Chief Ifeanyi Ubah had contested the Governorship election in the past under Labour Party and later vied for the senatorial seat and failed. They, along with others were looking for a political party popular enough in Anambra state to actualize their ambition. Besides, whoever won the nomination will have to face the Ubas: Senator Andy who got the ticket of All Progressives Congress (APC) and his brother,  Chris Uba who also got the ticket of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the Senatorial election. Coming back to Bianca, it was obvious that she did not enjoy the favour of the party on the party primary election day as she was simply too inexperienced and fragile to confront the Ukachukwus and Ubah’s of this world. Whether there was shooting at Ekwulobia stadium, venue of the primary election or not, Ukachukwu was declared winner and was issued the ticket. It was only then that Bianca realised that she had been left high and dry and she cried foul. She felt that the party hierarchy ought to have done something about what she perceived as flawed process but nothing happened. This writer believes that the party must have heaved a sigh of relief that eventually, the cup has passed over them given the tension that built up before that exercise. And as expected they took their positions. The first salvo against Bianca’s tirades on the party came from the Special Adviser to Governor Obiano on political matters, Mr. Ifeatu Obi-Okoye. He said that Bianca was advised by the party hierarchy to shelve her Senatorial ambition so that she would run with the party’s presidential candidate, but she refused. However, that was not the view of the national chairman of the party,  Victor Oye. In an interview with Daily Independent, Oye said Bianca joined the race late after both Ukachukwu and Ubah had gone far in the field and so there was nothing the party could do. Oye was very annoyed that Bianca had kept making derogatory remarks about him and even calling for his resignation when he, according to him, had no hands in the conduct of the primary election. Oye told reporters: “I did not do Bianca anything. People were sent to conduct the primary election and they returned result to me and that was all I cared for. APGA gave her support, I wouldn’t want to announce it openly, but we gave her all the support she needed to win but she did not win. That is why I said she should tell why she lost. I will even question her later to explain to me why she lost after all the support we gave her. She calls herself Mother General of APGA, but as a mother she should not be castigating the party like that. Her action is anti party, but we don’t want to go into all that, because I know that very soon she will know the truth as truth is immutable. “They said we gave Senator Victor Umeh ticket unopposed, yes, because he indicated interest early enough and he deserved it too. If Bianca had shown interest much earlier, I would have announced it that nobody else would be tolerated. But she joined the fray after Ukachukwu and Ifeanyi had declared and were already running. Oye’s response even infuriated Bianca the more. For now it is war of words without end