Host communities in oil rich Akwa Ibom State now have course to rejoice as an indigenous oil firm, Oriental Energy Resources Limited, has reiterated its commitment to develop their areas in line with international best practices. The company has maintained close working relationship with relevant government agencies, community based and non-governmental organisations as well as other sustainable development actors at the three tiers of government. Such investments and programmes include the annual free medical outreach, scholarship awards to students in tertiary institutions as well as the multi-million-naira 100 housing units called “Oriental Village” currently under construction in Enwang, the headquarters of Mbo Local Government Area. Other social investment initiatives include Enterprise Development Scheme and support for University of Uyo’s departments of Petroleum and Chemical Engineering, among others. Head of Community and Government Relations, Dr Uwem Ite, who made the disclosure in Uyo maintained that Oriental Energy does not joke with its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as it has carried out many social investment initiatives and programmes within its host communities in Akwa Ibom State since the commencement of operations. He said apart from the local fishermen who were not left out in the scheme of things, precisely in 2016, the company provided them with five modern fishing boats, nets and other equipment to enhance their productivity and economic growth as well as improve their standard of living while allocation framework of the housing units and management of estates for sustainability has been developed and agreed by the relevant stakeholders. ‘We conducted a one-week free medical outreach in July this year for 4000 beneficiaries drawn from Effiat, Enwang, Uda, Ebughu and Udesi communities in Mbo Local Government Area and its environs. The outreach which was held at Enwang Primary Health Center addressed several unmet health care needs of the beneficiaries, which included traditional rulers, men, women, youths and school children. Free medical supplies were distributed, including pregnancy kit bags for 200 expectant mothers as well as dental and hygiene kits for school children’’ Ite said. ‘Again, as part of our efforts to contribute to human capital development in our host communities, we instituted an annual scholarship scheme for students in tertiary institutions. Since 2009, more than 850 students have received financial support from Oriental Energy to complete their education through the scholarship programme. For instance, 65% of the total numbers of awards were made to indigenes of Mbo communities in the 2018/2019 academic session. ‘It would also interest you to know that in 2017, we launched a 700-million-naira modern residential estate in Enwang, the headquarters of Mbo Local Government Area. The secured estate named “Oriental Village Mbo” is currently under construction and consists of 100 housing units, six learning centers and a clinic will be powered by a solar electrification system. When completed, the housing units will be given to free to the beneficiaries from Effiat and other Mbo communities in Akwa Ibom State. ‘With respect to supporting enterprise development by indigenes of our host communities, Oriental Energy has trained well over 270 youths in skills acquisition centers located in Uyo, Oron, Eket and Enwang in Akwa Ibom State. Beneficiaries of the training received starter packs and start-up funds for their businesses.