Osogbo – Fresh facts have emerged how the kidnapped staff and students of Osun State College of Technology, Esa-Oke were released by the Fulani herdsmen that kidnapped them. It would be recalled that the remaining four staff of the institution who were kidnapped on Tuesday evening were released and rescued by the police. They were said to have been released after the kidnappers were said to have collected an undisclosed amount of money from the relatives of the victims and unions at the institution. One of the union leaders, who does not want his name in print, told Saturday Independent that the kidnappers collected ransom from the relatives of the victims. He added that some of the unions also supported families of the victims in given out the ransom to kidnappers before the release of the victims. An account said the kidnappers had demanded a sum of N2million each on the four victims. As at the time of filing this report, the police told newsmen that the victims have volunteered information on their ordeal in the den of the abductors. The Police through its Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Folasade Odoro said that the victims after volunteering information on their ordeal were taken to hospital for medical treatment after which they were reunited with their families. Odoro, who broke the news of the release of the victims to newsmen on Friday 07/12/2018 explained that the victims have been reunited with their families and that the police are still on trail of the kidnappers. About 10 staff of the college were kidnapped by some gunmen believed to be Fulani ‘Bororo’ herdsmen. One of the college staff was shot dead and four were first rescued by police in an operation led by the Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Fimihan Adeoye, vigilante groups and members of Oodua Peoples’ Congress. One of the policemen was shot by the kidnappers during the gun duel. The injured policeman is presently receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital. Following the development, several people have abandoned their homes and ran for safety. Several villages in the area have also been deserted. The State Commissioner of Police, Fimihan Adeoye led a team of detectives to the scene as well as Chairman, Committee on Peace and Co-habitation Between Fulani/Bororo and Farmers in Osun State, Hon. Mudasiru Toogun for an on the spot assessment of the incident. Toogun, who claimed to represent Osun State Governor, Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola said the governor had directed the security operatives to ensure the kidnappers are flushed out from their hideout dead or alive. Speaking with Independent, the director of media, Dr. Wale Oyekanmi disclosed that the cause of the attack on the staff and students of the institution by the Fulani herdsmen is still unknown. He explained that the ancient town of Esa-Oke and the school have not recorded such incident, saying that no one has a clue to the incidence.