Bayelsa Government has advocated the need for the Revenue Mobilization, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) to allocate more funds to states. The government justified its position by saying that states required more funds than the Federal Government to enable them to tackle developmental challenges. A statement signed by the Special Adviser to Bayelsa Governor on Media Relations, Mr Fidelis Soriwei, on Saturday said that the state Deputy Governor, Rear Admiral Gboribiogha Jonah (Rtd) made this known when members of the Commission led by Alhaji Aliyu Mohammed Sokoto paid him a courtesy visit at the Government House, Yenagoa. He also stressed the need for devolution of some responsibilities from the Federal Government to states to reflect the practice of true federalism. Jonah also acknowledged that such issues are constitutional and hoped that hey would be achieved in the near future. On the use of landmass as major parameters for revenue sharing, Jonah, urged the Commission to accord special consideration to Bayelsa State, which he said, was grappling with development challenges in view of its difficult terrain. “When you talk about land mass as a criteria for revenue sharing, we get disadvantaged to some point because Bayelsa is predominantly a riverine state. “Development in this area is challenging because of the difficult terrain. That is why we are clamouring for more revenue allocation to tackle development efforts,” Jonah said “The airport we have just finished constructing and waiting for commissioning, the state government pumped a huge amount of sand into that area before we could create land for its construction. “So whatever thing that can be done to lighten the burden on us arising out of our natural location will be welcome,” Jonah said He also called for fairness, justice and equity among all Nigerians, lamenting that Bayelsa is yet to receive any support from the National Emergency Management Agency in spite of the fact that it was declared a disaster area during the recent flooding. He explained that the current revenue sharing formula stands at 48.5% for Federal Government, 26.7% for states, local governments, 20.6% while 4.18% of the total amount is set aside to address emergency situations by the Federal Government.