The Kano State Hisbah Board has seized and destroyed more than 30 trailer loads of beer worth over N150 million. The board’s Public Relations Officer, Malam Adamu Yahaya, disclosed this in a statement in Kano. According to Joseph Peter, a distributor in Abuja, a trailer load of beer costs between N5.2 million and N5.5 million. This brings the total worth of the beer destroyed to over N150 million. Yahaya said that the cartons of beer were destroyed on Monday evening after interception at Kalebawa on Danbata Road in Dawakin Tofa area. “The Kano State Law No. 4 of 2004 has banned the manufacture and use of intoxicants in the state. Furthermore, an order was given by a magistrates’ court for us to go ahead with the exercise,” the public relations officer said. Yahaya warned those selling beer to stay within their limits. He appealed to members of the public to be of good conduct and be one another’s keeper. Meanwhile, the Kano State Hisbah Board has declared its resolution to confiscate over a million bottles of beer it seized from traders in the Kano metropolis who went against the penal code of the state. Nahabani Usman, the Hisbah Board Assistant Commander on Special Duties, said the action was in pursuance of their penal code which prohibits the consumption of intoxicating substances and drugs. Kano is among the nine core northern states where sharia law is practised and as such alcohol consumption is forbidden. Despite this awareness, some traders deliberately sneak in alcoholic drinks into the state to sell secretly. Usman implored the state government to implement its proposed Drug Control Agency into the Hisbah board and bestow the task of addressing drug-related cases to a special court in the state. He further called on interested affluent people who have only one wife and wish to have more to participate in an ongoing exercise to marry more wives from a pool of widows and divorcees who need new husbands. “I am appealing to professors or wealthy individuals, who are interested in having more wives to come forward and collect the forms for registration to participate in the mass wedding,” he said.