ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Wednesday advanced a process through which youths can benefit from handling 20 percent of all contracts awarded by Federal Government’s ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs). To this end, the House on Wednesday passed for second reading a Bill for an Act to Amend the Public Procurement Act 2004 to ensure Nigerian youths are empowered to play leadership roles in the nation’s economy. Hon. Sunday Karimi Steve (PDP, Kogi), the sponsor, said the bill if passed into law, would make it mandatory for 20 percent of all public procurement of the Federal Government in a financial year to be awarded to indigenous youths and other Nigerians who fall within the country’s economically disadvantaged group. Karimi said it sought to reduce unemployment and ensure that youths and other disadvantaged Nigerians were given consideration in procurement of goods and services all MDAs. Arguing the bill’s merit, the lawmaker hinted that it would enable young persons who graduated and qualified as professionals in various fields to pull their resources together and establish concerns that could approach the MDAs for contract. Contributing, House Leader, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila said the proposed legislation was in the nation’s interest as the law, if enacted would protect the youths. Also, Hon. Mohammed Tahir Monguno (APC, Borno) argued that what the bill sought to achieve was to support the growth of small and medium scale enterprises (SMES) in Nigeria. On his own part, Hon. Abulrazak Namdas (APC, Adamawa) noted that there were many youths looking for opportunities by either employment or contracts in all the MDAs, saying that such a legislation would encourage the youths and make them to be more stable financially. Before putting the question on the bill, Speaker Yakubu Dogara overruled Hon. Uzoma Nkem Abonta (PDP, Abia), who had earlier argued against an education related bill even without going through its general principles on the ground that it infringed on individual human rights. His argument against the said bill led to its suspension for representation on a later date as the lawmaker claimed that a similar bill had been passed by the House. On the procurement bill, Abonta had raised a point of order saying the law infringes on the rights of older persons, but the speaker ruled him out of order while deferring it to the House Committee on Public Procurement for more inputs.