Lagos – The 2018 vice presidential candidates election debate organised by Nigeria Election Debate Group (NEDB) and the Broadcasting Organisation of Nigeria (BON) will for a long time be a talking point among Nigerians. It was a much-anticipated debate many Nigerians, especially the youths have looked forward to owing to the brilliance, oratory and the impressive resume of the presidential candidates of the two leading parties, the ruling  All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Though the debate featured five vice- presidential candidates namely:  Prof. Yemi Osinbajo of the APC,  Peter Obi of the PDP,   Umar Getso of the Young Progressive Party (YPP), Ganiyu Galadima of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) and Alliance for New Nigeria (Kadijah Abdullahi- Iya),  as expected, the debate was a two-horse race between Osinbajo and Obi as both men took on each other on the economy, anti-corruption war, foreign policies and what to expect from them as vice-presidents if their party was elected as the ruling party in the forthcoming general elections. Highlighting what the Buhari administration has done in the last three and half years to deserve a second term, Osinbajo emphasised on the infrastructural strides of the Buhari administration, which he said is a departure from the past. He said presently, the Buhari administration has begun one of the largest projects in the infrastructural history of the country. “We are building railways between Lagos and Kano. That medium gauge railway, we are at the first phase of it; that is, the Lagos-Ibadan part of it, it will be ready in January,” Osinbajo said. He further said the government has also done the Aladja-Warri section, adding that the Kano-Maradi rail which is one of the oldest commercial routes in the country have just been awarded. Osinbajo also said the government is looking at the Lagos-Calabar rail, even as he said in every state of the country; the government has a major road project, whilst also listing other infrastructural developments of the Buhari administration. On the nation’s economy, particularly the oil sector where fuel subsidy has become a thorny issue, he said unlike before, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is the sole importer of petroleum. He added that it is on the balance sheet of the NNPC that the subsidy is being taken. He also said if petroleum subsidy is removed, the price of fuel could go up as high as N220 per litre. He added that there is no country in the world that does not run one subsidy or the other .“For example, America subsidises agriculture, subsidises production, subsidises all sorts of things. Now, if you have a petrol subsidy, and I am not saying that it must be there forever, but petrol subsidy helps because the moment you remove the subsidy, prices go up. We experienced it earlier on in the regime. Prices went up from 86 to 145 naira per litre,” Osinbajo said. Speaking on the issue of Petroleum subsidy, Obi  criticised the Buhari/Osinbajo administration’s handling of the issue waving it off as a subsidisation of inefficiency that should be done away with. “Why are you actually subsiding? Nigeria has one of the lowest car ownerships in the world; it is 10  per 1,000. So, we have only two million vehicles and you’re paying almost a trillion when you have 87 million people that are poor,” he said. He also  alleged that the APC administration’s pattern of fighting corruption has cost the nation jobs and economic progress. “It is not that you cannot fight corruption, but you can fight it more aggressively while addressing economic issues. For example, in 2015, unemployment was 24 per cent, today, it is 40 per cent.In 2015, we attracted $21bn in Foreign Direct Investment but we attracted only $12bn last year; our GDP was $500bn in 2015 while per capita was $2,500 today it is under $1,900. “If you look at our stock market, we have lost over N2tn in one year, so that is not a policy. You’re just fighting corruption, you are not creating jobs. “You cannot shut down your shop and be chasing criminals,” he said which drew a thunderous applause from the audience. Osinbajo, however countered Obi’s claim by saying “if the assault by thieves continues, there may be no shop to look after”. This also drew applause from the audience. Obi also said with 86 million poor people, Nigerians now live in a country with the highest number of poor people in any nation in the world, adding  that the number grows at six percent every minute. He said while South Africa capital market stands at $900 billion, as the second largest economy in Africa, Nigeria’s capital market today is only $30 billion, stressing that it shows the shallowness of the economy, because the government in power is not doing what it is not supposed to do. “Our country today has the highest number of out-of- school children in the world; our HPI has dropped from 152 to 157; our global competitive index has dropped from 124 to 127. In terrorism, we have moved from seven to number three just behind Iran and Afghanistan,” Obi said. Umar Getso on her part said her party would pursue the restructuring of the economy and improvement critical sectors like healthcare, education, job creation and security. “In my party (YPP), we so much believe in a new Nigeria, where every Nigerian will have equal rights and will have a story to tell tomorrow” she said. Abdulahi-Iya, the ANN Vice- Presidential candidate said subsidy in Nigeria is fraught with corruption and has never positively affected the lives of the common man. “Subsidy In Nigeria Is Fraught With Corruption. What is the government presently doing with the subsidy that has been removed? It is not affecting the common man and we don’t know what is going on”. , “We are going to do devolution of power; we are going to do resource control and constitutional amendment, because those are the structures that affect the endemic poverty that we have in Nigeria.” Galadima of the ACPN predicted a gloomy future for Nigeria’s economy when he said the Nigerian economy if not urgently addressed will collapse any moment from now. “Unemployment is becoming higher and this is because of the wrong policy of Government. Nigeria does not have the capacity to determine the rate at which the naira is exchanged for other currencies of the world. The Nigerian economy now is vulnerable and can collapse at any time” he said.