Owere Dickson Imasogie, one of the few surviving First Republic politicians and a pioneer member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview with Francis Onoiribholo, Imasogie, former Chairman, Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria gave his assessment on the chances of Atiku Abubakar over  President Muhammadu Buhari in next year’s election. Excerpts: As a political leader who has been around and active since the first republic, what is your assessment of the Presidential candidate of the PDP and that of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who is the sitting president and their chances in next year’s election? First, this is the second coming of Buhari as the head of government in Nigeria, he did it in the Military era and he is doing it now as a democrat, so to say. Atiku has only been a Vice President, that is the second in command, I am aware his boss wanted to rubbish him but as an insider of PDP, I knew what caused that problem which is the Third term ambition of the President then.  That was what caused that trouble between Atiku and his principal which was being referred to as third term agenda, but today we are happy we have put that behind us now whether we like it or not, Obasanjo has said that he has forgiven him and that he is now his candidate which means there is no trouble at all now with Atiku. The first coming of Buhari as a military head of state, everyone knows what Nigerians suffered. This is his second coming, yes he got it on a platter of gold because the leadership of PDP did not listen to some of us, though we are low in the party but we are old politicians. I quarreled with some of the leaders over fielding President Goodluck Jonathan in 2015 election because I knew then that even our PDP governors in the north will work against us and that is exactly what happene. It is not because PDP was corrupt that made us to lose the election, it is because the northerners do not want a southerner again to be President after 2015 and. If you really look at it, we clamoured that there must be change and that was why they brought in Obasanjo in 1999, even from the prison. It was the northerners who brought in Obasanjo and after his two terms and wanted to do third term that did not see the light of day. Umaru Yar’ Adua came in, you are aware even the northerners were even saying Obasanjo choose Yar’Adua because he knew he was sick so that a southerner can take over again and really Yar’ Adua died in office and Jonathan completed his tenure and did his own full one and wanted another full one. If you were to be the northerners, would you not be annoyed? That was why I kicked against our leaders bringing out Jonathan in 2015. Jonathan is a fine gentleman but because of my stand on the issue I was punished for it and I will not want to relate everything on that episode today till another time but I am also happy now that Buhari won which gave Nigerians the opportunity to know him. Assuming is Jonathan that won people would have still been saying, PDP ruled for 20 years and they ruined this country, is Buhari not aware that PDP did not rule well, if he is aware it means he was having the antidotes to correct it, this was why he was elected, since he is not applying that antidote he is coming out openly to show his incompetence. What is good in Buhari, nothing, even the corruption he said he is pursuing, do you really think he is pursuing corruption? His former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal, he defended him until he could not anymore before he said okay let me set up a committee headed by the Vice President that later found him guilty. Today did they hand him over to EFCC? Whereas, PDP governors even before they leave office for saying somebody wrote only a petition against them he will say as you are leaving report to the EFCC, is that how to fight corruption? You are aware, let me not talk of Bishop Ochei versus Oshiomhole case, with all the documents the Bishop tendered against Oshiomhole even if it is only his own and what we are now hearing about him as chairman of APC and with the hospital project he executed in Edo and so on, for the President to overlook all those and yet you said you want corruption to go, is that how corruption will go? And when he came in he did not shut his mouth, in an attempt to rubbish PDP he told the whole world that Nigeria is corrupt, the economy is down and all those doing business with us started removing their money. We could not manage the economy, now there is hunger everywhere, who are you going to blame, yet he is not ashamed, he is still telling people we should forgive him that he has learned his lesson. Can you convince Nigerian voters while you want Atiku to be given a chance having been vice president for 8 years? First, when we formed this party PDP in 1998, Chief Tony Anenih’s group with Dr. Samuel Ogbemudia’s group fused together and we share the position in Uhunmwonde, one of the position they gave to me was the Vice Chairman of the local government council and I gave it to Umagbae South man and all my boys there with anger bounced on me that number two man is a spare tyre and it is only when your tyre is down that you can test whether your spare tyre is good or not. Why am I explaining all this? Atiku was a Vice President, he has not got that executive power, so, you cannot judge him, except that Osinbajo is lying, can you really put all the blames of Buhari on Osinbajo now? No, except that as a Christian he is not telling us what is really happening. So there is no way you can judge Atiku. All you can do in judging Atiku is to look at his private establishments, where he is a CEO, whether the business is growing or not and to me he has been a successful businessman and I also believe that if elected president of this country he will take the country to a higher and successful level. President Buhari is pleading that he should be given a second chance to take Nigeria to another level, which level do you think he will take Nigeria to if given  that second chance? If he has to change all the bad things he is overlooking now within the next sixty days before the election may be Nigerians will listen to him and he can start doing it now. If by tomorrow he handover Babachir Lawal to EFCC to account for how much he used for the IDP project, arrest Maina, arrest Oshiomhole to clear himself of Bishop Ochei’s allegations, arrest the MD of NNPC because the Minister of state for Petroleum and the Ministry accused him and all these to be done within two months, you will start to see things changing, you will believe he will change. To continue to retain all those people in his government and he is telling you he will change, if you were to be me will you believe he will change? It is only a fool who will believe that he will change, especially when he is not showing any sign that he will change.