Dutse – The Federal University Dutse has graduated 427 students. Out of the number, 54 made first class, 223 obtained second class upper division, 149 obtained second class lower division, while one got third class. Professor Fatima Mukhtar, the vice chancellor, made this known in her pre-convocation press briefing at the University Senate Chamber where she stated that arrangements had been finalised by the authorities of the varsity towards the establishment of Faculty of Management Sciences by September this year. “We do hope that next year we shall establish the Faculty of Education, with the hope of introducing a novel programme, B.ED Basic Education, to address the challenges of training teachers qualified to man basic education in the country,” she said. On academic expansion, Professor Mukhtar announced that the university, having satisfied all requirements expected, established a College of Medicine and Health Sciences and students had been admitted into the Bachelor of Applied Biology. “To buttress these claims, the university was fortunate to have the Jigawa State government approve the hand-over of the Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital to serve as the teaching hospital.” I am pleased to inform you that the presidency has included the Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital l as part of the four hospitals to be upgraded to teaching hospitals this year.” Enumerating some achievements of the university in the last seven years, the don said least among them is the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC)’s construction of one Computer-Based Training Centre for the university. The Federal University, Dutse, established seven years ago with five academic departments and three faculties, has increased its academic departments to 19 and five faculties, with an increase of enrolled students from 202 to 5,963. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.