Lagos – After leading Nigeria to resounding wins over Uganda (102-86), Rwanda (108-53) and Mali (82-59) in the country’s 2019 FIBA Basketball World Cup  African qualifiers, Ike Diogu is in dreamland over the possibility of leading the team in the June-July window in front of very passionate home fans. Diogu is hopeful the D’Tigers will get to host Group B qualifiers in Lagos come the June-July window. The 6ft 9in (2.06m) centre – the only player to score more than 100 points at FIBA AfroBasket 2017 – said that the thought of it was wonderful because he and his teammates have never played a competitive game in front of their home fans. “I can imagine what the atmosphere would be like playing before our home fans. It would be exciting for me and others as well. Most of the time we’ve played for Nigeria, it’s been outside of the country but the idea that the third window of the FIBA Basketball World Cup 2019 African Qualifiers could be at home thrills me and I would look forward to it,” Diogu said. Given the passion associated with basketball in Nigeria, Diogu sees the prospect of staging a Qualifiers window there as a great opportunity for players to be around their families. “It’s always great when you know you’re going to be among family members. Their presence is reassuring and playing in Nigeria would give the fans an opportunity to see their players at close range.” INDEPENDENT gathered that Nigeria lived up to expectations at the just concluded first leg of the qualifiers, emerging as the third undefeated team. By beating Mali – hosts of the first-leg in front of a home crowd, Nigeria improved their mark to 3-0, and, as a result, joined Tunisia and Angola as the only teams yet to lose a game in the race for the FIBA Basketball World Cup 2019 in China. Five teams will represent Africa in China. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.