Onitsha – As build-up for the 2019 general elections gathers momentum, Obinna Ngonadi, a chieftain of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Nnewi North, has declared his intention to represent Nnewi North State Constituency in the Anambra State House of Assembly. Ngonadi, who feted the leadership of APGA in Anambra as well as Nnewi stakeholders at his in Uruagu Nnewi country home, used the opportunity to lobby the politicians, including members of the state executive of APGA led by Norbert Obi, the chairman. The local government chapter of the party in Nnewi North was led to the ceremony by Chukwudi Orizu, the chairman of the council, while those at the ward levels were led by their various ward chairmen and woman leaders. Politicians in Nnewi and captains of industries were also well represented. Speaking at the occasion, the Anambra APGA chairman described Ngonadi as an intelligent, hardworking and humble young man with all it takes to represent Nnewi North at the Assembly. The APGA boss narrated how the host, with Humphrey, his father, and other APGA stakeholders in Nnewi worked hard to deliver Nnewi North local government for APGA, and garnered a second term victory for Governor Willie Obiano. He thanked Nnewi people gathered at the ceremony for a job well done. He, however, tasked the aspirant to identify with APGA members at the grassroots since they were the people to produce a candidate and present such to the State Working Committee (SWC). “My son, Obinna, I believe strongly in your ability to represent your people creditably at the House of Assembly. But since you are not likely to be a sole candidate, be sure that you will go through a primary election, which nobody will influence. “Your father, Humphrey, is a good man. He invested his time, money and energy to keep APGA alive in Nnewi North. We have no doubt that you will take after him,” Obi said. Ngonadi had, earlier in his opening remarks, told his guests that his strong urge to be part of the solution and a voice for his people informed his decision to run. “I [came out] because I don’t want to be a bench-warmer anymore. I want to be at the forefront of things. I want to be a voice and to be part of the solution because I am dedicated to progress and committed to the community. “I want to act as a voice for my people by representing them at the state assembly. If you want to explain the concept of representation to a layman, it is somebody that listens to their concerns. I am going to listen to the concerns of my people. “We are going to work together,” he said. Ngonadi praised those that represented his constituency in the past, and noted that if offered the opportunity, he would do better. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.