Lagos – Minister of Youth and Sports, Solomon Dalung, will soon descend on the leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) over the failure of the football house to bring to book culprits that made FIFA to deduct Nigeria’s point enroute qualification for the 2018 World Cup. INDEPENDENT investigations revealed that the minister is not happy with the failure of the NFF to punish anyone found cupable, despite the setting up of a four-man panel to investigate the issue. “The Minister has decided to take up the issue since it is glaring that the NFF want to sweep the report of the panel under the carpet. “You will remember that the panel was set up on December 13, 2017 and given two weeks to submit its report, but up till now, nothing has been heard about it. “We are not going to wait for ever. Persons found culpable of the act would be dealt with and we are going to start with the leadership of the NFF. “Thank God that we had already qualified before the decision, hence, we would have been disgraced and this is not good for our country,” said our source. It will be recalled that FIFA Disciplinary Committee on Tuesday, December 12, 2017 awarded all three points in the World Cup qualifier against Algeria to the North Africans following Nigeria’s use of ineligible defender, Abdullahi Shehu in the match. The match played on November 10, 2017 in Constantine, Algeria ended 1-1. The NFF was also fined 6, 000 Swiss francs for the negligence. Subsequently, NFF President, Amaju Pinnick named First Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi, a lawyer as head of a four-man panel to investigate the error that led to FIFA’s action. Others in the panel are NFF Executive Committee members, Ibrahim Gusau and Felix Anyansi-Agwu, with Mohammed Nasir Saidu, Chairman of Sokoto State Football Association, as member/secretary. The Committee was given two weeks to submit its report. It has the responsibility of investigating how the slip came about and recommend appropriate sanctions to those responsible and make recommendations that will forestall such error in the future. “People will as from now take responsibility for their actions, inactions, misconduct, negligence and downright ineptitudeness. “We cannot continue to go on this way. What happened was a major gaffe and we will no longer condone this level of indolence and unseriousness,” Pinnick had said then. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.