Lokoja – Kogi state Government has urged parents to disregard rumours and avail their children and wards at the designated centres for the on-going vaccination against measles taking place across the state. In a one day media orientation for measles vaccination campaign held inside the conference hall of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) press centre Lokoja , by the Ministry of Health in partnership with UNICEF said the vaccination will take place from  March 1 to March 13, 2018 between 8am and 2pm . The ministry appealed to the parents to take their children between ages nine months and five years to designated health centres, such as Churches, Mosques, schools and homes of traditional rulers and prominent personalities within their environment for the vaccination exercise. It noted that a total of 654, 804 children in 239 wards from the 21 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state are expected to be vaccinated. It added that over 614 vaccinators have been mobilised to apply 720,290 dozens of vaccines on the target children across the state. The ministry also urged the parents and guardians to dispel rumours about the vaccination, stressing that Measles is caused by virus which can be prevented through immunisation. In his submission, the Africa Field Epidemiology Network, Dr. Uzoma Ogbona averred that measles like other communicable diseases, Tuberculosis, Polio, Tetanus and Yellow fever  which are major child killer diseases could be prevented through vaccination. He added that once a child is vaccinated, he would carry the immunity for live, adding that the vaccination would not pose side effects to children who were previously vaccinated if presented for the exercise. He explained that this particular vaccination is not going to be  carried out by door to door method, because of the  cost implication, he  however stated that children  would be vaccinated free of charge. While reiterating the commitment of the government to eliminate child killer diseases in the state, he urged parents to present their children and wards for the vaccination at designated centres within their neighborhood across the state. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.