Ayoade Afolabi Lawal, an Engineer by profession is a governorship aspirant on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State. In this interview with GBENGA FATUROTI, he  speaks on on his apisration to succeed Governor Rauf  Aregbesola,  Tinubu’s Reconciliation Committee, among other sundry issues. Excerpts: You are aspiring to become the next governor of Osun, what has actually inspired you and what do you want to do different from what the current government has done? My coming out seeking to serve my people and community is more of divine call and direction. It is borne out of the resolve to go and serve my people and made a mark by ensuring that our state and people get to the next level. We need to make certain corrections in some areas. And this is the appropriate time I need to give back to the community what I have been able to experience over the years from different parts of the world. Then as regards what I want to do differently, I wish to bring innovations and creativity of the highest order into governance. I want to bring in a change, a true change that will be synonymous with our old tradition in the south west; I will bring greater glory that the people of the south west are known for. We have been identified even before the colonial masters came and this is the time that we need to bring in new ideologies by using our local resources combine with our international resources to elevate our state and also to show our people the new and positive direction with the new world order. I believe that I can bring in a strong industrial revolution which would be synonymous to the western world to the people of my state and also to follow ideologies and principles of some countries that had become great without any recourse. For example, take a country like Japan, Japan does not have crude oil, but today Japan is one of the first nations to reckon with in the world. Governance is beyond having natural resources, but it is more of intellectual capabilities to administer and deliver results to the people. Why do you want to succeed Governor Aregbesola? If there is an opportunity for him to continue in office, I will support him but we are aware that the constitution does not recognise third term in office. He has done very well in the area he knows best, infrastructural development, he has greatly improved the sector and everybody has a message to give at a particular time. If you look at the biblical time, John the Baptist came, he left and Jesus Christ came. Everybody has a mission, Ogbeni has come to do what he knows best and he has tried his best, even though he may not be able to be a perfect being like all of us but he has made his mark in the state. There is still much more to do and I want to tell you that I will also come in with what I know best, I am a chemical engineer by profession with a Masters in business administration. I know the meaning of industrialisation, my own focus is on industrialisation. Ogbeni has come to do the roads, I will come and build the industries. You need the roads to get to the industries and by the special grace of God, after my two terms in office, Osun will become one of the most industrialised states in this country. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.