Onitsha – In recognition of the healthcare needs of people of Anambra East Local Government Area of Anambra State, Obinna Emeneka, representing the area in the House of Assembly, has rolled out free healthcare programme to enable pregnant women, the aged, children and people with special health needs in the area to access health care. Our reporter, who covered the flag-off of the programme held at the Umueri General Hospital in Anambra East, reported that over 2,000 people with different health challenges converged at the hospital premises to be attended to by healthcare professionals. In his opening remarks during the event, Emeneka, the initiator of the programme, said the motive behind the free health care mission was to attend to the health challenges of the people who gave him the mandate to represent them in the state assembly. According to him, the best thing to give to an individual is good health, contending that even if one would be provided with money or any other treasure, without sound health, such person has got nothing. “I cannot be there seeing my own people in very bad health condition. Majority here suffer from one health condition or another without having anybody to assist them. “The mission is not political at all. The programme is a health intervention aimed at helping my people to get good health and be happy. “It is also a way of complementing the efforts of Governor Willie Obiano in the health sector,” Emeneka said. He added that subsequently, the same programme would be carried out in other communities in Anambra East viz: Nando, Aguleri, Umuoba-Anam, Nsugbe and Igbariam. Joe Akabike, the Commissioner for Health, commended the lawmaker for his intervention on the health needs of the people of his constituency through the provision of drugs and free medical care. According to him, Emeneka has been a philanthropist of note, and Anambra State government is happy to associate with him. “Health care delivery is one of the cardinal objectives of the present state government under Chief Willie Obiano, and this informs the numerous interventions done in many health institutions in the state.” He urged the people to avail themselves of this opportunity to access medicare through free check-up and medication. Speaking to newsmen during the event, Chinedu Ekweonu, the coordinator of the Hon. Emeneka Free Medical Programme, said over 2,000 persons benefitted from the free treatment at the first phase, adding that about 10,000 patients were targeted in the medical mission, which, according to him, will touch the five communities in the council area. In their separate remarks, HRM Igwe Bennett Emeka (Okebo II of Umueri), and Pius Okonkwo, the president-general of Umueri community, eulogised the lawmaker for his magnanimity and pledged the community’s support for him. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.