Lagos – Oscar Wilde said, “The stage is not merely the meeting place of all the arts, but is also the return of art to life.” If this is true then Nigeria, with our own kind of theatre unconventional and unique probably relate better to this statement than even the culture from which Wilde emanates. Our theatre has always been one not performed on a conventional stage, but like life and every accidental theatre, it expresses itself in accidental space. For the 2018 Lagos Theatre Festival set to hold from February 27 to March 4, it is going to be a different breed entirely as the theme for the year is ‘Theatre in Unconventional Spaces’. Being the fifth edition of the festival, it is set to take place across various venues in Lagos, and will focus on presenting innovative interpretations of new ideas that will inspire, challenge audiences, and new works that will spark conversations and debates. Playing host to over 600 artists, 100 performances at 12 Venues, the festival promises to offer a variety of choices for everyone including lovers of theatre, enthusiasts and returning visitors to the Festival. Since its inception, Lagos Theatre Festival has remained one of the most diverse and exciting events in the Arts community and will continue to set the standard in contemporary and classic work from leading artists/directors/producers/ scriptwriters. This year, there will be 6 curated shows, 37 fringe shows and events, some of which include ‘Strelitzia’ by Donna Ogunnaike, ‘Esther’s Revenge’ by Paw Studios, ‘Naked’ by Lala Akindoju, ‘Bridezilla’ by Women in Arts, ‘3some’ by Jude Idada, ‘Don’t Drop The MIC’, ‘Open MIC Night’ among others. It is apparent that the shows cut across diverse theatre genres from different production companies from within and outside Nigeria. Theatre lovers, enthusiasts, families and visitors are thus invited to explore a week of cultural celebration, storytelling, applaudable artistic expressions as we reclaim our city’s heritage. Speaking about the programming of this year’s edition, festival director, Kenneth Uphopho explained that productions were carefully selected to offer an interesting array of the arts. In addition, British Council’s Head of Arts in West Africa, Ojoma Ochai expressed her elation at the growth of the festival over the years, revealing that LTF has been listed as ‘One of the top 20 theatre festivals around the world’ by America Express Essentials. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.