Makurdi / Abakaliki – In a new segment in the chain of events unfolding in Benue State, armed Fulani herdsmen on Monday allegedly ordered about five thousand residents of Mbatoho community out of their homes. The armed herdsmen did not shoot anyone, neither did they initially burn houses; they simply ordered the over five thousand residents to move out of the island. Mbatoho community is a suburb of Makurdi, the Benue State capital. It was, however, learnt that the herdsmen later torched their farms, houses, and barns. The State Commissioner of Police, Fatai Awoseni, confirmed the report, adding that report of the incident just got to him. The residents had marched to Government House, Makurdi, to state their predicament. The state Deputy Governor, Benson Abounu, received the displaced persons on behalf of government. Speaking for the community, John Terhemen said the herdsmen invaded the community and forced them out of their homes. “There are over 5,000 people in the community. “The herdsmen, who were fully armed with sophisticated weapons, in the early hours of yesterday stormed our community (Mbatoho) and ordered everyone to leave. “The herdsmen came in their numbers, burnt down our houses, barns and farmland, but they did not harm anyone, they only asked us to leave.” Responding, Abounu promised government’s prompt intervention, adding that government just received the information from the community. He said he had directed the Adviser on Security, Paul Hemba, to liaise with the police to visit the area and assess the situation. According to him, “The community just came to tell us about the attack on them. I have directed the security adviser to report to the police and find out the situation of things; the village is right here (across River Benue).” He said as soon as government confirmed the report, it would decide on the next line of action. There were, however, fears that the herdsmen may use the island as a launching ground for their attacks against the state. Umahi Bans Herders In Ebonyi Community Meanwhile, Chief David Umahi, Ebony State governor, has banned Fulani herdsmen and their cattle from entering communities in Ivo Council Area of the state following a clash between suspected Fulani herders and a farmer in Akaeze community which left the farmer fatally injured. The governor also banned herdsmen from entering the state from other states, pointing out that night grazing in all parts of the state was prohibited. He said that unless such herdsman secured the permission of the Ardos of the two points of expected movement areas, as well as the village heads of the receiving community, such movement was outlawed. Umahi made the pronouncement on Tuesday during an emergency security meeting involving the state government and the Fulani herdsmen at the Exco Chambers, Government House, Abakaliki. The meeting was attended by the heads of various security commands in the state. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that some herdsmen and a farmer in Akaeze community had clashed on a farmland in the area. But while giving accounts of the incident, both sides claimed innocence. The Fulani community led by Abubakar Yusuf Sambo, the Coordinator of Northern Community in the South-East, claimed that two of their members were injured and had been hospitalised in a hospital in Awgu, Enugu State. The Akaeze contingent led by Chief Onyebuchi Ogbadu, the Coordinator of Akaeze Development Centre, claimed that their victim, Daniel Ngwoke, was receiving treatment at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki. But, given the complicated nature of the matter, the governor set up a 10-man committee to investigate the matter at the end of which the offender, according to him, would be severely punished. The governor said: “If we had seen cow, we would have said yes, they butchered a cow and they attacked back. “This is a story that would have been okay. But in all things, I want the CP, NSCDC, and Army to bring two persons each from their commands plus the coordinator. “Then, the Sambo and the T.A. That would make them a 10-man committee to investigate the matter and we’ll convey another emergency security meeting. “But I am banning herdsmen from entering Ivo Local Government Area until this investigation is completed. I want my security men to carry out my instruction. “No herdsman should enter the place. No cattle should enter Ivo Council Area again until this investigation is complete. “At the end of the day, when the report comes out, my prayer is that they would be alive. This is because whoever that is the first aggressor will go to prison in this state. “I will send the person to prison no matter who the person is. Until this thing is complete. “The National President of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association and his secretary told me something; they said no herdsman is supposed to come from Enugu State to Ebonyi State without first getting approval from the Ardo of wherever he is coming from. “The Ardo in charge of where he is coming from must first write a letter to the Ardo of where he is going to in Ebonyi. “And the Ardo here must approve his coming. The village head must also agree that the herdsman should come. If the two of them say no, then the herdsman cannot come.” 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.