The recent global annual Corruption Perception Index released by Transparency International (TI) shows that, in spite of the officially declared war on corruption in Nigeria, the phenomenon is still very much a national scourge as the country has slipped one notch down the ladder on the global anti-corruption index. Not a good result for all the efforts on display. This revelation appears to have boosted the argument of those naysayers who are composed largely of the very corrupt elements that this government is dueling with who can never see anything good about the Buhari administration’s overall efforts to confront the demon of corruption. On the other hand, the Report certainly jolted some insiders of the administration who are clearly not up to speed about the nature and character of the battle that they were enlisted into the government to prosecute, judging by the various official dismissive and deflective responses offered instead of dealing with the purports of Report as objectively as possible. TI Reports are perceptional in nature and do not represent concrete evidences of corruption on the ground. Perception is how you view a certain situation from your perspective and not what the actual situation is. Perceptions are derivatives of reality and, speaking legally, they are merely circumstantial evidence. In other words, TI makes its decision about the corruption ranking of a country by looking at many factors that suggest the prevalence of corruption and not actual assessments of the reality of corruption in the country. For example, a man who is seen at a drinking parlour everyday would certainly give the perception to whoever is observing him of a drunkard even if he is in reality a teetotaler. It is well documented that corruption has cost Nigeria a great deal of setbacks. The impact of corruption on the country’s GDP is incalculable; they reflect on roads not being built or built well; no hospitals being built or equipped; no schools being built and staffed adequately, etc. Generally, corruption impoverishes the people, devalues their sense of self-esteem and undermines their well-being, a catastrophe that was ably sumarised by the President Buhari himself when he said corruption “is killing Nigeria”. So there is a global awareness that corruption is an obstacle to national and global development and the more a country is corrupt the more the people will suffer material and social deprivations. It is therefore something to worry about whenever a country is considered as deeply corrupt as Nigeria has just been ranked. Before we briefly examine the challenges of the current annoying report, let us establish some factual foundations. Firstly, in terms of volume of what could be stolen by way of corruption and the insensitive flaunting of stolen national wealth, there is no doubt that such have reduced in Nigeria, no matter what any report says. This is because you cannot steal what is not available. The nation’s income has diminished in recent years because the benevolent cash-cow, oil, is no longer fetching as much dollars as it used to do.  In that sense, opportunity for corruption, naira for naira, would necessarily be reduced even though the overall disposition to loot may have increased. Secondly, the arrogance and impunity with which people flaunted their ill-gotten wealth has reduced. Officials are no longer displaying their ill-gotten wealth for the fear of EFCC. Air travelers would have observed that all manner of public officials and their cronies no longer congest First Class cabins in international flights. They would now rather have their girls friends stay in first class while they huddle themselves into economy class just to avoid prying eyes. To the extent that some hypocrisy is now forced on our wayward elite class, it could be said that the days of reckless flaunting of corruption are getting over. Lastly, there have being more determined prosecutorial efforts under this administration than any previous government. The only snag is the apparent dysfunctional methods and unpardonable recklessness that the agencies concerned have been adopting. All these should have contributed to reduce on actual corruption in Nigeria, a fact that must have given the anti-graft agencies some shocker when TI still downgraded Nigeria on the global anti-corruption ranking. It’s All About Perception. Irrespective of the huge efforts being put into the anti-corruption drive, the perception out there remains largely negative. Let us not forget that corruption is actually fighting back and, in this connection, those fighting back on the anti-corruption fight are more organized, more determined and more motivated than those fighting on the government’s side. They are fighting back in many ways that fuel the negative perception that the world is seeing. From the moment a culprit is brought to book by way of arrest, the standing army generously activated by corruption comprising of lawyers, usually SANs, Judges, the conventional media and the all-comers cyber army in the Social Media focus their antennal on all the likely mistakes and shortcomings in the anti-corruption charges in order to deligitimise the otherwise glaring corruptions allegation and those their relentless efforts ultimately turning “villains” into “saints”. Because the prosecutors are also either corrupt or simply incompetent, so much shortcomings are usually unearthed, exaggerated and over-publicised in the process and our judges who are not sensitive to the debilitating effects of corruption on the national system and the sovereign health of the State unwittingly set free obvious criminals, thereby creating the inevitable perception that both the accused and the accusers and even the judges in Nigeria are all corrupt and such outlook would ultimately drag the nation down whenever it is scoring time by TI. Any one watching such a deviational prosecutorial process would have formed a perception that negatively covers several people and institutions arising from a single bungled supposedly anti-corruption prosecution. The Challenge As far as I am concerned, the challenge arising from the unsettling report by TI is for the government to re-strategise and be lawfully focused. In this connection, President Buhari has to acknowledge that he does not have too many enthusiastic and loyal aides in his anti-corruption crusade for reasons that are just too obvious: many of them have huge corruption skeletons in their own cupboards, a reality which has forced them to be unduly lackadaisical, if not obstructionist. It is not for nothing that it is only Prof Itse Sagay that is shouting himself hoarse in the current effort to fight corruption because whether you like or hate the Prof, you cannot associate him with the stain of corruption. So when Mr. President recently acknowledged that the learned Prof has stepped on many corrupt “toes”, it was actually an indirect admission that the war against corruption has not yet secured the support of many of his own people, otherwise, every official in his government ought to also be stepping on as many corrupt toes as possible. On a final note I would like Mr. President to try the Chinese option adopted during the Cultural Revolution under Chairman Mao while avoiding all the noted pitfalls of that ruthless campaign. It would involved a total mass re-orientation of the nation against corruption up to a point when children would be educated enough to query their parents about the sources of their wealth with appropriate punitive actions publicly taken through a People’s Court format as against the current hypocritical judicial set-up that appears to actively propitiate the rich and the powerful, irrespective of the fact that they actually became whatever they are through corrupt means.  Until then, TI will always find Nigeria less willing to deal with the evil of corruption. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.