Hon. Desmond Olusola Elliot represents Surulere Constituency 1 in the Lagos State House of Assembly. In this interview, he speaks on his achievements so far and plans for reelection. Excerpts: The 2019 election is around the corner. As a first term lawmaker, will you be running for another term? I have the ambition to run for another term but I am not sure if it is legally allowed yet to start talking about it.  I feel very honoured if the good people of Surulere are asking me to come back again. It’s an opportunity that comes once in a lifetime for many people.   To me, it is people giving their trust to you to represent them and it is something one cannot toy with.  My prayers everyday is that I do not disappoint my people. The people are disenfranchised already by past governments and their expectations have not been met. So, as their representative, the best I can do is to be available to them. What are some of the things you have done for your constituents so far in terms of poverty alleviation? The major reasons for being here is lawmaking, proper representation and oversight functions.  So, every other thing that comes after these is because of the present situation we find ourselves in this country.  To be sincere, you cannot do all your duties as a lawmaker conveniently and without guilty conscience if you do not put some things on the ground for people to appreciate you. It requires a lot of sacrifice that the lawmaker will have to make happily, not grudgingly.  I can show you several text messages on my phone by people seeking for assistance, favour here and there but you cannot blame the people for this. The system does not even give them the opportunity to be creative or to do jobs, because there are no jobs.  The only person and closest person they can see to a state government is their lawmaker who represents their constituency.  For me, I have identifies areas that have issue of water and I have done quite a number.  I have done in Nathan street, Jacob,  Shitta, Atan, Iponri, Adeniji, Iluseyi, the list is endless.  I also provided tricycles to different wards so that when they go out, the proceeds are being shared to the ordinary people in the constituency. What about empowerments? I have done a lot of empowerment programmes and skill acquisition for the physically challenged in our society and also to empower them after that. I have done for widows and I will do another one soon on my mother’s birthday.  She is going to be 70. She doesn’t want something big so  I decided to seize that opportunity to empower widows.  Hopefully, between the middle of the year, we will do some health insurance for the elderly in our community.  For the little children who we know are the future of tomorrow, I have been able to  train a couple of them. I do it annually. They go through training after which I empower them  with laptops, tablets or desktops.  We also got them a bus top convey them. The bus go almost eight trips in the morning and about 10 trips in the afternoon, dropping them around Surulere.  But for lack of funds, my desire is to buy more buses but also you have to consider cost of maintenance. So, we are trying to be realistic and not go beyond our limits.  Also, about 14 people have gotten employments so far.  Besides the two roads the governor is doing, I have been able to facilitate about 10 roads in Surulere. They are  Suenu,  Olumegbon,  Jeminatu, Imam Dauda,  Animashaun,  Johnson, Iluseyi  and so on. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.