Abuja – Dikko Radda, director-general of Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), has said that Nigeria is yet to benefit substantially from the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) and the Trade Liberalisation Scheme (ETLS) of Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). Radda said the benefits and incentives, which AGOA and ETLS present span over 6,400 products that are in abundance in Nigeria. The DG expressed this concern in his welcome address at the capacity building programme tagged ‘Strengthening of Business Membership Organisations (BMOs)’ in Owerri, the Imo state capital, on Monday. Represented by Ibrahim Kaula, SMEDAN’s Head, Corporate Communications, the DG also noted that one of the greatest challenges for the Nigerian economy was the lack of foreign exchange, adding that “SMEs have the potential” of generating sizable foreign exchange through export of Nigerian goods and services. According to Radda, the capacity building programme is geared towards promoting SMEs in Nigeria and showcasing their potential, expose them to business/networking opportunities, access to raw materials availabilities, export market linkages, maintaining standards for global competitiveness and deliberate solutions for the nation’s economy. If Nigerian MSMEs can be developed and equipped to properly reap from the benefits these opportunities alone present, Nigeria will actualise the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), he stated. “Our MSMEs are capable of generating enough foreign exchange and generate massive employment for our teeming unemployed youths. “The ETLS was adopted as a conscious policy to effectively mobilise national capacities for accelerated industrial growth and economic development. It is mainly targeted at increasing free flow of intra-community trade on goods that are mostly produced in the member states of ECOWAS. Nigeria, as a major player in ECOWAS, is expected to capture the entire ECOWAS market through the operations of the Nigerian MSMEs,” he added. This, the SMEDAN boss said, is to accelerate the development of the MSME sector in Nigeria by strengthening the capacities of the BMOs and trade associations, thus enabling more effective operation and the sustainability of these organisations in the short, medium to long terms. Raadda further said, “This capacity building has been scheduled to hold in two locations; Owerri, which is strictly for women-owned Business Membership Organisations with a total of 110 participants i.e. 10 members each from 11 Women BMOs starting from February 26 to 28, 2018 and Kano with a total of 90 participants i.e. five members each from 18 other BMOs starting from March 6 to 8, 2018.” He assured that the agency would continue to strive for excellence and strategic growth through forming strong partnerships with reputable public and private sector institutions. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.