Abuja – Reactions have continued to trail DAILY INDEPENDENT’s lead story of Wednesday entitled, ‘Release of Chibok Girls: How Swiss Agent, Govt Officials Stole Millions of Dollars’. A major question that has been asked is, ‘When did Switzerland become a major player in the global veil, cloak, and dagger business of international espionage?’ Most commentators wondered how Switzerland, a neutral country over the decades, which had avoided open participation in the Cold War, reintroduced itself into the hot nexus of international espionage such that it had affected events in several countries, including Nigeria, recently? And then this question would follow: How did the Swiss agent, Pascal Holliger, penetrate into the highest echelon of power in Abuja? Most people know Switzerland as a choice destination for laundered money, cocaine proceeds, blood money, and stolen patrimonies by rogue rulers and warlords. Its most tainted clientele of high net-worth individuals would include Papa Doc, Mobutu Sese Seko, Pablo Escobar, Jean-Bedel Bokassa, Sani Abacha, Charles Taylor, Manuel Noriega, etc. Switzerland, a small mountainous country located in Central Europe, is famed for its beauty, gothic architecture and ski. The Alp high points and its ski resorts are winter lovers’ paradise. It is also home to many offshore companies, a tax haven, and private banking. It has maintained neutrality since the 1815 Paris Treaty. Navigating carefully during the Cold War years between NATO and Warsaw pact countries, its neutrality paid off; it was an enemy of none and a friend of all. It had little or no role in global contest politics because of its foreign policy position as a neutral state. Switzerland simply obeyed the Vienna Convention which specified the rules, privileges, conventions, immunity of diplomatic premises and diplomats. Private diplomacy, on the other hand, is a complex relationship between international business, intelligence services, states and non-state actors, with the spirit of commerce and private enterprise as its guiding principles. They are not governed by conventions or protocols and have no barriers. They are independent and they operate on specific missions. They act under terms and conditions of their clients in close collaborations with local elements who they largely recruit and are risk-averse. Foreign agents would immerse themselves in their host communities and cultivate friendships and contacts across all segments of the society. In the aftermath of the fall of the Berlin wall, the Swiss changed tactics and embraced private diplomacy. The Swiss State, through its Foreign Ministry’s intelligence Department called Human Security Division, has perfected the art of self-insertion into world conflict zones such as Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Colombia, Uganda, Somalia, Burundi, CAR and … Nigeria. They offer themselves as mediators or neutral interlocutors, emphasising the importance of dialogue, negotiation, mediation and humanitarian corridors between warring parties. The actors are intelligence officials familiar with backdoor channel and veil. They have sovereign state approval at the highest level. The Swiss have earned notoriety with elaborate secrecy in private banking, offshore company formation, fiduciary, wealth and asset management. Such uncommon skills are now deployed as the delivery vehicle of Swiss private diplomacy. In the last ten years, the Swiss have moved and situated themselves as neutral mediators in conflicts, sometimes indirectly, through their NGOs, like Humanitarian Dialogue. For instance, in Columbia, on the 25th July, 2008, a Swiss mediator between FARC (The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia—People’s Army, Spanish: Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia) rebels and the Columbian government, Jean Pierre Gontard, became a money courier for FARC. He paid S500, 000 and had the money transferred to Costa Rica. At that time Gontard had a strong cover; he was working as an academician at the Institute of International Studies (IHEID), Geneva, Switzerland, but was closely linked to the intelligence arm of Swiss Foreign Ministry, the Human Security Division. His involvement in ‘mediation’ in Columbia was at the prompting of then French Interior Minister, Nicholas Sarkozy, to rescue FARC hostage, Ingrid Bentancourt, and other hostages held by FARC. It was a complex operation involving the then French Foreign Minister, Dominique De Villepin, and former French Consul in Bogota, Noel Suez, resulting in the failed Operation 14 Juilliet. The French paid ransom for the release of Betancourt through the Swiss, but an elaborate scenario was painted of gallant heroic Colombian Special Forces in a most daring rescue operation. From Burundi, Sri Lanka, North Korea, South Sudan to Nigeria’s North-East, the Swiss Intelligence Service – through private diplomacy – has sought to intervene or offer themselves for mediation. Their first mission failed woefully; they took Nigeria’s $2 million from former President Goodluck Jonathan, contacted the Chadian President, Idris Derby, who sent his Special Emissary, Ambassador Hassan Tukur, to Ndjamena to negotiate with Derby on how to secure the release of the girls. As DAILY INDEPENDENT published on Wednesday, the money “was handed over to Derby by Ambassador Tukur, but he failed to deliver and thus denied Jonathan a vote-winning development that could have affected Nigeria’s presidential election of February, 2015. North-Eastern Nigeria is the new battlefield of global intelligence game. The Swiss partnered with the Saudis. They have an agent in place called Zannah Mustapha, a lawyer by profession, running a private school in Maiduguri — Future Prowess Islamic Foundation School — established by International Islamic Relief Organization (IIRO) Jeddah. IIRO is listed in U.S. States Department’s charity organizations with ties to terrorism. Mustapha has often been mentioned as having a relationship with Boko Haram leadership by several media houses, including the Wall Street Journal, and has been fingered to be a strong Salafi-Wahabbi sympathiser. He was recruited by Pascal Holliger and sent to Switzerland for training. At the completion of his training, he was sent back to Nigeria. Derby has been alleged to host families of top Boko Haram commanders, including Shekau, in his protective custody in Ndjamena; that is one way he remains on top of his game. Pascal Holliger, upon graduating from the Institute of International Studies (IHEID), Geneva, Switzerland, under the tutelage of Jean Pierre Gontard, the Swiss mediator with FARC joined the Swiss Foreign Ministry’s Human Security Division. Holliger’s intelligence journey started with his deployment in South Africa, where he established his two NGOs, IMBEWU and Latitudes. From South Africa, Holliger was deployed to Nigeria as political officer. According to Swiss’ RTS Radio Programme, Les Petits Matins on February 10, 2011, Holliger told the Radio Station that IMBWU NGO cares for some 2,500 children in South African township through sports, “but I am leaving the NGO to devote myself to ‘other challenges.” The other challenges are to fit and blend into Nigeria’s political, cultural, economic and social environment. Now, he is on first name term with Aso Villa inner circle. Now, the international security agencies have become alarmed by the fact that the National Intelligence Agency, or even the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, lost a chance in a million as institutions that could learn some lessons from the release of the Chibok girls’ negotiations and increase their institutional capacities thereafter. Moreover, as the Federal Government paid 3 million Euros for the release of some Chibok schoolgirls who were in Boko Haram custody, it means that the once cash-strapped terror organisation has been given a new lease of life. In 2014, Boko Haram insurgents had kidnapped 276 girls from Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, in Borno State. Of the 276 kidnapped Chibok school girls, 163 are now free, and that include the 57 that escaped in the early days following the abduction; three escaped later, and a Swiss-mediated effort secured the release of 103. Twenty-one of the 103 were freed on October 13, 2016, while the remaining 82 were freed on May 6 last year. In a detailed report on the incident, the World Street Journal said while 1 million Euro was paid for the 21 first freed, additional 2 million Euro accompanied the five Boko Haram commanders that were exchanged with the next batch of 82 girls. President Muhammadu Buhari was said to have been averse to any ransom payment to Boko Haram but was pressured by some members of his kitchen cabinet to soften his stance. As learnt, he only accepted after he was assured that any more money paid to Boko Haram must form part of a comprehensive peace plan. That peace plan never materialised; instead, a monetarily replenished Boko Haram has gone on the offensive again. Also, as some of its top commanders were released from jail, the organisation regained some of its once lost strategic commanders. Or as someone put it: “Since the insurgents collected their three million Euros, some Nigerian officials say an army that had struggled to feed itself seems replenished.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.