Ibadan – Major General Okudili Azinta, the General Officer Commanding 2 Mechanised Division of the Nigerian Army, Ibadan, at the weekend tasked Alumni of public schools to rise to the challenge of  infrastructural deficits in their Alma Mater. Major General Azinta made the call while commissioning N8 million project executed by the Class of 1988 graduates of the Command Secondary School, Ibadan. The GOC, who was represented by Brigadier General Ayodeji Adenuga, maintained that alumni of public educational institutions should rally round themselves to give back to their Alma Mater. He said that this became necessary in view of the challenges currently bedeviling public schools across Nigeria. The GOC noted that it is obvious that alumni of public schools are the best human capital that can transform and give facelift infrastructure deficit in most public schools. He said, “I want to thank the Class of ‘88 for contributing their quota to the recommendations for the uplifting the school. Doing more, whisper to some other sets to contribute to their school. We all know the government cannot fully shoulder funding of schools again.” It is time to rally round your Alma Mater to make it what you can proudly show to your children that you were there.” In his speech, the Secretary General of the Class of ’88, Dr. Dauda Busari noted that they resolve to refurbish the Dining Hall, buy benches and tables, fan and fix casement to produce human beings who would be able to contribute to the development of the society. While imploring the Commandant and the Army Corps to keep their heritage, Dr. Busari noted that their foundation for greatness was laid in the school. He condemned the terrible state of facilities in the nation’s public school, tasking the government to collaborate with alumni associations to transform the minds of students being nurtured in “refugee-like environment.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.