Lagos  – Areal estate research company, Residential Auctions Company (RAC), has disclosed that the house prices for both Lagos Island and Lagos Mainland would be on the rise in 2018, but that it would take some time before prices reach pre-recession levels, particularly on Lagos Island. This, according to RAC, in is based its current Lagos House Price Index. The report examined the trends of event in the industry between 2015 and 2017, coupled with World Banks predictions that the country’s economy would grow by 2.5 per cent in 2018. According to the study, in 2017, Nigeria exited its worst recession in history by recording a 0.56 per cent growth in GDP in its second quarter. This was followed by a 1.40 per cent consecutive growth in the third quarter. Despite these positive results, it noted that the road to full recovery would take a while as various sectors of the economy are still in the GDP negative territory, with the real estate sector being among the sectors that are yet to bounce back to the positive GDP numbers. RAC revealed that in the third quarter of 2017, the real estate sector recorded a real GDP decline of 4.12 per cent. The 2016 recession, it included, marked a period of low volume of transactions and activities across all the various sectors of real estate industry resulting in extreme illiquidity in the market. “In the second half of 2017, the Lagos housing market started to show signs of economic recovery and this was reflected in house prices across the state. The Lagos Island market which had been worst hit by the recession in 2015 and 2016 with negative price growth of – 24.77 per cent and -5.58 per cent respectively finally saw the light of the day with asking prices rising again but yet to reach pre-recession levels. Last year, the average asking price of a 4/5 single family unit on Lagos Island was N196,050,175, an increase of 13.84 per cent from the previous year of N172,214,772. “The rise in asking price in this segment of the market can be attributed to the supply of new homes across the highbrow areas of Ikoyi, Victoria Island and Lekki Phase 1 which all saw asking price increase over the course of the year. Lagos Island continues to enjoy a stable supply of new homes and with the high cost of forex, these new homes raise the price ceiling of house prices in the market.” RAC stated that Victoria Island led the charge on the overall increase in average asking house price on Lagos Island during the second quarter of 2017, with average asking price rising by over 30 per cent. This staggering increase in average asking house price on Victoria Island, it stated, can be largely attributed to unoccupied and near obsolete secondary homes on the major streets and the Eko Atlantic project, which is directly adjacent to it and projected to be a game changer in the future. Unlike the Lagos Island market, its counterpart, the Lagos Mainland market was immune to the recession as average asking price showed positive growth in 2015 and 2016. During these periods, average asking prices, were said to rise by 20.43 per cent and 2.33 per cent respectively. In 2017, the trend continues albeit at a slower rate as average asking house price remained flat with a marginal growth of just 0.53 per cent. The average asking price of a 4/5 single family unit on Lagos Mainland last year was N75,913,101 compared to N75,509,463 the previous year. The supply of new homes remains a contributing factor to rising house prices even on the Lagos Mainland but the difference is that supply of new homes in this market is significantly lower than what is obtainable on the Lagos Island. “Despite the fact that the overall average asking price on Lagos Mainland remained largely unchanged, the same cannot be said for asking price in locations that make up the Mainland and are featured in the index. Leading the pack with the highest increase in average asking house price is Anthony Village followed by Gbagada with 29.40 per cent and 24.09 per cent respectively. Both locations have seen a low number of new homes come to completion over the last 12 months. On the opposite end of the spectrum, Ilupeju and Omole Phase 1 have seen the highest drop in average asking house price at -18.80 per cent and -14.01 per cent respectively and this is due to the moderate delivery of new homes in both locations in the previous year.” “Our findings are based on the assumptions given. As is customary with market studies, our findings should be regarded as valid for a limited period and should be subject to examination at regular intervals.” Residential Auctions Company (RAC) is a real estate research company in Lagos, Nigeria, established in 2010 with Omorotimi Akinlose as its Managing Director. They specialize in providing integrated research services and data on the local property market. Their annual Lagos House Price Index is an index that shows movements in house prices in Lagos based on average asking price. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.