Again, the Lagos State Government has warned against indiscriminate waste disposal in the state, saying the government has resolved to ensure its rids the metropolis of filths. In the same vein, Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu warned the Private Sector Participants (PSP) operators in waste management to desist from allowing themselves to be used to sabotage the new environmental policy of the Lagos State Government encapsulated in the Cleaner Lagos Initiative (CLI). He spoke against the backdrop of some PSP operators arrested for dumping waste on main streets across the state. The monarch also warned residents of the state against dumping refuse in public places, saying the CLI is for the benefit of all and called for support for Visionscape in a bid to rid the state of refuse. Akiolu spoke at a Town Hall meeting to sensitise market women and others on the CLI project and the need to ensure a cleaner environment. The event was held at the City Hall on Lagos Island, Lagos, Southwest, Nigeria. According to him, Lagosians should ensure that the state was not littered with refuse, warning that he would not beg for anybody who is arrested by the state government for dumping refuse in unauthorised places. Akiolu said he learnt that 13 people had been arrested for dumping refuse in unauthorised places, adding that Lagosians should desist from such act, but rather bag their waste and put them in places where Visionscape would cart them away. The monarch said the state government had put in place mechanism to deal with waste in the state, saying that this kind of enlightenment programme would also be carried out in other parts of the state. He further urged Lagosians not to patronise cart pushers as some of them hide arms in their carts to wreck havoc, as well as dump such refuse in inappropriate places. In his remarks, Commissioner for the Environment, Babatunde Durosimi-Etti warned residents to stop indiscriminate dumping of refuse in unauthorized places, saying that perpetrators would face the full wrath of the law, including engaging communal service as a form of deterrence. The Commissioner reassured that the new solid waste management system was well thought out and positioned to offer an enduring solution to the waste management challenge thrown up by population increase and facility deficit that the State has had to encounter overtime. He said the PSP operators could not cope with the huge refuse being generated in Lagos currently as the population kept growing, saying that they did not have the equipment to cope, especially with the rise in foreign exchange. According to him, this was what informed the Ambode administration to get a new consortium, Visionscape to handle domestic waste in the state, while the PSP operators would now handle commercial waste. Durosimi-Etti appealed to Lagosians to bag their waste properly so that refuse would not litter the streets, urging them to report people seen dumping refuse in unauthorised places to government for prompt action. The Iyaloja General of Nigeria, Folasade Tinubu-Ojo said Lagos had always been a role model to other states of the country, charging the market women to contribute their quota to make Lagos cleaner and better than it was before. She called on Visionscape and the government to provide market women with thicker waste carriers so that they could bag their waste properly, assuring that the market women would cooperate to make Lagos clean and embrace CLI. An environmentalist, Mr. Samson Falade, said the CLI if well positioned, would help in making Lagos a cleaner city. According to him, the zeal with which the programme is being pursued should not be reduced if only to achieve its desired objective. Chairman, Lagos Island Local Government, Prince Adetoyosi Olusi also appealed to people on the Island to embrace the culture of bagging their waste and dumping them in designated places where Visionscape would cart them away. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.