President Muhammadu Buhari has described the role of the Dangote Group as key to his administration’s plan for economic recovery and growth. The President, who urged the private sector operators to join hand with the government to bolstering Nigeria’s economy, said the key to modern economic growth and development is in the hands of private sector; and that government is desirous of providing the enabling environment for investments to thrive. The President who was represented by Ekechukwu Enelama,  the  Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment , at the ongoing Kaduna International Trade Fair, commended the role of the Dangote Group and private sector operators in general in creating jobs for the youth, adding that the government was partnering the private sector in its industrialisation drive. The Dangote Group was also commended for the sponsorship of the 39th edition of the Trade Fair. The Minister took time to visit the Dangote Pavilion where he was introduced to the company’s various innovative products. Mallam Nasiru El-Rufai, Kaduna State Governor, who was represented by his Deputy Barnabas Bala Bantex, said he was impressed by the various innovative products displayed at the pavilion of the Group. The Governor also said his administration was looking into partnering with the company on the issue of concrete road. Speaking, Group Executive Director Stakeholders Management and Corporate Communications Engr. Ahmed Mansur said the Group was investing heavily in the agricultural sector. Mr. Mansur said very soon Nigeria will witness an exponential opening in jobs for the country’s teeming youths, as hundreds of thousands of jobs will be created by the Group. Meanwhile, the Kaduna Chamber of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA) also described the Dangote Group as one of the major sponsors of the forthcoming Kaduna International Trade Fair. Speaking at the opening ceremony, President of KADCCIMA Mrs. Muheeba Fareeda Dankaka commended the Dangote Group for its yearly sponsorship of the event, adding that in Dangote the chamber has found a worthy partner in the development of the Nigerian economy. She said this year’s Fair will address the issue of diversification of the Nigerian economy which has been on the front burner over the years. According to her, on Tuesday; the Chamber will host a Business Round Table with the theme: Promoting Made In Nigeria Products for International Competitiveness. Mr. Femi Aboyede, an expert on Export is expected to deliver the lead paper. Other stakeholders that will participate in the Business RoundTable include private companies, Customs, Shippers Council and the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC), among others. Mrs. Dankaka said on Wednesday there will be a Seminar to be chaired by former President General Yakubu Gowon. The Director General of the Kaduna Chamber of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA) Usman Saulawa added that the relationship between the Dangote Group and KADCCIMA is helping businesses in Nigeria and beyond. He described the fair as Africa’s most famous fair and assured that it would help in deepening business relations in Africa. A statement from the Dangote Group signed by the Chief Corporate Communications Officer, Mr. Anthony Chiejina had said the trade fair offers the Dangote Group an opportunity to display its numerous innovative products which include the recently introduced Dan-Q Seasoning, sachet sugar, salt, tomato paste and noodles, among others. The statement urged participants to patronize the Dangote Pavilion at the Trade Fair. Speaking at the opening ceremony also, United States Ambassador to Nigeria W. Stuart Symington said there was a need for an inclusive system to include women and youth, adding that this will help achieved the desired economic growth and development. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.