As it is profoundly prevalent among politicians on the African continent, they are like birds of the feather flocking together. The trio are, incidentally, just a few of the African politicians with unenviable records of political catastrophe that have bedevilled the continent for several decades. They are examples of politicians in elective positions who, rather than use such important positions to bring hope to the hopeless millions across Africa and also ensure rapid development of their countries, have insatiable delight in bringing hardships to their people and countries. These characters, whose weird attitudinal traits while in office should not be emulated, are living examples of bad politicians in Africa. They rode into office as opportunists. They got everything on the platter of gold but several years afterwards, they lost focus and allowed political power, fame and ill-gotten wealth to overwhelm them. As it is usually common among African politicians in elective leadership positions, they totally forgot to learn from the avoidable mistakes of their predecessors and went deep into monumental atrocities leading to their downfall. The trio are examples of lucky politicians in vantage positions to make tremendous contributions to deepening of practice of democracy in Africa during their tenures. But instead, they allowed their selfish interests, as well as hunger for power, wealth and influence to becloud their sense of reasoning. While in office, they were arrogant, selfish and insensitive to the painful plight of their people. Due to power-drunkenness and high-handedness which are recurring characteristics of many politicians in Africa, they forgot to see the handwriting on the wall that their time was up having ignored public demand to vacate office honourably. In civilized climes where public office holders are in office to serve selflessly, their counterparts in Africa are essentially in office to acquire ill-gotten wealth. This is why democracy, after several years of its practice in Africa is still tottering while in Nigeria it is often shamelessly described by political leaders as nascent democracy even after its return on May 29, 1999. In advanced countries, political office holders involved in scandalous acts voluntarily vacate office to allow for proper investigation. Unfortunately, in Africa, including Nigeria, in spite of the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration’s orchestrated anti-corruption crusade, public office holders alleged to be involved in serious financial misconduct sit tight in office, especially if they are close to the president. This is why in Africa, including Nigeria, the sickening culture of sit-tightism is very common among political leaders and this has continued to pose serious danger to politics and practice of democracy on the entire continent. If political office is supposed to be primarily a privilege to render selfless service to the people, there will be no need for politicians in Africa to regard politics as avenue to acquire ill-gotten wealth or elongate their tenures unconstitutionally in order to sit tight in office until they die  there or forcefully removed. It is in this particular regard that the issue of ousted immediate past President of Gambia, Yahyah Jammeh, sacked immediate past President of Zimbabwe, Robert Mugabe and immediate past President of South Africa, Jacob Zuma who was forced to resign recently, has remained topical political developments, not only in Africa but also across the world. Although there are more of the trio on the continent but when their own cups of wrongdoings are full, nemesis will also catch up with them to serve as a deterrent to others. It is true that the continent is big but there is certainly nowhere for them to hide. The flagrant displays of impunity, mediocrity and myopic tendencies by them must not be allowed to persist if African countries are to be ranked among frontline democracies globally. The forced exit of Jammeh, Mugabe and Zuma from their cherished exalted positions further attests to the fact that no matter how long it takes, no condition is permanent. In this case, refusal of Jammeh, Mugabe and Zuma to quit office when the ovation was loudest so that they could leave befitting memories in the minds of their people, finally turned out to be beginning of the misfortunes they may likely live with for the rest of their lives. For failing to let undisputable winner of the December 1, 2016 presidential election, Adama Barrow, who is now President of Gambia, sworn in (on January 19, 2017,) was the beginning of Jammeh’s landmark political misfortune. The power-drunk Jammeh had earlier conceded defeat but in a dramatic move, later rescinded his decision and sought redress in court. At 51 and after spending 22 years in office as president, he preferred to join the growing list of Africa’s unrepentant sit-tight political mercenaries that needed to be flushed out of office by force. And so, with the intervention of ECOWAS leaders, supported by the United Nations Security Council, the stubborn politician who accidentally sauntered into office through a bloodless coup in 1994 at the age of 29 was forced to quit on January 21, 2017. As for Mugabe who was also forced to quit on November 21, 2017 at the age of 94 after spending 37 years as pioneer indigenous President of Zimbabwe, practice of democracy in Africa seemed to have heaved a sigh of relief, especially judging by the fact that if not for his sack, the then oldest president in the world was not in a hurry to quit as he was planning to seek re-election for another term this year. For now, recent forced exit of Zuma, 75, over corruption scandals, completes the misfortunes of the disgraced trio. Nigeria will certainly not forget the worrisome number of Nigerians who succumbed to xenophobic attacks during the tenure of Zuma. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.