The Nigeria Employers’ Consultation Associa- tion (NECA) yesterday expressed its displeasure at the newly passed Land Use Charge Law of Lagos State, 2018. The Law repealed the Land Use Charge Law 2001. The Lagos State Government also extended the period for the payment of all annual Land Use Charge Demand Notices for 2018 to Saturday, April 14, 2018. The extension is to enable property owners and affected occupiers take the option of en- joying the discounts available for the prompt and early payment of Land Use Charge invoices. Mr. Olusegun Oshinowo, the Director-General of NECA, while commending the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode for his good works and making Lagos a model of for good governance, cautioned on the in- herent dangers of the Land Use Charge Law of Lagos State ahead. He, however, averred that “sensitivity and humanness, which is part of good governance, was missing in the recent amendment of the Land Use Charge law in the state”. He noted that: “the new law will expect property owners in Lagos State to pay an increase of over 200 per cent in Land Use Charge even when the income of the property owner has not experienced significant increase to justify the charge. There is, also, a penalty payment ranging between 125-200 percent, if pay- ment is not made between April and August, 2018. The new charge is, thus, highly insensitive and in- humane to say the least”. According to Oshinowo, “it is,therefore, unacceptable to organ- ised businesses”. He, however, reiterated that the law is not acceptable and the Organised Private Sector (OPS), “will not stand hand tied up to celebrate impunity and cheer disdain. It will fight this law by social resistance and any other legitimate means at its disposal”. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.