Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised the Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to stop lamenting over the abducted Dapchi girls in Yobe. The opposition party said what was most important at the moment was for the government of Muhammadu Buhari to rescue the abducted school girls. In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Sunday, the PDP insisted that the Buhari Presidency had a lot of questions to answer regarding the alleged compromising of security around the area as well as the misleading reports that frustrated immediate rescue of the abducted girls. “Nigerians have been in shock over revelations by the Yobe State governor, Alhaji Ibrahim Gaidam, that the abduction was preceded by withdrawal of troops around Dapchi, thereby rendering the area defenceless and paving the way for insurgents to attack and abduct our girls. “We challenge the Presidency to come out clean on issues surrounding this abduction. “Who authorized the said withdrawal of troops from the area and for what purpose? What alternative security measures were put in place to protect the people after the troops were withdrawn? “Who controls security intelligence gathering and consequential protection action and what action was taken to guarantee adequate security in the area? “Furthermore, we charge the Federal Government to open up on who scripted and released the false rescue report which frustrated prompt action that would have led to the recovery of our innocent girls? Why was that misleading report issued and whose interest did it serve? “Indeed, from all indications, every right thinking Nigerian has deduced that there are more than meet the eyes in this ugly episode for which those in authority have a lot of questions to answer. “We invite the world to note that after exposing the community to harm and frustrating prompt rescue, the incompetent APC-controlled Federal Government has not taken any concrete step to give the abductors the desired chase to recover our girls. “Rather, they sent a delegation of persons with no knowledge of security to Dapchi on fact-finding missions. “The PDP and indeed all well-meaning Nigerians are appalled by the crocodile tears being shed by the incompetent and deceptive APC-Federal Government instead of scaling up actions on the matter. “It is on this note that we call on our security agencies to stand up to the challenge and do their professional best to ensure the safe return of our girls. “The PDP stands in prayers with parents of our girls, the entire Dapchi community and all victims of mindless atrocities against Nigerians under the incompetent and deceptive APC-led Federal Government even as we collectively seek a solution at this trying time,” the statement read in part. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.