Benin – His Royal Highness, Samuel Iwuno Obade II, the traditional ruler of Ugbegun in Esan Central Local Government Area of Edo State, has described Margaret Benson Idahosa, the Archbishop of Church of God Mission, as a role model to her followers in her unabated effort to promote the work of Jesus Christ and Christendom in general. The Ugbegun royal rather who gave the commendation while playing host to her and her entourage in his palace at Ugbegun said the Archbishop in all ramifications has taught her followers the character of Jesus Christ which portrayed  her as an example of good leadership in the Church of God Mission. The Onojie, however, expressed hope that her visit to his palace would usher in blessings to the people of Ugbegun community, its neighbours and the entire Esan people. “Your courtesy visit today to my community, I can assure you will translate into unending happiness in so many homes. I am speaking with every authority in me and for those who know me, know what is in me and what I am led to say,” the royal father said. In her response, the Archbishop Idahosa said she was in th Onoji of Ugbegun palace to intimate him of the commissioning of an ultra modern provincial headquarters of the church in his community and to also pray with him for God’s blessings and wisdom upon him to lead his people. The Archbishop, who later moved to the venue of the commissioning where she addressed the congregation, assured them that the month of February marked the beginning of a new dawn in their lives. On the part of the host Pastor, Rev. E. D. Olopele, said the dedication of the ultra modern church building was historical because the day marked the year Church of God Mission was celebrating her 50th anniversary while it also marked the 20th year of Archbishop Margret Benson Idahosa ordination as a Bishop of the church after the transition to eternal glory of her husband, Archbishop Benson Idahosa. He described the church as a model and a pride to Church of God Mission International in particular and the body of Christ in general. Rev. G. O. C Nkem, the Zonal Coordinator, thanked those who have laboured to ensure that the building of the church at Ugbegun became a reality. Also speaking, Rev. Matthew Okpebholo called on all believers to always support the development of the work of God in cash and in kind adding that no one ever supported the growth of His work and remain the same. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.