Awka – Members of Oba Youth wing of the Anambra State Association of Town Unions (ATATU) in Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra state yesterday trooped out en-masse to vote for their leaders amid water-tight security. Governor Willie Obiano; the Nigerian Army from 302 Artillery Regiment, Onitsha; Nigerian police; Department of the State Services (DSS); Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and other security agencies observed the youth election, conducted by Oba Patriotic Union (OPU) in conjunction with the Anambra State government. Ikechukwu Ezeukwu was declared the winner by the electoral committee led by Mmadumelu Sunday amid pomp and ceremony. Ezeukwu polled a total of 837 votes to beat kingsley Mmaduakonam who came a distant second with 365 votes. Other contestants in the election include Mr. Toochukwu Uzochukwu who got 141 votes and Augustine Aghasiefo that scored 104 votes. Governor Obiano, represented by Tony Uche-Ezekwelu, his Senior Special Assistant on Youth Moblisation, Entrepreneurship and Empowerment, while congratulating the community for the orderly manner they conducted themselves during the poll he described as peaceful and credible, however, charged the winner to carry everybody along in the discharge of his duties. “I, therefore, enjoin every Oba youth to support and cooperate with the winner to enable him steer the tide of development in the community. I also call on him to carry everybody along and key into the government agenda for more infrastructural development in the community.” “The youths should eschew violence, land-grabbing and criminality, so that government can integrate them into the state’s skill acquisition and empowerment. “Before now, Oba youths had been known for violence, crime and youth brigandage and sale of community and personal lands, but Governor Obaino’s youth-friendly disposition has made them to come together for this peaceful election. I thank them for being so peaceful and so organised in this election. It shows that democracy has come to stay. “Last year, before the November 18 governorship poll, we were able to go to a lot of communities to conduct this kind of election. In some areas, you won’t see up to 100 youths and in some areas like Umuleri and Oba, you see thousands of youths troop out. “Government has also provided financial incentive to all elected youth wings in Anambra. The recent governorship election in the state is a clear manifestation that votes count and that is what Oba youths replicated in today’s election,” he said. Ifeatu Uzowulu, the President General of the town, expressed happiness that the much-hyped election ended in peace, saying that the youth election will bring lasting peace in the community. “Oba is one of the communities that are notable for youth brigandage and that is something we have been with for the past three years that I assumed office as the president-general. “This election into the youth leadership is one of the solutions to the problem and now that it has been done, they should consider themselves as part and parcel of the town union. “I expect that there should be more unity and greater cohesion between the youth and parent body. Let them come close and imbibe wisdom and more knowledge that will help them for the future because the future belongs to them,” he said. On his part, Ezeukwu, the winner of the election, eulogised the youths for finding him worthy to represent them, pointing out that the victory would spur him to continue his goodwill to the youths and indigent citizens of the community. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.