Governor Ibrahim Gaidam of Yobe State did not expect the kind of reaction that greeted his visit to Dapchi by the residents of the community last Thursday where about 110 girls from Government Girls Science Technical College (GGSTC) Dapchi, Borno State, were abducted by members of Boko Haram. The people did not only boo the number one citizen of the state but threw stones and dangerous objects at his convoy, resulting in the destruction of some vehicles. The governor was at Dapchi on the mission to tell the people that the kidnapped girls from GGSTC have not been found contrary to earlier information that they have been rescued by gallant Nigerian soldiers. The governor, who attributed the conflicting statement to his inability to get the accurate information from the right source, blamed the military who left the area one week before the attack, for the abduction of the girls. The action of the parents, in the view of observers, may be linked to the growing tension in the area since the incident happened. While condemning the decision of the parents to vent their anger on the governor’s convoy, observers believe the governor’s media aide was hasty in releasing information concerning the rescue of the girls to the public. They also sympathised with the governor who claimed that he spent so much on security especially the Boko Haram insurgency. On his part, Idris Abdul, Executive Director of Centre for Human Rights and Conflict Resolution (CHRCR), who described the abduction of the school girls as a national embarrassment, blamed the federal and state governments for leaving the girls vulnerable. He said “I expected that the government must have learned from what happened in Chibok by providing adequate security for the girls in the school. He urged Governor Gaidam to intensify efforts by providing adequate security for all schools, especially the female institutions in the state. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.