Lagos – Godwin Izilein, former Super Falcons coach has called on the federal government to train and retrain Nigerian coaches. Izilein made the call against the backdrop of the Super Falcons’ performance at the just concluded WAFU (Women) Championship in Cote d’Ivoire, saying that there was much work to do for Nigerian football to return to its pride of place. “Falcons performance at WAFU was not encouraging at all; the truth is that our coaches need further training and retraining. “The government will have to come in to assist the coaches with the required funds, because they cannot afford such trainings. In my time, we were trained by the government of Midwestern Region – we were given scholarships. “It was a big competition among the regions to get the best hands that can develop sports in their regions – North, East, Midwest and Western Regions – I was trained in the then East Germany,” he recalled. Izilein, who won the African Women Championship (AWC) in 2004 in South Africa, lamented that a foreign coach was allowed to take the Super Falcons to the championship adding, “The coach has no adequate knowledge of the players.” “How could you just employ a coach and give him the responsibility that could be better handled by a local coach who is with players in the local league? “Since it was a tournament for local players, it would have been better for a local coach who has been with them to complete the assignment. Never has Nigeria women ever struggled for championship within Africa. “In Africa, women football is synonymous to Nigeria; hiring of a white man is not even necessary in the first place because we have capable hands that can do the job in Nigeria,” he concluded. It would be recalled that Nigeria beat Mali 2-1 to win bronze over the weekend in Abidjan. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.