Asaba – Last Friday, precisely 23rd February 2018, President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja received the Olu of Warri, Ogiame Ikenwoli, at the Presidential Villa. The  Itsekiri monarch who was accompanied by  Chief  Ayiri Emami, the Ologbotsere of Warri  Kingdom, the immediate past Governor of Delta State, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, Prof. Itse Sagay, the Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee on Anti-corruption (PACAC) ,Brown Mene, Roland Oritsejafor, and Charles Ajuyah anothers. The royal father during the meeting had raised some concerns including the dredging of Escravos bar for Warri and Koko Ports, the Gas Revolution Industrial Park, EPZ Project in Ogidigben and others. Other development projects included the ecological challenges in Ode-Itsekiri, Ugborodo, Orere/Yanagho and Ogheye-Eghoroke. While decrying the years of neglect of the Warri and Coco ports over the years, he also appealed to the president to pay more attention to the development of the Niger Delta. Addressing State House correspondents after the closed-door meeting, the monarch appealed to the Federal Government to intervene in the deplorable condition of the Koko and Warri ports. “Warri port and Koko port are very good and solid ports that are not working. While other ports in other areas are working, ours are just left unutilised and so we want the ports to be activated so that they can start working. That will mop up a lot of youths from the streets.” The Olu who attributed the menace of youth restiveness in the areas to the absence of activities at the ports, noted that “when the ports were working there was no restiveness in the area.” According to him, “Apart from that, there is also the gas city, it is a fantastic project. The last president did the ground breaking before he left but since then nothing has been happening. “We want the federal government to hasten action on it because that will mop up the over 300,000 youths from the streets. When all of our youths are engaged the restiveness will be minimised. We have the Koko road, that road will open up the area, and allow economic activities to expand. We have the Escravos road, the railway that is going on now, we want it to come to the area. By that, the economic activities will thrive better and Nigerians will be happy for it.” The Olu of Warri, who commiserated with the President over the loss of his two extended family members, also commended him for achieving his campaign promises on the fight against insurgency and corruption, as well as the successes recorded in reducing criminal acts of vandalism of oil and gas facilities in the Niger Delta. In his response, President Buhari reiterated the Federal government’s commitment to maintaining peace and security in the Niger Delta for economic and social activities to thrive. He told the delegation that developing the region remains a priority for his administration, adding that under his watch every region in the country would witness increased investments in critical infrastructure. The President appealed to the people of Niger Delta to complement ongoing efforts by the Federal government to bring more development in the region by maintaining peace, security and harmony. President Buhari promised to look into some of the concerns raised by the delegation including the dredging of Escravos bar for Warri and Koko ports, the gas revolution industrial park and EPZ project in Ogidigben, the ecological challenges in Ode-Itsekiri, Ugborodo, Orere/Yanagho and Ogheye-Eghoroke, among others. The President also used the occasion of the visit by the Royal Majesty to commend Itsekiri people for producing men of strong convictions like Prof Itse Sagay, saying the PACAC boss is doing an exceptional job. ‘‘Thanks for producing a man like Prof. Itse Sagay, who is defending us robustly and stepping on many toes in the process. If he’s not a man of conviction, he couldn’t have done that. ‘‘What he is doing is exceptional. Despite coming from a minority area, he’s showing overwhelming influence at the centre. ‘‘Prof, I never had the opportunity to thank you personally for all you’re doing. Thank you very much,’’ the President said. Corroborating the monarch, Uduaghan enumerated some other challenges facing the people of the area including insecurity, ecological problems and infrastructure among other critical issues. He said they were the main issues that were discussed with the President during their visit. ”The problem of access to the ports is very critical. Delta has six ports and to be able to get to the ports there is a place call escravos bar which has been very shallow. Even the water channel is highly stilted and so we appealed to the federal government to dredge the Escravos channels so that the bigger ships will be able to come into the ports of delta especially the Warri Ports.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE.  100% Natural Solution To Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection, Watery Sperm, Other Sexual Dysfunctions And Last More Than 30 Minutes During Sex.