Speaking with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, Mr. Usman Suleiman, former managing director, FUG Pensions now Veritas Glanville Pensions Limited said the Fund was reconstituted to serve as a social safety net for “Hit and Run” accident cases and other natural disasters. He added that the funds that have been accumulated over time continue to deplete if fraudulent practices continue to rage in the system and would deny Nigerians the right to social services on the part of the government. Mr. Abioye, an accountant said: “what I know about NSITF is that it is an individual that contribute to the account, 2.5% from the employee and 5percent from the employer as at that time. But since the beginning of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), the accounts on the NSITF were transferred to the Retirement Savings Accounts under the CPS as per the individual that contributed to that account. So when one is moving to RSA they supposed to ask for his certificate number in the NSITF and credit the account in the RSA. “I remember that in my own case they credited my account but not with the full amount I contributed as at that time because I contributed about N200,000 but what I got was like a hundred thousand naira as at the time my account was moved to the RSA. And that is what happened to some other people as well. “In the case of civil servants, there are many of them who might not get their NSITF contribution credited to their RSA. If that is true it means that they did not remit the employee contribution to the contributory scheme which started in 1994. And it might also be that they remitted the only the employees’ contribution without the corresponding employers’ contribution. It is quite certain that they did not remit both contributions in accordance with the rules. NSITF is an agent of the government and they might have decided to do anything with the funds. “They should audit the accounts of the contributor to unravel the mystery of the missing funds”. Uzor Ofurum, Executive Director, Danslei Nigeria Limited and former General Manager, Marketing, Anchor Insurance Company Limited called on the government to ensure that the culprits are called to book. He added that it is shameful and embarrassing that people in the public offices are taking others for granted by instituting corrupt practices in the system and sustaining them. “What I have to say about that is that it is unfortunate that the madam that was given the charge for such prestigious office decided to play around with it. But it boils down to the fact that the federal government did not put in place, proper control measures. We have what is called an internal control mechanism where every director will have a minimum level of funds to sign for. “Every officer, whether working for a private concern or public sector should be given a minimum amount of money he can sign off at a given time. So, the issue of moving away the huge amount of money from the system will be minimised. “In the case of what happened at the NSITF, this is unacceptable at all. The culprit should be made to refund every kobo taken away from the Fund. This fund concerns virtually every one of us that has ever worked in an office so it is a regrettable and they should be made to pay to the last kobo. “At this time, the goal of the scheme was to protect private sector employees (whose employers were then mostly multinationals) from financial difficulties in the event of either old age, cessation of employment, invalidity or death. Most employers didn’t have any scheme like this in place at that time. He said though the EFCC is already handling the criminal investigations leading to the prosecution of the former Managing Director, General Manager, Legal and the Deputy General Manager, Finance and Accounts, it was important to further unearth the administrative machinery that made the looting of such a colossal sum of public fund possible and forestall its reoccurrence. He noted that the scheme was a sort of compulsory savings scheme in the form of a monthly contribution by members at the rate of 6% of basic salary subject to a maximum of N8.00 per month or a sum total of N96.00 per annum to be paid in equal proportion by the employer and the employee. “In the event of emigration from the country, employment cessation, old age, invalidity or death, the cumulative amount contributed plus accrued interest (7% as at 1994) is calculated on a compound basis and paid to the contributor or his/her dependent as the case may be. The Act was later amended by another Act of Parliament in 1962 to cover only employees in the private sector who were not covered by the Pension Service Scheme. “However, there was a unanimous by the different labour unions including the ILO that the organisation had not satisfactorily performed its responsibilities. This led to the Federal Government setting up the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) which was launched by the Honourable Minister of Employment, Labour and Productivity, officially launched the new scheme in July 1994”. He specifically said: “based on this scheme, all Nigerian employers in the private sector were to contribute monthly and the organisation was expected to remit this sum. “This scheme would enable the employer to provide the following benefits: Retirement pension benefit, Survivors benefit, Retirement grant, Death grant, Invalidity benefit and Invalidity grant and such other benefits as may be approved from time to time by the Board”. It would be recalled that in 2002, a new rate of contribution was implemented after the scheme was reviewed. This new scheme meant that the pension and grants on offer available were more than the employees’ contributions. Between 5 to 25% of the pension contributions are allowed to be used to meet the administrative costs, while the surplus was invested in a safe liquid and profitable investment which enabled the NSITF to generate income for the payment of benefits. Generally, the cost of administration was usually higher at the inception of the scheme but tends to become progressively lower as the scheme matures. The registered members were entitled to receive pension and grants that they benefit from once they attain the retirement age (55-60 years) or as a result of death or invalidity. In the case of death, the pension would be paid to the survivors while it is paid directly to the person in the situation of invalidity. In 2004, there was a twist and the Pension Reform Act (PRA) was enacted leading to the NSITF ceding its pension’s business in compliance with the Section 42 of the PRA. As a result, the NSITF incorporated a subsidiary company in 2004 which was the Trustfund Pensions Plc. This company partnered with the likes of Mainstreet Bank, Denham Management Limited, Nigeria Employers Consultative Association, Nigeria Labour Congress and the Trade Union Congress that same year. However, NSITF owned majority shares of Trustfund Pensions Plc. The company was licensed by the National Pension Commission in December 2005 which led to its commencement of activities in January 2006. At that time, the company had assets in excess of N54 billion. Additionally, the PRA of 2004 redefined the mandate of the Fund to provide social security insurances services other than pension according to section 71(2). In 2010, the Employees Compensation Act was passed into law which backed the mandate of the NSITF to provide social security insurance services specifically by operating the Employment Compensation Scheme (ECS). Administrative Process Should Not Be Used To Cover Up Issues Of Corruption –NLC Reacting to the issue, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, President, Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) warned that the administrative processes should not be used to cover up corruption. According to him, it has been the practice where administrative process is used to delay issues of corruption that are eventually swept under the carpet. He added that the NLC is in support of what the EFCC has been doing by prosecuting those indicted in the fraud. Comrade Wabba pointed out that the NLC is peeved by the report in some section of the media quoting the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige that its representatives on the Panel of Enquiry were also indicted in the scandal and has demanded a retraction which the Minister had owned up that it was a mistake and promised to do a retraction. Asked to comment on the issue, Comrade Wabba said: “I have not seen the report and if I see the report I need to get the details, but I am aware that the report has been done by the EFCC because the infraction occurred between 2011 and 2015. I’m aware that all those that were indicted have been charged to court by the EFCC, that I am aware but the new one you are talking about is the very one or a different one? “Well, I will only conform with the report of the EFCC which they have been charged the people involved to court. Is it that particular one or another issue? I’m aware that from 2011 to 2015. And I’m aware that the EFCC has concluded their investigation and charged the people to court, so is it a different one or that same issue that I cannot ascertain because I am not privy to the report and I don’t know the details. So if I have the details of the report I can now comment”. Frowning at the adoption of the administrative process to investigate the veracity of embezzlement, Waba suggested a handover of the matter completely to the EFCC, the ICPC and the SSS, saying the latter will give room for a cover up. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 