ABUJA – Engr. Nuruddeen Rafindadi, Managing Director, Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA), has expressed the readiness of the agency to partner with the Special Presidential Investigation Panel on Recovery of Public Property in its bid to fight corruption, in line with the anti-graft law of the Federation. Rafindadi gave the commitment while receiving a team from the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for recovery of public property, led by the Chairman, Barr. Okoi Obono-Obla, at the FERMA headquarters. Welcoming the team, the Managing Director stated that the agency was aware of the enormous task before it and that it was a privilege to have a partnership with the special presidential investigation panel on the recovery of public property. This, he said, would facilitate effective monitoring of the process of awarding contracts, ensuring that contractors bidding for contracts have the expertise to meet with the acceptable standard to reflect the judicious use of the money released by the government. The panel chairman in his opening remarks stated that the purpose of the visit was to acquaint the agency of its activities and to extend a hand of partnership to FERMA, being a sole maintenance outfit of federal roads in the country. The activities of the panel, Okoi Obono-Obla said, include investigation of public officers that are involved in corrupt practices; investigation of public officers that have not declared their assets according to the provisions of the constitution and investigation of individuals/private companies who have contributed adversely to the development of the country, among others. He commended FERMA for its efficiency in carrying out its duty and for its recent intervention in rehabilitating federal roads across the country. He said that FERMA has done a great job by empowering the youth through its Direct Labour works. The Special Presidential Investigation Panel for Recovery of Public Property was constituted by the then Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, in August 2017, in accordance with a law known as Recovery of Public Property (Special Provisions Act) which is one of the oldest anti-corruption legislation in the country. The purpose of the law, Osinbajo said, was to fight corruption, improve transparency and accountability in public offices. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 