BAUCHI – Traditional rulers in Bauchi State have urged politicians to provide social amenities to the people when elected into office. Alhaji Yunusa Danyaya, the Emir of Ningi, and his Dass counterpart, Alhaji Usman Bilyaminu Othman, spoke when members of Society for Water and Sanitation (NEWSAN) and Wash Media Network paid an Advocacy visit in their palaces Thursday. NEWSAN and WASH media Network are working in partnership with Water Aid Nigeria in implementing the strengthening of Water Sanitation and Hygiene Delivery Systems (SWADS) project which is aimed at strengthening citizens engagement on the Vote4WASH campaign. The project was being funded by Hong Kong Shanghai Banking Corporation (HSBC). Alhaji Bilyaminu Othman, in their separate speeches, said previously, politicians did not care about the plight of the people. “We will make sure we educate and sensitise them on the need to sign the pact with the people that when they are elected in office, they will fulfil their promise of providing social amenities to them.” “Vote for WASH Initiative is welcome because previously politicians don’t sign a pact with the people so they don’t care about their plight. So, Vote4WASH poses a challenge to politicians who aspire for elective offices. “We will support the Vote4WASH campaign because Dass has benefited a lot from this kind of intervention which one of them resulted to a declaration of Dass as the second ODF state in the country,” he said. On his part, Alhaji Yunusa Danyaya assured the support WASH campaign in the state saying, “Already, I am a vanguard of hygiene and national leader for sanitation and hygiene for six years in this country. I want to assure that we are committed to supporting vote4 WASH campaign to achieve success at any level of the society. “From my perspective Vote4 WASH campaign will work well because with this initiative we will also close the existing gaps of poor sanitation and hygiene,” he said. The monarch stressed the need for more enlightenment campaign that would educate the citizens well on hygiene practices. He added that the major problem in Nigeria and entire Africa were environmental sanitation issues that relate to poor sanitation. He said, “Lack of clean water in the continent is the source of all those communicable diseases such as malaria, cholera, among others.” Earlier, Sukumun Ezekiel, Programme Manager of Women Development Association for Self Sustenance, the leader of the delegation, said the Vote4WASH campaign is an advocacy strategy designed to mobilise citizens to demand clean water, improved Sanitation and Hygiene practices (WASH) with the power of their votes. “The concept of this campaign is to use the 2019 general elections and post-election period as an opportunity to highlight and campaign for the availability and accessibility of WASH services in Bauchi State. “The Outcome of the Vote4WASH campaign will contribute to achieving several sustainable development goals. “Activities to be conducted under the Vote4WASH  campaign include awareness and sensitisation meetings with stakeholders, development of the Vote4WASH pledge cards, launching of the Vote4WASH campaign and media engagement, among others. All these would be geared towards government prioritization of the WASH for increased funding and reducing over-dependence on donor agencies. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 