Lagos – There is no contesting the fact that this is a World Cup final that few would have predicted at the start of Russia 2018, but France will face Croatia in Moscow’s Luzhniki Stadium on Sunday (today) with the chance to become world champions at stake for both sides. Though going to the Mundial with a team filled with tested players, especially in the midfield, no one could have put a dime on Croatia to make it to today’s final. This position is premised on the team’s chequered road to Russia, where they were piped to the automatic ticket by Iceland in a UEFA qualifying Group I that also had Ukrain, Turkey, Finland and Kosovo. In the playoff, Croatia defeated Greece to qualify. The big guns fell apart, but it all made for an interesting World Cup in what has been an entertaining tournament so far. In some of the enthralling matches, France dumped Argentina in the round of 16. This year’s World Cup threw up most unthinkable parings in the semifinal, with countries such as Germany, Brazil, Argentina and Spain, as well as the already not qualified Azurris of Italy, missing in the roll call. It was unthinkable to realize that after the group matches, the round of 16 ties and the quarter, names such as France, Croatia, Belgium and England were the only ones remaining in the competition. According to Adegboye Onigbinde, who spoke to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT on the surprises, the trend had shown that countries were preparing very hard to be among the best in the world, expressing worry that with the slow pace of Nigerian football development, it would be hard for the country to rise above board. “It has been a good World Cup so far. What you are seeing today has shown that football is not what it used to be. Countries are preparing very hard to be among the best but we have to use the whole development to ask ourselves questions on where we are heading. “I have used almost all my life to campaign for a robust football development programme. If they have bought into my idea, by now we would have been competing with the rest but look at how we performed at the World Cup.” Ike Shorunmu, Nigeria’s former international footballer, said the emergence of Croatia and France as the two gladiators for today’s final might have opened a new vista in world football, calling on Nigerian authorities to take a cue. “It’s a good thing that the World Cup is going on well. Truly, nobody expected the two countries, especially Croatia, to get this far, but that is the beauty of the game. It is an entirely new thing in football and I want Nigeria to look at the way we can improve our games.” Meanwhile, records were set heading into today’s final. For example, a first-ever penalty shoot-out win at a World Cup for England when they overcame Colombia in the round of 16, was one of the turning points for the Three lions. Heading into today’s final, many have predicted Croatia’s strength on their intimidating midfield and the midfield trio of Luka Modric, Ivan Rakitic and Marcelo Brozovic has proven dependable all through the competition. But they will get their match in N’Golo Kante, Paul Pogba and Blaise Matuidi for France. The Balkan nation started the competition strongly, dispatching Nigeria 2-0 in their opening match in Group D. They followed that up with a surprise 3-0 thumping of one of the favourites, Argentina and rounded up their group match with a 2-1 win over debutants, Iceland. In the round of 16, the Croats overcame the hard fighting Denmark 3-2 on penalties after a 1-1 full and extra time. Quarterfinal presented another penalty win over hosts, Russia, after a grueling 2-2 score line. Against England, they were almost heading to their third penalty shootout in as many games before scoring early in the first half of extra time to win the game. In all, Croatia has played more minutes than any other country at the World Cup after three grueling 30-minute extra time plays. For France, they struggled to overcome Australia 2-1 in their curtain raiser and piped Peru 1-0 before a goalless affair with Denmark in their last group match took them to the next round. It was a goal feast in their round of 16 against Argentina as they won 4-3 to set up a quarterfinal clash against Uruguay, winning 2-0. In the semifinal, they piped Belgium 1-0. France are blessed with some of the hottest attacking talents in the world right now and arguably possess the best options of any team in Russia. Mbappe has shown his incredible ability at this level, with Antoine Griezmann also impressing. The power and strength of Olivier Giroud has given France an attacking dimension, while Dier Deschamps can also call on Ousmane Dembele’s youthful talent and speed down the wing. Croatia are not also found wanting with battle-hardened veteran, Mario Mandzukic, leading the line. Wingers Ivan Perisic and Ante Rebic are dangers — Perisic was outstanding in the semifinal win against England — and they will need to be on top of their game if they hope to pull the plug. Be that as it may, commentators are of the view that Croatia have run out of steam given their extra time plays on three occasions. Analysts feel that this is where France can cash-in on to win their second title. Whether France will take advantage of Croatia’s perceived fatigue is left to be seen later today. But then, contemporarily, only the France golden generation of 1998 was able to pull the plug and win at their peak. It has always been a struggling for golden generations but the current Croatian team looks to pull one of the greatest upsets in world football today. Coach Zlatko Dalic summed up Croatia’s determination to make history, which may also drive them today. Speaking at a post match conference after defeating England, the coach said: “What our players did today, the strength they’ve shown, the stamina, the energy levels. I wanted to substitute but no one wanted to be subbed, everybody kept saying ‘I’m ready, I can run on’,” he said. “Some players played with minor injuries with which they would not have played some other games. Two players played with half a leg, but it didn’t show! 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 