ABUJA – Chief Abubakar Sadiq, National President of Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), has urged the Federal Government to provide more road infrastructure and furniture on the roads to mitigate the spate of road crashes across the country. Sadiq, in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Abuja, commended the efforts of the present administration in road construction and rehabilitation across the country urged the government not to relent in its efforts. According to him, “Talking about the present administration as far as the provision of road infrastructure is concerned, I make bold to say that the administration has done well. I can give the administration a pass mark. “So many roads were dilapidated across the country before the assumption of office by Buhari led administration. The infrastructure and road furniture were not in place. “This is the only time that we have seen a Ministry in charge of roads. The Ministry of Power, Works and Housing are ready to tackle the challenges of bad road networks headlong. “While we appreciate the entire administration, I want to commend the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, for his resolve to tackle the rehabilitation of roads across the country. “As a major stakeholder in the transport sector, causes of road crashes could be attributed to the human factor, mechanical factor, and infrastructure. “So, if the infrastructure is not in place, definitely, the crashes will be higher.” He expressed optimism that the replacement of road furniture, which is on-going, would go a long way in reducing carnage on the roads. He also called on the government not to abandon various ongoing road projects, urging the government to be proactive to ensure that some of these projects were completed. Sadiq further called on the Federal Government to provide mass transit buses across the country to ease transport difficulties encountered by commuters, adding that palliatives should be provided for private operators in the transport sector to boost fleet of buses on the roads. “I want to call on President Buhari administration to provide soft loans to major stakeholders to buy these buses. We are trying to do that. “Government should assist us by providing palliatives. We observe that this administration has not been able to do this. I don’t want to blame the government because of the present economic situation in the country,” he said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 