Recently, I have been describing some of the Companions of the Holy Prophet (sa), who participated in the Battle of Badr. Many of the companions I will mention today will only be described very briefly. Hazrat Subaib bin Qais bin Eesha.  He participated in battles of Badr and Uhad. His mother’s name was Khadija bint Umar bin Zaid. He had a son called Abdullah, who died in early childhood, whose mother belonged to the tribe Banu Jazara. He had no other children. Hazrat Unais bin Qitada, who died during the Battle of Uhad. He also did not have any children. According to one tradition, Hazrat Khansa bint Khuddam was married to him at the time of his martyrdom. Hazrat Malail bin Wabra. He took part in the Battle of Badr and Uhad, both. He had two children, Zaid and Habiba whose mother was Umm Zaid bint Nazla bin Malik. His progeny did not last beyond his children. According to one tradition, he accompanied the Holy Prophet (sa) in the battles of Badr, Uhad and all the other battles. Hazrat Naufil bin Abdullah bin Nazla. He was martyred during the Battle of Uhad. He participated in the battles of Badr and Uhad. His lineage did not last either. Hazrat Wadee’a bin Amar. He belonged to the tribe Banu Juhaina which was aligned with Banu Najar. He took part in battles of Badr and Uhad. Hazrat Yazeed bin Munzir bin Sarh bin Khunas. He belonged to the tribe of Banu Khazraj and he participated in the Bai’at [pledge of allegiance] taken at ‘Uqba. The Holy Prophet (sa) formed a bond of brotherhood between Hazrat Yazeed bin Munzir and ‘Amir bin Rabi’ah. He participated in the battles of Badr and Uhud. He had no children at the time of his death. His brother, Maqir bin Munzir, also participated in the Bai’at taken at ‘Uqba as well as the battles of Badr and Uhud. Then, there is a companion by the name Hazrat Khawarja bin Humayyar Ashja’i. He belonged to the tribe of Ashja’, which was an ally of the tribe of Banu Khazraj. His brother’s name is ‘Abdullah bin Humayyar, who participated alongside him in the battle of Badr. Hazrat Suraqa bin ‘Amr. He was an Ansari [inhabitants of Medina) His name is Suraqa bin ‘Amr bin ‘Atiya bin Hansaa Ansari. He passed away in Jamadi-ul-Awwal [fifth month of the lunar calendar] in the eighth year of Hijra [migration to Medina] during the battle of Mu’tah. His full name was Suraqa bin ‘Amr bin ‘Atiya bin Hansaa Ansari. The Holy Prophet (sa) formed a bond of brotherhood between Nahja Maula ‘Amr and Suraqa bin ‘Amr. He participated in the battles of Badr, Uhud, Khandaq and Khaybar. Furthermore, he was also blessed to be in the company of the Holy Prophet (sa) on the occasion of the treaty of Hudaibiyah as well as ‘Umrat-ul-Qadha [the first pilgrimage to Mecca]. Hazrat Suraqa bin ‘Amr was among those fortunate companions, who were blessed with the opportunity to partake in the Bai’at-e-Ridhwan. He did not have any progeny and he was martyred in the eighth year of Hijra during the battle of Mu’tah. ….Hazrat Abu Marsad bin Qannas bin Al-Hussain Ghanwi. He passed away in the twelfth year of Hijra [migration to Medina]. He accepted Islam in its very early stages and migrated to Medina after seeking permission to do so. The Holy Prophet (sa) formed a bond of brotherhood between him and Hazrat ‘Ibada bin Samit. Hazrat Abu Marsad was with the Holy Prophet (sa) in all the battles. He has the status in history for the following incident: Hazrat Hatib bin Abi Baltah sent a letter to the Meccans to secretly inform them [of the Holy Prophet’s plan] with the thought of protecting his children there. God Almighty informed the Holy Prophet (sa) about this so he sent three riders after the woman who was taking this letter and they took it from her. Hazrat Abu Marsad was one of the three riders. Hazrat Abu Marsad has narrated a hadith [tradition] from the Holy Prophet (sa) which is mentioned in Muslim. He states: “I heard the Holy Prophet (sa) saying: “Do not sit on graves and do not pray in their direction.” He passed away during the Khilafat of Hazrat Abu Bakr (ra) in the 12th Hijri at the age of 66. Hazrat Suleet bin Qais bin ‘Amar. After accepting Islam, both Hazrat Sulaeet bin Qais and Hazrt Abu Salma destroyed the idols of the family of Banu ‘Adi bin Najjar. Hazrat Suleet took part in the battles of Badr, Uhud, Khandaq and all the battles with the Holy Prophet (sa). He passed away in 14th Hijri during the Khilafat of Hazrat ‘Umar at the battle of Jisr in Abi Ubaid. Hazrat Mujazar bin Ziyaad was martyred during the battle of Uhud. Mujazar was his title which means ‘a person possessing a heavy body’. The Holy Prophet (sa) established brotherhood between Hazrat Majzar and ‘Aaqil bin Buqair. Hazrat Majzar participated in the battle of Badr and the battle of Uhud. Hazrat Hubbab bin Munzar Bin Jumuh was a companion who passed away during the Khilafat of Hazrat ‘Umar (ra). He was with the Holy Prophet (sa) during Badr, Uhud, Khandaq and all other battles. He remained resolute alongside the Holy Prophet (sa) during the battle of Uhud. Hazrat Rifaa bin Raafi bin Malik bin Ujlan who was from among the Ansar. He was present during the Bai’at Uqbah as well as the Battle of Badr, Battle of Uhud, Battle of the Ditch, Bait e Rizwan and all other battles in which the Holy Prophet (sa) took part in. Two of his brothers, Khallaad bin Raafi and Malik bin Raafi took part in the Battle of Badr. Hazrat Muaz narrates on account of his father – Hazrat Rifaa bin Raafi, who took part in the Battle of Badr – that Hazrat Jibrael (as) asked the Holy Prophet (sa) his perception about those companions who took part in the Battle of Badr? The Holy Prophet (sa) said ‘the best among the Muslims’ or words to this effect. Hazrat Jibrael replied: “In the same manner, those angels that took part in the Battle of Badr are also superior in rank.” There is the deeper meaning wherein God Almighty stated that He sent angels who fought. However, it does not mean that the angels were physically fighting because according to some there are narrations stating that the wounds inflicted by the angels [upon the enemy] were completely different in appearance to the ones inflicted by the Companions, this is completely wrong. The truth of the matter is that they direct the human faculties and ensure they are utilised in the best manner. When all of this is happening through the influence of the angels then it is as if it is they who are actually fighting. I wish to say something in reference to the last Friday Sermon and further elaborate on a particular incident. It was mentioned in regards to Hazrat Amaar that Hazrat Amar bin Aas expressed great sorrow and concern at his demise because he had heard the Holy Prophet (sa) state that Amaar would be martyred by a rebellious group. Nevertheless, people raise the question that if he was from among those who rebelled then why is so much respect given to his name. Also, Hazrat Amir Muawiyah has been given a significant status in the literature of the Jama’at. Firstly, in regard to the status of the Companions (ra), it is not for us to determine the fate of the Companions. Due to whatever misunderstanding and error those unfortunate circumstances arose, that matter should be left with God Almighty alone, and the Muslims in fact have faced the consequences of that too. Abu Zoha relates that Amar bin Shirajeel Abu Maisra, who was from amongst the best students of Hazrat Abdullah bin Masood, saw in a dream that there is a beautiful garden full of greenery in which there are a few tents. One belonging to Hazrat Amaar bin Yaasir and there were a few other tens in which Dhul Qilaa was also there. Abu Maisra enquired as to how this was possible for they had fought against one another. He then heard a sound saying, “They found their Lord to be Most-Forgiving, and hence they are now together.” Thus, these matters are now with God Almighty. It is not for us to entertain these issues. These incidents should be a lesson for us and instead of dwelling over them, we should be seeking ways to establish unity. I once mentioned an account related by Hazrat Musleh Maud (ra) which was in reference to Amir Muwaiya. Upon this someone from one of the Arab countries wrote to me and said he was the leader of a murderous and rebellious group therefore why do I say his name with such respect. Therefore, this narration in which the dream was mentioned is a sufficient enough response in that God Almighty is Most-Forgiving and Ever Merciful. We should focus on reforming our conditions and affairs instead of commenting about them. May God Almighty enable us to remain as one and remain established on being united and excel in our good deeds. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 