Katsina – Forty-four people have lost their lives, 20 others still missing with five hundred houses destroyed as a result of a downpour that occurred on Sunday in Jibia Local Government Area of Katsina State. Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State confirmed this on Monday, adding that the downpour lasted three hours. He also said scores of animals died in the deluge, noting that occupants were unable to salvage any of their properties. Masari, who disclosed this while briefing newsmen in Katsina, said, “I have never seen or witnessed a disaster of this magnitude in my life”, stressing that the incident was a natural disaster. He explained that he received report of the downpour at Jibia which was as a result of the flood from a river through the drainages into the main town of Jibia. This, he said, led to the colossal loss recorded as witnessed, adding that government has mobilised resources to help alleviate the hardship faced by the affected victims. Masari, who noted that contact had been made with the president and NEMA boss over the disaster, said thirteen-truck load of relief materials have been dispatched to the state for the victims. The governor added that the state government has dispatched relief materials such as mattresses, blankets, amongst others, and directed the state Ministry of Environment to see how the river could be redirected to avert future occurrence in the area. On the displaced persons, he said government has converted one of the primary schools in Jibia to serve as a temporary shelter for the affected families. He also appealed to well-meaning individuals in the state to come to the aid of the affected victims by assisting them with other immediate needs. Dr. Aminu Waziri, Executive Secretary, State Emergency Management Agency, who confirmed the report to newsmen on Monday, said so far twenty-one persons had been buried. Waziri added that others, including two bodies recovered in neighbouring Niger Republic river would also be buried immediately arrangements were concluded. “The rainfall, accompanied with heavy winds, started at about 11p.m last night and lasted till 3a.m this morning, rendering so many homeless,” he said. Areas worst hit include Unguwar Kwa-Kwa, Unguwar Mai Kwari, Tudun Takari, both the new and old settlements, as well as Dan Tudu. The SEMA boss said the agency’s search and rescue team was on the ground, while other staff members were taking care of those rendered homeless by the downpour. Alhaji Rabe Rabiu, the District Head of Jibia, in a chat with journalists, said over 44 people had been confirmed dead, adding that 21 persons had been buried, while others were awaiting burial. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 