Fidelis Duker is one of the biggest names in Nollywood. The general public may not know him like they do Jim Iyke or Omotola, but in the movie circles, he is known as one of the best movie producers. Besides, he was the President of Movie Director’s Guild. So, when he invited me to his wife’s birthday party, though it was quite a distance, I could not say no. Tope Duker is a friend as well. She is the Director of the Abuja Film Festival, and I attend that on a yearly basis. She is also the Manager of Fad FM. What I thought to be a small gathering was not. Not that the crowd was too much, the calibre of guests was intimidating. The birthday started with a thanksgiving service officiated by pastor Kola Fashola at the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Place of Enlargement Parish, Lekki Lagos. The party commenced immediately after the service at their residence, which was close by. One thing one would quickly notice was that most of the actors, producers and directors present were from one generation.  They had a big table they all sat around and if you took a look at them as a bunch, you would think you were in a 90’s soap opera or one of the first set of movies in Nollywood. On that ‘powerful’ table were Fred Amata, Keppy Ekpenyong, Charles Inojie, Sonny Mcdon, Nwokeabia, Emeka Enyiocha, Emmanuel Ogugua, Chinwe Eguagu, Tony Anih, and Emeka Ossai amongst others. It was like a reunion for the bunch as they feasted merrily in friendship born out of their love for movies. They, in turns, told tales of tough beginnings in the industry and specific scenarios that were hilarious. These tales only fuelled the electrifying atmosphere while 33 Export Lager Beer was served. The ladies were not left out, they had fun too. There was also a table were the ladies from that movie/TV era converged. From the hugs and side kisses and gists they shared, one could tell there was camaraderie in the air. The ladies in attendance include, Ngozi Nwosu, Evelyn Ikunobe Otaigbe, Justina Ajibodu, Ronnie Dikko, Helen Emeruwa, Belinda Efah and Tosin Dokpesi amongst others. They were indeed old time buddies and lovers of the art. The ladies were not left out in the fun department; some of them also enjoyed the taste of 33 export lager beer along with the goat pepper soup that was served. Speaking with the birthday girl, Tope Duker expressed happiness that her day was remembered and celebrated in true fashion of friendship. “Today is one of my best days ever. First of all, I am able to thank God for keeping me alive for my 40th birthday, it has been a great journey. Also, I am able to hang out with friends and colleagues that have been there from the beginning. It is so emotional for me,” she said. Also speaking at the party was Fidelis Duker. According to him, he was overwhelmed by the presence and support of his colleagues in attendance. “I expected some, but not all these big wigs. It is a sign of true friendship to have them in attendance, and have drinks with them as my buddies in the industry.” He also wished his wife “many more happy years to come.” The party ran late into the night as new friends kept arriving. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 