Lagos – Contrary to the speculations in some quarters that the owners of Dana Air were Indians and not Nigerians, the airline has come out to state categorically that Mr. Jacky Hathiramani is a Nigerian and should be treated as such. Speaking in Lagos over the weekend where the airline bagged the ‘Best Customer Friendly Domestic Airline 2018’ at a summit and award ceremony organised by the Association of Foreign Airlines and Representatives in Nigeria (AFARN) in Lagos, Mr. Kingsley Ezenwa, the spokesman for the airline insisted that Nigerians owned the airline. According to him, Hathiramani was born in Jos, Plateau State and had his primary and secondary education in Ibadan, Oyo State before proceeding to the United Kingdom for his higher education. He added that Hathiramani speaks Yoruba fluent and wondered why he should still be referred to as a non-Nigerian. He said: “But, I want to seize this opportunity to correct a wrong perception. Dana Air is owned by a Nigerian, born in Jos and had his primary and secondary education in Ibadan before proceeding to the United Kingdom for his higher education. He speaks Yoruba language so fluently like any other Nigerian.” Speaking on the award, Ezenwa, who received it on behalf of the airline said, every frequent flyer in Nigeria knew that Dana Air was the best in terms of on-time departures, customer service and in-flight service. He stated further that with a customer service department that works 24/7 and multiplicity of booking options available to its air travellers, capped with a reward programme that guarantees both flight-related and non-flight related benefits and rewards, the airline surely deserved the award. “And on behalf of the Management of Dana Air and our ever-committed and professional staff, we wish to thank AFARN for this award. We dedicate the award to our loyal guests who continue to fly the smartest way despite the recent efforts of some enemies of consistency and exceptional service,” he said. On the airline’s support to one of the winners of the integrity award, Josephine Agwu, who appealed for support to travel to the east for an important family function, Kingsley said, “Dana Air will fly her to and fro her destination. She is a shining light and a perfect example that Nigeria is working. Dana Air is committed to the well-being of Nigerians and we will continue to do our best to encourage integrity and honesty among aviation workers and Nigerians in general.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 