Recently,the media was awash with reports that the federal government through the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, has waded into the controversial 500 per cent increment of excise duty imposed on locally produced wine and spirits to save the industry from collapse. According to reports, Ngige at a meeting with members of the National Union of Food, Beverage and Tobacco Joint Employers and Workers Association (NUFBTJEWA) had  stated that the Federal Government would review the newly introduced excise duty to save the sector and forestall the consequent loss of about two hundred thousand jobs. Besides, the Minister had told the delegation of the labour leaders that the Economic and Recovery Growth Plan (ELGP) of the Federal Government was partly tailored towards job creation rather than losses, saying that the Executive Order No. 1 and 4 was for job creation as well as ensuring that jobs created were done by the locals. Recall that the Federal Government in March this year announced a new exercise and duty policy for tobacco and alcoholic beverages, including wine and spirits. While the increase on beer and tobacco was marginal, the wine and spirits was astronomical, as tariff to be paid on a litre was jacked up from N30 to N150 in the first year and up to N200 subsequently. This translates from the current average duty of N270 per case in the first year to over N1, 350 from the second year, and this, the association said amounted  to an increase of over 500 per cent only on local wines and spirits. Certainly, this development would not only cripple their investments, but further compound the hardship of already impoverished Nigerians. The implications of going ahead with the new tariff, which had already taken effect from the 1st of June this year are enormous, particularly, for the affected sectors. Succinctly put, it would lead to the collapse of the local industry and pave way for the complete takeover of the wines and spirits market by imported and smuggled brands. In other words, many local manufacturers will shut down, thus, giving room to fake and adulterated products. Besides the Wines and Spirits industry shutting down, it would also affect other key ancillary sectors of the economy and businesses such as Packaging industries, Bottles, Cartons, Labels, Cork, Laminates, glue, Ink, Printing, laboratory, Marketing, Consulting, Media, to mention a few and the thousands of workers employed there, with the reverberating effect flowing down to the families and dependents. Only recently, Mr. Muda Yusuf, the Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry,noted that it was not the best time to impose excise duty on goods. “If the government is trying to grow the local industry, imposing duties on locally manufactured goods is a contradiction of that objective. That is what we are saying about this drive to earn revenue. If the revenue drive is becoming too aggressive, it will negatively affect investment and the capacity of businesses to create jobs”. That the federal government has decided to wade into the issue of Nigeria’s wine and spirit market worth over N420 billion and expected to grow at six per cent on average per year is an indication that government is ready to sustain the manufacturing sector, which already has been groaning under various adverse economic policies. It is therefore instructive for government to toe the path of negotiation with the affected sector to reach an agreeable and less impactful tariff increase that will, while helping government generate revenue, would at the same time have a humane face to keep the industry afloat and protect the interests of thousands of Nigerians this government was elected to govern. There is no doubt that reviewing the new tariff downward is the right thing to do by any reasonable and responsible government, especially, the President Muhammadu Buhari -led All Progressives Congress (APC) government that has at every forum touted its commitment to provide jobs and support local industries. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 