OWERRI – The Imo State Police Command has said that it has arrested six suspects in connection with the killing of one Amos Akano, who was said to have killed the Director General of the campaign organisation of Ugwumba Uche Nwosu, the Chief of Staff, Government House, Owerri. Other victims kidnapped alongside Akano who are still alive, according to the police, are Daniel Akukanwa, Anayo Ihegbe, Patricia Okonkwo (f), Obijuru Kechinyere (f) and Ndibelie Edwin. The suspects were Ikenna Nwosu also known as Eze Ego of No. 3 Obi Okwudo Mgbidi in Oru West Local Government Area of the state; Chizoba Amadi (50 cents) of Umuoma village Owerri Nkwoji in Nwangele LGA; Chijioke Akukaria, Emeka Eze, Chibuike Martin (Chibyke) and Ezechukwu Eze popularly called Sepia. Parading the suspects at the premises of the headquarters of the state police command, the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Dasuki Galadanchi, said that the operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad arrested Chibuike Martin and Emeka Eze who were trailed and apprehended when they came to receive a ransom of N2 million from the relation of the now late Akano. The CP added that the relation of Akano was subsequently killed by the kidnappers. Galandanchi, however, disclosed that in their confessional statements, the hoodlums mentioned Ikenna Nwosu (Eze Ego) as their kingpin. “Eze Ego is our leader who sent us to go and collect the N2 million ransom,” one of the suspects stated adding that he (Eze Ego) lured him into the kidnap operation by offering him N40,000 as a gift for doing nothing. Continuing, he said, “Thereafter, he informed him that someone, a kidnapped relative is bringing ransom to him at Ihiala in Anambra State. On June 12, 2018, the CP said that the suspect gave the co-driver, Ogechukwu, the CRV Jeep and N20,000 for fueling while he was trailing them behind with his Lexus jeep. However, upon discovering that they were being trailed by the police, they zoomed off but the police gave them a hot chase, over-powered and subsequently arrested them,” he added. He, however, said that Ikenna Nwosu was arrested on June 24, 2018, and that he had confessed to the crime. Also on June 26, 2018, the CP said that Chijioke Akukaria, who is an in-law to Ikenna Nwosu was equally arrested even as he had confessed to the crime as well as mentioning Eze Ego as their chairman in the gang. The CP disclosed that Ezechukwu Eze was arrested at Jakande Estate Ajangbadi in Ojo LGA of Lagos State just as he added that he is the kingpin of the murder and kidnapping of late Akano and two others. “He is their armourer, who kept custody of their weapons. He was about fleeing the country via Lagos before he was arrested,” the CP noted. Fielding questions, Eze confessed to the crime. “Some members of our gang were arrested when they went to collect the ransom. They were the ones that gave police the names of the rest of us, who subsequently arrested us,” he said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 