Abuja – The National Industrial Court sitting in Abuja has slated October 12 for judgment in a suit filed by the sacked acting Director General of the National Intelligence Agency, Ambassador Mohammed Dauda challenging his purported dismissal from service. Following his removal, Dauda headed to court to seek reinstatement. The date was fixed by the presiding judge, Justice Olufunke Yemi Anuwee, after hearing all parties in the suit. Dauda filed his Originating Summons through his counsel, Kanu Agabi SAN. The suit was marked NICN/ABJ/136/2018. The claimant joined the Director-General, NIA and the NIA itself as 1st and 2nd defendants respectively. In the substantive suit, Dauda had prayed the court for a declaration that the procedure adopted by the defendants in the process leading to his dismissal falls short of the provisions of Articles 8(1) and (2) of the National Securities Agency Act (Cap 278 LFN) 1986 and is null and void. He also prayed the court for a declaration that by virtue of the provisions of Articles 8(1) and (2) of the National Securities Agency Act (Cap 278 LFN) 1986, retired Directors and former members of the NIA are not competent to sit as members in the Senior Staff Disciplinary Committee. The claimant further asked the court to declare that the failure of the defendants to set up a competent Senior Staff Disciplinary Committee to look into the allegations levied against him is a violation of his constitutional right to fair hearing. More so, the claimant wanted the court to declare that the purported letter of his dismissal issued by the defendants on March 6, 2018, is unlawful, null and void and of no effect whatsoever. He, therefore, prayed for an order of court reinstating him as a Director and the Acting Director General of the NIA. He also prayed the court for an order for the payment of his salaries and entitlements from the period of his unlawful dismissal to the point of his reinstatement. He had asked the court to determine whether the procedure adopted by the defendants in the process leading to his purported dismissal was in compliance with Article 8(1) and (2) of the National Securities Agency Act (CAPS 278) 1986. He also asked the court to determine whether in view of the extant provisions of Article 8(1) and (2) of the National Securities Ac (CAPS 278) 1986, retired Directors of NIA are competent to sit as members in the Senior Staff Disciplinary Committee (SSDC) and if not, whether the failure of the Defendants to set up a competent Senior Staff Disciplinary Committee (SSDC) to look into the allegation levied against him constitutes a violation of his constitutional right to fair hearing? More so, he wanted the court to determine whether the purported ‎letter dismissing him issued by the defendants on March 6, 2018 is not unlawful, null and void and of no effect whatsoever. At Tuesday’s sitting, the court first heard the defendants’ preliminary objection challenging the suit before the substantive case. The defendants through their counsel, Wale Adesokan SAN had filed a Preliminary Objection challenging the suit. Adesokan argued  that the claimant did not follow the condition precedent before filing his suit, arguing that the claimant did not exhaust all the internal provisions for settlement of dispute. He equally submitted that the NIA is an organization with a Principal, which is President Muhammadu Buhari and that not joining the President in the suit rendered the suit incompetent. Consequently, he urged the court to strike out the suit for lacking in merit. Reacting to the objection, counsel to Dauda, Peter Erivwode from Kanu Agabi SAN chambers argued that there was no specific time fixed by the law in which internal resolutions can be sought. He added that the claimant had approached the court so as not to be caught by the three months provision in which an aggrieved civil servant has to file his case before the court. On the submission of not joining the President, the claimant submitted that NIA is a creation of statute and hence it can sue or be sued without joining the President. Therefore, he prayed the court to dismiss the objection. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 