Against the desirability of unfettered independence for the judiciary and the legislature, both at the federal and the state levels, the signing into law of the Fourth Constitutional Alteration Bill by President Muhammadu Buhari is to be applauded. The move can strengthen existing constitutional provisions to accord full autonomy for the state institutions. Cited as Act No 16 of 2018, the new law seeks to grant full financial autonomy and independence to the Houses of Assembly as well as to the judiciary of the states. According to the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Ita Enang, the substance of the law is that Houses of Assembly would now operate like their counterparts in the National Assembly into which account the Federal Ministry of Finance automatically transferred budgetary allocation without recourse to the Executive or the Presidency. Similarly, by the new law, judiciary in the states would also enjoy financial independence as their budgetary allocations would no longer go through the budgetary processes of the executive arm at the state level. Enang had explained that with the enactment, the credit of both the states’ judiciary and state Houses of Assembly would be paid directly to them, adding that the measure amounts to a grant of full autonomy for the two institutions. For the judiciary, the new law gives fillip to section 81(3) of the 1999 Constitution which stipulates that: “Any amount standing to the credit of the judiciary in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation shall be paid directly to the National Judicial Council for disbursement to the heads of the court established for the Federation and the states under section 6 of this constitution.” The section clearly underlines the separation of powers inherent in the country’s federalism among the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary. The spirit of the constitution, and the intendment of the drafters is that power should not be concentrated in one arm of government. Rather, each organ should serve as a check to the others with the aim of achieving a national balance. It is unfortunate that so far, constitutional provision regarding the financial autonomy of the judiciary has been honoured more in breach by the respective state executives. Only recently, the Judicial Staff Union of Nigeria had cause  to protest the flouting of that provision, particularly after the Federal High Court had declared government’s action as unconstitutional.  The workers later pointedly accused the former Attorney General of the Federation, Mohammed Adoke of flouting the court’s order. However, the major culprits of the constitutional provision since then have been the state governors. The idea behind the federal government’s new law perhaps is to make it command greater respect from the states. It is important therefore that governors key into the new law to put the country into the right federalism footing. Incidentally, many governors as well as other politicians often lament the flawed character of the nation’s federalism. This is the time for them to make practical input to correct some of the anomalies. In other words, their political will to implement the constitutional and legal provisions is more imperative than the fresh enactment, which at best seeks to strengthen a subsisting superior provision. It is to be noted that section 81(3) has been in existence since 1999 with most state governors seeking to ignore it. The pronouncement of the Federal High Court urging compliance was made in 2014. Yet, Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen still had cause, more than a year ago, to urge governors to implement the court order. Bringing the states’ judiciary and Houses of Assembly into first line charge financially is perhaps the first requirement to practise true federalism. Situations whereby judges act timidly in awe of the executive who controls their salary and emoluments should have no place in a true democracy. Similarly, it is unacceptable for the Assembly to be a mere rubber stamp of the Executive because of lack of financial independence. States’ judiciary and Legislature both have an onerous task not only to insist on the strict adherence to constitutional provisions and the new law, but also to maintain transparency and impeccable accountability in the financial management of their institutions. This, and a courageous performance of their duties as watchdog of the executive, are the ways to sustain democracy as an institution. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 