Lagos / Abuja – Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), is said to have masterminded the siege to the homes of Bukola Saraki, Senate President and Ike Ekweremadu, Deputy Senate President on Tuesday. A key member of the Reformed APC (R-APC), who spoke with our correspondent on Wednesday, said Oshiomhole in his bid to facilitate the impeachment of Saraki and Ekweremadu and prevent a possible defection of lawmakers from the APC used his influence as the national chairman of the party to order the police to barricade Saraki and Ekweremadu’s homes in order to prevent them from getting to the National Assembly. He, however, said Saraki who has some informants in the police got wind of the plot a day before (Monday) and he, alongside some key PDP leaders, which include a prominent governor from the South-South perfected plans for him not to sleep in his Lake Chad junction, Maitama residence and also assisted him in gaining entrance to the National Assembly on Tuesday, thus thwarting the impeachment plot. “I am a key member of R-APC and I know what is going on. Oshiomhole, the disputed national chairman of APC masterminded the plot. I am very sure President Buhari is not even aware of the development. “Having failed in his bid to persuade the warring senators to sheathe their sword, Oshiomhole, in his characteristic combative manner as a former labour leader used his influence to get the security agents to mastermind the siege to the homes of Saraki and Ekweremadu. I wonder why the police is denying that no siege ever took place even when it is recorded and shown live on national television. “But for some key informants who revealed the plot to Saraki, he would have been impeached by now”, he said. Already, the Nigeria Police Force has denied sending a detachment of its men to the residence of Bukola Saraki, the Senate President. A detachment of security operatives had blocked Saraki’s convoy at his Apo residence with a view to preventing it from leaving the house. But he then announced that the residence of Ike Ekweremadu, his deputy, had also been besieged by men of the police and Department of State Services (DSS). The police also denied its officers cordoned off the resident of the Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu in an attempt to arrest him. In a statement on Tuesday, police spokesman, acting DCP Jimoh Moshood, also insisted that “the force wishes to categorically state that there was no authorised deployment of police personnel to besiege the residence of the Senate President or his deputy as reported in the media. “The police personnel seen in pictures in the media were those in the convoy of the Senate President and others attached to him,” Moshood noted. He said: “The Inspector General of Police has directed a thorough investigation to ascertain the facts in the episode. The force will not allow the end of justice to be perverted by this distraction. The Nigeria police will ensure that the rule of law prevails in this matter.” In related developments, there is fear in most states over what fate may befell the party following Tuesday’s defections in the National Assembly. In Kwara, Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed is expected to announce his defection “in a matter of days to be followed by majority, if not all, members of the state House of Assembly”, a source informed Daily Independent on Wednesday. Already two senators from the state, Shaaba Lafiagi (Kwara North) and Rafiu Ibrahim (Kwara South), were among the 14 senators who announced their defection during plenary on Tuesday. The third senator is Bukola Saraki, the Senate President, who sources said will likely announce his defection when the Senate resumes plenary in September. House of Representatives members from Kwara who have also defected to PDP include Olayonu Tope, Zakari Mohammed, Abubakar Amuda- Kannike, Ahmed Pategi, Atunwa Abdulrazak and Funke Adedoyin. In Kano, the stage is already set for defection of key APC stakeholders following Tuesday’s defection of Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, lawmaker representing Kano Central, during plenary. He was joined by his loyalists in the House of Representatives which include Garba Umar, Ahmed Garba, Ali Madaki, Shehu Usman, Nuhu Danburam, Nasiru Sule and Lawal Rabiu Sani-Rano. Already on Tuesday, there were reports that lawmakers elected on the platform of APC have defected to the PDP but this was dispelled by the speaker of Kano State House of Assembly, Alhaji Yusuf Abdullahi Ata, who said “to the best of my knowledge, no single member of Kano State House of Assembly decamped to PDP. I have never heard this and I don’t think our members can do that.” Also speaking, a member of the Kano Assembly representing Municipal Local Government Area, Alhaji Baffa Babba Danagundi, dispelled the rumour of defection of some APC members to PDP. “Even the six members of Kwankwasiyya group in the House have not announced their defection to PDP not to talk of APC members that are loyal to Ganduje. We are loyal to Ganduje and we will remain loyal to him,” he said. In Bauchi, though Yakubu Dogara, the Speaker of the House of the Representatives, is yet to announce his defection, there is already a widening political gulf between the speaker and the state governor, Mohammed Abubakar, which led to a parallel congress in the state during the last congress of the party held in May. Speaking with Daily Independent, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), has described federal lawmakers who defected from the ruling APC to the opposition PDP as malaria parasites who have been making the APC sick in the last three years. Describing their exit as big relief for APC, Sagay, who spoke in a chat with Daily Independent, however, said he is surprised that Bukola Saraki, the Senate President, has chosen to remain in the party, saying he doesn’t understand the kind of game he (Saraki) is trying to play. He added that the intention of the lawmakers is to bring down President Buhari in 2019, saying they thought they could reenact what happened in 2014 when they left the PDP for APC. “President Muhammadu Buhari is their main target. It is the presidency itself that they really wanted to bring down. What surprises me is the fact that their leader (Saraki) has not left. I wonder what type of game he is playing. “So, it is a strategic game, they planned it. They assumed that if they can re-enact what happened in 2014 in the movement from PDP to APC, then they will be able to come to power but they will find out that they should not just imitate without looking at the fundamentals. “I regard them as moles in the APC who have created all the crisis within the party. They have been the source of destruction, bitterness, disagreements and conflicts within the party. Their going away is like malaria fever leaving the body. “They are like malaria parasites who have made the APC such a sick party in the last three years. Now that they have gone, APC will fully recover itself and then march on to victory in 2019”, he said. How 200 Security Operatives Invaded My House— Ekweremadu Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu on Wednesday gave graphic details on how his residence was invaded by security operatives on Tuesday. He also noted that democracy is fast declining in the country. Ekweremadu, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Uche Anichukwu, explained that on Tuesday morning, “some people laid siege to my house. They left at about 12:20p.m after spending about six and half hours. “We anticipated that a number of our colleagues in All Progressives Congress (APC) would defect and join the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Tuesday morning. In anticipation of that, the APC leadership had tried to stop them. When that didn’t happen, the first thing they did was invite President of the Senate to come to the police Tuesday morning. They believed that once the President of the Senate goes to the police, I would be the one to preside and probably give effect to the letter of defection. “In anticipation of that, the police, EFCC, and other security agencies came together, about 200 of them, to stop me from going to the National Assembly.  They said I should come to the EFCC to give explanation over the things I was accused of. I agreed to follow them even though there was no prior invitation, but they were not eager to let me go to answer the invitation. “The plan was to stop me and the President of the Senate from going to the National Assembly Tuesday morning. Unfortunately for them, the President of the Senate was already at the Senate to preside over the plenary session.” Ekweremadu lamented that the development was an embarrassment to the nation, adding, “This is not good for democracy. We must respect the law, respect institutions because that is the only way we can make progress as a nation. This is total embarrassment to our nation. I hope this will not happen again.” The Deputy President of the Senate noted that the action of the security operatives was a decline to the nation’s democracy, adding, “I am very worried. This is a decline in our democracy. I want to call on the media and Nigerians to stand up for Nigeria and ensure we save our democracy. This is a dangerous development. The whole world expects Nigeria to lead in democracy in Africa. We need to make progress and show the world that Nigerians are indeed leaders in every aspect of life. “This is my official quarters. Invading my official quarters is like an invasion of an aspect of the National Assembly. When you invade the National Assembly, you are invading the temple of democracy. That is exactly what has happened today. This is a major assault on democracy. This is not the type of attitude we should be encouraging. The principal thing in a democracy is dialogue, discussion, and networking, not through threats. We need to have a rethink.” Buhari, APC Senators, Reps Meet In Aso Rock The crisis rocking the ruling APC where no fewer than 15 senators and 37 House of Representatives’ members defected to the opposition party may have prompted a crucial meeting between the lawmakers and President Muhammadu Buhari. The meeting held at the conference room of the Office of the First Lady, Aisha Buhari. The meeting, according to sources within the presidency, discussed APC chances in the forthcoming general elections in 2019. Saraki Again Explains Why He Won’t Appear Before The Police Meanwhile, Senate President Bukola Saraki has again explained why he would not honour police’s invitation to him to personally appear before them over the Offa robbery case. Saraki said all the issues and questions raised in the police invitation were answered in his letter on Tuesday to them, which was duly acknowledged. Saraki stated that he did not believe that there was any further need for him to go to the police personally. The Senate President, who gave the explanation through his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, said he believed his letter to the police was enough, hence there was no need for him to go personally to the police for the same issue. Ibrahim Idris, the Inspector General of Police, had on Monday invited Saraki to appear before the Police Special Anti-Robbery Unit in Guzape, Abuja, to answer questions over his alleged involvement in the Offa robbery incident. In his earlier reply on Monday, Saraki described the invitation as “a mere afterthought which is designed to achieve a political purpose.” He had said that he had it on good authority that the police had already decided on the suspects to arraign in court in Ilorin, Kwara State, on Wednesday, based on the advice of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), Mohammed U.E., and that the turn around to invite him was a ploy aimed at scoring cheap political points. He said: “I have been reliably informed that the police invitation was planned by IG as a ploy to stop an alleged plan by some senators and House of Representatives members from defecting from the All Progressives Congress (APC). “It was also said that if I was detained between Tuesday and Wednesday that will abort the so-called defection plan. “While I continue to maintain that the issue of my position on the 2019 elections is not a personal decision for me alone to make, it should be noted that all these concoctions and evil plot cannot deter me. “Those behind this fresh assault will fail as I have nothing to do with the robbery incident or any criminal matter for that matter. “I am aware that following a request made by the police on June 13, 2018, the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) of the federation had written a legal advice dated June 22, 2018, in which he stated on page 5, paragraph (f) that, “For the Senate President and the Kwara State governor, this office is unable to establish from the evidence in the interim report a nexus between the alleged office and the suspects. “The police have obviously corrupted and politicised their investigations into the Offa robbery incident. They have turned it into an instrument for the party in power to suppress perceived opponents, witch-hunt issue for blackmailing people from freely choosing which platform on which they want to pursue their ambition and a matter for harassing the people whose exit from APC would harm the chances of the party in the forthcoming elections. “I want to make it apparent that I have no hand in either the robbery incident or any criminal activity. “The police in their haste to embarrass me sent the invitation to me at 8p.m and requested that I report to the station by 8a.m tomorrow morning. This obviously demonstrated their desperation as I do not see why they are now in a hurry.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 