Lagos – Despite the possibility of inflation rate dropping to a single digit by August this year, there are indications that Nigerians desirous of a cut in monetary policy rates will have to wait till 2019 to enable the country clear the mess created by weak credit growth and capital flow reversal. “The scenario confronting members of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as they begin their meeting in Abuja today is that of a case between the head and the heart. They may likely use their heads and not their hearts by voting to keep rates,” according to Cyril Ampka, an Abuja-based economist who spoke to Daily Independent on phone at the weekend. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) will decide its key policy rates between today, Monday, July 23 and Tuesday, July 24, 2018. At its meeting in May 2018, the MPC maintained the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) at 14 percent, with the asymmetric corridor at +200 and -500 basis points around the MPR; it retained the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and Liquidity Ratio (LR) at 22.50 percent and 30 percent, respectively. The July meeting is holding amid concerns over policy normalisation in global systemic central banks, rising yields on emerging market assets – resulting from downside risk factors consequent on sustained foreign capital flow reversals since Q2:2018. According to experts at Afrinvest, “Flimsy domestic economic recovery, steady moderation in inflation and polity fragilities, as well as disquiets around fiscal spending ahead of the 2019 general elections” are all parameters pointing to the possibility of MPC members keeping the rates unchanged. The experts added: “As the MPC must keep a delicate balance between growth and price stability, we believe the committee will maintain the status quo on all policy rates in order to avoid upsetting the current economic momentum. “Our position is on a balance of factors underscored by careful analysis of sustained positive conditions in global commodity markets alongside emerging market risks and continued disinflation amid steady but weak growth momentum.” The minutes of the May 2018 meeting shows that members have continued to keenly watch developments in global financial and commodity markets, given the connection to Nigeria’s external position. Although no material change has occurred since the last meeting, mixed market sentiments prevail. In the commodity markets, oil prices remained favourable, though slightly lower at $73.00/b compared with a year-to-date (YTD) high of $80.00/b as OPEC and its allies, parties to the output cut deal, agreed to boost supply by 1.0mb/d. Furthermore, the stable outlook on oil prices is expected to prop the capacity of the CBN to keep defending the domestic currency with the exchange rate of naira to the greenback stabilising at N305.85/$1.00. Foreign reserves accretion – which slightly moderated 0.6% to US$47.4 billion (18/07/2018) from US$47.7 billion as at the May MPC meeting due to increased FX demand – was supported by improved domestic oil production with daily output at 1.7mb/d; expectations are that output will be enhanced further by Q4:2018 as the Total Egina field, estimated at 0.2mb/d of production, comes on stream. Currently, the reserves position gives the CBN the capacity to finance up to 57 months or 4.7 years of imports, using Q1:2018 average import value at $839.42. The Afrinvest analysts also said: “Continued disinflation and positive external conditions create a compelling case for a rate cut in order to stimulate currently weak growth momentum, but, as we have hinted in our earlier reports, the CBN has already eased liquidity conditions considering lower yields in the fixed income market. We believe that the argument for cutting the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) now will only be for policy consistency. Although rates will converge, the impact will be negligible. “Given these considerations, we believe the MPC will retain status quo on all policy rates. Indeed, we expect rates to remain unchanged for the rest of H2:2018 as the window for a rate cut is increasingly narrowing on polity fragilities. “The uncertainty usually associated with change of government in Nigeria will become full blown in H2:2018 ahead of the 2019 general elections as foreign investors are likely to flee for ‘safer haven’ economies.” To economic experts at FSDH Merchant Bank, “Weak economic and credit growth in Nigeria do not justify rates hike.” They believe that if the “MPC members’ fear about the impact of fiscal injections and rising rate in the international market on domestic price stability does not materialise, policy easing may be required very soon”. However, notwithstanding the hold decision, FSDH Research expects the yields on FGN Bonds to rise further from the current levels. The borrowing needs of the FGN and the rising yields in the international market will be the major drivers, it said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 