Lagos – Players in the Nigerian aviation industry have been told to embrace the attempt by the Federal Government to establish a new national carrier for the country latest on December 24, 2018, for Nigeria not to lose out of competition in five years’ time. Mr. Illitrus Ahmadu, President of Air Transport Staff Senior Services of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) in an interview with our correspondent in Lagos warned that without a national carrier, Nigeria would lose out of intense competition in the industry in the next five years. He also said that efforts by the government to make the Lagos Airport a hub would not materialise without a national carrier for the country. It would be recalled that the Federal Government had set a deadline of December 24, 2018 for a new national carrier to berth. Ahmadu also told stakeholders and professionals in the industry to be positive minded about the national carrier project. Ahmadu insisted that when the airline eventually comes on stream, it would add value to the growth of the industry in Nigeria. Ahmadu added that the creation of the airline would lead to usage of the Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) arrangement that had been lying fallow over the years. He decried that since Nigeria Airways was liquidated in 2004, private airlines had failed to make impact in the system, insisting that a new national carrier would make stronger impact for Nigeria. He argued that the formation of a new national carrier for the nation would also increase the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) generated in the industry from the paltry 0.004 per cent to more meaningful percentage, noting that some of the foreign operators wanted the project to succeed. He said: “For years now since the demise of Nigeria Airways, private airlines failed to make an impact in the domestic industry, we are well familiar with the reasons. I think it is time we move on. I find it strange when informed aviators still argue that the national carrier project will not improve the fortunes of our aviation industry and grow aviation’s contribution to GDP which currently is an insignificant 0.004 per cent. “I know of several international airlines who want this project to succeed if for the least reason so, to enable partnership and access to other marketing arrangements. I believe with a national carrier that has capacity in terms of modern equipment and a competitive brand, our BASA rights that are lying fallow can be utilised. “Let’s be positive about it and stop criticising those who believe the project will add value to our industry. Would you prefer the sustenance of the current status quo? We are all witnesses to how Arik Air squandered the opportunity of becoming the biggest private airline in Africa. We as a country have the highest mortality rate of private airlines on the continent.” He insisted that the Federal Government could successfully run an enterprise like a new national carrier for the country, but noted that there must be right attitude, right team, good corporate governance and business strategy. He posited that examples of successful government investment in airlines abound around the world, submitting that the national carrier project was a necessity. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 