The Minister of Youth and Sports, Solomon Dalung, has ignored threat of FIFA ban on Nigeria over the leadership crisis engulging the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) insisting that Chris Giwa remains the president of the federation. FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, had last Friday in Moscow, Russia threatened to ban Nigeria over a third party interference in the admminstartion of football in the country. The FIFA boss noted that the only person recognised as President of the NFF is Amaju Pinnick, hinting that it was based on this that he was working with FIFA. But Dalung, who premised his stand on Supreme Court judgment on April 27, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Abuja that the ministry was operating under the rule of law and obeying the court ruling. He said that he was not informed of FIFA’s decision, adding that he was yet to receive any letter from FIFA that the body only recognises Pinnick as president of NFF. “FIFA has not written me that they recognise one person over the other and you know government does not operate on rumour, government is administration. “The leadership in NFF, I think is very categorical. The Federal High court in Jos has rolled orders, I as a co-defendant was served with the order, ordering me to recognise Giwa as the president. “That is the order against me and I have done that, the order to the Inspector General of police is that he should go and put Giwa in office. “The Attorney-General of the Federation has done his job. So we are living under the rule of law and we are following the rule. “If the court says today, Giwa is not the president of NFF and I’m served with a court order, I will obey. “Don’t forget, when Pinnick sued Giwa in the court of appeal and got judgment. I obeyed the judgment for over two years. “Then, I didn’t hear anybody talking of interferences. Government is not interfering, we are only acting according to court orders,’’ he said. Dalung advised FIFA to look deeper into the NFF crisis and assist to proffer lasting solutions rather than talking about interference. Giwa had obtained a Jos court order to take over the running of affairs at the NFF in compliance with a Supreme Court order. The apex court had directed all parties involved in the matter to return to the lower court for another look at the case against NFF’s Sept. 30, 2014 elections in Warri. Giwa had insisted that his earlier election on July 24, 2014 in Abuja should stand, while Pinnick’s election in Warri took place contrary to laid-down regulations. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 