ADO-EKITI – Chief Ayodele Fayose, Ekiti State governor, has warned that the state will reject any plan by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to rig Saturday governorship election in the state. He also claimed that nothing is haunting him and his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the people of the state go to poll to elect a new governor. Reacting to allegation by Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), that the governor and the PDP were being haunted and jittery about the coming election, he said he and his party election be credible, free and fair, declaring that the plan to use the “Edo State option” in Ekiti State will fail.” The governor, who spoke in Ado-Ekiti on Saturday through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Idowu Adelusi, said, “Oshiomole’s secret plan to use his fraudulent Edo template in Ekiti will never work and it will attract injurious consequences. This is because Ekiti people are resolutely determined to resist rigging right on the spot. “Contrary to Adams’ diatribe, rumour-peddling and rabble rousing unbecoming of an ex- governor and national chairman of the ruling party,  Fayose and PDP are only interested in credible election. “Fayose and PDP are raising the alarm because of tell-tale signs that APC and Fayemi are plotting to rig the election. “The statements by top APC leaders including its former chairman, John Odigie-Oyegun that they must capture Ekiti by all means is very instructive in this regard. “ Nigerians witnessed the blatant rigging of Ondo and Edo governorship elections by the APC.  In Ondo, it was shameless vote buying. In Edo they stopped vote counting when it was clear PDP was winning and changed the results overnight. Seeing these, who will ask us to stay stupid? “Adams Oshiomhole was the mastermind of Edo rigging. He is only calling Fayose the name that rightly belongs to him (Oshiomhole).” Fayose added that the 2014 governorship election that the APC and its leaders tried to rubbish, was declared by US and international community as free and fair and as reference point for future elections in Nigeria. “If Adams Oshiomhole still has problems with that election,  he should address his misgivings to the US and international community. “Besides, APC challenged the election up to the Supreme Court but lost. Is Adams Oshiomhole disputing and despising the highest court of the land?  It must be noted that he himself became governor by the same court judgment. “Nigerians have not forgotten how wicked and cold-blooded he is with his “widow my foot” statement to that poor Edo state woman. He told the woman to “go and die.  This contrasts sharply with Fayose’s empathy for the poor and the downtrodden. “Adams Oshiomhole is a compulsive liar and power-hungry politician willing to rubbish his benefactors and kow-tow to bloody dictators who will butter his bread. He betrayed Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. He did similarly to his own kinsman Odigie-Oyegun – all in a bid to run errands for jihadists and reactionary elements.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 