Israeli bulldozers demolished Palestinian agricultural and commercial buildings in the central occupied West Bank district of Jerusalem on Monday. Witnesses told Ma’an that Israeli bulldozers raided the neighbourhood of Silwan and Israeli forces stationed themselves at the entrances of Wadi Qaddum neighbourhood in Jerusalem. According to Maannews.com, sources added that Israeli forces demolished the buildings on the pretext of building without the nearly impossible-to-obtain Israeli building permit. Islam al-Salaymeh, owner of the demolished structure, told Ma’an that Israeli bulldozers demolished a car wash building that was built five years ago and confiscated all of its equipment without a warning. The bulldozers continued to level the land later. A Ma’an reporter said that the Israeli intelligence raided parts of the Silwan neighborhood where they detained women and youths before they removed national Palestinian slogans off of the walls of the neighborhood and confiscated several parked Palestinian-owned vehicles. In the Umm Tuba neighborhood, also located in Jerusalem City, Israeli bulldozers razed and leveled a 300-square-meter steel structure used for housing sheep. The demolished structures provide economic lifelines to many Palestinian families. The damages have yet to be counted. Meanwhile, in the Palestinian village of Yatta in the southern West bank district of Hebron, Israeli authorities delivered a notice to stop the construction of a building and a water well. The notice was delivered to the owner of the under-construction building, Issa Hasan Hussein al-Shawahin, who told Ma’an that he has received more than 10 notices over the past few months. In Area C, the more than 60 percent of the West Bank under full Israeli security and civilian control, Palestinian construction and land management is prohibited unless through consent or authorization by the Israeli Civil Administration. Nearly all Palestinian applications for building permits in Area C are denied by the Israeli authorities, forcing communities to build illegally. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 