The Police Service Commission (PSC) will be deploying monitors to oversee the conduct of policemen on election duties during Saturday’s Ekiti State governorship election. The team will be led by Musa Istifanus, the commission’s permanent secretary. The team is expected to arrive Ekiti today, July 11, and will cover the three senatorial zones of the state. The monitoring exercise is part of the commission’s constitutional mandate to hold the police accountable in carrying out its duties. This was disclosed through a press release by Ikechukwu Ani, the Head, Press and Public Relations of PSC. It noted that the PSC has released three dedicated telephone lines for the electorate to reach its monitors in the three senatorial zones of the state for any complaint on the conduct of police officers during the election. The numbers are 08059702950 for Ekiti North Zone, 08033010905, for Ekiti South Zone and 08088155981   for Ekiti Central zone. The commission further warned that it would not hesitate to discipline any police officer found wanting in the discharge of his/her electoral duties. Therefore, “police officers on election duties on Saturday are expected to turn out neat and in their prescribed uniform and identification/name tags, which must be identifiable to the public. They are not expected to have on them unauthorised item of accoutrement/kit like cudgel, horsewhip etc. At no time will police personnel deployed to polling units be allowed to carry firearms. “Involvement of the police at political gatherings shall also be limited to the maintenance of peace and order and enforcement of extant laws, and officers shall at all times exercise maximum restraint while covering political gatherings or deployed at voting/collation centres. The officers must be cautious, polite and firm at all times,” the release noted. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 