Ughelli – A Delta State High Court sitting in Kwale Judicial Division has affirmed Cyril Ogodo-led Executive (EXCO), thereby restraining APC’s National Working Committee (NWC), National Chairman and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from recognising or dealing with any other executives of the party in the state. The presiding judge of the court, Justice V.I Ofesi, also granted an interim injunction restraining the party or its agents from swearing-in any other ward and local government areas executives of the APC in the state order than the Ogodo-led leadership, which has been sworn-in and since assumed office before the emergence of the current NWC. Joined in the case with suit no. HCK/56/2018 are the All Progressive Congress, Adams Oshiomole (The National Chairman of APC), Mai Mala Buni (National Secretary of APC) and the Independent National Electoral Commission as defendants. The plaintiffs, Emmanuel Kem Oki (State Welfare Secretary of APC), Amabiri Azorbo Paul (APC Chairman, Bomadi Local Govt. Area), Jiminyevwe Dicbame Ubu (APC Chairman, Ughelli South Local Govt. Area) and Lewis Odigwe (APC Chairman, Ndokwa West Local Govt. Area), had approached the court to restrain the defendants from recognising or dealing with any other faction except the Ogodo-led faction. Ofesi, after hearing from the counsel to the applicants, F. I. Obigbor, ruled thus: “I have considered all the processes filed in support of this motion especially paragraphs 5 — 16 of the 1 8 paragraphs supporting affidavit- Exhibits A — E including the counsel’s written address; I am of the view that in the interest of justice, this application be granted and it is hereby granted. “The Order of Interim Injunction is hereby granted restraining the 1st – 3rd defendants, whether by themselves, their agents, servants, or howsoever called from recognizing and/or swearing in any other state executive of the APC, Delta State, apart from that chaired by Chief Cyril Abeye Ogodo and his members into office, pending the hearing and determination of the Motion on Notice for interlocutory injunction pending before this Court. “Secondly, an order of interim injunction is made restraining the 4th (INEC) whether by itself, its agents, servants or howsoever called from recognizing and/or dealing with any other state executive of the All Progressives Congress, Delta State, apart from that chaired by Chief Cyril Abeye Ogodo and his members pending the hearing and determination of the Motion on Notice already filed in this case before this Court.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 