Abuja – What played out in the Senate on Tuesday could be described as taking a pound of flesh from the former National Legal Adviser of All Progressives Congress (APC), Muiz Banire. There is no doubt that the Bola Ahmed Tinubu factor played out on Tuesday in a petition to reject Banire as the Chairman of Asset Management Commission of Nigeria (AMCON). With what played on the floor of the Senate, Tinubu, it remains to be seen if Tinubu, the much-touted godfather of Lagos politics  will be having the last laugh in the battle between him and Banire. This development could be summed up in a Sicilian proverb which says, “revenge is a dish which tasted best when it is cold.” When Banire’s name was submitted to the Senate by President Muhammadu Buhari, some political analysts were of the opinion that his appointment was to spite Tinubu. Recall that before Tinubu was made to head the reconciliation committee of APC, the former governor of Lagos state was sidelined by the Villa shortly after the 2015 election where he played a vital role in the election that brought Buhari on board. The game of ‘you are not wanted here’ continued until not long ago when he was remembered to play the role of arbiter among  aggrieved members of the party. For President Buhari to have nominated Banire, some political watchers have said that the relationship between the Villa and Tinubu is still far from being smooth. When Banire’s name was sent to the Senate by Buhari for confirmation, senators loyal to Tinubu  blocked it. They rejected his nomination citing petition against his nomination .As the  representatives of Lagos state in the Senate, the three senators gave the impression that they are carrying out the orders of Lagosians who are not in support of Banire’s nomination. But it is clear to all that they are merely doing the bidding of Banire’s ex-political benefactor- Tinubu. In the National Assembly, it was learnt that when lawmakers rejected a nomination, especially from the state where the person nominated hails from, confirmation of such person is always difficult to scale through. The three Senators representing Lagos, Chief (Mrs) Remi Tinubu, Mr. Olamilekan Solomon, and Gbenga Ashafa, had objected to his nomination on the floor of the Senate on Tuesday. At the plenary on Tuesday, Senator Solomon had raised a petition against the nomination of the Banire as AMCON Chairman from his constituency, which was then referred to the Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions. The Senator had said, “there is a petition here from my constituents on the nomination of Muiz Banire as AMCON chairman. Enclosed are the signatures of the three senators from Lagos State against the nomination.’’ The President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, had asked the lawmaker to lay the petition, and referred it to the Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions. The Senate had on July 18, acknowledged receipt of the request from President Muhammadu Buhari for confirmation of Mr Banire (SAN) as Chairman, Governing Board of AMCON. The request was in compliance with Section 10(1) of the AMCON Act 2010. Buhari, in the letter to the upper chamber of the National Assembly had sought the confirmation of Banire as AMCON Chairman. The President had in the letter said, “in compliance with section 10(1) of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) Act 2010, it is my pleasure, to forward, for confirmation by the senate, the name of Mr Banire Muiz Adeyemi as chairman of the governing board of the Asset Management Cooperation of Nigeria. His CV is hereby, attached. “It is my hope that the distinguished Senate will consider and confirm the nominee in the usual expedious manner. Please accept, distinguished Senate president, the assurances of my highest consideration.” Before his rejection, the Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Matters had screened him, but, unfortunately, Lagos lawmakers have rejected his nomination. Analysis the development, some political watchers are of the opinion that the nomination of Banire by the Presidency was to build another rally point in Lagos politics by those, who want to break the stronghold of Tinubu in the state. His rejection, has for now death a blow on the plan by the presidency to build a structure outside Tinubu in Lagos, according to some observers. It was learnt that problem between Banire and Tinubu started in 2014 during the buildup to 2015 election, when Tinubu backed Akinwunmi Ambode to replace Babatunde Fashola as Lagos state governor. Banire, who also had a candidate had argued that imposing a candidate on the party would spelt doom on the chances of APC winning and also that such imposition would affect the structure of the party. His argument was that an imposed candidate would be loyal to the person imposing him instead of the party. But, reacting to the objection of his nomination by the Lagos senators on Wednesday, Banire, in a statement said that except for the agitation of his teeming supporters and well-wishers, he would have kept mute and ignored the objection. In the statement he personally signed, Banire said, “It is necessary to point out to interested/concerned members of the Nigerian citizenry that my nomination in the first place is not a quota appointment (as the three politicians and distinguished Senators may have wrongly perceived) requiring their special approval to deal with. “I was nominated simply as a Nigerian in whom the appointer has a lot of confidence and who is prepared to give his all in service of his fatherland. In view of this, I urge all my well wishers to remain calm in the face of this provocation as I am optimistic that the proper thing will ultimately be done by the Senate as has been done in the past. They should please not engage them on any street contest. “It would be recalled that similar objection did not succeed in preventing the confirmation of Olusegun Aganga, Babatunde Fashola, SAN and even Musiliu Obanikoro as Ministers, even when, unlike in my case, their Ministerial positions were Constitutionally mandated to be filling Lagos State quota representation in the Federal Executive Council. “Beyond the above, let me also state clearly that I am blessed with so many alternative contact addresses and consequently, do not desperately need a political job to survive. It is those who are professional politicians and whose survival depends on such that can be so threatened. Here I am, a professional in politics.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 