Professor Kolapo Olusola ,the Ekiti State Deputy Governor and Governorship candidate  of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) recently met with journalists  where he unveiled his six-point  agenda  christened SHIELD. YAQOUB POPOOLA who was at the interactive session brings the excerpts: Can you explain to us what  your SHIELD agenda is all about? The SHIELD Agenda is continuity agenda. I am part of the Fayose administration and I have inputs into some of the policies. By the grace of God, the coming one (government) we are looking forward to, we will improve on the existing one and do better by the grace of God. The SHIELD Agenda, the first letter “S” stands for Security, Sustainable Human Development and Social Welfare. The goal is to have a secured environment; we will ensure adequate security of our people and their property. You cannot have a good environment or an enabling environment without putting in place adequate security measures. You cannot develop agriculture without putting in place security measures that are meant to protect the farmers, investors and tourists from dangers arising from activities of evil men. So, putting in place adequate security measures and deploying ICT is one major area of focus in my agenda, which by the grace of God, I believe will successful. We also have sustainable human development. The word sustainable simply refers to what you can do presently that will not jeopardise the future generation. Presently, serious effort is being put in place when you talk of human capital development. We are talking about giving opportunity to workers, giving opportunity to Ekiti people to get properly trained and also to enable them acquire skills that will make them productive in whatever they are doing. The focus, this time around, will be on civil service, teachers and workers in different sectors. We are in the era of ICT. There is a need for continual capacity building development of the workforce in such a way that it will improve their productivity and effectiveness on their jobs and to give them opportunities to improve academically and professionally. Social welfare, we will put in place measures that will take care of the needs of the vulnerable segment of the population. Stomach infrastructure goes beyond giving out mere rice or food materials, we are talking about programmes that will empower the less privileged, empower the poor. We are talking about people living with disability; there is going to be a special commission that will definitely focus on the needs of the people living with disabilities. Then we talk about healthcare; presently, we have identified the gaps. Most of our health centres are not in very good condition especially in the very remote areas. Yes, Ado, Ikere, Ikole and other local government headquarters, comprehensive health centres there are in good condition but if you go to remote areas, you discover that most of those health centres are in dilapidated condition. So upgrading these health centres and giving them the needed facilities is going to be a major concern that is being addressed in our agenda. And also the establishment of cottage hospitals, some of the health centres can be upgraded to cottage hospitals. We want a situation in which some of our consultants in the teaching and specialist hospitals can be drafted to these health centres in the rural areas to consult once or twice in a week on specific days. There is need for upgrading of some facilities in our teaching hospital, for instance the MRI machine. We should also not overlook the welfare of workers in the health sector if given the opportunity in the next administration. What are your plans in the area in the area of infrastructural developments? Talking about infrastructural development and industrial development; we have a vision of dualising some roads in each of the local government headquarters. Presently this administration has been able to do eleven and the basis of this continuity agenda is that being part of this administration, we will carry these projects forward and complete them and do more of inter township roads by the grace of God. But importantly, we are going to focus on rural roads construction because this has to do with our efforts in developing agriculture and tourism. If our farm settlements are not accessible, it will be very difficult for farmers to bring their produce out of the farms to the markets. We are going to deploy resources to construction of rural roads if elected, we have done a lot in the present administration on intra and inter township roads but we are going to work more on rural roads in the next administration. Still on infrastructure, we are going to build on what the present administration has done on urban renewal because if you are going to attract investors, there is need to change the face of the state capital and local government headquarters. On rice mills, we will encourage investors to establish them because you cannot talk of investment without regular power supply; power supply system is not encouraging. That is why we are going to encourage organisations dealing with independent power projects, to come in and establish industrial hubs and centres. You talk of “E”, education; education is our pride and heritage in Ekiti State and that is why we describe ourselves as Fountain of Knowledge. Unfortunately, when this administration came into office, education was at the lowest ebb, our performance was at the lowest ebb and thank God, we are able to turn things round and we are now doing well. But then there is still a gap and the major gap is lack of ICT being deployed in our schools. Apart from sustaining what we have on ground, we will apply ICT to turn things around. Digital training will be given to teachers and students. “L” stands for learning and governance. We are going to provide qualitative and development-oriented leadership. Our government will involve workers in decision making process and we will make core civil service more functional. The last letter “D” stands for Development of Tourism and Agriculture. Most of our youths are unemployed and one of the ways we can get them off the streets is to involve them in agriculture, mechanized farming and assist them with inputs. Ekiti has signed an Memorandum of Understanding with Lagos State for rice cultivation, about 10,000 hectares of land that will engage about 9,000 youths. Talking about Tourism, the previous approach was wrong, we are going to partner the private sector that can turn around our tourism belt. It’s not out of place to have Tourist Bus Stops around the state. Ekiti is regarded as a poor state with low Federal Allocation, where do you hope to get money to fund your project? If we have more industries here, some of those industries will employ people, they will pay tax, with the establishment of more industries, it will have direct effect in terms of improving the IGR of the state. If you have good infrastructure in place, it will help improve the IGR of the state. I am aware there are organizations providing funds for some of these projects you are talking about. Looking at technical education, currently, there is a World Bank grant. We may not be able to complete all the technical colleges but when we complete that, we will apply for more grants from the World Bank to complete others. On funding of projects, the state government may not have capacity to do everything but we may work on partnership with some of these agencies. We have Rural Access Mobility Programme of the World Bank, all we need to do is to showcase what we have done and key into what they have for us and through that we are going to get some funds to implement these projects. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 