Lagos – Players in the Nigerian aviation industry have warned the Federal Government against relocating aviation agencies’ headquarters, especially the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), to Abuja from Lagos. Stakeholders said such relocation would lead to the collapse of the civil aviation industry in Nigeria. They argued that 80 percent of revenues and activities happen in Lagos and wondered why the government was planning to relocate the agencies’ headquarters. Most of the stakeholders spoken with by our correspondent insisted that the plan would fail and advised the government to desist from the act that would further drag the sector backward. Comrade Olayinka Abioye, the General Secretary of National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), in an interview with our correspondent, insisted that such a plan would not succeed. Abioye said rather than expend energy and resources on the relocation of agencies’ headquarters, Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of State for Aviation, should focus on improving the sector by providing the infrastructure that would further ease movement of passengers in and out of airports across the country. Abioye also wondered where the resources to build another edifice for the agencies would come from, saying that such was not part of the 2017 or 2018 budgets. He described the proposal as irresponsible. “We believe there is no issue to it. As I speak to you, there are more fundamental issues in FAAN than building a head office in Abuja. “Is it part of the budget for 2017 or 2018 or where is the money coming from? We were never told. I only read it in the papers. “You know, it is a political matter, but it is also an irresponsible decision. All activities of parastatals take off and end in Lagos. “Why they want to build the headquarters of a parastatal in Abuja beats our imagination. “You know, ministers have mooted such idea in the past and it failed. Under this kind of dispensation, civil executives are supposed to be given autonomy to run their agencies as the Acts prescribe”, he said. Besides, Comrade Abdulrazaq Saidu, the General Secretary of Nigeria Aviation Professionals’ Association (NAPA), warned that such a decision may result in the eventual collapse of the aviation business in the country. “I think this is the personal opinion of the minister of state for aviation. “They have tried it before and it has failed in terms of the cost, in terms of the geographical situation of 80 percent aviation stakeholders who are in Lagos,” he said. It would be recalled that Sirika, penultimate week, inaugurated a project team for the construction of a new FAAN office complex and staff quarters in Abuja. FAAN’s head office at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, was in April 2017 gutted by fire and the ministry said the headquarters would be rebuilt in 24 months. Late last year, FAAN said that contractors had bided for the reconstruction of the headquarters in Lagos and submitted their artworks, but nothing was heard about the project again ever since. Also, attempts were made several times to relocate aviation agencies out of Lagos to Abuja by succeeding ministers. In 2008, more than 60 percent of staff of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) were relocated to Abuja and collected relocation allowances, but within six months the staff were returned to Lagos. The same thing happened in the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) in 2014 when attempts were made to relocate the staff to Abuja without success. But Mr. Gabriel Olowo, the President of Aviation Round Table (ART), said there was nothing wrong in relocating the agencies to Abuja. “Locating FAAN headquarters in Abuja is of no consequence in the sense that senior management staff of the organisation are hardly found on seat in Lagos due to the demand of the many meetings with the bureaucracy in Abuja. Airport operation is not necessarily related to the location of FAAN headquarters.” FG To Raise Airport Security Taskforce Over ISIS’ Threat The recent threat by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) to attack commercial flights in Nigeria has compelled the Federal Government to plan setting up a joint taskforce at the nation’s airports. A source close to Nigeria Police, Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos Command, said newly-deployed Danjuma Ibrahim, an Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), would set up the taskforce before the end of the month. The task force, it was gathered, would be set up in all the 21 airports across the country with Lagos and Abuja as primary focus. The source said the joint taskforce would include the Department of State Services (DSS), Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Nigeria Air Force (NAF), Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), and the Police. According to the source, since his deployment to the airport about a month ago, AIG Ibrahim had had a series of meetings with various security agencies attached to the Lagos airport. The threat by ISIS, in April, to attack commercial flights in and out of Nigeria led to the deployment of Ibrahim to the command in June. Before his posting, the airport command was always headed by a Commissioner of Police. Ibrahim was said to have expressed concern over the hordes of people at the airports under his command, especially the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) of Lagos airport. Ibrahim said, with the threat of ISIS to cause mayhem in the sector, the crowd at GAT must be controlled, stressing that such crowds were not seen in any other airports outside the country. It was gathered that since he came onboard, Ibrahim had held meetings with the management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), and various security agencies where security issues at the command were extensively discussed. The source said: “The Assistant Inspector-General of Police is very much concerned about ISIS’ threat to attack commercial flights in Nigeria. The government doesn’t want to take this threat lightly and that was why Ibrahim was deployed to the command. “In order to tackle this threat, the command, in the next few weeks, will set up a joint taskforce comprising all security agencies. We need to bring sanity to our airports nationwide and we should start from the GAT. “The command is bothered about the massive crowd at GAT. He has called the attention of the management of FAAN to it, but the issue is yet to be properly addressed. We can’t have an airport that is this porous with the ISIS threat, which is real.” Immediately after the threat from ISIS in April, the Federal Government beefed up security at the major airports across the country. The government also called on security agencies posted to the airports to immediately embark on rigorous vetting of airlines’ personnel and screening of passengers, as well as increase vigilance on restricted areas at airports. The Federal Government, in a letter which emanated from the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, with reference number, H.150/S.91/56, dated May 25, 2018, and exclusively reported by Daily Independent, had ordered NCAA, FAAN, and NCS to beef up security around the nation’s airports. The letter, titled, ‘Islamic State of Iraq and Syria Threatens to Attack Commercial Flights,’ was signed by O.M. Olaoye for the Secretary of the Government of the Federation. The Federal Government had noted in the letter that the warning of April 26 followed a similar warning earlier by ISIS’ Spokesman, Abu Hassan Al-Muhajir, on April 22, 2018, outlining the next stage in their global jihad. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 