Abuja / Benin / Akure / Enugu / Umuahia / Awka / Jos / Lafia / Jos / Katsina / Lagos – The House of Representatives has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to mandate the police and other security agencies to apologise to Nigerians over alleged brutality on Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State. This was sequel to a unanimous adoption of a motion under matters of urgent public importance by Yussuf Tajudeen (PDP-Kogi) at the plenary on Thursday. The police were said to have on Wednesday interrupted a rally organised by the PDP ahead of Saturday’s governorship election in the state, and shot guns and teargas canisters to disperse the crowd. In the process, policemen were alleged to have attacked the governor, a situation that led to injuries on him. The House condemned what it described as “unwarranted attack and assault” on the governor and people of Ekiti by the police and pointed out that it was uncivil and unconstitutional. It stated that no candidate for election needed the permit of police or any other agency to campaign within his constituency during the period allowed by relevant laws. The green chamber urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure that the Saturday’s election in the state was free and fair. Moving the motion earlier, Tajudeen had said that few days to Saturday’s elections in the state, policemen barricaded and took over the Ekiti Government House. He said that the heavily armed security personnel prevented free movement of people in and out of the Government House. According to him, the police men were shooting sporadically with the aim to instill fear in the people ahead of the election. The legislator said that the police was mandated under the law to prevent and detect crime, apprehend offenders, preserve and implement laws and protect lives and property. He said that Nigeria was a democratic state and that the take-over of the Government House was an assault on armless civilians. He said that assaulting citizens did not fall under the duties of the police neither did it comply with the tenets of the rule of law. The lawmaker said that state of affairs playing out in Ekiti portended danger for the country ahead of the 2019 general elections. He referred to the actions of the police as illegality and constitutional breach which should not be allowed in democracy. He expressed worry that the police would put a clog in the wheels of progress made by INEC after committing time and resources to ensure a credible election. Tajudeen said that the actions of the police and denigration of the office of the governor had ridiculed Nigeria in the comity of nations. He said that urgent steps had to be taken to halt the development and called on security agencies to prevent Nigeria’s democracy from failing. In his contribution, Michael Adeniyi (PDP-Ondo) said that as representatives of the people, “politicians go to campaign every four years’’. He said that what happened in Ekiti was an abuse of the people as it was not a crime for the governor to lead people on a rally. Also, Kingsley Chinda (PDP-Rivers) said that the legislature should jealously defend democracy. He said that the motion bordered on a topic that undermined the principle of democracy in the country. Chinda said that the incident was a pity and should be condemned by all lovers of democracy. Sunday Karimi (PDP-Kogi) said that if Ekiti election was not handled properly, it could spell doom for the country in 2019. He said that INEC must be free and fair, adding that Ekiti people must be allowed to choose their next governor without fear or intimidation. However, Mohammed Mongonu (APC-Borno) stressed the need to listen to all the parties before making judgments. He said that all that was available to the House were comments in the media, and urged the parliament to investigate the matter. The House, therefore, mandated all relevant committees to investigate the remote and immediate causes of the matter. In his ruling, the Speaker of the House, Yakubu Dogara, mandated the committee to report back in two weeks for further legislative actions. Secondus Leads Protest To NASS, INEC Over Attack On Fayose, Election The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday stormed the National Assembly and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to register its grievances over the reported attack on Governor Ayo Fayose of Ekiti State by security operatives on Wednesday and over the conduct of the July 14 gubernatorial election. Led by Prince Uche Secondus, the party’s National Chairman, the protesting PDP members explained that they decided to storm the National Assembly because it represented democracy and the hope and aspirations of Nigerians. They called on the lawmakers to quickly intervene and examine the government’s exercise of power, particularly their excesses and assault on democracy. The party members carried placards bearing their messages such as, ‘Enough of political tyranny’; ‘Nigeria is sliding into a one-party state’; ‘Buhari, stop the killings’, among others. Addressing the protesters, Secondus emphasised that the party was reliably informed that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and a section of security agencies planned to rig the election in Ekiti. “That is why Ekiti today has been militarised and over-policed with 30,000 policemen and women. “The citizens of Ekiti are afraid, they are traumatised, they are harassed, and they are being guarded not to come out from their homes. They arrest members of our party and indigenes of Ekiti. “There was a civilian coup d’état. The Ekiti Government House was sealed. The governor was brutalised. “This development is an eyesore to democracy. We came first to the National Assembly because you represent democracy and the hope and aspirations of Nigerians. “This is the seat of democracy where all Nigerians elected are gathered together to discuss national issues. “We believe that we should register our protest to the National Assembly to quickly intervene, query, examine, through your oversight function on the executive arm of government, particularly on their excesses, assault on democracy with the security operatives and the Independent National Electoral Commission. “We also call on the international community to see and watch what is happening in Ekiti if this is the type of election that APC and INEC want to conduct in Ekiti. “By this, the 2019 general election is under threat. And we believe that if they continue in this manner and rig the poll, then there will be nothing like 2019 elections”, he said. Kema Chikwe, former woman leader and Minister of Aviation, said for the nation to achieve good governance, it must have true democracy. “We believe in PDP. Election is about one man, one vote and it is about democracy. “For us to achieve good governance in this country, we must have true democracy. PDP believes in structures and peace. “There are excesses. Everywhere in Ekiti has been turned into a war zone. “The governor has been humiliated and he has immunity. What type of democracy do we have? “We have come today in a nation-wide protest to say that there is freedom in this country, freedom of association and speech”, Chikwe said. Asked if she expected a credible election in Ekiti on Saturday, the former minister said, “We are here because we are sceptical. “We are not sure of what is going to happen. Nobody is sure. There are too many uncertainties, and we are here because of these uncertainties.” Ike Ekweremadu, the Deputy President of the Senate, who received the protesters, said the peaceful protest was within the context of democracy, and added that democracy was about free speech and free expression. He said: “We will do everything possible to ensure that we continue to work within the tenets of democracy. “We have heard you. We are going to make contacts with all the institutions of democracy as it concerns the state.” PDP Predicts Crisis If INEC Fails Nigerians The PDP also took its protest to the head office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Abuja. Uche Secondus also led the protest to INEC, and noted that the international community was watching to see if there would be elections in Nigeria in 2019. The party chairman explained that the protest was carried out in reaction to the attack on Governor Ayo Fayose by security operatives on Wednesday, pointing out that the governor was severely manhandled. Secondus stated that intelligence information indicated that some INEC officials and security agents had perfected plans to rig the Ekiti election. He said if the election was right, it would have consequences on 2019 general elections. Secondus spoke to INEC officials who came to receive them. He said: “We believe that the best INEC can give to this nation is to allow free and fair election. “If they use all the forces that are available to the government to frighten the people and also use federal might to frighten the people that will be one sure road to crisis. “We want to warn that our party will not condone and will resist every attempt to rig the election in Ekiti and coming general elections. “Right now in Ekiti, some of our leaders are being arrested, witch-hunted and the whole of Ekiti is traumatised; they are worried, wondering if they will be allowed to come out on Saturday to vote.” Similarly, INEC National Commissioner, Adekunle Ogunmola, who received a petition from the party, gave the party leaders assurance that the electoral body was committed to conducting a credible poll in Ekiti on Saturday and throughout the nation in 2019. Attack Sparks Protest In Benin, Ondo, Anambra, Abia, Enugu, Katsina, Nasarawa, Plateau Members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State staged a peaceful protest in Benin City on Thursday in reaction to the alleged attack on Ayodele Fayose, governor of Ekiti State by security agents on Wednesday. The PDP members, during their protest through some major streets in Benin City, warned against intimidation of voters and attempts to rig Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti State. Edo State Publicity Secretary of the party, Chris Nehikhare, led the protesters from the Edo State secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) to the State Police Command to register their displeasure over the alleged assault on a sitting governor by the police. Nehikhare condemned alleged attempts by security agents loyal to a particular political party to rig and write results for Saturday’s Ekiti State governorship election. In the same vein, the Nasarawa State chapter of the PDP described the Ekiti episode as a threat to Nigeria’s democracy. Francis Orogu, the state PDP Chairman stated this at the party’s secretariat when he addressed party supporters in Lafia, the state capital. He argued that Nigeria was no longer practising democracy if security operatives would teargas the members of a political party organising a peaceful rally. The Ondo State chapter of the party also staged a peaceful protest in Akure, the state capital, against the alleged attack on Fayose. The protesters were armed with placards with various inscriptions such as, ‘Avoid trouble, don’t rig Ekiti election’, ‘Don’t kill Fayose, every vote must count’, ‘Don’t endanger our democracy, no to rigging’, ‘Rally is a fundamental right of all parties’, ‘Shame on Nigeria Police: Attacking Fayose is cowardice’, among others. The protest was led by Fatai Adams, the state PDP vice chairman, who said it was organised in solidarity with members of the party in Ekiti. Adams said what happened in Ekiti State on Wednesday was a heavy slap on democracy in Nigeria. Adams frowned on the attack on Fayose, describing it as an uncivil assault on democracy. He noted that the police in the country were trying to destroy the nation’s democracy. “This police action is a slap on democracy and a real civilian coup. The people of this country and PDP reject it.” In its own reaction, Anambra PDP condemned the invasion of the Ekiti State Government House and molestation of PDP members by agents of government. Led by Chief Ndubisi Nwobu, the state chairman and other members of his executive, the party described the attack as a threat to the nation’s democracy. Addressing newsmen during the protest, Nwobu said, “We, the PDP leaders and members of the party in Anambra State, have critically viewed the happening in Ekiti State and, particularly, the brutality that was meted out on our members at the gate of the Ekiti State Government House, which was shown to the whole world. “What we saw in Ekiti yesterday during a rally by the Ekiti PDP members was really shocking and very unfortunate. We saw it as a serious threat to the hard-earned democracy in Nigeria. “We, therefore, want to condemn in strong terms the molestation, brutality and tear gassing of the good people of Ekiti State, including the governor and PDP governorship candidate, who we saw were on a peaceful rally.” Describing the police as a peace keeping body which ought to maintain neutrality, Nwobu urged the force to call its men to order and play the role of an unbiased law enforcement agency in Saturday’s governorship election in the state. The party members drove to police headquarters in Awka where they delivered a protest letter. Unless the Federal Government led All Progressives Congress (APC) retraced its steps towards muzzling of the opposition, Nigerian democracy would be doomed. That was the verdict of the Abia State chapter of the PDP in its reaction to the Ekiti debacle. Handing over a protest letter against the alleged maltreatment of Governor Fayose and his deputy to the Commissioner of Police, Abia State Police Command, on Thursday, the PDP state chairman, Chief Johnson Onuigbo, said the PDP could no longer accept a situation where its members were intimidated by the APC-led Federal Government. Onuigbo, who visited the state command with members of his state executive, condemned what he called the militarisation of Ekiti State by the APC-led Federal Government in the bid to sway the votes in favour of its candidate in the Saturday governorship election. “We in the opposition can no longer accept a situation where the country is portrayed as a nation where there’s no rule of law. “The people, particularly members of the opposition, must not be intimidated; our democracy must be allowed to thrive,” he stated. Anthony Ogbuzi, the Abia Commissioner of Police, described the police as an institution that promotes the rule of law, adding that the huge police presence in Ekiti State was not targeted at anybody or political party, but to ensure orderly and peaceful conduct of the polls as well as to protect lives and property of the people. Similarly, members of the party in Katsina State staged a peaceful protest to the Katsina Police Command headquarters. Alhaji Salisu Majigiri, the state PDP Chairman who led the protest to the state police headquarters along Daura road, in the state capital, said the way and manner the police handled the situation in Ekiti should be condemned by all well-meaning Nigerians. According to him, the manhandling of a sitting governor and his supporters was a bad omen and a signal of what the opposition should expect in the 2019 general elections. “The police must be aware that section 40 of the 1999 constitution guarantees the right to peaceful assembly and association,” he pointed out.” Although PDP leaders and other members in Plateau State could not embark on a protest march as directed by the party’s headquarters because of the ban on procession by the state government, it sent a letter signed by the state chairman, Chief Damishi Sango, to the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, through the state Commissioner of Police (CP), Adie Undie. In the letter, made available to Daily Independent, Plateau PDP condemned the Ekiti incident and warned that it was evidence the nation’s democracy had been militarised. The party urged the IGP to direct his men to be civil in Ekiti as the elections hold on Saturday. On its part, the Enugu State chapter of the party said it was praying for Governor Fayose and his supporters, assuring them that the state was in God’s hands. Although the Enugu State chapter of PDP did not embark on a protest as directed by the national secretariat, Mrs. Vera Ezeugwu, the state women leader, told journalists that they were interceding in the spiritual realm as such matters were better handled spiritually. Ezeugwu, who was interviewed by journalists at the party secretariat, urged their members in Ekiti to keep calm as God Almighty would give the party victory in the July 14 governorship election. She described the attack on Governor Fayose as a blessing in disguise, pointing out that “no cross comes without a crown.” Lawyers Flay Police For Withdrawing Fayose’s Security Aides Meanwhile, lawyers on Thursday condemned the police for withdrawing Governor Ayodele Fayose’s security aides, saying it amounted to abuse of police powers, and makes the call for state police more compelling. Habila Joshak, Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Operations, had on Wednesday said the security details of important personalities in Ekiti, including the governor’s, will be withdrawn on Saturday for the July 14 gubernatorial election. But Lere Olayinka, spokesperson for the governor, tweeted that Gov Fayose’s security aides have been withdrawn on Thursday. According to Adesina Adegbite, National Welfare Secretary, Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), “What we are seeing under the current political dispensation, where opposition governors are denied of their security details ahead of elections, is a dangerous trend, which should be denounced by every well-meaning citizen. “If a governor can be denied his security details just like that, then what is the lot of the average Nigerian? “If the so-called chief security officer of a state cannot be guaranteed of his safety during an election, how much less the average citizen? “Governors are a special breed in the political space given the nature of work they do. They are the chief executives of their states, and to that extent they are enforcers and deploy the coercive authority of the state to get things done. “So, by the nature of the work they step on toes. Indeed they may be described as endangered species. It is in recognition of this fact that the law clothes them with immunity, together with the president, and their deputies.” Speaking to Daily Independent in a similar vein, Chief Goddy Uwazuruike, President, Aka Ikenga, a pan-Igbo socio-cultural organisation, said, “For me what is happening in Ekiti State is an attempt to muzzle democracy. “It is completely indefensible that the security details attached to the Ekiti State governor would be withdrawn. “Who now will provide security for the governor? Is it those state officials that used to move around with him that will provide him security? “It gives those of us who are still alive to the nudging of our consciences cause for concern. “I ask: Is it the same APC of four years ago that said they will run a people’s government if elected into office that are doing all this after getting into power? “I also find that those activists who were very vociferous in pointing out the faults of the previous administration have all gone quiet.” The response of Zik Obi, another prominent lawyer, is on all fours as those of the other respondents. He said, “It is an abuse of the police for the Inspector General Police to withdraw the security aides of a sitting governor. “It is clear that the police are acting for the ruling party. “It is also an abuse of the right of the governor, as the chief officer of his state, who enjoys constitutional immunity, to be denied police security at such a crucial time. “It is curious to note that while some Nigerians who ordinarily should not enjoy police security details are enjoying it; a sitting state governor, who ought to have it as of right is being denied his right. “We saw it happen with Wike when the police withdrew his police security aides. We also saw it in Obasanjo’s time when he withdrew Chris Ngige’s security aides. “It happened to Obiano until Nigerians cried out and it was restored. And now it is happening with Fayose. “But what is curious about Fayose’s case is that he is not even contesting in the election. This, therefore, makes the call for state police very compelling. “It also makes for the clamour for restructuring of the entire country. It is very untidy that in a so-called federation the IGP could wake up suddenly and withdraw the security detail of a sitting governor without satisfying any criteria. “I was a delegate to the 2005 National Political Reform Conference in which the issue of state police was put forward for deliberation. “It is remarkable that it was delegates from the North that opposed it with all venom. The fact remains that the idea of state police is presupposed by federalism. In fact even countries like the UK that cannot be described as a federation have police at different levels.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 