OWERRI – The former Governor of Imo State, Dr Ikedi Godson Ohakim, on Friday declared to contest for the 2019 governorship election on the platform of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), stating that upon winning the governorship election and being sworn-in, he would recover all funds alleged to have been looted by the incumbent governor Rochas Okorocha. Addressing APGA members at the Nwankwo Kanu Sports Complex in Owerri, Ohakim said, “I elect to accept the numerous invitations and requests from our people based on rational calculations that my return to the leadership of our state would settle the confusion and disagreements that has become our leadership conundrum. “I have doubtlessly the information, knowledge, records, and experience to track the problems of our state in the last seven years of famine and wastages as they affect our public service, our various institutions, and public infrastructure, our markets, environment, workers, pensioners, teachers, artisans, traders, local contractors and unemployed Youths”, Ohakim stated. He promised to return to the rightful owners of lands, money, houses, and institutions forcefully taken by the present administration led by Okorocha if he wins the 2019 governorship election. He claimed to have handed over to Governor Okorocha the sum of N26.6 billion in 2011, but was shocked that the state after his first tenure is now indebted to the sum over N200 billion excluding judgment debts which amounted to N150 billion. Ohakim was elected governor on the platform of PPA in 2007 and later as Governor defected to PDP. He was voted out of office in 2011 in a fierce contest between him and Governor Rochas Okorocha’s first tenure in office. Until Ohakim’s formal declaration, he was a top brass member of PDP in the state and contested governorship primaries in 2015. While he lost to Emeka Ihedioha in the 2015 PDP governorship primaries, Ihedioha lost to Governor Rochas Okorocha during the 2015 governorship general election. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 