Some leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos have urged the police to carry out a thorough investigation to fish out those responsible for the killing at the party’s meeting at Eti-Osa on Saturday. Prince Muiz Dosunmu, Secretary of PDP in the state, made the appeal at a news conference on behalf of the leaders in Lagos on Monday. Chief Ola Apena, former Deputy Chairman of the party, and Prince Remi Akitoye, a member of the party’s Board of Trustees (BOT), were among other leaders present at the news conference. Reports had it that suspected hoodlums invaded a meeting of the party at Eti-Osa, killing Mr. Adeniyi Aborishade, the Apapa chairman of the party. Dosunmu, who condemned the killing, urged the police to ensure the real perpetrators were made to face the law, to ensure justice for the slain victim and others injured in the violence. “We demand that the police conduct a thorough, unbiased investigation into this murderous incident. “There are several witnesses who watched the gory spectacle and who are willing to identify those who committed the heinous crime. “Our peace-loving members can also identify the sponsors and collaborators of the premeditated murder and mayhem inflicted on a legal and peaceful gathering. “The job of the law enforcement agency is to carry out its investigation with independent vision, disciplined clarity of purpose, with a genuine commitment to unraveling the truth,” he said. The party chieftain urged the police to probe all hidden crevices with professional candour to ensure that justice, fairness and equity prevail. Dosunmu said it was surprising that members of the party who went to report the case to the police were the ones detained as suspects. He said that the arrested members should not be detained just because the police want to be seen as doing their job. “We demand justice for an innocent man brutally cut down. “We demand justice for the innocent members of our party who were inflicted with various injuries. “And finally, we demand justice for our people who went to Ilasan Police Station to report the crime, but were inexplicably detained and illogically turned to suspects,” he said. Dosunmu said the police acted in bad faith with the way they went public to present the PDP as a party where factions were pitted against each other after the incident. He said the party was not a chaotic organisation, claiming that the statement of the Lagos Police Command on the incident was biased. Dosunmu urged the Inspector-General of Police to intervene in the investigation to ensure justice was done. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 