Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Social Democratic Party (SDP) have described President Muhammadu Buhari as the common enemy of the country. The spokespersons of both parties expressed this view at the PDP national secretariat, Abuja, on Wednesday. Princess Goldba Tolofari, the SDP National Publicity Secretary, who paid a courtesy call on her PDP counterpart, Kola Ologbondiyan, said, “We have a common enemy; Buhari is the enemy of Nigeria. He’s a common enemy to SDP and PDP, that is why we are here to rescue the nation.” Tolofari, who said that she brought greetings from SDP Chairman, Olu Falae, added that when Nigerians brought Buhari into power, they thought they were bringing in a messiah that will rescue the nation. Lamenting the sorry state of the nation, the SDP spokesperson pointed out that other Africa countries had lost respect for Nigeria. She said: “It beats my imagination that under Buhari’s watch, things are deteriorating. “They are not democrats, that is why things are deteriorating and we cannot watch and see things going the way they are. “Buhari is the Minister of Petroleum and the whole place stinks of corruption. Graduates are taxi drivers, there is hunger everywhere, and that is why our youths are carrying guns, with killings everywhere.” Commending Ologbondiyan for giving voice to alternative views which the APC-led Federal Government would rather muffle, Tolofari said: “We have come to show our appreciation for the professional way you have handled the task of speaking for the majority of millions of Nigerians who have been suffering under the yoke of the incompetence and heartlessness that have characterised the President Buhari administration since 2015. “We admire your tirelessness, courage, and the unassailable logic in your arguments.” She said working with Ologbondiyan would help to uproot the common obstacle holding down national growth and development “for our traumatised people and nation.” According to her, “The management of information is critical to the achievement of our main goal, which is to unseat the current incompetent and uncaring government at the 2019 elections.” Ologbondiyan, on his part, said it was for the purpose of pushing the government of President Buhari out of power that a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed with SDP and other 37 parties. He said: “You have said that the problem of Nigeria today is Buhari and we have joined together to push him out. “The bloodletting is becoming too much. The journey from Abuja to Kaduna, which is less than two hours, has become a nightmare and this government is not doing anything about it. That is why we signed the MoU to rescue this country.” The PDP spokesman said the rescue mission was already on, adding that the result was the mass defection of lawmakers from APC to PDP at the National Assembly on Tuesday. He pointed out that President Buhari had failed Nigerians and couldn’t fight Boko Haram, corruption, and other vices in the nation, adding that the president’s body language encouraged corruption. He cited a case of the Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, who was accused of certificate forgery, adding, “We didn’t expect her to stay a day longer, but because Buhari’s body language encouraged corruption, that was why she’s still there. Buhari must be voted out.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 