Former British Foreign Secretary, Boris Johnson, has said it is “not too late to save Brexit” as he accused Theresa May of “dithering” over the United Kingdom’s strategy for leaving the European Union. In a resignation speech in the Commons, the ex-foreign secretary said a “needless fog of self-doubt” had descended over the past 18 months. While praising the Prime Minister, Theresa May’s “courage and resilience”, he said her Chequers plan would see the UK in “miserable limbo”. He quit 10 days ago, saying he could not support the PM’s EU blueprint. The BBC said Johnson’s friends were insisting he was not trying to emulate Sir Geoffrey Howe, whose caustic resignation speech in 1990 is widely seen as having paved the way for Margaret Thatcher’s downfall weeks later. But by setting a deadline for May to change her approach, she said he appeared to be telling MPs that it would be “in their hands” if she didn’t. Addressing MPs, Johnson said the “bright certainties” that followed the 2016 Brexit vote had dissipated and the UK risked ending up in “economic vassalage” if it agreed to follow EU regulations on trade, the environment and social affairs. He said the vision set out by May in her Lancaster House speech in January 2017 for a “strong independent, self-governing Britain” had never been turned into a firm negotiating position. It’s the first Boris Johnson speech that I can remember watching that didn’t have any jokes. For his allies, that was the point. It wasn’t designed, they say, to make a personal attack on Theresa May. But my goodness, it made a pretty savage attack on her policies – a “fog of self-doubt”, “pretending to the electorate”, “a fantastical Heath Robinson” proposal on customs, “miserable permanent limbo”. For someone who less than a fortnight ago signed up to the government’s Chequers deal, even toasting the PM over dinner, that’s quite some feat. The government, he claimed, had simply not tried to make the case for a loose arrangement with the EU based on a wide-ranging free trade deal. Instead, he said the UK had conceded ground over the divorce bill, the role of the European Court of Justice and the Northern Ireland border, which he said, had needlessly become “politically charged” and resulted in a “fantastical, Heath Robinson” customs arrangement being put forward. Ministers, he warned, were “saying one thing to the EU about what we are really doing, and pretending another to the electorate” – a situation which voters would see through. “Given that in important ways this is Brexit in name only, I am of course unable to support it, as I said in cabinet at Chequers, and am happy to be able now to speak out against it. “It is not too late to save Brexit. We have time in these negotiations. We have changed tack once and we can change again… 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 