Warri – A group, the Concerned Ilaje Coastal Communitie (CICC) in Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State, has alerted the Federal Government that the non-engagement of Ilaje in the dredging of the Escravos, Warri River by the Itsekiri and Ijaw will cause serious crisis in the region. The group, in an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, said their threat was based on media publications by a coalition of Itsekiri and Ijaw, which demanded the engagement of their communities in the project The letter, signed by Felix M. Iyamolere, the CCIC National President, explained that the Federal Government set up an investigating team and conducted the Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) of the Escravos Bar-Warri dredging to halt the alleged unholy neglect, deprivation and marginalisation of Ilaje youths by the Itsekiri and Ijaw. Iyamolere expressed dissatisfaction over the non-inclusion of the Ilaje in the said publication by the Ijaw and Itsekiri group. He viewed the Ijaw and Itsekiri coalition as a means of disenfranchising the Ilaje people and misinforms the world that they were the only two ethnic groups or stakeholders along the Escravos-Warri River. The Ilage group stated: “We are three ethnic groups/stakeholders in Warri Southwest Local Government Area. Let the world know. “Your Excellency, this brazen alliance or coalition by Itsekiri and Ijaw youths without due considerations of the Ilaje youths as one among the stakehikders/ethnic groups in Warri South-West calls for proper investigation.” Iyamolere stated that there were three major ethnic groups/ stakeholders in Warri South-West, the Itsekiri, Ilaje and Ijaws, describing the ilaje people as hospitable and very law abiding citizens. He warned that deliberate sidelining and deprivation of Ilaje youths in the dredging project could provoke restiveness in the area during the execution. According to him, “We live together as neighbours and suffer the same chronic ecological and negative hazardous adverse effects and unwanted hardship of the various multinational companies in the domain. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 