As we join other Nigerians to extol the late Mallam Adamu Ciroma, a diligent civil servant, Journalist, banker, administrator, politician, and a onetime governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, as well as a former minister of finance, industry and agriculture, who died last week Thursday, the 5th of July, 2018, at the Turkish Hospital, Abuja, at the age of 84, after a protracted illness, there is no doubt that Nigeria has lost one of its finest elder statesmen. His death has left those Nigerians who are familiar with him with fine memories of his versatility in different areas of human endeavour. In fact, the late Ciroma’s impact and contributions to nation building throughout his life are extraordinary and would not be forgotten in a hurry as they have gone down the annals of history in Nigeria. Born on November 20, 1934, at Potiskum in Yobe State, he attended the Borno Middle School, Barewa Colege, Zaria and the Nigerian College of Arts, Science and Technology, Zaria, before he proceeded to the University of Ibadan in 1957 to study History. He graduated with a Bachelors degree in History in 1961. Soon after his graduation, the late Mallam Ciroma started his working career as a brilliant officer in the Northern Nigerian Civil Service. He rose quickly after making huge impressions on his superiors whilst serving both in Kaduna and the other provinces. From the Civil Service, he delved into journalism and was the pioneer editor of the New Nigeria Newspaper. He excelled in journalism due to his brilliance, thought provoking, and always constructive editorials and articles. He was fearless, authoritative and often set the national agenda in a compelling and reasoned way that even those who did not agree with it respected the quality of its reasoning. However, when the military government of Murtala Muhammad came on board in 1975, he was appointed the governor of CBN. He would later resign from the CBN  in the build up to the 1979 presidential elections as he contested the National Party of Nigeria, NPN, presidential primaries and lost to Shehu Shagari. Ciroma was briefly the secretary of the NPN and he later served at various times as Minister for Industries, Agriculture and Finance. As a senior cabinet minister in the Shagari administration, he played pivotal roles in the implementation of the president’s agenda, especially in the areas of food production and working with international agencies to develop an Agricultural Development Project (ADP). In September 1983, he was made the chairman of a presidential transition committee, which further demonstrated the trust the president had in his capabilities. The committee was mandated to make proposals on how to re-structure the federal government which was going through a crisis of confidence. Ciroma was a founding member of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and so, when democracy returned in 1999, he, once again, served as Minister of Finance in the government of Olusegun Obasanjo between 1999 and 2003 before he finally retired.He led the Consensus Committee of the Northern Political Leaders Forum (NPLF) ,which tried unsuccessfully to retain power in the north in 2011 after the death of President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. For those who have had one dealing or the other with the late gentleman, it is not in doubt that he was indeed a man of character, a role model and a shining light whose parts are not hidden. We are therefore saddened that death has put out this light, cutting short the positive impact that the late Ciroma was making in society. Former editor of the New Nigeria Newspaper and influential powerbroker, Mallam Mamman Daura, described Ciroma  as  a statesman of uncommon gifts,  outstanding ability and accomplishments, as well as versatile.  For him Ciroma was “master of all managerial trades and  jack of none.” In his condolence massage, President Muhammadu Buhari noted that Ciroma’s legacies would be a constant reminder to politicians who wish to work for the good of their communities and the country. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, on his own part,  described the late Ciroma as a statesman who gave his best to his fatherland. As the country morns the departure of this political icon and elder statesman, it would only make sense if his virtues and legacies are invoked in the way politicians operate in the country. It is unfortunate that politicians in his mould are fast fading away in Nigeria. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 