An American politician once said, “The best governor in the world is the person who never really planned to be governor.” Listening to the story of former Governor of Osun State, Omoba Olagunsoye Oyinlola, one cannot but attest to the truth of this statement. Having had leadership thrust upon him, Oyinlola became a leader par excellence, matching actions with the faith had in him. In his years as governor of Osun, his insights as a governor, leader and Yoruba chieftain saw him explore endless possibilities. For Oyinlola, leadership is a privilege to better the lives of others, not a mere opportunity to rule. It is an avenue for service, which, while he never set out to achieve; he excelled at it. In this interview with Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade, the well-read, one-time military administrator of Lagos State speaks on his sojourn into politics, his thoughts on the state of the nation, and his hopes for his beloved country, Nigeria. The situation in Plateau State has escalated to the point that many Nigerians have come out to say something about it, what’s your opinion on the situation in Plateau? It is a very sad development, and I never thought that the security situation would degenerate to that level; a level where it seems that life is meaningless to us in Nigeria, it is not good for us. There is a saying that ‘readers are leaders’. Being a leader If one had the opportunity to glimpse your library, what kind of books would be found there? If you were to look into my library, you would find mainly military inclined books and legal books. The legal books are because I am a lawyer. What made you choose Law as a course of study? Was it because it was considered to be lucrative at the time? I studied Law because I nursed the ambition. I had an ambition, and I felt the Lord had been so good to me in my life, because when I look at my accomplishments in life, I know for sure that it is not by my own making but the grace of God. More so, looking at it from a different perspective, I became an orphan at the age of nine, and by His grace, I have moved on in life to get to this position. I had conceived of the idea to study Law before we were forcefully ejected from the army by Obasanjo. At the end of my service in the military, I wanted to go and read Law and offer pro bono service to those who could not afford justice. That was the main reason; it was not to make a living or anything. So how did politics come in, was it also always your ambition? It was never an ambition. One thing led to the other because I never thought I could ever become a politician. This is why: I believed that to be a successful politician, you must have acquired a PHD in telling lies. Really, that was my notion of every politician. More so, the day I told my wife that I was going to be a politician, the first question she asked me was, “Oh! Are you going to start telling lies now?” I told her no, and that I was sure that would not be the case. If you take a look at what God has done in our lives, what is it that anybody would want to wish for in this world that the Lord had not given to us? He gave us children, shelter, and other things we may desire. So why would I have cause to tell anybody lies. Added to the fact that the push to go into politics came from my friends who felt that they had not gotten any meaningful leadership in politics. I told them at the time that I couldn’t be a politician because I do not know how to tell lies, and I would never tell anyone lies; but the pressure still continued. That all started precisely in April 2001. I was still studying Law in Buckingham University, United Kingdom, but because anyone could reach me through the telephone system we had then, which could get anywhere in the world, they kept on the pressure until I succumbed in November 2001 when I made the decision to go into politics. And my friends kept their promises too. I had told them that my understanding of politics is bringing service to your people, and if we were going to do that, I told them we could not go along with the type of government run by the likes of Awolowo, because theirs was a thing of region: whatever you make within the region, you only send a percentage to the federal. But now, for every rat that you kill, it must reach Abuja before they distribute. Alliance for Democracy (AD) was in power then. So I told my people that PDP was the government at the centre, and that was where the fortunes and assets of Nigeria was being shared, and if I was not part of it, I could not complain. That was the reason I decided to go into politics and align with the party at the centre. For my friends, who were all chairmen of the AD in the different wards and my local government, the day I joined PDP, they all decamped to PDP, so I felt at home. They kept their words and I thank God that I can never be described by any strength of imagination as a liar. Looking back, did you achieve all that you set out to do as Governor of Osun State? No. No one can achieve everything you set out to do in life. But I think that the Lord allowed me do the best I could for my people while in government. What do you think is the future right now for Nigeria, judging by the level of instability in the country? I pray that we get a leader that will take seriously the problems that are bedevilling Nigeria; the problem of economic instability and the security situation. I pray that we get a leader that would be concerned with what will make life more meaningful to every Nigerian. Like I said earlier, life is now so cheap in Nigeria. These killers just cut it down as if they are killing chickens, and it is sad. Another political year is upon us, and new politicians are emerging by the day. What qualities do you think young politicians should look for when they choose their political mentors? I would advice young politicians that they must assess and scrutinise any politician they want to pick, to be sure that the person is a sincere and upright politician that can mentor them, because you cannot plant yam and reap maize. If the mentor is bad, then what he will pass on will be bad ideas and bad mentorship. So it is left for each person to x-ray the mentor. Has he shown signs and capabilities of good mentoring that would make him an asset as a mentor? On a personal note, since you left office, what is an average or regular day like for you? On a regular day, when I wake up, I pray to my God that as I am going out today, He should take me out safely and bring me back safely. And then, I do anything that I wish to do: visit friends, do business, and a lot of golfing. Playing golf is my major past time. I am the president of Nigerian Golf Federation. If you had the opportunity to meet your younger self, what’s the one advice you would pass on? The advice I would give to a younger me is that we should take a cue from the speech given by the U.S. Ambassador W. Stuart Symington at the annual celebration of America’s independence in Lagos. As a people, we should be part of the engineering and captaining of the ship that we are a part of. What’s the best advice you have ever gotten that you believe made you a successful leader? Well, for every true leader, he must be consistent, focused, and most of all, have the fear of the Lord. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 