ASABA – The National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Minister of State for Petroleum, Dr Ibe Kachikwu may have met a brick wall in their efforts to harmonise the APC factions in Delta state ahead of 2019 general elections. Kachikwu had boasted after he paid a courtesy call on Oshiomhole, promising to intervene in the crisis between Olorogun O’tega Emerhor faction and Senator Ovie Omo-Agege’s faction bedeviling the party in the state. ‘’Even though I am not vying for the governorship of Delta state.My preoccupation is to ensure that the party unites in the state ahead of 2019 election. I want to make sure the party unifies and selects a candidate we can work with. That’s my position on that. Our business is to deliver the President and deliver the governorship. We are going to do it in a way that it will be contentious and in all inclusive.” However all attempt to meet with the leaders of both factions in Abuja and his Onicha-Ugbo home, Aniocha North Local Government Area to resolve the lingering crisis again failed as Omo-Agege and a governorship aspirant of his faction, Chief Great Ogboru were said to have distanced themselves from the arrangements. Ogboru while justifying why him, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and their group shunned the reconciliatory meeting called by Kachikwu said that it was “illogical for him to sit down with those that embarrassed the party by attacking delegates at the national convention. The Omo Agege faction is also bent on sustaining the fight until the outcome of its consent judgment is implemented by the national leadership of the party just as they asserted that Emerhor and others should be sanctioned. Corroborating Ogboru, the lawmaker representing Delta Central senatorial district in the National Assembly, Omo Agege also said the ‘’Urhobo people know that am not a coward and cannot be intimidated by anybody, no matter who is involved, they sent me to the National Assembly, and I have represented their interest’’ Though, Emerhor, a source said is willing to enter into any form of peace accord said, if Chief Great Ogboru, an APC governorship aspirant in the state wants the party to win in the coming election, he has no choice but to sit down with him and others to iron out their differences. Indeed it is ridiculous for Ogboru to call for Emerhor to be sanctioned when in fact it is Senator Omo-Agege/Ogboru who as secretary to the convention accreditation committee abuse his position and substituted the Delta state delegates with unknown persons. Emerhor while reacting to a statement credited to Chief Ogboru, noted that ‘’I am shocked that someone who wants to run for governorship and who purports to want APC to win, will express such unhelpful sentiments.” Emerhor added that though there may be issues between the mainstream of the APC and the group led by Ogboru/Agege in Delta APC, it is clear that these issues arose from the different interest of aspirants like Chief Ogboru who are trying to position themselves ahead of 2019. Chief Ogboru in particular has decided to sponsor a faction from the day of his entrance into the party that has refused to integrate itself into the mainstream. He stated further that; in truth it was Ogboru/Agege that should be held responsible for the fight and disruption at the convention because it was Senator Omo-Agege that in defiance of the erstwhile NWC of the party, replaced the approved/authentic Delta delegates with unknown persons and unleashed the attacks on the authentic delegates when they eventually arrived to take their place at the Delta pavilion at the convention. Emerhor stated further that it is unthinkable that Chief Ogboru instead to thinking of unity, is at this time still preaching a continuation of disunity and playing the blame card. The party must move beyond fights and crisis and that is why he, Emerhor has decided along with other mainstream leaders of the party to support the reconciliatory move by Dr Ibe Kachikwu who has taken it upon himself to ensure that peace returns to the party. “Our resolve to win the 2019 governorship election in Delta state is bigger than any individual’s interest, and that is why I will work with the party’s NWC, the Minister and other leaders of the party to ensure that we are stronger to win the 2019 election. Emerhor therefore, advised Ogboru to key into the process of reconciliation if he truly wants the party to win the 2019 elections in Delta State. A former Military Administrator and APC leader in the state, AWM Frank Ajobena an APC leader in Delta state told Daily Independent Newspapers that a meeting will soon be called to harmonize the warring factions until the crisis is resolved. Trouble started at a closed door meeting hosted by Kachikwu, in his Onicha-Ugbo last February where they maintained that an Anioma APC candidate should be allow to complete the one term remaining for Delta North Senatorial District to round up their turn in the Delta governorship, set the battle line. According to its communiqué, The leaders hinged their decision to back only Anioma candidate on the reported ‘gentlemanly’ zoning agreement between the three senatorial district of the state which purportedly ‘zoned’ the governorship position in 1999, starting with Chief James Ibori of Delta Central. According to them, it is only equitable for the Senatorial District to complete its two gubernatorial terms through an APC Candidate and not through Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, an Anioma PDP incumbent Governor who is also seeking a second term in office since other Districts have done theirs “In line with the rotational agreement of the governorship of the state by the three senatorial districts, its most equitable that Anioma is supported to complete its remaining one term through an Anioma APC candidate”, the source who quoted Delta North APC Leaders added. While urging all eligible governorship aspirants from Delta North Senatorial District to indicate interest so that their candidature can be marketed to the two other senatorial district in the State, they agreed APC is solidly on ground in Delta North Senatorial District and has the capacity to win the 2019 gubernatorial election with the support of the other Senatorial Districts. “From the inception of the Third Republic, the Central and Southern Senatorial Districts of Delta State have successfully completed two gubernatorial terms and as a result, the right of the Delta North Senatorial District to complete its second term, under the banner of the APC is only equitable”. The meeting was attended by Minister for State Petroleum, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, Engr. Chief Hyacinth Enuha, Mr. Iwedi Nwaha, former Speaker, Hon Victor Ochei, Dr Cairo Ojougboh, top state officials of the party from Delta North among others. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 