Motunrayo Kuti is the last child of the late Afrobeat maestro, Fela Anikulapo Kuti. In recent times, the fair-complexioned mother of one has been a social media sensation. In this interview with INDEPENDENT Newspaper’s Lukmon Akintola, she talks about Fela, her relationship with her siblings and how she happens to be engaged to a man who almost released her nude pictures. A lot of people don’t really know about your relationship with the Kuti family, can you tell us? I am the last daughter of late Fela Anikulapo Kuti. I am the daughter Fela had with Najite Anikulapo Kuti. Do you have other siblings from your mother? No. I am an only child. The only daughter of Najite and Fela, you know that Fela had a lot of wives. What character of Fela will you say you have? I don’t take nonsense. Was your mum one of his dancers? Yes. My mom was a dancer for Fela’s band and she was called the Fire Dancer. She must have been one of the 27 he married in his historical marriage Yes What does being the daughter of Fela mean to you? As a child it didn’t mean anything to me except him being my father in a polygamous family. Did your mom tell you about the nostalgic moments she had with Fela? My mother told me how crazy they all were being together with one man. I can imagine. Has the Fela brand or Kuti name helped you as a person? It hasn’t taken me anywhere although the people using his brand do gain a lot. Maybe I haven’t really pushed hard enough. But then, again, I heard people have to help one another to get to wherever they want to be. No one has helped me. No one, I am a graduate and all my family members I have ever talked to have never tried to help me. But I still believe someday things will fall in place. No man is an island. You have two known musicians as brothers; can’t you reach out to them for help? I don’t want to talk about them, with all due respect. I am honestly not looking for any pity. This is just as it is. No sugarcoating. You are a product of the entertainment industry; do you have any interest there? Yes, I have interest in entertainment. I have an entertainment company that is up and coming. We are not big yet. Hopefully, we can get help and actually do something great because we have all it takes. Don’t you intend to be a dancer like your mum or maybe a singer like your dad? No.  There are too many family members fighting and competing for that. I can’t cope. It’s draining and stressful. What is the long term plan for your company? Basically, it’s to liberate the youths through our music and entertainment. We also want to give young talents the opportunity to be great. You know it’s a big deal. I just hope someday that help will come. Nigeria is difficult. You visit the shrine regularly, what is your relationship with Femi, Yeni and Seun who are the more popular children of Fela like? We have no relationship except being siblings. I just love going to the shrine. What intrigues you about the shrine? It’s a family place and I have friends there. Tell us about your education? Well, I am a graduate of International Relations. I did my posts graduate at Igbenedion University Edo state. I graduated in 2009. How would you describe Motunrayo Kuti? Motunrayo is loveable, courageous, and brave when it’s called for. She is smart, intelligent and beautiful. How is it possible that a beauty like you is unmarried, are men not interested in you? I wish they were not interested. Maybe they are taking me for granted. I am happy regardless. You have a daughter out of wedlock, what is the story? There is no story to tell. She is my only daughter. Her name is Ifeniolami Akhilome. I have no words to describe her because she means the world and more to me. There was a story of how a lover wanted to release your nude pictures, what really happened? He was pained and hurt. He hurt me and I hurt him. A sexy picture of you clutching a wrapper around your cleavage surfaced on social media recently; was that released by you or was it your lover’s handiwork? That was released by me on my Instagram wall. It was a celebration picture. It was to celebrate my 35th birthday. How did you eventually manage the situation? We sorted it. We are still together. We love each other and there is more regard and respect now. That’s a past issue and I can’t remember that. Many beautiful things have happened after then. That was in 2015. Is the relationship heading for the alter now? We are engaged, and yes we are planning to have a baby. Is this same man the father of your child, Ifeniolami? No, he is not. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 