Bauchi – Constituents of Dass/Tafawa Balewa/Bogoro Constituency in Bauchi State have expressed their support to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara. In their separate speech during a rally held on Friday to show support for Dogara, in Tafawa Balewa LG Rufai Samson and Bulus Iliya, said that the rally was planned to show their unflinching support and loyalty to their leader and representative. They said: “We walked, ride and drove for over 15 kilometres to tell the world that we, Dogara’s constituents are with him 100 percent no matter what. Dogara is our party and we are ready to move with him to any party should he choose to leave the APC. “If he chooses to remain in the APC, we will remain there with him but if chooses to move to another party, we want him and the world to know that we will go there with him.” They condemned the recent rally that was organised in Bauchi Metropolis against Dogara describing it as the handiwork of people who do not want progress and development. They said the rally was in reaction to a recent rally that was held in Bauchi against the Speaker “so we organised this to counter their own and to tell the world that Dogara still has our 100% support.” According to the organisers, none of the supporters was given a dime to come out for the rally noting that they came out because of the love they have for Dogara. They said that they didn’t know what democracy meant until Dogara became their representative in the House. Also, one of the speakers at the rally, Folmi Barnabas Yale said Dogara has built schools, roads, hospitals, markets, provided scholarships, water, electricity, etc, for them. He described him as a detribalised politician who has done what many politicians in the state and the country have not and cannot do for their people. “We are here to show our total support to the Speaker, Dogara, for all he has been doing for us. “We were taught in school that democracy is government of the people, by the people and for the people. But we didn’t know what that meant until Dogara became our leader in this constituency,” they said. Another supporter, Musa Salisu, called on the people of the constituency to be united and bring Dogara back to power adding that this is needful because, he has done a lot for them. He said: “As a Fulani man, I can tell you that Dogara does not segregate. He works for his constituents whether they are Muslims or Christians, it matters less to him. Let’s unite because sabbateurs are trying to cause crises and confusion among us.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 