In an earlier piece on this subject matter here on Economic Corridor, I had concluded by saying, “the sad thing about MTN coming to the market though is that it may not happen”. Why was I so confident to make such a proclamation even when market players and aficionados were so sure that the South African Telecom Company was coming to the market big time? My conclusion was not as a result of some clairvoyance or some kind of superior intelligence. I only took the company by their word. I took seriously, a caveat it provided. It had said that listing would be based on market conditions. I then emphasised that “It is a no brainer then that if the market continues its freefall and the economic fundamentals are muted or gets any worse, the telecom primus inter pares may not list in this market in the near term”. Nineteen months after that article and two years after it announced plans for an IPO, MTN has missed three self imposed deadlines for entering the Nigerian stock market- May 2018; June 2018 and July 2018. Now the news in the market is that the company has fixed an August date; one that indeed would make it an August visitor in literal terms. Valued at N3.2 trillion, MTN hopes to raise $400 million from the Nigerian bourse to pay preference shareholders who are exposed to the company shares since 2011 and also to defray other liabilities. But they have dawdled. They have applied the brakes because indeed market conditions are clearly not right. Not only did the economy slow in the first half of the year, the stock exchange also lost in value. Analysts from Vetiva had expected the economy to grow 3 percent in the first quarter of 2018, but it came short at 1.9 percent, leading to a negative forecast going forward, expecting a “dimmer prospect” for the economy. Among the causes for a poor run for the economy going forward (at the international level) is US rates hike, fears of fall in oil prices, and Nigeria’s violence prone elections cycle. It is this inclement situation that has stalled IPOs of ‘Skyway Aviation Handling and unnamed financial technology firm’ hinted on by the SEC at a recent event by Rencap. At that same event, economist, Doyin Salami would not vouch for the economy from September when politicking would have neared a crescendo. The take-away here is that the economy is not likely to make any dramatic leap. Portfolio investors will tell you same story as they take to flight until after the elections. I had argued in my earlier article that not entering the market would mean learning from recent history by the telecom firm operating in Africa and the Middle East. In 2008 while the world, including Nigeria, suffered from the global financial crises, Honeywell Flour failed to read the signs of the times and attempted an IPO and paid dearly for it. While several corporations who planned to visit the market at that time, including Akon Petroleum chose to listen to the market oracles and called off planned IPOs but the Oba Otudeko led flour company decided to take the plunge in a move to try and bring confidence back to the market steep in value attrition on the back of the so called ‘margin lending’ by banks. Unfortunately, the offer was grossly under subscribed. MTN are not about to make a similar mistake. It would be nice to have a giant like the MTN come into the exchange to slug it out with the likes of Dangote Group. When that happens, prima facie, it would be a win-win for both company and the market. Listing would confer MTN the right to raise millions of dollars from this market to meet its capital requirement.  This appears a better alternative to bank financing, which comes with crazy interest rates especially at a time like this where our equivalent of the Federal Funds Rate, the Monetary Policy Rates (MPC) is at a staggering 14 percent. It is a less risky and prudent way of raising money and make pretty the financial or capital structure of the South African telecoms company. And since the capital raised would be long term capital, the telecom company is going to be a very good stead to execute long term projects. It is sure also to moderate the financing costs. For the market, the wins come from the fact that any extra security would further broaden the market.  Issues by MTN, one of the most profitable companies in Nigeria with Net profit of $1 billion in 2015 is sure to deepen the market because, according to the news, they are looking at floating three different classes. MTN makes more profit than any Nigerian bank. That the announcement is coming at a time when the markets are floundering and investors are losing millions. If anything, it would be credibility boost to the market. While the market and I dare say the company are looking forward to this, it just may not happen till the atmosphere in the market is a bit more clement for participants. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 