ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari has urged the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Administration, especially, the management of the rail services, to ensure efficient operations, good customer service and maintenance of the operations of the rail. President Buhari, however, assured Nigerians of Federal Government’s continued support for all the negotiations towards the realisation of the Abuja Light Rail system. Speaking at the commissioning of the Abuja Light Rail System Thursday in Abuja, President Buhari said the completion of the very important project was a dream come true. He said, “Today, what we have in the Federal Capital Territory is another evidence that we are a government that delivers on its promises. I have observed keenly other milestones that this administration has achieved, especially in the areas of education, public utilities and infrastructure development.” He further stated that the accomplishment clearly demonstrated the commitment of his administration in addressing critical infrastructural projects and keeping with the ideals of the Change Agenda to ensure prudence in the management of public resources and value for money, considering the huge investments in the project. He said that transportation is the live wire of any city and optimistic that a modern rail service would boost the FCT economy and greatly enhance social life. He added, “I am aware that what we have on the ground today are coaches meant to provide skeletal services as we await the main set of the rolling stock for full operations. “l have been briefed on the outcome of the Hon. Ministers of FCT and Finance recent visit to China during which the MoUs and agreements for the procurements of the main rolling stock were signed.” He commended the minister for the hard work and sense of purpose towards the realisation of this long-awaited modern transportation system for both FCT residents and visitors. Nigerian government’s appreciation to the Government of China and the EXIM Bank of China for their support on this and many other projects currently being executed in the country. “This gesture further cements the already existing cordial relations and developmental partnership between Nigeria and the People’s Republic of China. He also thanked the government and people of China for their investment in the Nigerian economy and the CCECC Limited, the contracting firm, for the quality of work and timely delivery of the project and  Nigerian consultants, Messrs Transurb Technirail Consult Limited, for their services. Earlier in his address of welcome, Mallam Mohammad Musa Bello, the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), said the project cost about US$823,540,545.87 funded 60 percent by the China-Exim Bank and 40 percent by the FCTA. He said that the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has also taken delivery of the three coaches meant for initial operations while awaiting the arrival of the rolling stock of 48 coaches. “To this effect, the FCTA has concluded an infrastructure soft loan agreement with Exim Bank of China for the supply of the remaining coaches, including their maintenance for three years at a cost of US$194,008,602.43. “The bank would fund the project to the tune of US$157,001,049.89 (85%), while the FCTA would bring in a counterpart fund of US$37,007,552.54 (15%),” he stated. He added that the scope of the work being commissioned was the Phase 1 of the Abuja Rail Mass Transit Project (ARMTP), which includes 45.3 kilometres of double standard gauge rail tracks, a maintenance depot, training school and operations control centre. Others are 12 stations, Abuja Metro Station, Stadium Station, Kukwaba I (National Park Station), Kukwaba ll (Ring Road Station), Wupa Station, Idu Station, Bassaniiwa Station, Airport Station, Gwagwa Station, Deidei Station, Kagini Station and Gbazango Station. “The Abuja rail system is packaged into six lots planned for phased development based on preferential demand and available financial resources. “The Abuja Rail Mass Transit System is planned to integrate with the National Rail Network when eventually completed,” he said. Bello stressed that the FCTA was working on Phase ll of the Abuja Rail Mass Transit Project to cover a distance of 32.54 kilometres from Nnamdi Azikiwe Expressway at Garki Area l via the Transportation Centre to Gwagwa and from Bazango Station to Kubwa. He said the Federal Executive Council approved the project in 2017 for construction by CCECC at a cost of US$1.3 billion. “We hope that the Minister of Finance would consider putting this key project in the next borrowing plans, the Minister of Budget and National Planning would agree to it, the National Assembly would approve it and that China Exim Bank would fund it as a mark of goodwill for the cordial relationship between our two countries,” he said. He thanked the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr. Zhou Pingjian, for the kind gesture. He said the project would not have been completed without the support of Mr. President whose emphasis on completing ongoing projects that have an impact on the welfare of the citizens had been the guiding principle of the FCTA. Meanwhile, the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr. Zhou Pingjian, in his goodwill message, said the project would increase the bilateral relationship between the two countries. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 