A coalition of Muslim organisations have commended the Body of Benchers, Council of Legal Education for allowing Miss Firdaus Amasa to be called to bar with her mini Hijab. Alhaji Abdur-Rahman Balogun, the Chairman of the coalition, made the commendation at a Grand Reception in Honour of Firdaus at the National Mosque, Abuja, on Wednesday. Balogun also applauded the Nigerian Law School for finding Firdaus worthy both in learning and character and allowed her to be called to the Nigerian Bar on Tuesday, July 10, 2018. Similarly, the coalition expressed its appreciation to the House of Representatives for taking the matter up right from the start even though efforts geared toward resolving it was thwarted by court injunction. Balogun said “with this bold decision of the body of benchers, the coalition believes that the issue of the use of hijab at the call to the bar and indeed the Nigerian court has finally been put to rest. “ We do hope that other professionals and institutions both public and private will take a cue from this and emulate what the body of benchers has done in the case of Firdaus.” A member of the House of Representatives, Alhaji Abubakar Damburam, representing Kano Municipal, assured that he would continue to pursue and promote legal means of seeking redress to any injustice. Wife of the former Vice President, Amina Namadi Sambo, commended parents of Firdaus for inculcating good virtues in their daughter. Firdaus said what happened to her was an incident destined by Allah which must take place, and expressed appreciation to all the people who stood by her throughout the struggle. She dedicated her call to bar with mini hijab as a victory to the entire Muslim ummah in the country Firdaus, a law graduate, was denied being called to the Nigerian Bar on Dec. 13, 2017 on the grounds that she adorned herself with a mini hijab, a veil used by Muslim women to cover the body from the head. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 