Yenagoa – The Oil and Gas Producing Areas Enlightenment and Empowerment Initiative (OGPAEEI) has raised the alarm that succour was yet to come to the people of Aghoro I and II communities in Ekeremor Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, more than 45 days after an oil spill from the Trans-Ramos pipeline of the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC) destroyed their environment. Jackson Igbabiri, chairman of the group, stated this in Yenagoa on Wednesday during a press conference on the plight of the people of the impacted communities. He said that a field assessment on the massive oil leakage carried out by the OGPAEEI showed that over 53 communities and fishing settlements were adversely affected by the incident. The oil spill incident, which occurred on May 17, 2018, also impacted some boundary communities in Delta State and polluted the environment and rivers, killing fishes and other aquatic creatures. On Tuesday, the 24-member Bayelsa State House of Assembly passed a resolution, urging the SPDC to send relief materials to the affected communities and also commence immediate payment of compensation to them. The lawmakers also called on the SPDC to stop further spread of spilled crude oil to other areas. Igbabiri also stressed the need for the oil firm to urgently supply relief materials and medicines to the people of the areas as their rivers have been contaminated by the spill. According to him, supplying the medical items would go a long way to curtailing the spread of cough and other related diseases usually caused by oil spill. Igbabiri further urged the SPDC to undertake a comprehensive assessment of damages caused by the oil leak. “We have conducted an assessment and we found out that many homes have been affected. We have met with SPDC, but they are yet to respond; the water in those areas has been polluted.” “The farmlands have been affected; fishing nets destroyed; coconut farm, plantain and other crops have been destroyed. Source of water has been damaged because they drink from the rivers,” the OGPAEEI leader stated. Enimikem Famous, a paramount ruler of Famous-Ama, one of the affected communities in Aghoro, appealed to the SPDC to come to their aid, especially with potable water and medical items. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 