ABUJA – In a renewed effort to stamp out substandard products across the country, Standards Organisation of Nigeria raided shops and warehouses in Kano with substandard African prints popularly known as “Atampa.” SON’s Surveillance, Intelligence and Monitoring (SIM) Unit with a detachment of security agents sealed 21 warehouses stocked with textile materials worth hundreds of millions of naira, putting them on hold until all relevant laboratory tests were concluded and analysed to confirm their quality. The SON SIM team also spread its dragnet to the Emeka Offor Plaza at the Onitsha main market where it sealed up several shops dealing in suspected substandard and cloned phones, evacuating it for further tests and analysis. Speaking to newsmen after the raid, Mr. Isa Suleiman, the Coordinator of the SIM Unit, said the owners of the warehouses flouted the law by stocking suspected substandard African prints that do not meet with the requirements of the relevant Nigeria Industrial Standards (NIS). The standard, he said, stipulates that African prints should be made of 100 percent cotton and must not be colour fast amongst other relevant attributes. He said that initial surveillance revealed that the textiles being sold as African prints were materials suspected to have been manufactured with up to about 70 percent polyester and about 30 percent cotton. Some, he said, were suspected to be completely polyester which is at variance with the specifications of the Nigeria Industrial Standards. The SIM Coordinator stressed that SON would not allow the proliferation of substandard textile materials in the country, pointing at the negative effects such activities have had on the once buoyant textile industry in Nigeria and the attendant job losses. He further revealed, “That the textile products found in the warehouses were deemed not to have passed through the legal channels of entry but rather believed to have been either smuggled into the country or shipped in under false declarations at the ports of entry.” The importers, he said, were taking undue advantage of Nigerian consumers and also flouting the requirements in the various Nigeria Industrial Standards for textile materials. Similarly, at the second largest phone market in Nigeria located at Beirut Road, Kano, the SIM Unit team also sealed up six shops identified to be selling suspected substandard, counterfeit and unregistered cell phones and evacuated the products for further laboratory tests and analysis. Some of the phone brands identified to be unregistered, possibly substandard and counterfeit and thus evacuated from the shops were Infemix, TKK, Siccoo, Hom, and H-Mobile etc. Mr. Suleiman disclosed that all consignment of phones to be imported into Nigeria must mandatorily undergo the processes of SON offshore conformity assessment (SONCAP) and the electronic product registration schemes. This, he said, was to avoid flooding the country with low quality or cloned phones that defy traceability and after-sales customer care of any known importer, manufacturer or brand owner. “The activities of the importers and dealers in non-certified and unregistered phones were creating a huge loss of resources to consumers due to malfunctioning and lack of durability of the products which eventually constitute environmental hazards as wastes,” he said. He, therefore, advised all phone dealers to always demand evidence of SONCAP Certification and the electronic Product Registration from importers, distributors or brand/franchise owners to avoid SON’s clamp down. He said, “Products like GSM phones need to also be tested for radiation to ensure they meet acceptable levels stipulated by the standards.” The SON, Surveillance, Investigation and Monitoring (SIM) unit is a rapid intervention team inaugurated by the SON Chief Executive, Osita Aboloma, recently to complement other departments in the on-going war against substandard goods in the country to rid the nation of low quality and life-endangering products. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 