LAGOS – The annual Wole Soyinka International Cultural Exchange Project (WSICE), initiated in 2010 by the management of ZMirage Multimedia Company have again concluded arrangements to celebrate the 84th birthday of the first Nobel laureate in literature, Professor Wole Soyinka. Led by the technical theatre exponent, and businessman, Alhaji Teju Kareem and the US-based Global New Haven headed by the theatre director and culture scholar, Professor Segun Ojewuyi, activities include the annual essay competition, which will feature 84 students writing analyses of three of Wole Soyinka’s poems — in a reality television-like setting at the 1000-seatre amphitheatre situated in the neighbourhood of the laureate’s Autonomous Residency Ijegba (ARI) in the forested part of Ibara Housing Estate, Abeokuta.  The particular poems will be unveiled to the participants, minutes to the commencement of the essay writing exercise. Scheduled to hold July 12 -15, the theme for this year is “The Pursuit of Truth” (Truth and the National Psyche), otherwise interpreted as “The Pursuit of Truth in our Country.” The theme, according to the Executive Producer, Kareem, is inspired by the observed intense preoccupation of the Nobel Laureate with the devastating consequences of lie in our national psyche, which also extends to global discourses, especially the invention of the term ‘Fake News’, which now seems to pervade public discourse and information flow. Kareem further stated that Soyinka’s engagement with the pursuit of truth “has been consistently captured in his latest publications – The two new Intervention series (Vol. 6 &7) and the earlier volume, InterInventions, from which the quote below has been excerpted: “My commitment to the belief in the fundamental right of all human beings Not To Be Lied Against remains a life obsession… I despise that species of humanity whose stock in trade is to concoct lies simply to score a point, win an argument, puff up his or her ego, denigrate or attempt to destroy a fellow being”. — InterInventions: Between Defective Memory and the Public Lie – A Personal Oddysey in THE REPUBLIC OF LIARS –/ Pg61. According to Kareem, “Sample entries have been collected from senior secondary schools around the country for the essay competition. All submitted entries have been marked and the 84 students with the highest scoring essays have been invited for the final competition holding July 13 at the Amphitheatre in Ijegba, Abeokuta. “In addition, 1000 students from Ogun State schools will join the 84 finalists, where they would participate in workshops to varied creative endeavors. The workshops will be conducted by poets drawn from writers organisations domiciled in Ogun State. The students will also be given the opportunity to showcase their individual talents and skills during the workshop and a free expressive creative session called Do Your Own Thing,” Kareem stated. He also said that the Governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun has confirmed his visit to the participants in the course of the second day of the workshop on July 14, where the results of the final essay competition will be announced, and awards (for winners) and certificates will be given to all participants. The participants would be privileged to have a one-on-one encounter with the Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka, whose distinguished personality and accomplishments as a global citizen and eminent promoter of the good of humanity inspired the project. “This is a mentoring session that marks a highpoint of events for the students as they can ask the distinguished dramatist, poet, political and literary activist and professor of Comparative Literature any question about his life, career, and situations in the local and global polities.” The WSICE84 will also feature guest participants from the Southern Illinois University in the USA, who will also be on a weeklong tour of key culture and tourism facilities around the country. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 