Government exists to keep citizens alive and happy: Nothing more, nothing less. The Thai government demonstrated this to the world not long ago when twelve teenage boys belonging to a football team, the Wild Boer, and their coach went missing. Apparently, they had gone for an adventure which took them into a cave and were trapped there by torrential monsoon rains which flooded the cave entrance. When the information of the disappearance on June 23, 2018, came to the notice of the Government of Thailand, it got its 100 per cent attention. The Government mobilised the entire population for a nation-wide manhunt. It also sought international assistance from “search and rescue” experts. To many people, they were hearing that country’s name for the first time. Indeed, its capital, Bangkok, is better known given the fact that its sheer location at the centre of Southeast Asia makes it strategic. However, less is known about the country itself. Officially, it is called the Kingdom of Thailand. Thais run a constitutional monarchy, which, since 1932, has been undergoing reforms; the current constitution adopted in 2017 has actually reinforced constitutionalism. With a population of almost 70 million Thailand ranks as the 21st most populous country in the world. Its neighbours include Cambodia, Myanmar and Laos, while it shares maritime boundaries with Vietnam and Indonesia. Thai did not attract international volunteers because it was poor; the country is regarded as a regional power in Southeast Asia. It has a high human development index and the second biggest economy in the sub-region.  It is one of the newly emerging industrialised countries in the world with manufacturing, agriculture and tourism as the country’s economic mainstay. Thailand evoked international empathy because, by its actions, it showed that it cared for human life above anything else. And help came from different directions; volunteers from all corners of the world: the British divers that located the boys at Tham Luang cave, 36 military personnel from the US Pacific Command, six rescue specialists from China, 17 police divers from Australia, divers from Israel and Denmark, and many other global volunteers, join the 110 Thai Navy SEALs for the rescue operations. The emergency-room management of the efforts was headed by the nation’s leader himself; the on-spot field coordination was shared to ranking ministers and governors. In the two weeks that the operation lasted, no government activity mattered more than saving the lives of these youngsters. The Thai government understood that the essence of government was the safety, security and welfare of its citizens.  This, unfortunately, contrasts sharply with the Nigerian Government’s approach. On June 23, the day the Thai schoolboys went missing, marked the first day of a three-day attack on 11 communities in Barkin Ladi and Riyom Local Government Areas. As 110 Thai Navy SEALs and hundred more international volunteers began to swam around the Chiang Rai province for the rescue of the 12 schoolboys and their coach, tens of hundreds of the Plateau villagers (the elderly, women and children) were surrounded by herdsmen killers, without any police, soldiers or symbols of government authority in sight. I take the liberty to quote from an article by one Dr. Chinnan Mclean to illustrate the sheer contrasting plight of the two groups of citizens in the two countries. In Thai, there was optimism in the air that rescue was on the way. But not the children of Gashish (one of the villages with the highest fatality); Mclean wrote: “things will never be that same particularly for the children. The sounds of rapid gun-fire…the pungent smell of AK- 47 gun-power…the terrifying shouts of Fulfulde as herdsmen close in…the anguish as bullets penetrates flesh…the smell of fresh blood….the last grasps of death… eerie silence as herdsmen retreat into thin air. These greatly traumatic ordeals are now etched indelibly in the psyche of the children and may not recover.” But is it possible that the attack took place without the Government’s awareness? We now have evidence that long before those attacks, the affected communities had alerted the Government. In any case, this was not the first time such attacks were taking place in this area. In 2014 they cost the lives of a sitting Senator and State legislator among hundreds others. STF units exist all over the places and Plateau State Government has set up a Peace Agency with an elaborate early warning system which was launched with fanfare during President Buhari’s visit. But it seems the only information which caught the Federal Government’s fancy was the one which alleged the rustling of Fulani cattle. But even then, it didn’t investigate the allegation until the attacks. These recurring attacks happen because our Government doesn’t know why it is there. The Government continues to flagrantly subvert the clearly spelt out Fundamental Objectives and Derivative Principle of State Policy, enshrined in Chapter II of our Constitution, for its own selfish purposes in the name of governance. How can Government ostentatiously mobilise huge national resources for its quest of self perpetuation in power at the time it couldn’t do so to safeguard the security of lives and property of citizens? For the Ekiti State gubernatorial election of last Saturday, 30, 000 additional police personnel,  5 APCS, 10 APVs, 300 patrol vehicles, 30 K9 explosive ordinance, and 3 surveillance helicopters, were deployed to ensure the victory of its party candidate. Yet, we have not seen such flexing raw military muscles in Plateau, Benue, Zamfara, Adamawa, Taraba, etc, and, now, Sokoto where herdsmen terrorists are on the prowl. Post-script:  I wish to condemn the pelting of the convoy of Governor Simon Lalong after his visit to an IDP camp in Jos last Saturday. The truth is, nomenclature notwithstanding, Lalong can do little in fighting the Fulani herdsmen. But his inability to visit IDP camps 21 days after the killings leaves much to be desired. Government must show that it cares, both in verbal and body language, for the life and welfare of its citizens especially those suffering adversity. Still I abhor the tendency to ethnicise the issue. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 