Lagos – Organisers of the forthcoming African Athletics Championships in Asaba have raised N363 million with Zenith Bank Plc leading other donours with the sum of N300 million. Other donours are Bube Dan gave (N20m), Levant Construction (N20m, Gomene (N11m), Delta State House of Assembly (N7m) and Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development (N5m). According to the organisers of the championships, some corporate organisations and individuals made their donations anonymously, even as they claimed that actual amount of funds raised could not be determined for now. “I can’t give you the exact figure now, more donations and pledges are still coming but we highly impressed by peoples’ response,” said  Bukola Olopade, the consultant for the dinner. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, his wife, Dame Okowa, Deputy Governor Kingsley Otuaro, Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, LOC Chairman Solomon Ogba, his deputy Tony Okowa,  Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung, President of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Ibrahim Gusau, among numerous others attended the fundraising. “In less than three weeks from today, athletes from 47 African countries, as well as officials, will begin to converge in Asaba for this event. It is historic in the sense that though this is the second time Nigeria will be hosting this event, this is the first to be held outside Lagos,” Governor Okowa said on the occasion. He disclosed that the state accepted to host the championships because it provides a “glorious opportunity to further our agenda to regain Delta’s frontline status in sports by hosting this event.” “Apart from being a dominant force in the National Sports Festival in years gone by, Delta State has produced foremost international athletes such as Tony Urhobo, Maria Usifor, Violet Odogwu-Nwajei, Sunday Uti, Blessing Okagbare and many others. “However, in recent times, it does seem like athletics is taking a backseat, hence, our young ones do not see much hope in pursuing a career in athletics. We believe that this event has the potentials to reawaken the interest and consciousness of the upcoming generation and motivate them to strive for greatness in athletics,” the governor said. He continued, “On our own, we have delivered on our promise; the Stephen Keshi Stadium is ready for the event. It was tough but, we got it done and the stadium is actually a beauty to behold.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 