Dwayne Johnson (aka The Rock) action outing Skyscraper leaps into the international marketplace this weekend, opening in 56 international territories almost day-and-date with its North American launch, according to Screendaily.com reports. The Legendary and Universal release went out through Universal Pictures International in France, Belgium and South Korea on Wednesday (July 11) and Australia, Brazil, Germany and Russia on Thursday (July 12). It arrives in Mexico, Spain and the UK/Ireland, as well as North America, on Friday (July 13). Johnson stars in the film, written and directed by Rawson Marshall Thurber, as a former FBI hostage rescuer and US war veteran who works as a security assessor for skyscrapers. On assignment in Hong Kong he must clear his name and save his trapped family after he is framed for a fire at the world’s tallest building. Skyscraper is expected to gross $30m to $35m at the box office over its opening weekend in North America. Universal is also opening Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom in Japan on Friday, looking to add to the blockbuster sequel’s international take to date of $741.5m. The studio’s horror prequel The First Purge has reached $16.7m internationally so far. The only other major-territory openings this weekend are for films that have already started their international roll-outs. Sony Pictures Releasing International opens Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation, which had an international tally of $5.7m as of July 9, in Brazil, Mexico, Russia and Spain this weekend. The computer animated comedy also makes its North American debut this weekend, with an opening take of around $35m expected. Animated sequel Incredibles 2, from Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures International, opens in the UK this weekend, having amassed $286.2m outside North America so far. Disney’s Marvel release Ant-Man And The Wasp arrives in India with $112.1m banked internationally to date. The studio’s Solo: A Star Wars Story has now opened in all territories and taken $170.4m. Fox International opened comedy Super Troopers 2 in Germany and Italy on Thursday and horror thriller Unsane in France on Wednesday. Warner Bros Pictures International reported international takes (as of July 11) of $114.4m for Ocean’s 8, $13.7m for Tag and $11.4m for Life Of The Party. Lionsgate International reported that Sicario: Day of the Soldado has now reached $3.8m internationally.  comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 