Lagos – There was chaos early on Friday morning at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos as three screening machines out of four at the terminal broke down abruptly. The non-functioning of the machines led to several international and regional passengers to miss their flights. Many of the passengers to London with Virgin Atlantic Airways and West Coast missed their flights out of Nigeria. For instance, when most of the Virgin Atlantic Airways passengers got to the check-in counters, the airline had already shut its counters for check-in process. When three out of the four machines broke down, various security agencies had to switch to manual screening of passengers, which led to the gridlock and delay most of the passengers witnessed. A source close to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) told our correspondent that the machines had been faulty in the past few days, but became more pronounced on Friday as three out of the total four were down. A source close to FAAN, however, attributed the faulty screening machines to their qualities. It was gathered that the machines were procured in 2013 when Princess Stella Oduah was a minister in the sector. There have been criticisms against most of the equipment procured by Oduah in the past as most of them are no longer functional or working optimally. Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, the General Manager, Corporate Communications of FAAN, confirmed the development with our correspondent on phone. Yakubu, however, said that its engineers were working hard to return the machines to working conditions. As at the time of filing this report, she said two of the machines had been rectified while others were being worked upon by the agency’s engineers. She said: “Our engineers are working on the machines now. Two are working now and in good conditions. You know, manual screening is what we try as much as possible not to do. Whenever we resort to that, we are very careful about the situation.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 