Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, Governor of Delta State, in this interview with FELIX IGBEKOYI and MICHAEL OLADAPO, speaks on his achievements so far, politics of 2019 and other issues. Excerpts: You were once accused that you intentionally deprived Burutu Local Government Area of Government project. Is the accusation true? I had the opportunity to go to Burutu for a town hall meeting, before that town hall meeting there was an article on the social media. Were somebody has said that Dr Okowa has not been able to go to Burutu Local government because he has not done any project there. When I got to Burutu it was something else that I saw, I saw the jubilation the joy in the hearts of people. This shows that some people can misrepresent the government. Before I got to Burutu, I got the opportunity to visit Ogbotugbo to inspect the road construction. I used to think it was a 18.9km but the actual length is 19.3km road we are doing. I met them asphalting the road and to do a asphalt of road in that area, it means you have to install an asphalt machine. Actually, the contractor had to move an asphalt machine there to install it and after completion of the road, he will have to take it back to the upland. By the time we got there, they had done about 3km of road and were actively on site. How is your administration doing in the Educational Sector owing to dilapidating structures in some schools? We shall continue to take studies very strongly as we are doing a lot in terms of infrastructure but there is still a lot of schools that need intervention. We have over 1100 primary schools and over 474 secondary schools, it’s quite a lot to intervene in all schools within three years. This year we have the biggest project in the educational sector, in 2019 we want to look into the possibility of increasing that budget because our schools need a lot of rehabilitation and they need a lot of infrastructure for optimal performance. Ever since I came in we have been working with the House of Assembly to put a lot more into the education sector. As in school infrastructure, I don’t think there is any State that has the numbers we have, genuine numbers. We have gotten accreditation for over 90 per cent of the courses in Delta State University, DELSU. We have gotten accreditation for the Medical School, Law school and the School of Engineering. These were all done by this administration. Also our Technical Schools are doing well, as we have gotten accreditation for them. The polytechnics are under the process of accreditation; we can assure that we will get needed full accreditation of our courses if not all. Does your administration have any plans in improving the effectiveness of the 05 initiative led by Mrs Edith Okowa, your wife? I thank God for the programme, I have been told a lot of stories. I have seen a lot even in the news of what has been happening across the Local governments. The programs are purely run by the 05 Initiative and the process has been fully funded by the private sector and by individual donations from persons in the various local governments. Some banks have donated; persons from Delta have also made donations. There is sustainability; I believe that the 05 initiative have their plans. I believe the current thing they are doing would have touched a lot of lives and as many that need cataract operation are being attended to. Even in Ughelli alone, I was told that about 148 persons in one Local government alone have been attended to. By the time they are done over 2000 persons would have benefited from the surgery of cataract extractions and other health programs. Though the program is not under the State government I will continue to implore our people to continue to support this initiative. During the recent courtesy visit of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, in your speech you promised Delta would not disappoint him. Does it mean Delta State has pitched tent with Atiku? On the Atiku’s visit, my statement was very clear. I have not come to say as Dr. Okowa, I am supporting Atiku. I have not said so, if you follow us properly what you see is that when he talked to Deltans, it was obvious that he said statements which did interest our people and if his programme as he did say interests the people, I would not be able to hold back the hands of the people. I’m not going to force any Deltan to vote. Deltans who would be delegates in the convention would be allowed to exercise their power in their votes. If you know me, I’m not a person that will insist this is the way it must go. From his programmes, he talked about the issue of restructuring and people were excited and want to follow him, that is what they want. So I made my statement and it is clear and cautious. When Sule Lamido came, people also know that he spoke so well. He is also a man I respect. He also has his followers in the State. It is my hope that the entire Presidential aspirants in PDP will start to talk to each other. Possibly, not all of them will get into the final stage. I chose my words because I do not want, as Governor, for me to say this is the man I’m supporting. I do not want to directly support any candidate. The will of the people would be allowed as their choice is not going to be my will as Dr. Okowa. Are you not bothered that most of the Storm drainage projects constructed in the state have been left in a bad situation especially the difficulty driving using the roads? You can see the drainage projects that are going on along the DLA through the Agric road. The works are still ongoing, all the roads not only Jesus Saves, right from Nnebisi roads would be fixed properly. It is not going to be abandoned; we have apologized to people as they have to be patient. But I think the drainage work is nearing completion and thereafter we will have to fix the roads. There would also be small drains along the Jesus save that would link to the bigger drains. The other major drains would be done in February next year. The roads will be constructed to ensure a befitting capital city. Most of the projects would be completed before August 1, 2018 when the 21st African Senior Athletics Championships, dubbed Asaba 2018 will take place at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba. You can see that the drainage work going on along DLA road through the Agric road is still ongoing but, we are going to fix the roads, not only Jesus Saves road and when they have finished with their work, right from the Nnebisi road through to the Jesus Saves road will all be fixed properly, but they have to finish with the work ongoing first before the roads will be fixed, it will not be abandoned and I believe that the drainage work is nearing completion. At the Cable Point area in Asaba, at a point the Hausa people in the state protested that they do not want development in that area. Since then, there has been no development in that area, at a point there was a threat to the life of the contractor. Does that means such non- indigenes have been able to stop development in that area? At the Cable Point area, there is a misconception over the matter. First, when the State government built the road it was not for the purpose of throwing away the poor in that place. That was not the intention and there was no approval from my office on any development in that place. Somebody talked to the Capital Territory office about how to develop the place and I think that the Capital Territory DG probably asked him to go and have some discussions with the people. Apparently, he went on to start taking actions without approval and I immediately called the Capital Territory and told them I am not aware of the actions taken as we had not had any discussion on the issue. I told them if the people are ready to receive what we call “a buyout” and a relocation money to go somewhere else, it will be the will of the people. I am not going to say because now we have a good road in a place, and then displace those persons who are currently there because of the fact that they are poor. I will not do that. I have not instructed anybody to do that as I would stand on the side of the poor. We got information that about 500 staff of DESOPADEC has been redeployed to DESTMA. Why were they redeployed? I am not aware of this. It must be something new. I am aware that 500 staff of DESOPADEC was redeployed to the Post Primary Education Board. When we found out that we had about 3000 employees in the commission and I am aware they don’t need 3000 employees. We told them to look at their qualifications especially those who also had education qualifications and can teach. We deployed them to the Post Primary Education Board. If there is a discussion between DESOPADEC and DESTMA on redeployment of staff and it works out, I would be very glad. There is a lot of people today in DESOPADEC that are being paid for no work done. I do not recommend sacking them, but if they can be put to work in a place where they can be more effective, then that is for the better; we are aware that DESTMA is a new agency and they have a lot of responsibilities and they will need more workers if they are to effectively manage traffic in not just the state capital but, across the state. The APC did their convention and Adams Oshiomhole, the Ex- Governor of Edo State became the National Chairman. He has promised to destroy and degrade the PDP. What does this portend for your party? I believe it is all politics he is playing and he has the right to play his politics. Just as the PDP has its right to play its politics as well as the other political parties. The only advice I have for politicians both from the APC and PDP is that there must be decorum. We must be cautious with the languages we use. As long as your language is decent, I believe that what we need to do is to address issues and when you address issues and talk issues to the people. It is this advice I would give to all persons no matter the positions they occupy including myself. Wherever you are, try to be civil in your approach to politics because that is the way it ought to be. I don’t like joining issues with people; I believe that the right thing to do is to tell the people what you want to do. In Nigeria today, we need to be generally cautious and civil in languages we use in politics. The Federal government recently awarded a project to dredge the Escravos Bar that will open up the Warri Port. What is your government doing to foster unity among the communities in the area in order for the project to be carried out? Processes are being put in place to engage everyone involved, particularly the youths. As we have to let them know it is in their best interest. The project is for the good of the people of Delta. And beyond the Warri Port there are still other benefits that will come from the dredging of the Escravos bar. I do not hope that any youth would go and try to truncate the project. As at today I am, engaging all the youths and that engagement has started. I’m sure the communities would also understand that the project is for the good of their various communities and will not disturb the process of the project. Deltans are apprehensive over the sack of Delta Line Transport Company Workers. What informed the sack and is there any palliative take away from the government? My administration did not sack staff of the Delta Line as speculated by some persons. Following the commercialisation of the state-run transport company, more than 100 staff would be absorbed by God Is Good Motors, the new management of the company. We have already paid four months arrears before the take over and four more months will be paid and they are also to be paid a disengagement allowance which is being worked on now and they opted to move out probably because of the allowance which they are entitled to receive and thereafter, any one of them who wishes to continue with the company will be subjected to interviews. So, nobody was sacked because I know that some of them are going to be re-engaged and those who will be useful will be put to work and no form of nepotism will be allowed. I am sure that Delta Line is going to come up well because, with the plans that are on ground, we want the company to run in such a manner that as a government, and as a people, we can be proud of it and we can be sure that that when passengers are in these vehicles they can be rest assured of their safety and security; so, in the next few months, we are going to see brand new Delta Line buses, efficiency and quality of service will be the new order for the company. Delta Line had over 400 drivers for just 200 vehicles. It is totally alarming and it turned out that the functional vehicles were only about 80 and that functionality was failing because most of the vehicles were not doing well, and the remaining were just in mechanics. Critics of the intention to commercialise Delta Line should get their facts right. The transport company is a commercial venture and it is supposed to make money for itself and possibly also for the state government through some dividend payment, but, unfortunately over time, government has continued to pour out money into that place, I have witnessed the capitalization of Delta Line three times in the past, and after some time we came back with millions and millions of debt and we could not continue in that manner and we could not allow the mistakes of the past to repeat itself. So, we thought that the best thing was to bring in a private partner who can run the company efficiently because one; is the provision of the services that you expect that company to provide and two; is sustainability of that venture to ensure that it does not go bankrupt. The interest of Deltans and the state were always uppermost in taking decision by this administration and the people will get good benefits from the partnership between God Is Good Motors and Delta State government. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 