ILORIN – Dapo Olorunyomi, Publisher of the Premium Times, has said that his medium would like to meet Kemi Adeosun, the Minister of Finance,  in court if she chooses to go to court on the story that she allegedly forged her National  Youth Service Corps Exception Certificate. He insisted that the investigation the news medium conducted evidently showed that the exemption certificate she parades is a forged one. Olorunyomi stated this when responding to a question from a member of the audience after he delivered a lecture entitled, “Independent Journalism At The Interface Of The Digital Transition,” at the University of Ilorin on Thursday. He delivered the lecture at the 9th Annual Lecture organised by the Mass Communication Department of the university in memory of Mr. Doyin Mahmoud, the Pioneer Head of the Department who died in 2009. Mahmoud, a respectable media executive, was a former Managing Director of the Independent Newspaper Limited, the publisher of DAILY INDEPENDENT. Olorunyomi said PremiumTimes carried out a thorough investigation before publishing the story, adding that the organisation would encourage Adeosun to go to court because that is the best way she could prove the story if she believes it is not true. “Adeosun forged her exception certificate. The story is real. We did a watertight investigation that took us three months before we came out with the story. We encourage her to go to court  if she will like to prove us wrong,” he stated. Responding to another question on the anti-corruption war, the veteran journalist advised the government to strengthen all the agencies responsible for the campaign against corruption and encourage all stakeholders to be part of the campaign to make it more successful. Olorunyomi, while delivering his lecture pointed out importance of independent media to democracy saying, “You really can’t have a healthy democracy without independent media.” The journalist who noted that there was an increasing financial crisis occasioned by such factors as drastic drop in circulation of newspapers, dwindling patronage in advertisement militating against independent journalism, advised that stakeholders must be proactive in addressing the problem to ensure independent media is sustained. He described Mahmoud under whom he said he worked, as a great and knowledgeable journalist whom he said was always thirsty of ideas and knowledge and after improvement  of individual journalists and the institution of journalism. Also speaking, Prof.  Sulyman Abdulkareem, the Vice Chancellor of the university, expressed  that legacies of Mahmoud were being celebrated  by the Mass Communication  Department and advised that people should do good to leave good legacy. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 