Awka – A frontline politician and business tycoon, Chief Godson Chukwuma Ezenagu has alleged that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) robbed him in 2015 following a denial of his electoral victory for Awka-North and South Federal Constituency. He said it was incontrovertible that he won the election but was denied victory by the powers that be following an alleged connivance by some staff of the Independent National Electoral Commissioner ( INEC ) and the PDP candidate to thwart the election. This, according to him, aided the falsification of results got from the polling units, adding that the said PDP candidate who denied him victory was currently representing the constituency at the green chambers. Ezenagu who spoke to journalists in Awka at the weekend about his intention to contest for the Awka-North and South Federal Constituency seat in the 2019 National Assembly elections , said his primary concern was to get to the House of Representatives because he was more qualified as well as in a better position to represent the two local governments at the green chambers. He pointed out that some communities in Awka-North and South are to feel federal government presence since the creation of the constituency, adding that communities like Isiau , Ezinato , Umuawulu ,Mbaukwu , Oba-ofemili, Ebenebe , Urum , to mention a few, have been forlorn and marginalised as well as under political servitude since 1999. The politician also disclosed that Awka-North and South federal constituency started producing members of reps since 1999 and ever since Awka-south has produced the highest number of persons for sixteen years while Awka-North has got only one slot, noting that it is only natural and fair that Awka-south should step down and relinquish its ambition for Awka-North to produce the next member of reps at the green chambers in 2019. According to him, the demand of Awka-North people is that there should be equity, justice and good conscience as it is the turn of Awka-North to represent the two local governments at the national assembly to avoid rancour, restiveness and bad blood. He, therefore, called on elder politicians from the constituency to advise the younger ones to drop their ambitions and let equity prevail to salvage Awka-North from political slavery and marginalisation. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 