LAGOS – Nigeria’s political sphere has been thrown into mourning as Alhaji Adamu Ciroma, a veteran politician and statesmen died on Thursday July, 5, 2018. According to his family source, Ciroma, a former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), died at 84 in an Abuja hospital after a protracted illness. Ciroma, who served as Minister of Finance under ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo, was also a one-time Minister of Agriculture and Managing Director of the New Nigerian Newspapers. He was a founding member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Born on November 20, 1934 at Potiskum, Yobe State, Ciroma had a very long political career. During the Second Republic, he was one of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) presidential aspirants who contested in the party’s primary. He came third in the primary, behind Shehu Shagari and Maitama Sule. Ciroma was briefly the NPN Secretary and later served at various times as Minister for Industries, Agriculture and Finance. As a senior cabinet minister in the Shagari administration, he played pivotal roles in the implementation of the President’s agenda, especially in the areas of food production and working with international agencies to develop an Agricultural Development Project (ADP). In September 1983, he was made the chairman of a Presidential Transition Committee, a demonstration of the trust the President had in his ability. The committee was mandated to make proposals on how to re-structure the Federal Government, which was going through crisis. His wife, Maryam Ciroma, is a former PDP National Women Leader. Till his death, Ciroma played notable roles in the nation’s politics for the past five decades, during which he received accolades from friends and associates as well as condemnation of political adversaries. As a northern apologist, Ciroma’s views were very much respected, even as he never shied away from commenting on any national issue. For instance, on restructuring, he was quoted as saying, “no one is afraid of restructuring,” while responding to the growing agitation for the restructuring of the Nigerian federation. On the right to self-determination by the Biafra and Niger Delta agitators, Ciroma had declared, “anybody that wants to go can go, but should be ready to face the consequence.” At the height of the PDP crisis, Ciroma had said: “Well, everybody is aware that the PDP has been in trouble since it lost the elections in 2015 and they have internal squabbles and the leadership is being claimed by different people.” On the possibility of PDP returning to power in 2019, the late statesman said, “There are certain things which only soothsayers can tell; none of us is a soothsayer, we cannot tell what will happen in 2019. “Human beings act in the light of their experiences and things may change between now and then. And so, it is not fair to ask anybody to predict what is going to happen in PDP or the politics of Nigeria at that time. “Only people who are participating that try to solve their problem, those who want to become leaders and those who push others. So, it is something that you cannot tell. But, all we know is that they are trying to solve their problems.” Ciroma also felt strongly about the 2015 loss of power by his party. He said: “I can tell you that PDP lost power because they departed from the principles which were laid down. PDP was a party set up to ensure that every part of this country is involved, everyone is involved, that no part of the country is left out, that the military cannot just come back and take power and that was how it succeeded in 1999.” On the emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari, Ciroma opined: “The point I was trying to make was that PDP did a number of things which made people lose confidence; there are people like me who felt that the party radically departed from its principles and therefore, lost the confidence of many of its supporters. Any party in power will always do things which some people will say are good while some are not good and eventually they will lose if the bad things overcome the good things. “The APC has its leader elected the President of this country because of the troubles that are in PDP, it appears that it doesn’t even exist for the time being; we will only know what real APC is when PDP resolves its problems.” Addressing members of PDP Board of Trustees (BoT) in July 26, 2016, Ciroma said: “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) did not lose the 2015 presidential election, neither did the All Progressives Congress (APC) win it.” He maintained that in spite of the fact that the Federal Government is being led by the APC, the PDP is dominating political discuss. Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Afenifere leader, in his reaction, expressed shock over Ciroma’s death, saying that he was among the progressive politicians in the North. He lamented Ciroma’s death at a time Nigeria is in dire need of people like him. Adebanjo said: “Ciroma was a fair minded politician unlike many others in the North. We may disagree about certain issues. But, at last, we have to agree. That was why we had the 2014 National Conference. “It is unfortunate that the Federal Government has found it difficult to implement the outcome of that conference, especially as it concerns restructuring. May his soul rest in peace.” Chief Ochi Ode Emmanuel, Chairman, Middle Belt Traditional Council (MBTC), in his reaction to Ciroma’s death, stated: “Too bad. He was a fearless Nigerian. This is not the right time for him to have died. “We need people like him who can hold forth on the side of the poor. He was frank. He said things from his inner heart. “We need people like him now that there are a lot of cowards who want to curry the favour of the people in the corridors of power. His political family, the PDP will miss his fatherly advice. The party must stand firm and appeal to Nigerians to forgive them for their actions and inactions when they were in power.” Comrade Yunusa Tanko, the National Chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP) described Ciroma’s death as a sad event, even as he maintained that everything about the world is vanity upon vanity. He added: “That is why we need to live a good life, for whatever good you do will go with you. Ciroma was a great man who loved the country. May god give his family the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. “He was at the onset when the PDP was formed. What was in their mind was to form a party which would embrace every section of Nigeria. “His position on restructuring is based on fairness, justice and equity. How I wish we are able to put all these together for the interest of the Nigerian people. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 