Abuja – The Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC) on Thursday filed a suit at the Federal High Court in Abuja, seeking an order of perpetual injunction restraining Adams Oshiomhole and 53 other defendants from parading themselves as officers of APC or performing any function as officers of the party in any capacity whatsoever. The R-APC said their election and swearing-in as officers of APC was invalid, null and void. Defendants in the suit are members of the national executives led by Adams Oshiomhole, members of NWC, the chairmen of each of the 36 states executive council, INEC, and the APC. Plaintiffs in the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/1734/18 are Buba Galadima, Kazeem Afegbua, Nicholas Asuzu, and Hadi Ametuo. The plaintiffs filed the suit through their counsel, Tolu Babalaye, just as they claimed that they sued for themselves and on behalf of all the other national officers, state chairmen, and state executives of All Progressives Congress. Specifically, the plaintiffs, who are members of R-APC, wants: “A declaration that having regard to the constitution of the All Progressives Congress (APC), particularly article 20, thereof, the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Electoral Act, the election conducted by the party at Eagles Square, Abuja, on the 23rd day of June, 2018 is invalid, null and void, particularly the purported election of the following persons into the following respective offices, namely: National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole; National Welfare Secretary, Alhaji Ibrahim Masari; National Financial Secretary, Alhaji Tunde Belio; National Physically Challenged, Misbahu L. Didi; Zonal Secretary, North-Central, Dr. Zakari Muhammed; Zonal Organising Secretary, North-Central, Ibrahim M. Abdu; Zonal Women Leader, North-Central, Hajia Hassana Abdullahi; Ex-Officio, North-Central, Nelson Abba; Zonal Secretary, North-East, Abubakar Sadiq Ajia; Ex-Officio, North-East, Mallam lsah Azare; Zonal Secretary, North-West, Tukur A. Gusau; Zonal Organising Secretary, North-West, Abdulmunab Muhammad, and etc. “A declaration that there being no valid election at the national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on the 23rd day of June, 2018, at the Eagles Square, Abuja, thereby leaving a vacuum, the reform-minded faction of APC known as the Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC) validly constituted the plaintiffs and the other national officers and state executives of APC to fill the vacuum and act in interim capacities as officers of the APC. “An order of perpetual injunction restraining the 1st to 52nd defendants from parading themselves or claiming to be officers of the All Progressives Congress (APC) or performing any function as officers of the party in any capacity whatsoever as their elections and swearing-in as officers of APC are invalid, null and void. “An order of perpetual injunction restraining the 53rd defendant from harassing, intimidating, suspending or expelling any of or all the plaintiffs from the All Progressives Congress; or taking any steps whatsoever to harass, intimidate, suspend or expel or abridge or terminate the plaintiffs’ membership, rights and entitlements in the All Progressives Congress. “An order of perpetual injunction restraining the 54th defendant from recognising or accepting the 1st to 52nd defendants as either national officers, members of the National Working Committee, Zonal Executives or State Executives of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “An order directing the 54th defendant to recognise the plaintiffs who are members of the reform-minded faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the current interim national officers, members of the National Working Committee, Zonal Executives or State Executives of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and accord them all rights and privileges appertaining to the respective offices pending the holding of valid elections by the party. In a 39-paragraph statement of claim, the plaintiffs claimed that the APC was harbouring intractable divisions and the party was awaiting a massive implosion and might collapse finally unless steps were taken by reform-minded members to address the issues. This is the raison d’etre for the R-APC and the appointment of the plaintiffs. They also claimed that the situation got out of hand as the congresses recently conducted by the APC at the ward, local government and state levels, culminated in the purported national NWC of the party held on June 23, 2018. In addition, they claimed that APC had become factionalised and there was no longer a secret as the crisis tearing the party to pieces at the national and sub-national levels were in the public domain. They added that the manner in which the national convention of the party was conducted had deepened the division within the party and exacerbated the leadership crisis from wards to the national level all over the country. They further added that most members of the party felt alienated and that this had resulted in open and massive divisions, factionalisation, and disenchantment within the rank and file of the party. No date has been fixed for the hearing of the matter. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 