Lagos – The Super Eagles were left to lick their wounds at the ongoing FIFA World Cup after Marcos Rojo’s late goal for Argentina condemned them to early exit from the competition. Nigeria needed to hold on for the next five minutes to eliminate the former world champions, but sustained pressure from the Argentines resulted to the goal. But beyond the goal were issues bothering on certain questionable decisions against the former African champions, which analysts agreed accounted for Nigeria’s unceremonious elimination from the quadrennial competition. For instance, apart from the Rojo’s handball in the 86th minute inside the penalty box, which saw opinions divided among referees on the necessity or otherwise of awarding a second penalty kick to Nigeria, Kelechi Iheanacho was fouled in the box earlier on by Javier Mascherano and the referee, as well as the Video Assistant Referee (VAR), looked the other way. Turkish centre referee in the match, Cakir Cuneyt, was later quoted by John Obi Mikel, the captain of the Super Eagles, as saying that the ball actually hit Rojo’s hand and that he (referee) couldn’t explain why he failed to give a second penalty kick to Nigeria. “I asked the referee if the ball hit his hand and he said yes. He also said he did not know why it was not a penalty,” Mikel said. Meanwhile, many stakeholders agreed that Nigeria had a valid ground to protest what looked an obvious injustice against them, saying that the Super Eagles’ elimination was aided by bad decisions against them Speaking to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, Henry Nwosu, the team’s former captain, noted that much as the referees have the final say in a match, their decisions could still be subjected to scrutiny. “Yes we are eliminated but I think if we had a valid reason to protest, it is allowed but not to reverse the decision but to serve as a reference point in future. If the officiating was bad, we can then say that it was not entirely their fault to be so eliminated,” he said. However, unlike their African brothers, who petitioned FIFA over obvious lapses from the referees and VARS, Nigeria did not protest for obvious reasons. The leadership of the Amaju Pinnick-led board of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has formed a strong bond with world football’s top hierarchy. For instance, in January 2017, Pinnick, the NFF President, was named as a member of one of FIFA’s most important committees – the Organising Committee for Competitions. This is apart from his significant roles at the ongoing Mundial, where he has been serving as match official. Recall that for the first time in Nigeria’s history, Pinnick made it possible for a sitting FIFA President to visit Nigeria twice in a space of 18 months. In July 2016, Gianni Infantino, with FIFA secretary, Fatma Samoura, was in Nigeria for a two-day visit. And less than one year, the FIFA boss was in Lagos on February 19, for the maiden edition of the NFF award. Most importantly, Pinnick was among the gladiators that planned the election of Infantino. The FIFA President, demonstrating his attachment to the NFF leader, travelled to Nigeria, alongside other federation heads from Africa, to strategise on how to enthrone Ahmad Ahmad as the new CAF President. In fact, it has been said in some quarters that Issa Hayatou was defeated in Nigeria even before that year’s CAF Congress and Pinnick, as well as Infantino, made it possible. After calls to Demola Olajire, the NFF image maker, rang unanswered, a source at the football house in Abuja, who pleaded not to be mentioned, revealed to SATURDAYINDEPENDENT that the NFF and FIFA had sorted the issues of poor officiating against Nigeria out, thereby confirming our stand that the closeness between Abuja and Zurich, the headquarters of FIFA, would make it impossible for any formal complaint to be lodged against referees in matches involving the country. “It is not as if we did not notice all the points Nigerians are making for us to protest against certain decisions by the referees. But of what purpose will it be now since it will not upturn the results? But I can now tell you that we have talked it out with them (FIFA) and that has been settled,” said the source. Meanwhile, recall that both Morocco and Senegal lodged formal complaints over what they termed poor decisions from both VAR and the centre referees. Morocco, on June 28, became the first country at the ongoing World Cup to lodge complaint. Morocco, which was in group B of the competition, complained that a series of officiating mistakes facilitated its ouster from the competition, especially in matches against Portugal and Spain. In its complaint to FIFA, Morocco said ‘serious errors’ led to its inability to qualify for the second round, adding that the VAR system has been used to favour its opponents. “We want to express our indignation at the injustice suffered by our national team, following serious refereeing errors that led to (the team’s) premature exit from the first round of the 2018 World Cup,” Morocco revealed in a letter it sent to Infantino, the FIFA President. Signed by its FA President, Fouzi Lekjaa, Morocco added: “The severity of these refereeing errors is all the more evident in the fact that in these two matches [against Portugal and Spain], the use of VAR served only to preserve the interests of our competitors.” It pointed to three incidents in its game against Portugal, including Cristiano Ronaldo’s goal early in the game, saying that it should have been disallowed because a Portuguese player committed a foul before the strike. In the 2-2 draw against Spain, Lekjaa listed five decisions that erroneously went against his country, including Spain’s added time equaliser “With what has happened we can only express our serious concern at the persistence of these injustices and the negative impact on the image of FIFA and the future of football,” he said. He urged FIFA to “take the necessary measures and make the necessary adjustments in order to repair these injustices and guarantee the conditions of a competition with equal opportunities for all teams.” Following suit was Senegal who were denied a spot in the knockout stage due to the newly introduced fair play rule. Senegal tied with Japan on the number of points garnered, the number of goals scored and the number of goals conceded, as well as tied on head-to-head. Consequently, the onus fell on the interpretation of fair play rule to determine who joined Colombia for a place in the round of 16. In the course of their group matches, Senegal accumulated two more yellow cards than Japan. While the West Africans were cautioned seven times, the Asians were warned five times. So Japan set up a crunch round of 16 tie against Belgium, leaving Senegal to lick their wounds. However, the Senegalese Federation, through their protest, questioned the concept of fair play in football when Japan resorted to ‘play cautiously’ after learning that Colombia had scored against them in their group’s final game knowing that on account of fair play rule, they (Japan) would knock out Senegal. In the game, the already eliminated Poland led Japan 1-0 and the former resorted to playing within their own territory to avoid any form of caution, even as Poland, knowing that nothing was at stake for them, also decided not to chase for the ball. In the protest, Senegal wrote: “FIFA has adopted a new system but does the fair play rule solve all the problems? After the game, nothing happened to either Japan or Poland.’ “There should be some means of penalising players, coaches or teams for such an attitude. “The federation believes that Japan literally refused to play when it learned that Colombia had just scored a goal against Senegal, a refusal to play that suited Japan but which is contrary to the principles governing football,” the letter stated. “The federation is all the more shocked that the Japan coach did not deny the facts. In the post-match press conference, the latter even confirmed he had made the decision to manipulate the result by keeping the score at 1-0. “The Senegalese Football Federation deplores the lack of fair play this Japanese team has shown. It challenges FIFA on the notion of ranking the number of cards which loses its meaning and interest when the team lacking fair play is not worried by any penalty.” Meanwhile, if Nigeria had protested and won it, perhaps monetary compensations would have come their way. Recall that after the 2010 World Cup qualifiers, FIFA granted Ireland $5 million after they won a protest for missing a place at that year’s final following Thierry Henry’s hand ball goal which eliminated them. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 