Lagos – The police have announced the setting up of a team of Specialised Crack Investigation Detectives by the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, to investigate the ambush, attack and killing of seven policemen on July 2 by armed bandits. The police officers were killed while on duty at the Galadimawa Roundabout, FCT, Abuja. The team of detectives was set up on July 3 by the IGP alongside Police Scene of Crime experts and Technical Intelligence Unit of the Force. Spokesperson for the Police Force Headquarters, Moshood Jimoh, who made this disclosure on Thursday in a statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the specialized investigation team is headed by Bala Ciroma, a Commissioner of Police. Ciroma is “an experienced, crime bursting and a seasoned investigator,” Jimoh said. He added that Ciroma would be assisted in the task by four Deputy Commissioners of Police, two Assistant Commissioners of Police and a Chief Superintendent of Police. He further disclosed that the team has already swung into action and has been directed by the IGP to complete the assignment within 21 days. Listing the terms of reference of the team, Moshood stated that they include: “A thorough and discreet investigation of the ambush attack and killing of the seven Policemen while on duty on 2nd July, 2018. “Unravel, arrest, and prosecute those responsible for the killings. “Detect the motives behind the ambush and killing of the seven Policemen. “Work with the Commissioner of Police, FCT, in the investigation of the incident. “Take over further investigation into the killings from the FCT CIID.” “Take any other instruction from the IGP in ensuring the prompt resolution of the crime to bring the perpetrators to justice. “Obtain evidence; receive complaints and information from public spirited individuals or any other member of the public with useful information that can assist them in their investigation. “Proffer strategies and recommendations to forestall similar attack in the future.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 