Workers under the aegis of the United Labour Congress (ULC) in its statement on the issue, applauded the uncovering of the fraud in the Fund between 2011 and 2015, saying the FG’s effort is in tandem with its anti-corruption stance given the havoc corruption has caused the society. They, however, noted what it described as misleading information that borders on a member of the labour movement who, according to them, was indicted by the minister in the fraud scandal. The body challenged the honourable Minister to publish the names of the individuals he said were indicted by that report, maintaining that “this is the only way to avoid raising unnecessary insinuations though the Court records are there for any member of the Public that is interested in the matter to find out who has been indicted or not. “The news that appeared in some national dailies alleging that the Federal Government through the instrumentality of the Federal Ministry of Labour’s Administrative Panel has uncovered fraud in the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) between 2011 and 2015 came to us with mixed feelings. It was joyful but contains a serious item that if not clarified may mislead the Public and other stakeholders of the NSITF. Our immediate reaction to every uncovering of alleged fraud in Nigeria anywhere is always rejoicing within our rank and file given our anti-corruption stance. We know the havoc corruption can inflict on a nation and Nigerian workers and masses are primary victims of this pervasive wickedness in our polity. This was, therefore, a cheerful news and indeed commendable. Workers’ contributions cannot be mismanaged and we keep quiet. Any effort directed at recovering the monies that may have grown wings to us must be supported by us since Nigerian workers are the major contributors to the Fund which actually belongs to us. “Nevertheless, this is contrary to the fact that as we speak 6 former directors of the NSITF have been charged to Court by the EFCC including the NECA representative and there is no Labour man involved in it. Only the Minister can tell Nigerians where he got his own conclusions from! “We disagree with the Honourable Minister and we want to state categorically that no labour representative was found culpable. They were neither indicted by the EFCC investigations of the Board nor by the subsequent Administrative Panel to which they were not rightly invited having not been found with any issues to which explanations were needed. “It is, therefore, a gross misrepresentation of the so-called facts or an outright mischief for the handlers of the Honourable Minister to have made that over a generalised statement which attempted to rope innocent labour representatives into the alleged fraud and to which they knew nothing about. “We, therefore, hope that the Minister was misquoted in that blanket statement or that he was unmindful of its overall implications before going to the Press. Whatever may be the case, it behoves the Minister now that we have reminded him of the actual facts and its consequences to doing the needful by placing a rejoinder in the dailies to avoid misleading the Public in such serious matters of state. “We challenge the honourable Minister to publish the names of the individuals he said were indicted by that report. This is the only way to avoid raising unnecessary insinuations though the Court records are there for any member of the Public that is interested in the matter to find out who has been indicted or not. “The Honourable Minister ought to remember that EFCC’s investigations did not indict some individuals on the Board. We are also not unmindful of the implications of setting up an Administrative Panel in a matter already investigated by the EFCC which to us is a clear indictment of the EFCC – was the Minister passing a vote of no confidence? We are therefore aghast that despite the Bill of innocence given to the Labour representatives, the Minister still went ahead to make the unfortunate statement to which he has alluded. We do not want to be drawn unnecessarily into the politics of the NSITF as we want to distance ourselves from its activities as it concerns the Board appointment shenanigans. We would not want however, to be tarred together with whatsoever individuals that may have been found culpable by the different investigations. All we demand is that the Funds which belong to Nigerian workers must not be mismanaged by any individual or group. Anybody that may have been found to have been involved in any alleged missing funds must be brought before the relevant institutions for appropriate sanctions and full recovery. No politics with our money! We believe that the credibility of not just the Ministry of Labour, but the Federal Government will be in jeopardy if it is found to be a harbinger of half-truths and outright falsehood to Nigerians. If this is how the operations of the Ministry are conducted then, as representatives of workers, we are left seriously concerned”, it was stated in a statement made available to Sunday Independent”. Support For Government Action The workers’ Group on Thursday threw its weight behind the decision of the Federal Government to probe the N62.3billion mismanagement by the former management and board of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF). Didi Adodo, General Secretary of the union, said in a statement that the development would go a long way to sanitise the industry and makes it fulfil the aims and objectives of its existence “Hearing the rot and the plundering that has taken place in that agency is enough for any right-thinking organisation and comrade to support a major probe that will not only unearth what has taken place but also to bring the perpetrators to justice. The Fund which was set up to bring succour to the working class has been looted over the years that it has not been able to fulfil the reason for its establishment. The current probe is, therefore, a welcome one and we hope that after the probe, NSITF, will be put in proper shape to deliver on its mandate We call on the government to do a detailed investigation of the NSITF and Trust Fund. These two bodies have workers’ funds, their life savings and in this era of the fight against corruption, there should be no sacred cow.” The Federal Government had last month constituted an administrative panel of inquiry to investigate how N62.3 billion was mismanaged by the former Management and Board of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF). The Minister of Labour and Employment, Ngige, who inaugurated the panel announced a compulsory 30 days leave in the first instance for officers of the Fund to enable the panel to carry out its assignment without hindrance. The minister said the nine-member panel headed by the Director of Finance and Accounts of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Ishaya A. Awotu, would look into the financial state of the NSITF with a view to purging it of all negative trails inflicted on it by the last board and management. Ngige had said: “As you may be aware, the last Board and Administration of the NSITF left negative trails inimical to any advancement and progress for both the human and infrastructural components of the NSITF. “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had discovered various acts of fraudulent diversions from the Federal Government and Private Sector Contributions amounting to N62.3 billion as at 2015, allegedly perpetrated by the past board and management staff of the NSITF.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 