Barrister Firdaus Amasa, a University of Ilorin Muslim law graduate, who was denied the Call to Bar by the Nigerian Law School last year over her refusal to remove her Hijab before she could be allowed to attend the ceremony, was on Tuesday called to the Bar in Abuja. Ms Amasa, whose call to the Bar attracted series of commendations from Islamic scholars and organisations after she was denied in December last year, was finally ushered into the legal profession along with other new wigs at the Nigerian Law School, Bwari, Abuja, the nation’s capital. Mallam Muhammad Jameel Muhammad, the National Amir (President) Muslim Students Society of Nigeria (MSSN), while reacting via a statement mailed to our correspondent, described the victory as a struggle between decency and indecency. Muhammad said: “Today the 26th day of Shaawal, 1439AH (Tuesday, July 10, 2018), the struggle between decency and indecency took a new dimension. Firdaus Amasa was called to Bar adorned in her Hijab, after being denied earlier on December 13, 2017 by apostles of indecency. “It is persistence and doggedness in the fight for our Allah-given rights and constitutionally guaranteed freedoms that have paid off. Let us be persistent and consistent in demanding our rights within the ambit of law. We are grateful to Allah for the height attained. We are also grateful for the support received from well- meaning Nigerians who stood for justice. Thank you all.” Dr. Saheed Ashafa, Lagos State Area Unit Amir (President) of MSSN, while reacting to the development, added that the Nigerian Law School had shown enough maturity in the matter by calling the young female Muslim lawyer to Bar with her Hijab. Ashafa said: “The Nigerian Law School has shown enough maturity in this matter by calling Amasa to bar with her Hijab. Not allowing her would have been a breach of her rights and an injustice, and would have sent a bad signal that the House of Justice is ill. “It would also have been counterproductive to the agenda of the Federal Government to encourage girl-child education. The victory of Amasa would encourage other females to pursue any course of their choice without the fear of being victimised. “The entire MSSN Lagos State rejoices with Firdaus Amasa. We urge other institutions having cases to determine relating to the Hijab to follow this step. It is practical enough. “The Hijab is not a harmful outfit. It is mandatory for every female Muslim. Denying it means denying the Muslim females of their fundamental human rights, which is against the 1999 Constitution (as amended).” Dr  Lukman AbdurRaheem,the Muslim Congress, reacted through its Amir, declared that Amasa had registered her name as an Amazon of Islam by standing firm while the struggle lasted. AbdulRaheem said, “The news that Firdaus Amasa was called to bar today is gratifying and reassuring. Truth always prevails over falsehood. Amasa has registered her name as an Amazon of Islam. “She demonstrated faith, patience and steadfastness in the face of harassment unleashed by Islamophobes in the Law School.” The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), in its own contribution, hailed the Nigerian Law School, the Body of Benchers and the Council of Legal Education for deeming it fit to grant redress by calling Amasa to the bar with her Hijab. Professor Lakin Akintola, MURIC Director, while reacting in a statement obtained by our correspondent, said, “The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) hails the Nigerian Law School, the Body of Benchers and the Council of Legal Education for deeming it right to grant redress by calling Amasa Firdaus to Bar with her Hijab. “The Nigerian Law School has succeeded in restoring the confidence of Nigerian Muslims in legal education by giving recognition to the identity of the Muslim person. “We appeal to the authorities to allow other female Muslim students who elect to wear the Hijab below their wigs in future Call to Bar ceremonies.” Sheikh AbdurRahman Sulaiman Adangba, the National Missioner of QUAREEB, in his own reaction, urged the Lagos State government to borrow a leaf from the decision of the Body of Benchers by stopping the gimmicks it had been exhibiting on the issue of the Hijab in the state. Adangba said: “Victory comes with truth, selflessness and steadfastness. Her victory is for all women, African independence from imported and imposed cultures, and a world record of emancipation. I salute her courage. “The Lagos State government should take heed from this and stop the gimmicks they are exhibiting currently on the issue of the Hijab. It is best they take the glory of allowing the Hijab now, than be overwhelmed by a victory for the lovers of the Hijab at the Supreme Court again, despite all odds.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 