Senator Emmanuel Onwe is the Ebonyi State Commissioner for Information and State Orientation. In this interview with CHIJIOKE AGWU in Abakaliki, he spoke on the challenges of the advancing opposition in the state ahead of the 2019 general elections as well as the government’s efforts at resolving some of the inter and intra communal conflicts in the state, among other topical issues. Excerpts: Inter and intra communal clashes have been a recurring decimal in Ebonyi state even as the general elections are fast approaching. What is the government doing to restore peace before politics takes the centre stage? The challenges of security have been of the greatest concern to the current administration. And the governor has devoted time, energy and resources towards curtailing and resolving them where necessary. One of the most outstanding accomplishments of the governor is the final settlement of the Ezillo conflict. If you may recall, in 2009 that crisis claimed many lives in very harrowing and gruesome manner. It was the height of brutality between the two communities of Ezillo and Ezza-Ezillo, but due to the devotion and dedication of the governor in the last couple of years, the two communities have been reconciled. A settlement is being built where the displaced community of Ezza-Ezillo is being relocated. That is indicative of the commitment the governor has made to ensure that peace and tranquility are restored in that location within Ebonyi. There are some other flashpoints, of course. There is a location in Izzi called Mkpumaekwoku where a parcel of land generated a very heated intra-communal conflict a while ago now. When the governor got a hint of it, he took his entire government functionaries to the location and had discussions with the community and thereafter took over the disputed parcel of land and quelled the hostilities.  The governor has done a lot in trying to quell some of the intra-communal crises in the state. The recent being the ones between the people of Abakaliki and Ikwo. Also ,the land disputes between communities in Ebonyi and Cross River states are being looked into presently by governments of both states and we are very hopeful that very soon amicable resolutions of the disputes will be reached and peace will return permanently in the warring communities. Recently, members of the state executive council including the Deputy Governor and journalists were banned from entering the Executive Council Chambers with their phones and recording gadgets. What was the rationale behind the action? Look, the executive chamber of any state is an arena in which very important matters are discussed and where some very sensitive decisions are taken. And we know that the vast majority of journalists are very professional, ethical, upright and upstanding but there are very few of them that are always intent on making mischief. Therefore, the decision that was taken to ban recording devices and equipment of that sort was to ensure the integrity of the decisions reached within the chambers are maintained and protected. Again, we have a tradition of briefing newsmen on all the important decisions reached after council meetings to ensure accountability and transparency. But not for people to record matters that are under serious discussions before resolutions and decisions are reached and taken in order to either create bad blood between the competing interests in the state or simply to gain notoriety. That was why the decision was rightly taken to stop that from happening. Every self-respecting institution is entitled to take any measure it deems necessary to safeguard its processes and procedures from reckless and idiotic abuse. Governor Umahi’s achievements have continued to attract applause and awards all along. Being a widely travelled man, which of his achievements do you consider most novel and outstanding in the light of the 21st century civilization? Very interesting question .I think every single one of the Governor’s achievements is highly commendable because there is no area that he has not touched that Ebonyi was not desperately in need of transformative action. Is it about the road construction? We desperately needed good roads and have done so for a very long time. Is it the transformation of the capital city? We didn’t have a befitting capital city until the Governor came along demonstrated to the world what a capital city should look like. Is it about building bridges across the rivers? That is the only way to gain access to our rural communities. Is it about emphasis on agriculture? There is now food sufficiency in Ebonyi State and affordable prices. I think rice is the cheapest food in Ebonyi as of today, and the people are being empowered, both young and old people, particularly women and the youths, in order to ensure that the tradition of self reliance is engendered. However the best of these achievements, as far as am concerned, is in the area of education, both at primary and secondary levels. Ensuring that our classrooms are equipped, our primary schools are reconstructed, our secondary schools are reconstructed, and teachers’ salaries are paid on time. School fees of our University have been reduced by about ten per cent and the College of Education in Ikwo is now a degree awarding institution. For me, any measure taken to advance education, no matter how modest the incremental change, is always the overriding measure because ultimately when you have a critical mass of educated people everything else will naturally follow. So, the Governor has touched the critical sectors in the state: education, infrastructure, health, empowerment, and even the upliftment of the infirm, the aged and the every sick. Those strides in the area of education stand out for me and the positive measures are very likely to continue into the Governor’s assured second tenure. Politics of 2019 is fast gathering momentum and some political actors in Abakaliki bloc are posturing for the Governorship of the state. Coming from the bloc yourself, what is your take on that? The Governor of Ebonyi State is a man I describe as a political heavyweight champion within the political arena. And there is a pugilist aphorism, which says that every boxing match is won the moment the boxer steps into the ring. This aphorism clearly captures the state of affairs in the Ebonyi political contestation at the present time. Governor Umahi is a political heavyweight champion who is not only fully prepared for the contest but have been standing in the ring for well over 2 years now, raring to go, but no opponent. None presented by the APC, none by the SDP, none by APGA, none by any political party of any note. Thus far, they have never rallied; they have never campaigned to any extent that attracted anybody’s attention; they have never shown that they have the capacity to mobilise the citizens in either large or small setting; they have not empowered anyone; they have not encouraged any citizen to be productive either through their words or deeds; they are bereft of policies and have not proposed any agenda or initiatives for taking Ebonyi from its current elevated position to the stratosphere where clearly Gov Umahi is aiming. APC in particular is a party of zero ideas, zero initiative, zero feasible policies, zero programmes. The confusion and indolence are quite staggering. There will not be any magic beyond the democratic will of the people of Ebonyi State. The people are the referees. They have been in the ring with the Governor for the past 3 years. They have seen his state of preparedness. They have witnessed him build roads; build bridges; build schools and equip classrooms; build hospitals; install streetlights; empower widows, women and the youth to build their capacities for self-reliance; take the lead in agriculture in all its departments but with particular emphasis on rice production. They have seen him show extraordinary prudence and tackled corruption, profligacy and wastages to a standstill, thereby securing the limited resources accruable to the State, managing them prudently and recording stellar performances. He is the heavyweight who is so well prepared through toil and sweat, so well toned and so confident in his capabilities. He is going into his second tenure practically unopposed. This is going to be a technical knockout and we want Ebonyi people to be extra vigilant. Let the world be alert. This heavyweight champion has practically won his contest through strenuous preparation even before the first punch is thrown. That’s how heavyweight contests are won. Governor Umahi has methodically, conscientiously, prudently, tactically, strategically and pragmatically reconstructed the physical characteristics of Ebonyi State and the mental constitution and self-assessment of its people. In so doing, he simultaneously neutered the opposition elements, rendering them speechless, thoughtless, rudderless, witless and therefore directionless! Under these circumstances, it baffles me that some misguided individuals are going about weakly projecting half-baked ambitions to contest the gubernatorial office. As for those contesting from Abakaliki bloc, well, they are wasting their time, quite frankly. Apart from being the image-maker of this administration you are also into serious farming. What is the motivation for farming in spite of your tight schedules? I think I have made a number of pronouncements about this. And it is worthy repeating .I got involved in farming because agriculture occupies the primacy of the programmes and policies of the state government, of which I am a member. And the Governor himself, to be fair, has led this policy agenda with such passion, commitment, energy and vigour. It has been inspirational indeed. So, I was inspired by the governor’s passion and dedication. It has been a great sacrifice to get involved at the level I got involved because I make the claim, and I stand to be contradicted with evidence, that I have the largest individual rice farm in the whole of the southern Nigeria, without any iota of doubt in my mind. Any one who lays a claim to a larger rice farm in the southern part of Nigeria should come forward and prove it. But ultimately, in the last analysis, it is not really about the size but the commitment. It is to prove that Ebonyi has the capacity to be the food basket of West Africa. Leaving my case aside, the greatest tribute must be paid to the women in the villages and hinterlands who are cultivating one hectare, half a hectare or even smaller proportions and the Governor who has made the necessary inputs and incentives available for farmers in the state. FG recently designated Ebonyi as one of the states to establish Cattle Colonies. Is the state government ready to give out land to the FG for the purpose? No. The governor of Ebonyi has made it categorically clear that Ebonyi State has no land for a cattle colony because what it means is that designated States will have to surrender about 5000 hectares of land. 5000 hectares of land represents 500,000 square meters of land. In a simple arithmetic what that translates to is 25km stretch of land by 20km.That sort of land is not available in Ebonyi State for goodness sake. Ebonyi is one of the smallest states in the federation in terms of landmass, measuring just about 5,500 square kilometres. So if we surrender 5000 hectares of land for cattle colony, what is left? Again, Ebonyi is not known for cattle rearing or breeding. We have a stellar reputation for crop farming and not for animal husbandry or cattle breeding. Our land shall continue to be dedicated for the cultivation of rice, yams, potatoes, cassava, cocoa yams, et cetera, et cetera comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 