ASABA – Francis Alimikhena, the Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate, has cautioned the former Secretary to Edo State Governor, Julius Ihonvbere, and his Campaign Organization (ICO), against endangering the ongoing peace and unity across the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Edo North. The caution may not be unconnected with the ongoing rumour by the media team of the former SSG, also an Edo North senatorial aspirant, that Alimikhena had concluded plans to dump APC. The statement reads: “Edo State will be having all three senators in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) soon as report has it that Senator Francis Alimikhena is negotiating a return to PDP.” Alimikhena, who is representing Edo North at the Senate, has, therefore, cautioned politicians and aspirants in Edo North as well as those he said had unprecedented capacity for lies and blackmailing to tread cautiously. “As major actors in politics, I advise them to avoid making frivolous and unguided utterances that could unwittingly incite the generality of the public and create hostility across the state”. Alimikhena vowed to resign from active politics rather than joining the PDP to fight his personal brother who is the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, also from Edo North. The statement described the sponsor of such unguided utterances as enemy of democracy, who do not wish Oshiomhole well, urging them to withdraw their words and not distract the efforts of Oshionhole in his mission to unite the ruling party. While urging them to take a tour to the various infrastructural developments in Edo North and the ongoing road dualisation he (Alimikhena) attracted before pushing their selfish agenda, he said the sponsors of the rumuour had shown disdained for the Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate. While Alimikhena said Ihonvbere, in his desperation to seek the APC senatorial ticket which is not available, has disassociate himself from their desperation to discredit him ahead of the forth coming APC primary elections and attempt to create disunity between him and his leader Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 