OSOGBO – A head the primary election of the Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) slated for Thursday July 19, 2018, a sharp division has crept into the fold of the party due to alleged intrigues and manipulations introduced by the leaders to the processes of selecting its candidate. The party’s hierarchy had for more than two years placed restriction on political activism and campaigns, especially among the interested governorship aspirants, leading to suspicion and lack of trust. When the ban was eventually lifted, there was a mad rush as 27 governorship aspirants initially shown interest in the plum job, which has been reduced to 17 after the screening and payment of nomination forms to the party’s national secretariat. The aspirants began to realise the secret moves of both party’s leadership and government when the entire state machinery and cabinet members, apparently working for a particular aspirant to realise his ambition, a development that has further caused animosity among the members in the states Another factor that further tore the APC members apart in the state was the clandestine moves by the party and government to throw the contest open when in actual fact a particular section of the state appeared to have been allegedly marginalised in governance. Osun West Senatorial District, since the creation of the state on August 27, 1991, had only ruled for 22 months when late Senator Isiaka Adetunji Adeleke, who hailed from the region, was elected as the state’s first civilian executive governor. His administration was short lived because the military took over the mantle of leadership at the centre, suspending the constitution and aborting democratic rule then. Osun Central District, which produced Chief Adebisi Akande (AD) and Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola (PDP), ruled for more than 11 years between 1999 and 2010, while Osun East District that produced the current Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, will complete its eight years of two terms by November 2018. As a result, the clamour to allow Osun West produce Aregbesola’s successor began to intensify and become a movement that cannot be stopped not only within the ruling APC, but across party line. It is a fact that virtually all political parties in the state are looking into that direction to give Osun West Senatorial District the opportunity to produce the next governor in the spirit of fair play and justice except APC. The last straw that broke the camel’s back was the letter allegedly written by State Chairman and Secretary, Gboyega Famodun and Alhaji Rasaq Salinsile and sent to the APC National Secretariat on the mode or method to be adopted for the primary election without recourse to the relevant organs of the state. They requested the party top hierarchy to adopt direct mode of primary, claiming that it would engender mass participatory of members. Famodun was said to have sent message to all the 16-member State Working Committee (SWC) of the party to sign a resolution purportedly reached on March 14, 2018 that direct mode or method of primary election had been reached and adopted for July 19 primary election. He further directed members of the SWC members to sign the purported resolution at the private law office of the state’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Dr. Bashir Ajibola. However, 11 members out 16 SWC members refused to comply with the directive and did not hide their preference for delegate method of primary election. The APC’s State Legal Adviser, Barrister Goke Ogunsola, faulted Famodun’s stand, saying that there was never a meeting where such a resolution was reached. He added that some members of the committee were being coerced to sign the said resolution, while the chairman and secretary signed for other members that were opposed to the direct mode of primary election. Although, the APC National Secretariat has finally adopted direct mode of primary to pick party’s candidate against the wish of the majority of the SWC members, Ogunsola said the state chairman and secretary, Famodun and Salinsile, remained suspended as declared 11 out of 16 SWC members. However, as members of APC in Osun State are going to the primary election on Thursday July 19, 2018 with a divided house and under very tense atmosphere, political watchers in the state have observed that its outcome may be unfriendly, vindictive and chaotic. Out of 17 aspirants screened by the APC National Secretariat, 10 are from Osun West Senatorial District, while the remaining seven are from the two other districts. Those screened for the primary are Lasun Yusuf, Babatunde Adedotun Taiwo, Moshood Olalekan Adeoti, Isiaq Gboyega Oyetola, Adeyinka Ajayi, Benedict Alabi, Peter Babalola, Saka Layonu, Ezekiel Oyemomi, Adelere Oriolowo, Gafar Amere, Nojeem Salaam, Mumini Rafiu, Dayo Oyebanji, Bisi Alamu, Kunle Adegoke and Babajide Omoworare. Adams Oshiomole, the party’s National Chairman, had defended the adoption of direct method for the Osun APC governorship primary election, saying it would engender mass participation and reduce corruption and inducement of delegates. However, the Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Lasun Yusuf, said the adoption at this critical time was devilish and capable of causing disenchantment in the party. He said further that the method was susceptible to manipulations and could expose members with dissenting voices to physical attack by political thugs on the behest of the purveyors of the proposal. Yusuf further said that the proposal was an after-thought of the earlier rejection by the party’s National Working Committee of a doctored delegates’ list by a group loyal to Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, the acclaimed anointed candidate of Governor Rauf Aregbesola. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 