ASABA – Effurun/Warri and Environs Storm Water Control Measure Committee, has vowed to take drastic measures to clear natural water routes that have been blocked by buildings and others in the area. Chief James Auguoye, Commissioner for Works, threatened during the committee members’ visit to Warri to identify natural water routes in the Warri South and Uvwie Local Government areas that had been built on which has led to flooding in the areas. Auguoye also the Chairman of the Committee said that the 11-man committee inaugurated by Governor Okowa was saddled with the sole responsibility to give advice to the state government on the issue of flood control in Warri and the drastic measures must be taken to free the natural water routes. He revealed that the committee has elected a sub-technical group that would conduct, conceptualise and carry out field reports and report back to the committee every two weeks on how to stop permanently the flooding in Warri. The commissioner said that the committee in return would submit comprehensive preliminary reports every two weeks for the next three months to the governor on how to bring a permanent solution to flooding in Effiurun and Warri axis of Delta State. Corroborating, Engr. Lawrence Aguya, a consultant adviser, representing the Nigerian Society of Engineers stated during the meeting that the cause of flooding in the area was accustomed to the blocked drains and closed natural water courses. Hon. Michael Tidi, the Local Government Chairman of Warri South, appreciated the foresight of Governor Okowa to constitute the committee, assuring that there would be no security issues to disturb the committee from carrying out its work. Likewise, Hon. Ramson Tega Onoyake, Chairman of Uvwie LGA, assured the committee of the cooperation from the people of the area. “I assure the committee of 100 per cent security, I want to say that areas that would need pulling down of buildings would have no problems,” he declared. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 