Otolorin Kehinde Peter, popularly known as Kenny Blaq, despite his young age, is one of the key players in the Nigerian comedy industry. He delivers amazing performances with a unique blend of music and wordplay. Once a winner of the Naija FM Comedy Awards, he was also awarded Best Comedy act in Egypt at the MEAMA awards in 2016 and in 2017.Speaking to Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Oyinkan Somorin, he describes his journey into comedy. According to him, a lot of people judge him by his looks and didn’t believe in him until he proved himself. Why the name Kenny Blaq? I wanted a name not too far from my original name, something unique, simple, and most importantly, a name that’s true to my brand. So I chose Kenny Blaq from my original name Kehinde and Blaq from my complexion. I’m the blackest of them all. BLAQ also stands for Beautiful, Loveable, Adorable and Quality. Who and what inspired you into comedy? I believe that has to do with my environment and famous comedians such as Alibaba, Gbenga Adegboye, Julius Agwu, Mc Miracle, and Jaguar. Were your parents in support of you being a comedian when you started? No. Nigerian parents? I understand why now; but back then, what they saw on television gave them the impression that as an entertainer, you’d have tattoos, smoke, sag your trousers, drink and so on. But I promised them I am not going to be like that I would be different from others, so they gave me some time to prove myself. Today, they are super proud of the man that I have become. I didn’t know I’d go into comedy, until someone came to the house, Ezekiel P. Famous, and said to me, “All this mimicking you are doing, you can actually do it on stage.” So on August 9, 2008, I went on stage and that’s how the journey started. When you started in the entertainment industry, what were the challenges you faced? I was quite young, and it was a huge deterrent. A lot of people thought I was too small to be doing what I was doing. So giving me that platform was hard. Are you still facing them? It later became my trademark, as people met me, they would say things like, “ah this small boy is very talented, he’s very funny or, you need to see what that small boy did at that event, it was mind-blowing.” I made sure that each time I get the opportunity to hold the microphone, I give my 100 per cent. Apart from being a multi-talented music-comedian what else do you do? Entertainment, generally, is all I do for now. While growing up did you think you would come this far in the world of entertainment? No, I didn’t think so, because I’ve always been in a band, touring and performing all my life, so I was comfortable assuming I’d end up being a musician. But comedy came in naturally from the way I do things on stage. I just didn’t know it would be this soon. But I believed that with grace and a lot of hard work, he would take me to greater heights even greater than where I am presently. In the Nigerian entertainment industry, how far do you think comedy can get? We not there yet but I can say a lot has changed. We are not where we used to be. And believe me, if we continue with this energy, speed, and passion, I see the world recognising the comedy industry in Nigeria as one of the world’s top three. What were your saddest and happiest moments in the entertainment industry? Saddest times will be times I was booed off stage, times I was treated really bad by show promoters; but my happiest moment so far will be when Alibaba, Ay, Okey Bakassi, brought me upstage and introduced me as the biggest thing happening to the Nigeria comedy industry at AY live in London. I still remember that day and the joy I felt was out of this world. Entertainment, especially comedy is very stressful, how do you manage it? It is the grace of God. Even I sometimes don’t know how I do it. I work hard, but I will say it is God’s grace. How do you relax after a hard day’s work? I get ice cream and pizza, turn on the air conditioner and watch romantic movies on Netflix. What are your hobbies? Making people laugh, singing, writing new content. What is your favourite movie? My favourite movie right now will be ‘The Greatest Showman’. It explains the story of a man people didn’t believe in, a man who failed and failed but never gave up. Being a Broadway made it more interesting for me. Is there any special person in your life now? Everyone is special to me, especially my twin sister. I know where you are going to but for now, I will say no and it’s because I want someone who will complete me. Let me stop there for security reasons. How do you view the Nigerian entertainment industry? It’s growing and it’s getting better, and the young ones now have a voice. But I will say we can do better, and a lot of work still needs to be done. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 