Ilorin / Minna – Samuel Ortom, Benue State governor, and Aminu Tambuwal, Sokoto State governor, were in Ilorin, Kwara State, on Wednesday to participate in a meeting mostly involving chieftains of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), which sources said was a move to finalise their defection from the All Progressives Congress (APC) soon. The meeting was reportedly held at the residence of Senate President Bukola Saraki at the Government Reservation Area (GRA) of the town. The meeting, which took place after an eight-day Fidau prayers in honour of Ayisat Baraje, the mother of one of the leaders of the Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC) and former acting National Chairman of the PDP, Abubakar Kawu Baraje, was said to have lasted for about an hour. Ortom attended the Fidau prayers alongside a senator from his state and former national chairman of PDP, who is at present in APC, Barnabas Gemade. Saraki, who reportedly hosted the meeting, is another chieftain of the APC. The PDP politicians at the meeting included National Chairman of the party, Uche Secondus; former governor of Jigawa State and a presidential aspirant, Sule Lamido; governors of River State, Nyesom Wike, and Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, and the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan. Ortom, who had earlier visited the Kwara State governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed, at the Government House, Ilorin, however, gave an indication that he had not concluded plans to drop his membership of the APC. He told newsmen at the Government House that he would be meeting with the national leadership of the APC later in the day and that the meeting would determine his next political move. He said the Benue State APC had issued him a “red card” and that he hoped that the national leadership of the party would reverse the decision. The governor, however, explained that the final decision lay with his people who were more important to him. Details of what transpired at the meeting were not made public as the PDP Spokesman, Ologbondiyan, said the meeting was not an official one but a mere interaction among like minds. Saraki’s media aides said the visiting politicians were in the town for the Fidau prayers and that no official meeting took place. The anticipated defection of the APC bigwigs will further deplete the ranks of the ruling party already hit by the breakout of R-APC and the union of close to 40 political parties to form the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). In his sermon at the Fidau prayers, the Grand Mukadam of Ilorin Emirate, Sheikh Sulaiman Dan Borno, called on believers to be steadfast and do well at all times, saying that whatever one did had its rewards. The cleric, who, particularly, directed his sermon to women, enjoined them to be of virtue and submissive to their husbands for their children to be responsible and successful in life. “God bestows successful children to virtuous wives and mothers. A virtuous woman bears responsible children. Every man with a good wife is blessed with all blessings of Allah,” he said. Jonathan Sneaks Into Minna, Meets IBB, State PDP Leaders Former President Goodluck Jonathan breezed into Minna, the Niger State capital, on Wednesday, unannounced. His visit is believed to be connected with concerns over the present political developments in the country ahead of the 2019 general elections. Jonathan headed for the home of former military president, Ibrahim Babangida (IBB), in a black Prado Jeep, accompanied by five other black Prado Jeeps, one of them occupied by security operatives. Jonathan was welcomed by Babangida at his hilltop residence at about 10:30a.m and they immediately entered into what a source close to the IBB family described as “a private meeting”. The source hinted that the immediate past president came with a 2019 PDP governorship aspirant in one of the Northern states, Alhaji Hanafi Mu’azu Sudan, and they both rode in the same car from Abuja. It was learnt that the two were also at the meeting that reportedly lasted for about two hours with General Babangida. Jonathan and his entourage were seen driving out of Minna at about 1p.m. Details of the discussion were not known but the presence of Hanafi Sudan at the discussion fuelled speculations that it would not be unconnected with the governorship primaries of the PDP in the state in which Hanafi Sudan intends to contest. Our correspondent also learnt that General Babangida had, while the meeting lasted, sent for the state PDP leaders, among them the state party chairman, Alhaji Tanko Beji, and the immediate past governor, Dr. Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu. It was further gathered that these state PDP chieftains invited during the meeting were scheduled to meet General Babangida this weekend. Jonathan was in Minna on October 17, 2017, a few days to the PDP national convention, and the recent visit may not be unconnected with ongoing re-strategising within the party ahead of next year’s general elections. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 