Lagos – Football may not be coming home for England at the 2018 World Cup in Russia, but they’ve still got a chance to go out on a high note against Belgium. Gareth Southgate’s side were fancied to reach the final but fell to Croatia in the semifinals, leaving them facing a third-place play-off against Belgium. On the face of it, this is a meaningless match that will be of little consolation to England and Belgium after their semifinal heartbreak. It’s largely been a one-sided rivalry in England’s favour over the years, but Belgium edged the group-stage encounter between the two sides a couple of weeks ago. Adnan Januzaj scored the only goal of that group H encounter, though Gareth Southgate and Roberto Martinez heavily rotated their sides with qualification for the last 16 already secured. There have been some famous ties between the two sides – England beat Belgium 1-0 after extra time thanks to David Platt’s 119th-minute winner in the round of 16 at Italia ‘90. Coincidentally, that year was the last time England had reached the semifinals of a World Cup before this summer in Russia. England and Belgium also shared a 4-4 draw in the group stages of the 1954 World Cup in Switzerland, with a goal for each side in added time. Expect more rotation when the two sides meet in St Petersburg Stadium on Saturday (today), with the England and Belgium managers likely to give their squad players another run out as a thank you for their efforts. Harry Kane and Romelu Lukaku would probably like to have the chance to shoot it out for the Golden Boot – Kane has six goals to Lukaku’s four in Russia. But the strikers looked out on their feet during the semifinals, having given their all throughout the tournament. Michy Batshuayi are likely to get the nod for Belgium, while Jamie Vardy and Marcus Rashford will probably get another go together for England. There could be sweeping changes in defence and midfield for both sides too, although Eden Hazard may be keen to get a game and put on a show with Real Madrid scouting for a replacement for Cristiano Ronaldo. Jordan Pickford and Thibaut Courtois retained their places in goal during the first meeting, but that was likely done to keep their momentum going. The two might however hold the aces in this encounter Now with nothing really on the line, reserve goalkeepers Jack Butland and Simon Mignolet could be thrown in. On Head-to-head England has recorded 15 wins as against Belgium three while there were four draws between them. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 