Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad and Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said Monday they would work more closely to fight terrorism, as the resurgent leader seeks to unite Southeast Asian neighbors on security. It was the latest in a series of meetings with fellow Association of Southeast Asian Nations leaders for Mahathir since he assumed office in May. The prime minister aims to build a united front against Beijing’s military buildup in the South China Sea. Mahathir proposed Monday’s meeting, according to the Philippine side. The day before, the two leaders watched a boxing match featuring popular Philippine politician and professional boxer Manny Pacquiao — an unusual event for Mahathir, who is said to shun violence. At the end of last month, the Malaysian leader visited Indonesia and confirmed with President Joko Widodo the two countries’ close alliance on security matters. Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines have since last year run aerial and maritime surveillance programs together to keep watch on extremist groups’ activities. Shortly after being sworn in as prime minister for a second time, following his rule from 1981 to 2003, Mahathir received visits from Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and Brunei’s Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah. Mahathir is expected to start discussing regional issues in earnest — particularly the South China Sea — with other leaders at venues including November’s Asean summit meetings. Last year, Asean leaders and China began negotiating toward crafting a code of conduct aimed to avert strife in the maritime region, but hashing out the code is expected to be a rough process due to differences in opinion among the parties. The reemergence of Mahathir, who opposes the presence of warships in the South China Sea, raises the possibility that Asean will shift away from the relatively accommodating approach it has taken toward China in recent years. In his previous time as prime minister, Mahathir pushed his own ideas — such as creating an East Asia Economic Caucus — among Asean members. His return to power could help lend Asean new vigor, but pushing his views unilaterally could stir discord in the body, which generally requires consensus among all members to take action. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 