Col Tony Nyiam (rtd) came to the spotlight following the April 22, 1990 military coup. He was one of the most senior officers that took part in that botched coup d’état against the regime of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida. Nyiam, an advocate of total restructuring of Nigeria, in this interview with INNOCENT OKONKWO, says it will be dangerous for Southern Nigerians to vote for any leader that doesn’t support the restructuring of the country in the forthcoming general elections. He also speaks on the killings in Plateau State, and why service chiefs should not be blamed for the state of insecurity in the country, among other issues. How do you feel about the state of our nation particularly the current security situation? It is clearer that the political and economic structures of this country need to be restructured. We have had people talked about restructuring in the recent past. We have heard the Minister of Interior, Lt. Gen.  Abdulrahman Bello Dambazzau (rtd) talked about the need to restructure and boost the security architecture of this country. Gen. Alani Akinrinade (rtd) has equally said that the military has to be restructured. But you can’t restructure the component parts without restructuring the faulty foundation on which the different sectors are anchored. For example, it is wrong to blame the Army chiefs for the current security situation in the country because as the name suggests, a service chief is the coordinator of military resources and efforts for the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces. So to blame the service chiefs on what is going on especially the security situation is misplaced. The blame should go to Mr. President who is the Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces. The President is totally in charge and it remains so until we change the constitutional provision where the Commander- In- Chief is the President of the country. The service chiefs are not Army commanders by the current structure we have in place, they are only service chiefs of staff who are there to coordinate the resources available to be used by the Commander-In-Chief who appoints these commanders. We need the political will to change the system of governance in this country. For instance, if you remember, it is the Governor of Plateau State, Simon Bako Lalong who was indirectly castigating the Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom some months ago after the killings in Benue, and now, Lalong is also facing the same problem that his Benue counterpart has been facing. So the entire system should be restructured, every state needs its own National Guard to protect the lives of the people. In America, for example, the National Guard is under the command of the state governments. It is only in an emergency situation that the President of America can use them; otherwise, the President has no right to use the National Guard. Just like when President Donald Trump tried to use the National Guard to effect the separation of children from their parents in the immigration law, some states refused to do so. Some stakeholders are calling for overhaul of the Nigerian security system and replacement of the service chiefs as one of the solutions to the current killings in the country. Are you in support of such calls? I have said it before that reform of one sector or the other will not solve the problem. Those who are advocating for such reforms continue to ignore the reality that such sector restructuring without reforming the faulty foundation on which the different sectors are anchored will not be a solution to the country’s problems. If you don’t restructure the foundation, dealing with different parts piece meal will not work that is why I was suggesting that even if the President changes the service chiefs today, there will still be the problem because the constitution that we have has made the President the only Commander in Chief of Armed Forces. The service chiefs are not the commanders so they cannot do anything without the President’s clear instructions. For example, it is only when the United States of American President, Mr. Donald Trump gave President Buhari the matching orders when he visited the White House that he came back and we saw our President giving half-hearted executive orders to the military to guard and prevent invasion of farming communities by the killer herdsmen. The political will to stop the killings of people in the Middle Belt of Nigeria has not been there like we saw in the way troops were marshaled against the members of IPOB in the South East or the troops that were sent to Government Ekpemupolo (Tampolo’s) village in Gbaramatu, in Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State. I have said it over and over that the way these challenges are being addressed is double standard. The President should give clear order to the troops to deal with these Fulani herdsmen and their mercenaries that have been invading these communities. Do you see the current killings as a Jihad? I see it as colonisation. It is an extension of what had happened in Hausa land but which is now being extended to the Middle Belt region of the country which is the buffer between the far north and the south. And once they can attack and conquer the Middle Belt, they will come to the south as we now see happening in parts of Nsukka in Enugu State and parts of Edo State as well as parts of Ekiti and Ondo states. Many Nigerians are of the opinion that the rampaging herdsmen should be categorized as terrorists; do you share such an opinion? It is not the Fulani herdsmen that should be categorized as terrorists but the transnational mercenaries that the herdsmen always call to use. And what is my authority on this? The President himself said that these transnational mercenaries are remnants of the forces of the late Libyan leader, Muammar Gaddafi. I don’t know why the President who has described these people as foreign invaders should not categorize them as terrorists. It is double standard for the President to call members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) terrorists but cannot call those he confirmed as foreign invaders terrorists. So what is your take on the latest killings in Plateau State? It is terrible and condemnable. I will summarise my feelings with this question. Is it not becoming clearer that President Muhammadu Buhari‘s kinsmen are exploiting Buhari’s years in Aso Rock as an opportunity to extend their colonization to other lands and territories in Nigeria? If the current situation persists, do you think it can affect the success of the forthcoming general elections? My answer to that question is that Nigerians from the three southern zones of the South East, South South and South West as well as Nigerians from the North Central and some parts of North East will be foolish if they cast their votes for any candidate who does not support the restructuring of this country. If they do that, they will have themselves to blame. The political class should not be sheepishly following a leader who is sectional in appointments of service chiefs. They should watch out because the betrayal that former President Olusegun Obasanjo and Gen. Theophilus Danjuma suffered would be visited on all those politicians who are currently running around some individuals. They should be careful because the same thing that is done to Danjuma if not worse will be visited on them in the revenge of any Gestapo incline ruler winning an election and consolidating in power. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 