The Nigerian Law School finally allowed Firdausa Al-Jannah Amasa to attend its call-to-bar ceremony with the hijab. Her graduation with the 1,562 students who graduated from the school on Tuesday saw her supporters jubilating on social media. Firdausa Al-Jannah Amasa is the law graduate who challenged the restriction on the use of hijab during call-to-bar ceremonies. It will be recalled that Amasa was in December denied entry into the hall for the ceremony which took place at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, for refusing to remove her hijab. One of them, Dr. Joe Abah @DrJoeAbah said: “I am proud to have stood on the side of honour in her case. I am proud that I don’t bay with the mob or run with the herd. The truth will always prevail.” Bashir Ahmad @BashirAhmaad added: “That didn’t come so easy, her victory is one of the many good advantages of Social Media. She fought not only for herself but for the generation to come. History will surely be kind to her.” Rasheed Abubakar @rawshield123 said: “She is as a courageous fighter for justice. Congrats.” Saheed Lawal @SaheedL said: “I love people that stand by what they believe.” Babajide Fadoju @BabajideFadoju noted that “On this Amasa Firdaus issue, the ‘authorities’ focus too much on petty things. If she wears her hijab what will change? But no, we must pet the weighty things and sweat the petty stuff. Efi omolomo s’ile .” Haroon Akpata @iam_FPresident said: “Law profession is not for slaying Queens and Kings she’s proved that with her comfort, intellect, brilliance and doggedness. Amasa Firdaus is the new Numero Uno of Law in Nigeria.” MSSN Lagos State @MSSNLagos said: “The law school has shown enough maturity in this matter by calling Amasa to bar with her hijab. Not allowing her would have been a breach of her right, an injustice and would send a bad signal that the justice house is ill. “The victory of Amasa would encourage other females to pursue any course of their choice without fear of being victimised.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 