Benin with Agency Report – No fewer than 23 soldiers are yet to be accounted for after Boko Haram insurgents ambushed a military convoy at Boboshe village in Bama Local Government Area of Borno. Five officers, 18 soldiers and eight trucks were missing after the attack which occurred early on Saturday. The military, acting on intelligence, mobilised troops in a convoy of 11 trucks to clear the insurgents from the deserted village. The attacking insurgents were believed to have been those who escaped the ongoing offensive by the military to flush out the Boko Haram terrorists in the fringes of Sambisa forest and Lake Chad region. A competent military source said that the insurgents in their hundreds ambushed the troops and in the process many of them have been missing. He disclosed that only three of the 11 trucks deployed to the area returned to their base in Maiduguri, after suffering huge loss in the battle with the insurgents. “There was a quick response by the army when they received reports that hundreds of the insurgents gathered at Boboshe on Maiduguri-Konduga-Bama road. “The gallant soldiers were ambushed by the insurgents, only three of the 11 trucks returned to the base. “It is not clear what happened but it was assumed the soldiers were missing following the ambush,” he added. Meanwhile, residents of Jilli community in Gubio Local Government Council of Borno on Saturday fled the town sequel to an attack by Boko Haram insurgents. It was learnt that the insurgents attacked the area from the axis of Lake Chad, forcing the residents to flee. Malam Bukar Mustapha, one of the residents, said that he and other villagers fled their homes when they received report that the insurgents were coming to attack them. “In the afternoon on Saturday, we heard that the insurgents gathered in the nearby bush preparing for the attack. “I am one of those who ran to Maiduguri, which is about 45 kilometres from my village. “On Sunday morning, I called Gubio and I was told that the insurgents had attacked the town during the night time. I do not have the casualties because the situation is still not clear at Jilli,” Mustapha said. Another resident who pleaded anonymity said troops had been deployed to the area. Gunmen Ambush, Kill Four Policemen In Edo In a similar development, four policemen attached to the Sabongida-Ora Divisional Police Station were brutally murdered by unknown gunmen at the road intersection between Oke-Ora and Avbiosi in Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State. Reports had it that the policemen who were on patrol duty were ambushed by the gunmen who shot them as they were alighting from their Hilux van. The patrol vehicle was said to have been set ablaze with the bodies of the victims inside, while their weapons were allegedly taken away by the assailants. Chairman of Owan West Local Government Area, Frank Ilaboya, confirmed the incident. In a telephone interview, he said, “From the information available to me, the policemen were about to alight from their vehicle when the gunmen opened fire on them. “They were said to have set their vehicle ablaze and taken away their guns. “I cannot confirm whether they were armed robbers or not. As I speak with you, the communities in the area are in total confusion. “However, I have convened an emergency security meeting for this afternoon (Sunday) to look at the issue because there is no eyewitness that can give an accurate account of what really happened.” Meanwhile, the Edo State Police Command PRO, Chidi Nwanbuzor, when contacted for the confirmation of the incident, said, “I just received the information from the media. We are yet to be briefed.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 