Barring any unforeseen development, the long-awaited and much-talked-about Ekiti State governorship election will hold on Saturday, July 14, 2018. The crucial election will determine the person that will succeed Governor Ayodele Fayose of the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) whose tenure ends soon. Ahead of the decisive general elections in 2019, Ekiti governorship election is one of the two staggered governorship elections slated for this year. The other one is Osun State governorship election on Saturday, September 22, 2018 which is expected to end the eight-year tenure of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC). However, the Ekiti election, due to several reasons, has been generating a lot of interest among keen watchers of political events within and beyond the country. There is no doubt that Ekiti is politically volatile due to aggressiveness of politicians to politics in the state. This is why exactly three days to election, the political climate is feverish. There is tension across the state, especially in the state capital, Ado-Ekiti, as the battle between the two major political parties  __  the ruling PDP and the main opposition, APC, has continued to be the most topical issue being discussed in political arenas within and outside the state. However, the election promises to be highly competitive while whoever emerges winner among the 33 contestants must have gone the extra mile, devoid of electoral malpractices, to convince voters, that he has uncommon sterling leadership qualities to take Ekiti to appreciable level of socio-economic transformation. On July 14, all roads would literally lead to Ekiti as voters, armed with their PVCs, troop out in large numbers to vote for candidates of their choice in an election that will shake the political landscape of the state to its foundation. Of all the contestants, Professor Kolapo Olusola, Deputy Governor and anointed candidate of Fayose of PDP or Dr Kayode Fayemi of APC, will be the winner. Chances of either of them emerging winner will be determined by the circumstances under which they won their tickets during their controversial governorship primaries. Although some of those that contested with them but lost have reconciled with them and agreed to work for their victory on July 14, those that are still aggrieved could go to any extent to work against them on Election Day. For instance, the crisis that erupted following the unilateral choice and anointment of Olusola by Fayose, in spite of stiff opposition from some party members in the state which is yet to subside, needs to be carefully managed to avert untoward consequences that could affect Olusola. Same applies to Fayemi in spite of insinuations that he enjoys unflinching support of the Presidency in Abuja. The electoral battle for the soul of Ekiti popularly known as “The Fountain of Knowledge” is daily gaining momentum due to involvement of powerful political gladiators whose interests must be preserved. The election will be keenly contested judging by the fact that Fayemi was former governor. He failed to win re-election in 2014, having been defeated by Fayose in an election that later turned out to be controversial, although he reportedly trounced Fayemi in all the local government areas. Since then, a lot of bottled bitterness has been in their troubled minds. For having resigned to have another shot at Ekiti governorship seat, there must be an uncompleted task Fayemi is yearning to accomplish. However, whatever it is, his arch political enemy, Fayose, is ready to ensure failure of his renewed mission. Although the forthcoming contest is officially between Olusola and Fayemi but, in reality, it is a lingering battle between indomitable Fayose and unrelenting Fayemi. It is a significant electoral return match between the duo whose actions between today and Saturday would, to a large extent, determine the outcome of the day-long exercise. Fayemi still regrets his landslide defeat by Fayose in 2014 and wants to prove he has political clout to win again as he did in 2010. On the hand, Fayose is unwaveringly determined to ensure Olusola succeeds him. This is why he has repeatedly boasted that Fayemi will lose and that Olusola would emerge winner so that he (Fayose) could realise his “third term dream”. What this implies is reference to his first term when he was impeached, the current term ending shortly, as well as Olusola’s first term, if he wins. If this is so, does it mean Fayose, being the kingmaker and former governor, would still be controlling Olusola who is governor? What third term implies is continuation of Fayose’s reign even though Olusola is supposed to be fully in charge. I hope Olusola is aware of the possible danger ahead of him if, per adventure, he becomes governor and Fayose starts making things difficult for him, thereby allowing governance to suffer? This is a frequent occurrence between political anointers and the anointed which, invariably, prevents sitting governors from delivering democracy dividends to the people. Ekiti 2018 has potentials of turning out to be do-or-die affair. Fayose, being current Chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum who has indicated interest in presidency in 2019, will not like PDP to lose Ekiti to APC. Also, APC is determined to “capture” Ekiti, since it is the only state among the South-West states still under control of PDP. But even then, should the election be fight-to-finish affair or an occasion for voters to be allowed to elect their preferred candidates? Is election for service delivery or corrupt enrichment? INEC should provide contestants level-playing field to participate in the election while election personnel should discharge their duties responsibly to avert crisis. Political parties should warn their members to shun violence before, during and after the election. Ekiti State Commissioner of Police, Mr Bello Ahmed, should instruct the 30,000 policemen to be deployed to perform their duties diligently and without compromise. Most importantly, all the candidates should conduct themselves according to electoral rules or else, they will find themselves to blame. They should realise since they are vying for one vacancy, there can be only one winner. The winner should accept victory with humility while the loser should accept defeat magnanimously. Whoever loses should go to court rather than resort to actions capable of leading to bloodshed in Ekiti on Saturday. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 