ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari has given assurance that his administration may revisit the 13 percent derivation system to streamline development in the Niger Delta region. The president’s assurance came amidst calls by the Isoko Traditional Rulers Council for the Federal Government to focus attention on the utilization of eight oil fields of flow stations in Isoko land, to establish a gas plant and a modular refinery in the land. The heart to heart talk with the presidency is coming barley five days after Nigeria and Niger Republic signed a new Memorandum of Understanding to build a hydro carbon and pipeline refinery in Katsina State. The new agreement with Niger is targeting to produce between 100,000 and 150,000 barrels of crude oil per day in the new agreement to build a hydro carbon and pipeline refinery in Katsina State. The refinery is worth $2 billion (over N700 billion) and is projected to generate over 2,500 direct jobs and over 10,000 indirect jobs in the country. While playing host to the Isoko Traditional Rulers and personalities led by His Majesty Ovrawah, Omogha 1, Odiologbo of Oleh, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Friday, Buhari assured the royal fathers that the constitutional provisions for Niger Delta development will be carefully studied for inclusiveness, especially in the prioritization of Federal Government projects. “I have listened attentively to your address and I will still update myself with details of development in your area as it relates to oil and gas, and lack of infrastructure. “I will look at the constitutional 13 percent derivation and what previous governments have done, in order to know what we can do,” he said. Buhari noted that the Isoko kingdom had very qualified citizens that have distinguished themselves in various professional and entrepreneurial skills in the country, expressing surprise that the domain was not adequately captured in Federal Government appointments. “I will revisit your address and ask for clarification. I will do my best on this issue,” he added. Earlier, the President General of the Isoko Development Union and spokesman of the traditional rulers, High Chief Iduh Amadhe, decried the fact that 15 oil wells in the Isoko section of OML 28 have been locked up since November 29, 2011 by SPDC, thereby depriving the country of daily production of 19,000 barrels of Crude Oil leading to huge financial loss. According to the monarch, the modular refinery will be beneficial not only to the region but for the nation at large, as it will create jobs, generate income and better the lives of the citizenry. The traditional rulers reminded the president that the Isoko kingdom became the second place where oil was discovered in 1958 at Uzere immediately after Oloibiri, in present Bayelsa State. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 