JOS – The Plateau Elites Forum, which is made up of researchers and Scholars, has accused politicians from the state of hijacking the recent attacks and killings of natives for their cheap political gains, which, they noted, was to the detriment of majority of the people of the state. According to them, rather than uniting to form a common front against external forces attacking the state, “politicians have hijacked the crisis for cheap personal gains,” they lamented. Addressing a press conference in Jos, the elites forum, chairman, Professor Danladi Atu, said that they were grieved over the resurgence of attacks in the state after three years of consistent peace, hence they vehemently condemned the political dimension to the security breaches in parts of the state. According to Atu, “one striking feature of our strength as a people lies largely on the commonalities of our cultural values and practices. Indeed, all the 54 ethnic nationalities have been cohabiting peacefully in this territory since the pre-colonial era as polynomial communities with none so assertive enough to overwhelm the others.” The forum, however, observed further: “Unfortunately, the geometric magnitude of the growth and development of the state so experienced was being thwarted by intermittent and sporadic violent conflicts of different forms in the past two decades. “These sporadic upheavals witnessed between 1994 and 2018 retrogressively took us backward on the ladder of progress. This trend saw many sister and younger states overtaking us in realistic terms of development. “But with the coming on board of this administration, we had thought that we have overcome the challenges posed by these sporadic violent conflicts in view of the measures put in place by the present administration to address the issues headlong. “These include running a government of inclusiveness, fair and equitable spread of projects and instituting veritable platforms, for peace building in the state to promote peaceful co-existence. “The resurgence of these ugly and dreaded violent conflicts after three years of lull and abyss calls for deeper and sincere reflections by well meaning Plateau people.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 