Lagos – Mixed reactions have continued to trail Wednesday’s alleged attack on outgoing Governor of  Ekiti state, Ayo Fayose by men of the Nigerian Police at Fajuyi Pavilion, venue of a planned rally organised by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. The governor, who wept while addressing newsmen claimed that the police shot at him and fired teargas that blinded him in Ado Ekiti, the state capital. However, the Police said the governor was not attacked but its men only fired teargas to disperse a crowd of people after they had been advised not to hold a rally. According to Fayose, “I was slapped by a policeman. I was kicked and I was shot at. Be of great courage, be not dismayed, this battle will be won. “This is an army of occupation. This is not the democracy we fought for. My people, don’t be afraid. I pray they will not cause the 1983 problem in Ekiti State. “Ekiti is under siege. How can I be governor of Ekiti State and they treated me like this? My people, stand and keep standing. I will go back to the hospital and remain there. I want you to stand by Eleka (Olusola). “I plead with the international community: Nigeria is in trouble, please arise and stand for justice. They have arrested so many teachers, okada riders and PDP members. “Come and save PDP. We are in majority. We are a party to beat. Come and save us. They said they are under instruction to kill me and PDP candidate. I am in severe pain, I am in severe pain. Should anything evil happen to me, the Inspector General of Police should be held responsible” he said amidst sobs. In its reaction, Afenifere, pan Yoruba socio-political organisation condemned the development describing it as sacrilegious. The group in a statement signed by Yinka Odumakin, its National Publicity Secretary while condemning the deployment of 30,000 police personnel for the exercise also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to call the perpetrators of the attack to order. The statement reads ‘ Afenifere is disturbed by the news  of violence coming out of Ekiti on the eve of the Governorship election in the state . Our fears over deployment of 30,000 police personnel for election in one state while the government cannot mobilise a quarter of that number to secure the lives of Nigerians under savage attacks in different parts of the country” . “We would not mind though if the men were in the state to secure a peaceful environment for Saturday polls. Alas reports from the media have indicated that the violence in Ekiti is being precipitated by the police who were said to have sealed off the Govenment House and shooting teargas at citizens who have broken no laws”. “There has also been a sacrilegious allegation that the governor of the state was assaulted and teargassed. This would be an outrageous and barbaric assault that violates all decency and civilised conducts if true” . “Afenifere calls on the President to rise to the duty of office as the Leader of the country to stop the violence and bring perpetrators of this dastardly act to book. It speaks no well of him that  security forces are turning the state to a battleground 24 hours after he campaigned in the state”. “Let it be known that the Yoruba nation expects a peaceful,free and fair elections in the state that will produce a winner freely elected by the people . We warn security forces to do their duty according to the law and desist from violating law abiding citizens.We remind those who have forgotten that the violation of the will of the people in that part of Yorubaland and it’s consequences contributed largely to the eclipse of the Second Republic”. “We ask the electoral umpire to provide a level playing field for all contestants and conduct an election that would earn it accolades” “We also warn ALL politicians Involved  in the polls not to do anything to jeopardise the lives of our people as our ancestors will inflict maximum affliction on anybody althat put the life of any son or daughter of Ekiti in jeopardy for the lust for temporary power . Let those who have ears hear”. In his reaction, Chief Ebenezer Babatope, a former Minister of Transport also described the attack on Governor Ayo Fayose as despicable saying he felt sad about it. Babatope, a member of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) also warned the APC to desist from any attempt to rig the election so as not to put the country in danger. “APC should not make any attempt to rig the election.  I heard the report on the attack on governor today. It was a terrible act and i feel sad about it. APC and INEC should make this election free and fair”. “ I also appeal to them not to do anything that will put our democracy in danger. If they do so, they will be attempting to subvert the will of Nigerians and all of us will not accept that” Babatope said. In a message made exclusively available to Daily Independent, Otunba Bisi Kolawole, the Director-General of the Kolapo Olusola Campaign Organisation also described the attack on Governor Fayose and his deputy by the Police as the peak of lawlessness and absolute abuse of authority. Kolawole who said the people of Ekiti are resolute in their demands for a free and credible exercise said the people will resist any attempt by security agents of the APC-led federal government to intimidate and steal their mandate. “A situation where the Chief Executive of the state and the candidate of our party are being assaulted by the Police is the peak of lawlessness and absolute abuse of authority” “It is a deliberate attempt to cripple democracy by frustrating the good democratic foundation laid by former President Goodluck Jonathan”. “The good people of Ekiti will resist intimidation by the agents of this retrogressive government of APC. Ekiti has rejected the APC government. It must be one man, one vote. Any attempt to rig this election will be resisted” . However, a chieftain of the APC in Ekiti State, Prince Dayo Adeyeye advised the people of the state to ignore, what he described as the Fayose’s latest antics. Speaking through the Director of Publicity, Prince Adedayo Adeyeye Movement (PAAM), Niyi Ojo, in a statement on Wednesday, Adeyeye, said Fayose has always been a “clownish dramatist.” Adeyeye said Fayose’s latest “stunt” was aimed at creating a diversion for the people of the state, while covering up his nefarious activities, which are aimed at rigging Saturday’s governorship election. The statement reads in part; “Fayose has always been a dramatist. He has always been acting drama. Ekiti people should ignore him and remain resolute in their determination to throw him out of office and out of Ekiti State completely, on July 14.” The former Minister of State for Works, congratulated the people of the state for their impressive turnout on Tuesday for the party’s mega rally and the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 