ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the killing of several people, including a district head, in and around the village of Gandi in  Rabah Local Government of Sokoto State by bandits. The president condemned the barbaric act in a statement by his media aide, Garba Shehu on Wednesday night, where he noted that “this wanton violence against innocent people won’t be tolerated by this government, and we are working round the clock to identify the people sponsoring these heartless attacks.” According to him, “it is curious why any group of mass murderers would be targeting and killing innocent people for no just reason. “Make no mistake about it, my administration remains committed to security as one of its core objectives, and any attempt to test our will by any group of anarchists and trouble makers will be met with equal force”, he warned further. President Buhari assured Nigerians that “identifying and defeating these callous killers is receiving priority from his administration, and we shall spare no effort in tracing the root of this evil, especially their sources of funding and arms.” He promised that although these hit and run gangs of mass murderers are using unconventional tacts, they will eventually be defeated. He also warned that his administration will not allow any  group of barbarians and criminals hold the country hostage and  destroy life without consequences.” “I wish to assure all Nigerians that their security is receiving the greatest attention from this administration and there is no compromise in this commitment. I appeal for your patience while my security teams crack their brains to put an end to this horrendous violence”, Buhari added. The president extended his condolences to the government, families of the victims and the people of Sokoto State at large over what he called “this incredible losses of lives at the hands of these enemies of humanity.” He assured that the Federal Government will give all give all possible assistance to the state in dealing with the tragic incident. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 