The senator representing Kaduna Central in the National Assembly, Shehu Sani, has reportedly said the intervention of the chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, a leader of the party, Bola Tinubu, and the national chairman of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Balarabe Musa, prevented him from defecting from the APC. Speaking with an online medium Friday evening, Mr Sani said the intervention of the party leaders averted his defection plan. “My defection was stopped by Asiwaju Tinubu, Oshiomhole and Balarabe Musa. First of all, they recognised and accepted the fact that an injustice has been done to me in Kaduna. “Balarabe Musa invited me to his house, cautioned and counselled me against defection. Asiwaju did the same thing. Adams Oshiomole reminded me of my activism and the struggles. “They drew my attention to the fact that all those who defected to the PDP were once PDP members. I don’t have the pedigree of PDP. I’m an activist. “The assurance they gave me was that everything will be sorted out. They assured me that they will intervene on issues which I raised. Because of that I could not defect.” Apart from the three, the lawmaker alluded his change of mind to interventions by lawyer, Femi Falana, religious leaders and his constituents. Sani said he raised five issues the party leaders were to address. “The first was the fact that the governor (El-Rufai) engineered my suspension and neither the presidency nor the party has ever lent a voice about that.” “Secondly, my office was attacked five times by thugs. Thirdly, the governor tried to frame me in a murder case. Then the governor publicly incited the general public to attack me because we denied him loan. “The governor also demolished the house of the national vice chairman of the party when he tried to intervene.” Mr Sani said his decision to dump the party was upturned a night before the formal announcement on the floor of the Senate. He added that his colleagues, who later defected mounted intense pressure on him to yield. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 