LAGOS – Action Alliance may suspend its Ekiti State governorship candidate, Shola Omolola and Segun Ibrahim, the state chairman, for unilaterally endorsing the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi without the approval of the party’s national executive. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the planned suspension would be decided at a special meeting to be held in August to review the Ekiti governorship election. It was gathered that Omolola, who before the Ekiti Election, had been the party’s Lagos State chairman, and the Ekiti State chairman, instructed the members to vote for the APC candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the eventual winner of the election. This, the party felt, was in disregard of the party’s interest in the election and its recent Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Social Democratic Party and 36 other parties, leading to the formation of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). To counter its governorship candidate and the state chairman, DAILY INDEPENDENT learnt, the AA national leadership had to send out private text messages to its members in Ekiti State to troop out massively to vote for the candidate of the PDP, who eventually lost. It was learnt that the national leadership was irked by the action of the party’s candidate and the chairman by endorsing a candidate of another party without its express approval. When contacted, Barrister Kenneth Udeze, the AA National Chairman confirmed the development, stressing that Omolola would face a disciplinary action to be decided at a meeting to be held in August, lamenting that they got to know about the arrangement through media reports while they were on voters’ sensitisation to Ado Ekiti recently. He said: “We have decided to remove Omolola as our Lagos State chairman. We intend to bring in a Lagos indigene having found out recently that he is from Ekiti State. He hid that from us until the preparation for the Ekiti election. “We will suspend him now that the Ekiti election has ended. We shall look for a loyal and committed person to handle out activities to the general elections.” He maintained that the party would henceforth be more careful in pinching its state leaders and those to carry its flag in future elections, even as it had been working assiduously to ensure that it had a good outing in the coming Osun State governorship election. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 