The wave of bribery scandals currently rocking African football to its foundation, spreading like an epidemic, has berthed in Nigeria with Super Eagles coach, Salisu Yusuf, the victim. First to be affected in June this year was the Ghana Football Association (GFA) president, Kwesi Nyantakyi, where an undercover exposed corruption amongst referees and implicated the federation’s president. Ghanaian journalist, Anas Aremeyaw Anas, the undercover, exposed the rot in Ghanaian football, which the Ghanaian government described as ‘shocked and outraged’. Nyantakyi was seen on video negotiating for a 25 percent cut of a sponsorship deal meant for the federation to be diverted to his own company. Nyantakyi, a CAF vice president and member of the FIFA Council, told the undercover, pretending to be wealthy businessmen interested in sponsoring the Ghana Premier League that he could set up a separate company to act as the agent in the supposed deal and charge between 20-25 percent from the GFA. Nyantakyi has since June 8, 2018 resigned as the president of the GFA. Following the development, CAF and FIFA acted fast. While CAF removed him as its vice president and replaced him with president of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick, FIFA handed him a 90-day ban, which will expire on September 6, 2018, pending the outcome of investigation by its Ethics Committee. Anas did not stop with Nyantakyi. Several referees were also caught on video collecting money in order to fix matches. As a result of this on July 9, 2018, CAF suspended 11 referees pending when they will appear before its disciplinary committee, while another 10 were given life ban. Eleven others have also been handed bans ranging from two to ten years. However, on Tuesday, July 24, it was the turn of Nigeria to taste the bitter pill of these exposes.  This time around, it was not any referee or administrator, but Super Eagles assistant coach, Salisu Yusuf. In the video on the twitter handle of BBC News Africa, Yusuf was seen negotiating with the undercover agent in order to influence his team selection. He also agreed to a certain percentage when the transfer of the affected player came through. He also collected $750.00 from the agent. The coach is still innocent until proved guilty by the Ethics Committee of the NFF, which he will face when he returns from London where he has gone for a medical issue. NFF scribe, Dr. Mohamed Sanusi promised that the matter would not be swept under the carpet, saying, “There is no official position yet on the bribery allegation. “The only thing I can say for now is that we are setting up internal mechanism to look into the matter. We are not going to sweep it under the carpet. “The allegation is serious and will be given all the necessary attention,” he said. Surprisingly, the Nigeria Coaches Association has rose in his defence on the premise that he cannot stoop so low to accept such pittance. “It is clear to the blind that the coach’s stand wasn’t distorted by the “triviality” of the pecuniary gift made to him. The players in question prior to the issuance of the gift had already made the team and were in fact among the pillars of the team,” reads the statement. “We do not think that the integrity and reputation of football has been affected by this though we shall investigate further as it dents the reputation of our association and members. “Again, we think that the coach should be commended for stating clearly that players’ selection is based on performance. It makes no sense that our colleague who earns over 3 million Naira would stoop so low for pittance of $750/1000, which does not compare to the salary he earns. The trivial nature of what he received is the issue. “This our member has debunked in his response to BBC. To this effect we stand with our member pending further investigations to ascertain if there are any breaches of ethics,” the Nigerian Coaches’ statement read further. Commenting on his twitter handle, Olawale Omo Adigun said that he was not surprised at the revelation on the premise that this act was part of Nigerian football DNA. “Are we seriously shocked with the Salisu Yusuf expose??? This has been a part of Nigeria’s football DNA for years. Na who dem catch be thief!!!  He even had the audacity to claim it was $750 not $1000. Simple. Open and shut. Good bye, Salisu Yusuf.” Dennis O. Adesanoye also toed the path of Adigun on his twitter handle, saying, “Am not really surprised about Salisu Yusuf and his scandal. Bribery is in the genes of African coaches and even FA officials.” “What happened is nothing new in Nigerian football,” said an ex-international who pleaded anonymity. “Collecting money from players and agents is common in the national teams. That is the reason why our coaches are ready to work without pay in any of the national teams because of this money for selection problem.” The ex-international revealed that pressure from players’ agents who want their player(s) on international stage at any cost was responsible. Because of poor remuneration and the greedy nature of many of our coaches, they easily succumb to these offers forgetting that what lies ahead is more than what they are getting from these agents. “Poverty is at the root of this problem. I don’t mean financial poverty but poverty of the mind, poverty of intellect coupled with poor educational background. Many of our coaches are not exposed so they don’t see beyond their nose,” the source said. The system that produces the coaches has also come under attack by some stakeholders. Several of the coaches who handle the national teams are products of quota system. Their choice was not based on merit. “The system condole the development and in as much as one is not supporting the culprit (Yusuf) one must be quick to also fault the system that brings them on board,” said one pundit who pleaded anonymity. However, Solace Chukwu, writing on goal.com noted that Yususf has no defence, saying, “The moment Anas presented himself as representing the interests of any player(s), immediately receiving money from him becomes wrong and/or unethical, whether or not those players would have gotten into the team without Anas’ input.” Solace added that what the money was meant for was unclear going by Salisu’s defence. “Yusuf has defended himself by claiming that it was a gift, with no strings attached. Supporting this defence is that the players involved were regulars, and so their inclusions were not influenced by the cash offered and accepted. “This defence somewhat misses the point, which is this: the moment the reporter presented himself as a player representative, there is question of conflict of interest surrounding any ‘gift’ offered. Another point of note was that the promised percentage that was clearly stated, and he replied with an assurance that the player(s) in question would be part of the squad. “Again, his defence that these players were integral members of the squad is moot; dropping of important players on the eve of the tournament is not unheard of.” Another commentator, Kunle Fayiga, noted that what Salisu Yusuf showed was nothing but greed. His defence that he thought that it was a gift was nothing but an afterthought, adding, collecting money from a player agent cannot be proved to be a gift. “Sadly, these things happen on a regular basis in Nigeria,” Fayiga stated, adding, “It is seen as the norm and is very difficult to challenge, because the country lacks a proper structure to weed out corruption. This starts from political governance, where responsibility, transparency and accountability are absent, and allows corruption to creep into the society.” Desmond Ekweme on his facebook page stated, “In a situation whereby staff and board members of an FA are all players’ agents why won’t we have such acts of coaches receiving bribes to invite players into the national team. Haven’t we heard of NFF top guns harassing, intimidating and arm twisting coaches to invite their players and even pick them for games? How do these coaches even get appointed? Is it through a transparent process of screening and interview? Or a kangaroo set up meant to handpick friends, kinsmen and associates? Are the coaches hired by the NFF the best or most qualified? What about the issue of either deliberately withholding the entitlements of the coaches as a means or ploy to frustrate them for not towing the line of some influential persons in the FA or outrightly delaying their salaries for as many as 10 months? Can’t this lead a coach who doesn’t have self-control to receive bribe? There are several other issues linked to this unfortunate act.” Continuing he said, “The bribe scandal which has to consume Salisu Yusuf, yes, it must consume him may not be the only scandal that will rock Nigeria’s football….sooner or later we will find out why some national youth team players dread some coaches and even leave camp voluntarily without being expelled. Truth is Nigeria football needs a total purge! A lot of filthy and rotten things go on underneath. May be Salisu Yusuf’s bribe scandal will trigger off more burning issues of national concern on Nigeria’s football. “Yes, the NFF may in its wisdom or thinking decide to fire Salisu or Salisu may as well choose to resign but I dare say, it does not end there. You ask, why? Salisu is not alone in this act. We should not pretend about it. We should not adopt the old saying of all dogs eat faeces but it is the one caught with faeces on its mouth that is known as shit-eater.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 