Lagos – Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) biggest sponsor, aiteo, has given Solomon Dalung, Sports Minister, 14 days to resolve the leadership crisis plaguing the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) in accordance with FIFA statutes or cancel their contractual agreement with the NFF. The oil company, which signed a five-year deal worth N2.9 billion last April, will pay the NFF N500m annually for the whole duration of the deal. The money is used to pay salaries of Super Eagles boss Gernot Rohr and coaches of all NFF’s national teams. They are also the sole sponsor of the Federation Cup. Nigerian football plunged into another round of crisis after Chris Giwa assumed the headship of the NFF following an ex-parte order issued by the Jos Federal High Court with a recent Supreme Court ruling asking the parties to return to the lower court. Chronicling their involvement in Nigerian football, aiteo in a statement signed by Ndiana Matthew, Senior Manager, Corporate Communications, called for a quick resolution of the crisis in line with FIFA statues, failure they will reconsider their sponsorship deals with the NFF. “AITEO lends its voice to that of many well-meaning Nigerians to call for the quick and decisive resolution of the current issues especially as future campaigns for glory in the African Nations Cup are imminent. “Indisputably, certainty and stability with the leadership of the NFF remain pertinent to sponsors like us to continue to commit to the growth of Nigerian football in the manner that we have done.  The persisting situation makes it difficult for us, as a law-abiding entity, to operate responsibly within the demands placed on us. “We are constrained to indicate that unless these issues are resolved satisfactorily in the manner dictated by the requirements of the world governing body FIFA within fourteen (14) days hereof, we will deem ourselves compelled to reconsider our position with respect to participation in the various arrangements in which we are involved. “We trust that the observations we have made in this release will provide both assurance and clarification on some of the issues that may have been raised by these circumstances.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 