OLEH – Most Rev. Hyacinth Egbebo, the Catholic Bishop of Bomadi Diocese, said the lukewarm approach the Federal Government have for the Niger Delta Region has indicated that the few development projects of government were an after-thought Bishop Egbebo explained that the Federal Government and its intervention agency were deliberately denying the people of their rights with the aim of making the region poor even with their wealth. The cleric speaking during his homily at the Priestly Ordination of Rev. Sixtus Ebobrain at the Cathedral Bomadi, Delta State, held that with the wealth derived from the region, the Niger Delta ought to be a better place for living. He said in the past, the Federal Government was hiding under the cover of insecurity and attack on oil installation as an excuse for the underdevelopment of the region, adding that the government has exposed itself to Nigerians and the international community for failing the region and showing that whatever programme and development strides for the region were an after-thought. Egbebo said, “Due to oil exploration in our land, we are plagued with poverty; we suffer smoke from gas flaring, we drink rainwater that is contaminated with acid, our rivers and farmland are polluted yet if we request for anything from the government they look at us as beggars,” he lamented. He warned those holding back God’s plan for his people, stressing that the wrath of God would befall on those who do not want to repent and allow the will of God for his people to prevail. While urging the Federal Government to have a rethink about its approach to the region, he said they should allow people of the Niger Delta to enjoy the wealth that is found in the land as well work in Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation NNPC. Egbebo urged the congregation not to hold back God’s love, noting that Jesus poured it out for all. He also encouraged the people not to be afraid because before they were born, Christ has assigned a task for them on earth. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 