LAGOS – Never spend money before you get it. This was Ada’s motto in life. She was naturally a smart girl, and she planned her life perfectly with every second accounted for. She really was the ultimate planner, but most of all, she was the perfect financial planner. Her backup plans had backups to prevent financial disaster. Ada hated to borrow. Not because she was scared of not being able to pay back, it was more to prevent the humiliation of borrowing from a friend or family member. She hated being at the mercy of anyone and things had been going perfectly – at least until she heard that her sister had been delivered of her baby few weeks before her due date. Ada had planned to buy the new baby a rocker, which cost N11,000, and the money was to come out of her next salary, which wouldn’t be paid for at least one more week. This was a dilemma. She couldn’t show up without the gift and she simply did not have the funds to buy the rocker at that moment. “Why not try one of these loan applications or online loan portals like Pettycash?” her colleague said, breaking into her reverie. It seemed absurd that anyone would lend her money without knowing her personally and more importantly, without a collateral; but her colleague collected her phone, and together, they filled in her details. Within ten minutes, she was looking at a credit alert of N15,000 in her account. It was “ethereal and amazing.” Ada’s case is not unlike that of many Nigerians. There are those who still get financially stuck even after meticulous panning. There are also many others who cannot seem to ever catch up to the many bills that daily existence brings. And then, there are those who need a temporary bailout in difficult situations. In this present economy, these categories of people who need more than they earn is growing exponentially. On a daily basis, people need more money than they have or have the capacity to earn. Sometimes, to save face, they go a-borrowing and in many instances, the results are not as profitable or palatable. The influx of quick online loans and lending platforms in Nigeria solved that debacle for many Nigerians. In 2017, many Nigerians began to notice the availability of applications where one could lend money. Applications like Pettycash, Palmcredit, Aella Credit, Kwikcash, Pennylender, Paylater, Ferratum, Kiakia, Branch and many others took over the scene from traditional financial institutions for lenders all around the country. These lending portals became common, not just because of their catchy names, but because they  are a relief avenue where the average Nigerian can lend small amounts of money without collateral or the perceived humiliation of dealing with a physical moneylender. This service essentially revolves around the neglected individuals by providing non-collaterised micro and nano-loans to individuals and SMEs across various channels. It bridges the gaps currently existing in Nigeria as far as access to credit between deserving but underserved individuals and SMEs as well as credit providers. The loans provided via this applications usually are between N5,000 to N20,000 depending on your stated income. If you don’t pay back the loan you will be blacklisted and reported to several entities and may not be able to get a loan in the future. The numbers of such applications have grown steadily, and Saturday INDEPENDENT decided to investigate the truth of the applications. Our correspondent, after lending from one of the applications, reached out to several of such lending platforms via their portals and emails. Portals like Paylater, Quickloan, Kwikcash and a few more offered no response as many of them did not have easy access points for visitors who were not there to borrow. Saturday INDEPENDENT was able to reach out to Pettycash Nigeria via the number available on their platform, and our correspondent spoke with the Country Manager, Ogunyemi Damilare and he explained how the system works. “We basically give salary earners loan all over Nigeria. The customers apply for loans on the web platform. On the platform, we ask for documents that help us verify that the person requesting the loan is a salary earner, like identity cards and bank statement. The reason we do this is basically to use the bank statement to analyse people’s net salary. This then helps us to determine the maximum amount they can access. Initially, we were not asking for the statement, but we observed that clients were giving fake figures. For instance, someone who earns N50,000 will claim he earns N300,000, all in the name of accessing a bigger loan than we would have given.” While it seems like a well-established process, there is still the danger of borrowers defaulting on loans. We asked further on how they handle defaulters, and Ogunyemi said, “The credit bureau is helping in this regard. Once you default on your loan, your details are sent to the bureau. With this, when you try to get a loan from another loan company or mortgage for instance, your details on credit bureau shows you are indebted to a loan company. At that point, they ask you to get a letter of non-indebtedness from the loan company before they can deal with you.” He went further to explain why such platforms have become popular with borrowers. “One thing is this, commercial banks ask for collateral and give interest at 25% per annum. Micro finance banks ask for guarantors and give interest at 5% per month. Online loan lenders do not collect collateral and guarantors and hence they give interest at 12.5%. The high interest rate of loan lenders is to cushion the effect of the high default they experience.” On Friday, October 6, 2017, Interswitch also launched a multi-channel low-level retail lending without collateral service known as the Interswitch Lending Services Platform. Interswitch did this in partnership with six leading banks and three innovative credit providers. According to the CEO for Switching and Processing at Interswitch Group, Akeem Lawal, “We have done this to provide accessible credit for the financial needs of customers who are presently underserved by mainstream finance, or who are excluded in one way or another from being able to access credit through currently existing conventional channels. We are doing this by addressing the problem of access, reach and risk in a novel way that ensures that we can achieve nationwide scale.” For many, this seems like quick solutions to little money problems. The allure of cash without collateral is too enticing for people who need money, and many Nigerians fall into this category. Of course, there are downsides to such transactions and many are still wary of such downsides. Speaking with Bamidele Ogunwusi, a business and financial journalist, he shared his concerns with these platforms. “My fear with these online loan platforms is that at what point do they lose access to my account? This is because in registering for such loans, you provide many details including your Bank Verification Number (BVN). Giving such an entity your BVN is just as if you have given someone a key to your house. This is just an analogy, but look at it this way: when you give someone a key to your house, and the person has been coming around to eat lunch on a regular basis, one day the person can come and simply cart away your DStv decoder. What can you do in that situation? You were the one who gave consent originally. So my fear with these platforms is that am I safe? At what point do they lose the privilege of accessing my account?” Going further, Ogunwusi shared that, “Loans generally are a big problem in Nigeria. With bank loans, most people find it difficult to pay back because no bank really offers long-term loans; the maximum is usually one to two years. That is why there are so many Non Performing Loans (NPFs). Not many people can meet up with their loans, and the interest rates are usually between 20 to 22 per cent. Also, your collateral is supposed to be worth much more than the value of the loan you want to take to make up in case of devaluation or default. So people falsify documents to get the loan. In these days of BVN though, lenders can get back their money from defaulters if there is money in any other account they own.” Ogunwusi further shared that he is particularly wary because many of these portals know their customers and clients, but the knowledge is not mutual because it is not a symbiotic relationship. “They have all your information, but you only see what they choose to put on their platform. It seems fraudulent because they are the ones in control of the relationship, and that can’t be a fair relationship.” While his concerns are quite founded, one cannot but remember the influx of moneylenders and microfinance houses about a decade ago. Outfits like LAPO, Grooming and the likes came and lent people with SMEs money with interest rates that grew with the timeline of the loans. Till date, there are people who still have not climbed out of the pit of debt created by the loan interests. The story of a man who borrowed N150,000 to repay about N230,000 comes to mind. After paying N95,000, the man was unable to continue servicing the loan. Unfortunately, with his continuous default, the size of the loan increased up to N200,000 (excluding the N95,000 he had already paid). After running helter-skelter for a number of months, he was able to come up with a new repayment plan with the help of his employer – but that is just one man’s story. An American proverb says, “Before borrowing money from a friend, decide which you need the most.” This proverb is not a testament of the fickle nature of friends, but the high volatility of money and loans. Things can get out of hand quickly. Ajose, a borrower explained his experience with the loan applications. “My company generally owes salaries, they never pay on-time, so a friend introduced me to Paylater. At that time, I didn’t even know they were so many of them. I filled the forms online, and even though they said 24 hours, I got the alert within five minutes. I was so happy because I really needed money. So every month, I would use the app to get money before my salary and when my salary was paid I would refund it. “After about five months, my boss travelled out of the country and my salary was delayed for about two months, I took my loan as usual, and when I defaulted, someone called me and said ‘when are you paying our money?’ I was scared that they would arrest me, but I just gave them a tentative date. After that day, everyday for the period that I defaulted, I would get a message from the bank that ‘Dear customer, the available balance in your account is not adequate for the transaction. Kindly pay in more funds and try again. For more info call…’ “I got that message about five times each day. That means that they were trying to access the account and take their money. Immediately I was able to pay the money, I deleted the app because who knows what the devil might tempt me to do again. Besides it means they can take money from my account without my knowledge, and that is how fraud starts.” Ajose’s experience is merely another reality. As fascinating and attractive as it might be to get a loan, there is still the danger of being exposed to fraudsters with the information provided on the portals. In addition, some of the portals require access to social media accounts and personal contacts. The information in the wrong hands can prove fatal. Added to the fact that many people do not read the fine print of the terms and conditions before agreeing. In some of the terms and condition, unsuspecting clients do not realise that they give away their privacy while the loan is active and the transaction is on. Most Nigerians though have grown dependent on these credit facilities they can get and one wonders if it is a quick fix or a sign of a bigger financial crisis. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 