ONITSHA – Reactions have continued to trail the mysterious murder of a couple in Obosi, Idemil North Local Government Area of  Anambra State as the couple’s residence was turned into a drama scene as passersby and neighbours gathered to watch the ugly act done by the evil perpetrators. The deceased couple, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Ifekandu, who were murdered by yet to be arrested assailants were killed in their home at Umuota Village, Obosi, in the dead hour of Saturday, over what was suspected to be a feud that ensued from a land dispute. Going by the information gathered from anonymous sources, the couple were murdered in their cold-blood in the dead of the night and the only thing the neighbours heard was the banging on their door and several gunshots coming from the deceased apartment. It was also learnt that among other tenants of the compound, only Charles Ifekandu and his wife were murdered and no pin was taken away from their apartment while other tenants were neither hurt nor even questioned by the assailants. They also noted that the assailants operated without the intervention of either the police or the local vigilance group as the place of the murder is just a few metres away from the Palace of His Majesty, Igwe Chidubem Iweka, Eze of Obosi. A family source of the deceased who spoke with newsmen stated that there had been a rancour between the immediate family members of Charles Ifekandu. He further said that the killer(s) of the couple might have likely originated within their family. “I am aware that there had been an age-long difference in the immediate family of the deceased and one is left to suspect that what happened to the husband and wife might not be far from the family,” the source stated. Residences of Obosi have however called on the government to come to their aid in the community. “Obosi has become a den to the robbers and notorious criminals and this gives a community headache and sleepless nights,” he added. He called on the state government and law enforcement agencies in the state to come to the assistance of Obosi people and checkmate the deadly crimes allegedly emanating from land sellers and youths of the community. Confirming the incident, the Anambra State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Haruna Mohammed, when contacted on phone, said his office had been briefed. He said that the police have spread their dragnets aimed at arresting the killers. He, however, appealed to members of the public to assist the police with useful information that would help them in arresting those involved in the barbaric act. v comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 