Abuja – Abubakar Malami, the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, has warned Nigerians against seeing and treating the prevailing security challenges confronting the country as having a religious connotation. Malami cautioned that ascribing religious colouration to the killings and other hydra-headed crimes taking place in the country presently would only inflame passions on both sides. The AGF spoke on Thursday at an emergency high-level dialogue on Law, Justice, and Security in Nigeria, organised by the Justice Ministry for state attorneys-general and critical stakeholders. In view of the protracted killings in the country, Malami appealed to religious leaders, both of the Islamic and Christian faiths, to be in the vanguard of the campaign for sober speech and prudent counsel in the present situation. “The rush to ascribe religious connotations to pure acts of criminality, even before investigation, can only serve to further deepen the national fault lines and inflame passions on all sides. “No country survives a religious war and it is our collective prayer that Nigeria will never be pushed to that brink,” Malami warned. He charged the state attorneys general to be fully ready to deploy the full weight of the law to identify and punish all perpetrators of murder and other crimes, irrespective of their religious and ethnic background. as all such cases must be treated as cases of criminality deserving the highest sanctions under our laws. “We must work with each other and for each other as it is obvious that the perpetrators of these heinous crimes have perfected the art of cross-boundary movements in order to throw law-enforcement agencies off their trails. “For the purpose of addressing these challenges, we must, through practical means, discard the notion of closed boundaries and see Nigeria as one jurisdiction through the sharing of information, expertise, and even personnel,” the AGF posited. Malami disclosed that the forum was convened against the backdrop of severe security challenges facing Nigeria at present. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari, and his Vice, Yemi Osinbajo, who approved and encouraged the initiative for the dialogue out of a genuine and urgent desire to explore and utilise all possible strategies to ensure the peace and stability of Nigeria. Malami told the state attorneys general and other stakeholders that considering the gravity of the task at hand, they “stand in the vanguard of ensuring due compliance with the constitutional prescription that our country shall be governed on the basis of law, order and good governance.” The AGF added: “Insecurity, in any form, in any part of Nigeria, is, therefore, an affront to the values we have sworn to defend and to the future we envision for this great country.” He expressed dismay, particularly over the incidents of June 23 to 24, 2018 in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area and two adjoining local government areas in Plateau State which led to a massive loss of lives and injuries to survivors, destruction of whole communities, and a further increase in the number of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Plateau State and the wider Middle-Belt region. The AGF continued: “As we are all aware, these horrendous incidents in Plateau State were not isolated events but followed a pattern in some other states, notably Benue, Taraba, Zamfara, and Adamawa states which have become a deep source of concern to the federal and state authorities. “The statistics of deaths and displacement in these incidents involving various communities are depressing and alarming and appear designed to challenge our common humanity and claims to civilisation in the 21st Century,” Malami said. Examining the causative and inflammatory factors of insecurity, particularly in the North-East and the Middle Belt, where the twin threats of Boko Haram terror and herdsmen attacks, respectively, have been most pronounced, Malami said he was aware that in other parts of the country other security challenges such as kidnapping, armed robbery, human trafficking, illegal oil bunkering and oil theft and cattle rustling remained critical issues of security concern. “From an informed assessment of the situation, permit me to first situate the apparent upsurge in these incidents to the advent of another political season of elections and the fierce contestation for power which appears to now over-shadow all pretensions to patriotism and respect for human lives, in certain quarters. “As we approach another general election in 2019, it is easy to see the hands of corrupt politicians with contrary positions in our present security problems as they desperately attempt to discredit all the gains made by this administration, for purely political gain. We must resist these negative tendencies. “We are all living witnesses to how our security architecture and processes were compromised over the years of previous administrations in this country where funds meant for the security of this nation were mindlessly looted and frittered away to the detriment of our collective well-being. “These cumulative acts of brazen looting of security funds brought us to our present pass as a nation in respect of our capacity to respond to emerging security challenges. “Using the instrumentality of the law, we are currently undertaking the prosecution of politically exposed persons within and outside the security services, who have been accused of these crimes against our common national interests and our shared humanity as citizens of this country. “The greater danger to our collective survival remains the fact that we are not fully out of the grip of this corrupt, privileged class, despite the best intentions and efforts of the Buhari administration. “On the contrary, we are now confronted with a situation where they are using the humongous loot still in their possession, either directly or through proxies, to continuously launch attacks designed to subvert critical national and state institutions and processes, including undermining the security agencies themselves; compromising the executive instruments of investigation; infiltrating the judiciary whose independence to determine cases judiciously and expeditiously they have attempted to undermine; and ultimately attempting to foist a system of corruption on the country.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 