The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) yesterday said the economic realities confronting Nigeria counter the claims that the country is out of recession. This was disclosed by Mr. Larry Ettah, the immediate past president of the Association during the 61st Annual General Meeting of NECA in Lagos. In his address at the event, Ettah said reports indicating the fact that Nigeria has exited recession do not reflect the prevailing economic realities in the country. According to him, “Though economic data and statistics may point to the fact that our economy is out of the woods of recession, and we are beginning to inch up on the growth trajectory, the fact and reality, however, of most businesses and the welfare of the generality of Nigerians seems to suggest that the “green shoots” are far from sprouting.” In his review of the economy in 2017, he said the GDP growth was 0.83% as against IMF projection of 0.8%, while the Federal Government’s ERGP projection stood at 2.19% in 2017. Citing the National Bureau for Statistics’ (NBS) Report, he said the economy was driven by growth in crop production, crude oil production and natural gas; metal ore, construction, transportation and storage, trade, electricity and gas production, saying that in reality, it was more of a reflection of increased oil production due to security improvements in the country’s Niger Delta region, higher global oil prices and new investments in the agricultural sector. He said: “Nevertheless, the token growth in 2017 serves as a good foundation for future growth if the fundamentals and policy that facilitated the 2017 growth are kept and continuously improved upon, explained that inflation rate, measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), dropped to 15.37 per cent in December 2017 from 15.90 per cent recorded in November of the same year, noting that a two-digit interest rate certainly is not good for the economy as it will continuously pose a challenge to the CBN’s commitment to reduce the cost of borrowing and keep it within a one-digit band.” He said it is worthwhile that the inflation rate has continued to fall, declining to 11.61% by May, 2018. In the same vein, Mr. Babatunde Fowler, Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Services and Chairman, Joint Tax Board who spoke on the theme: “Emerging Issues in Tax Administration in Nigeria: Role of FIRS and Expectations from the Organised Private Sector”, noted that the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) is the primary revenue generating agency of the Federal Government, established by the FIRS (Establishment Act), 2007 with the broad mandate to assess, collect and account for all taxes accruable to the Federation. These taxes contribute to the funding of the activities of the three tiers of Government. Still looking at how the 2017 economy fared, Ettah said: “The further reduction in the oil prices to $52.51/b negatively impacted on the current account balance and reduced accretion to the external reserve. It is, therefore, not much a surprise that government ended the year with a foreign reserve of $37.92b, barely enough to support six months’ import. The CBN’s ability to stem the volatility in the foreign exchange market towards the end of the year is indeed commendable”. He analysed that the Nigeria’s external reserves rose to $37.92 billion by 2017 year end , saying it is a remarkable improvement, and  also attributable to higher oil earnings, adding that reported external reserves of $47.61 billion at end of May, 2018 is encouraging. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 