Asaba – Immediately he was sworn in Saturday June 24th 2018 in Abuja, Chairman of the All Progressive Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole did not hide his feelings when he openly expressed his ultimate agenda to unseat Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State and take over the State for APC by every means possible. Oshiomhole, a former Governor of Edo state was quoted as saying that: “One of my principal reasons for accepting to run for the National Chairmanship of our great party is because I want to pay back Okowa in his own coins. According to Oshiomhole “earlier in 2016 Okowa used Delta State money to fight me in order to install his party in my state, boasting that in 2019, he will be fighting; knocking and even biting him with Federal government might to ensure that PDP dies a natural death in Delta State”. Last January before he became APC National Chairman, Oshiomhole, at a mega rally of the party in Benin City, declared that the party would extend its coast in the South South by installing an APC Governor in Delta State. ¨I heard in Delta they have even auctioned their mass transit and they are fighting over who bought what. We must extend the frontiers of development to Delta state in the spirit of the old mid-west ¨PDP cannot come back in 2019. Nigerians are not fools; they will not be swayed by hired writers. If not for our president today, they would have been no Nigeria. Money meant for police, they stole and put in their pocket. Money meant to fight Boko Haram they put in their pocket. Money meant for security they used to secure their pockets. All of a sudden if you produce two litre of crude, one litre is missing. But Governor Okowa who seems unruffled has urged politicians, especially Oshiomhole and political parties to be cautious in the choice of words and be decent in their approach to issues as activities towards the 2019 general elections commences. Reacting to the threats credited that the APC will take over Delta State in 2019 Governor Okowa stated that Nigerians should not be divided because of politics. “I believe that Comrade Oshiomhole is playing politics just as Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has a right to play politics as well as any other political party, the only advise I have for all politicians both in PDP and APC is that there must be decorum, we must be cautious in the language that we use as they should be decent and I believe that what politicians need to do is to address issues and when issues are addressed the people will make their choice.” “As politicians wherever you are, try to be civil in your approach to politics because that is the way it ought to be,” the governor said. Corroborating, Dr Ifeanyi Osuoza, State Publicity Secretary, PDP, Delta State said the party heard with dismay and disappointment, some recent comments credited to the former Edo State Governor Oshiomhole, in which the veracity of the above ‘threat’ was confirmed by Governor Okowa himself. He said even though Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has displayed his usual admirable articulation and intellectual savvy like the true statesman he is, in responding to Oshiomhole’s uncouth and banal provocation, and despite that Oshiomhole’s attacks on our Governor is not new to them in the Delta PDP, as he has not hidden his inferiority complex whenever he has had an opportunity to reference Delta State and Governor Okowa in his comments. The party while warning Oshiomhole to watch his comments and utterances, especially as they concern Delta State and Governor Ochoa, he said the party is not particularly surprised that former Oshiomhole has quickly reverted to his crude, unstable, pugnacious, distasteful and abrasive manner in another futile effort to engage Governor Okowa in his puerile belligerence and to drag him into his ghetto politics rhetoric. According to him, Oshiomhole’s recent comments are merely another manifestation of his penchant to further delude himself with the reckless and hallucinating pronouncements but that PDP had expected that his delusional tendencies would have been greatly tempered with his ‘arrangee’ elevation to the leadership of his dysfunctional and inept All PPC. While joining PDP National Chairman and NWC to congratulate Oshiomhole as the new National Chairman of APC, he said PDP is even more confident now that his emergence has made it easier now for us to coast home to victory and reclaim our mandate in 2019. ;;We will trounce him and his federal might convincingly in Delta State and work assiduously with the rest of our party men and women to dethrone and retire the old, flailing and frail leadership drawing us backwards and the ill-thinking empire of ethno-centrists and megalomaniacs suffocating Nigeria and Nigerians in 2019’’ But the Senate Deputy Chief Whip, Senator Francis Alimikhena reacting to what he described as a hate campaign by Osuoza against Oshiomhole, countered him that Oshiomhole, now has the power to permanently delete PDP, from the political history of Nigeria before the 2019 general election. Alimikhena condemned PDP in strongest terms the egregious display of hatred, narrow-mindedness and allegations against the politician by PDP, assuring that the 2019 election will be a night mare that PDP will never recover from as he said the fear of Oshiomhole has made PDP to lose sleep. Worried over the interest of the opposition party in the emergency of Oshiomhole as the APC National Chairman, the Edo North Senator said the deliberate campaign against the former Governor of Edo State by the leadership of PDP has made APC to have more reason to vote and support Oshiomhole as the most battle ready in the 2019 general election. Alimikhena tasked members of the APC to distance themselves from the hate speech of the PDP and rally support for Oshiomhole in order to send PDP parking from the soil of Nigeria, advised members of the PDP should focus on how to resolve their besetting crisis rather than entangled themselves with the internal affairs of the APC. He also described the PDP as a party in disarray without capable human resource to confront the caliber and credible human resources at the APC, maintaining that the 2019 general election is significant because it will mark the era of political and economic stability and it required a team player with an established reputation like Oshiomhole in realizing this lofty ideals. However, Delta State Commissioner for Information, Mr Patrick Ukah, chiding Oshiomhole over his comments on Delta State in a statement signed by his Media Assistant, Mr Sam Ijeh, said that the choice of words, especially the use of ‘installing’,  by the former labour leader is a manifestation of his limited knowledge of politics as against unionism were he claims to be a master. Ukah expressed surprise that Oshiomhole, who is a leader of a party that has brought untold hardship to Nigerians, will be talking of installing a Governor in a state that is not his own instead of suggesting ways of how to make living bearable for Nigerians. He posited that with the numerous developmental projects going on in various parts of the state, Deltans are satisfied with the performance of the present administration and this was made manifest by the resounding victory recorded by the PDP in the recently conducted local government election in Delta State. The Commissioner for Information advised the former Governor to first join hands with others in his party to put their house in order by conducting a successful national convention that is long overdue instead of engaging in a wild goose chase. He said that Oshiomhole should not be deceived by fair-weather politicians who are leaving the PDP for the APC describing them as spent forces who feel uncomfortable with the reforms presently going on in the PDP. According to Ukah, Delta was in safe hands under the leadership of Senator Okowa adding that those who will attempt to flex muscles with the Governor would be denounced and disgraced by the people. He said the likes of Oshiomhole were responsible for putting Nigeria in comatose thereby taking the country that was on steady growth, several steps backward and that the propaganda used to deceive Nigerians into voting APC into power and now regretting their actions will not fly in Delta State, Ukah stated. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 