AWKA – Victor Umeh, the senator representing Anambra Central at the National Assembly, has said that the current mass failure of students in the Senior School Certificate Examinations spurred him and Senator Stella Odua to sponsor the Federal University of Education bill. The bill for the University of Education has passed second reading and has been referred to the Committee on Tertiary Education for further action. The university will be sited at Aguleri in Anambra North, if finally approved. Speaking in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Awka, Umeh said: “We have to do that because of the recent report that there is mass failure in WAEC examination across the country. “Of children that registered and passed the examination, the number continued to diminish by the day. “So, it brought out properly the need for University of Education where there is need for teachers to be trained to acquire degrees from first degree to second degree to highest degree possible and they will be put to the task of imparting knowledge to our children so they can do well in their education.” As for the location of the university, Umeh explained that it could be located anywhere but that Aguleri is in the Anambra North. Besides, he continued, the community donated 100 hectres of land for that purpose and land is a major requirement. Also, Umeh insisted that Anambra North has no federal Institution and one of the criteria or reasons for sitting federal institutions is that it must be put where federal institution does not exist. This, he noted, is the case with Anambra North. “Other senatorial districts have got one. Anambra Central habours Nnamdi Azikiwe University; Anambra South has Federal Polytechnic, Oko, but Anambra North has no federal institution. “Anambra North is deserving of having a federal institution and in this regard Aguleri Community offered the land for that purpose, so it is quite suitable for that.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 