Abuja / Ado-Ekiti / Abeokuta – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Sunday rejected the results announced by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declaring the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, as the winner of Ekiti State governorship election. Addressing newsmen on the aftermath of the Ekiti election, the National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, boasted that PDP cannot be crushed, adding that the results declared were concocted by APC, INEC and security agencies. Prof. Idowu Olayinka, the Chief Returning Officer for the Saturday election and Vice Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, said Fayemi polled 197,459 votes to emerge winner. According to him, the PDP candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, came second with 178,121 votes. Declaring the results as falsified, Ologbondiyan described the outcome as a daylight robbery, a brazen subversion of the will of the people and direct assault on the nation’s democracy. The party spokesman said that following the results flowing from the polling centres, PDP’s candidate won the election. He said, “From the authentic results flowing directly from the polling centres across the state, it is clear that the PDP candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola-Eleka, incontrovertibly won the election, with very comfortable margin over the APC candidate, only for INEC to allow the alteration of results at the collation centres. “Painfully, the people of Ekiti State were pillaged, openly brutalised, confronted with the worst form of cruelty and intimidation from security agencies, and their mandate, which they freely gave to the PDP, was snatched at ‘gun point’ by enemies of democracy, who are parading themselves as icons of anti-corruption. “Nigerians are witnesses to all manipulations by the APC, aided by security agencies and compromised INEC officials, to rig the election, particularly, the audacious alteration and substitution of election results in favour of the APC at the collation centres amidst the brutalisation of our agents. “The PDP has the details of all the polling units where we won, mostly with very wide margin ahead of the APC, only for the security agencies to chase away our agents, then aid the alteration and swapping of such results with those smuggled in by the APC at the collation centres. “We have the detail of the discrepancies between the authentic results from the polling units and the false figures eventually announced by INEC.” Ologbondiyan explained that the issues the party raised ahead of the election, including the conspiracy between the APC, some compromised INEC officials and security agencies; the importation of thugs from other states by the APC; the use of brute force against PDP members, the falsification and alteration of results in favour of the APC, all manifested in the election. He said that PDP is aware that APC conspired with INEC to bring in card reader machines belonging to Kogi, Lagos, Ondo, Oyo, Ogun states into Ekiti State to enable APC members from these states to vote in Ekiti election with ease. PDP spokesman said that the threats by the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole and Fayemi to crush the opposition party and cage Ekiti State governor, Ayodele Fayose, were carried out with the full collaboration of security agencies. He disclosed that PDP has details of how APC state governors and federal ministers diverted huge sums of money from their states and ministries to bribe top officials of INEC, particularly, those in the ICT department as well as security agencies to perfect the brigandage against the people of Ekiti State. “This bare-faced subversion of the will of the people is a clear recipe for crisis and we invite Nigerians and the international community to hold President Buhari, the APC, the INEC chairman and heads of security agencies in Nigeria responsible should there be any breakdown of law and order in Ekiti State as a result of this election. “This robbery of the franchise of Ekiti people is a horrible rape of our democracy and it is most uncharitable that it could happen under the watch of President Muhammadu Buhari as well as the participation of the APC, who hugely benefitted from the credible electoral process midwifed by the PDP in 2015,” he said. Ologbondiyan said that the electoral banditry will not stand, adding that the “PDP is already collating all the infractions in this election and within the possible timeframe, we shall make our next step to reclaim our stolen mandate.” Asked what is the next step and if the party will go to court, Ologbondiyan said that they will disclose their plan soon, adding that the party will set up a committee to investigate what happened in Ekiti, including the broadcast made by Governor Fayose. He, however, pointed out that the results announced by INEC was not in conformity with what happened in Ekiti State. I Will Challenge Fayemi’s Victory Similarly, Professor Kolapo Olusola, the PDP candidate, has rejected the results of the poll. The PDP candidate alleged wide spread irregularities, claiming the will of the people had been subverted. Olusola insisted that the victory of Dr. Kayode Fayemi cannot stand in the face of what he termed damning evidences at PDP’s disposal. According to him, the PDP won in all 16 local government areas with 70% of the lawful votes cast. “You are all aware of the unfortunate and dangerous events of the past 24 hours, in which our governorship election was hijacked by political desperadoes leveraging on ‘federal might’ to pervert the electoral process, subvert the will of Ekiti people, and viciously steal the mandate willingly and freely given to me on a massive scale by our people. PDP and I won the election overwhelmingly, receiving more than 70% of lawful votes cast and winning in almost all of the state’s 16 local government areas. I, therefore, reject the falsified results being bandied by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), which purportedly gave the election to the All Progressives Congress and its candidate, Dr. John Kayode Fayemi. This is the most audacious electoral robbery of our recent history. It shall not stand. By the grace of Almighty God and your support, I will pursue and regain my mandate.” You Can Rob Ekiti, Not Rivers, Wike Tells APC, FG Piqued by the outcome of the Saturday governorship election, Nyesom Wike, Rivers State governor, said what transpired during the Ekiti governorship election was the worst political robbery in the nation’s democratic history. Governor Wike said the APC-controlled Federal Government would not be able to replicate in Rivers State what he described as the electoral robbery in Ekiti, because the Rivers people were ever fully prepared. Wike spoke on Sunday at the Anglican Cathedral Church of Saint Paul, Port Harcourt, during the thanksgiving service to mark the end of the third anniversary of his administration. He said, “Don’t be worried about what happened in Ekiti State. We are prepared. It will not happen here in Rivers State. “I have never experienced that kind of robbery in politics. I told my colleagues, do not give them any chance. “Most of them in APC are happy that they will repeat the same thing in Rivers State, we are waiting, come and repeat. Let your spirit not be down, work hard and victory will be ours.” On the thanksgiving, Governor Wike said the state government chose to go before God to appreciate him for a hitch-free programme, which spread across two months. He said that the third anniversary of his administration offered Rivers people the opportunity to witness the superlative performance over the period under review. Outcome Of Ekiti Poll, Reflection Of People’s Choice, Says Obasanjo Meanwhile, former President Olusegun Obasanjo has described the outcome of the election which returned Kayode Fayemi as governor-elect of Ekiti State as the reflection of the choice of the people. In a letter dated July 15, 2018, addressed to the governor-elect, a copy of which was obtained by Daily Independent, Obasanjo said the people have demonstrated by their conduct that they cherish Fayemi and will do everything possible to make him succeed. Obasanjo urged the governor-elect to reciprocate the people’s trust by doing everything to strengthen their faith in democracy and its ability to bring about improved material conditions and better service delivery. He also urged Fayemi to be magnanimous in victory by extending hands of fellowship to those who failed in their bid for the elected office. The gesture, Obasanjo said, would not only be charitable but would also help to cool passions in the wider interest of Ekiti State in particular and Nigeria at large. Obasanjo wrote from Beijing, China, “You will agree with me, no doubt, that the outcome of the election broadly reflects the choice of your people, who have, by their conduct, visibly demonstrated that they cherish you and will do their utmost to make you succeed. “I urge you, therefore, to reciprocate their trust by doing everything you can to strengthen their faith in democracy and in its ability to bring about improved material conditions and better service delivery to them.” Buhari Congratulates Fayemi President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Fayemi on his victory. The president, in a message by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Sunday, commended the governor-elect and all APC supporters “for the hard-fought victory after a dignified campaign”. He urged Fayemi and party members to be magnanimous in victory as “the incoming administration prepares to unfold a new lease of life for the people of Ekiti State through purposeful and responsible governance”. Buhari commended the people of Ekiti for their matured and peaceful conduct as they made their choice using the power of the ballot. He also lauded INEC for adequate preparations and for displaying impartiality throughout the process. APC Congratulates Fayemi, Hails INEC, Security Agencies The APC has commended Fayemi on his victory. The party also hailed elections umpire, INEC, the security agencies, local and international observers, and the electorate for the positive roles they played in ensuring a successful, fair and credible poll despite initial fears. Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, in a statement issued in Abuja, said the APC candidate ran on an agenda to return Ekiti State’s lost glory. He said, “The party notes that Dr. Fayemi ran an effective and positive campaign focused on his agenda of rebuilding the economy of the state and returning its lost values of integrity, prudence and decency. “The party commends the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies, local and international observers, as well as other stakeholders, for their admirable role in making the Ekiti gubernatorial election one in which the people’s will has prevailed. “We thank the Ekiti electorate for voting en masse for our party’s candidate. This is a demonstration of their trust and confidence in Dr. Kayode Fayemi’s ability to deliver on his campaign promises and a rejection of the crude and pedestrian politics of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP).” Saraki Congratulates Fayemi Senate President Bukola Saraki, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, said that the governor-elect of Ekiti State should use his second-coming to continue the people-centered policies and programmes of his first term. He urged him to also work to grow the state’s economy in order to leave behind a sustainable legacy. He said the victory was a sign that the people of Ekiti State still have confidence in the former minister’s ability to provide good governance and render efficient service to the state and its people, advising him to maintain his focus on how to bring more development to the state and improve the standard of living of the people. Saraki also urged INEC, the law enforcement and security agencies, the government and entire electorate to learn some lessons from the Ekiti State gubernatorial election, which, he said, has served as a fore-runner to the 2019 general elections and ensure that all areas of complaints and inadequacies are corrected before a similar election in Osun State and the 2019 general elections. “To ensure that the Nigeria people have continued trust and faith in our electoral system, we must continue to work to improve our electoral policies and practices. We must look into the issues that have been identified in this last election to ensure that they are not repeated in the upcoming Osun gubernatorial election, and during the 2019 elections. Definitely, the 2019 elections must be better in all ramifications than the 2015 polls,” he said. I Will Restore Ekiti Values, Says Fayemi The governor-elect of Ekiti, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has described his victory in Saturday’s governorship election as one “for reclaiming the land and restoring Ekiti values.” Fayemi spoke on Sunday while addressing newsmen in Isan-Ekiti shortly after he was declared the winner of the governorship election. He said, “The victory of this election, I believe, is for reclaiming the land and restoring the values of our people. “Our values in Ekiti are respect for our leaders, commitment to our people, non-brigandage, no criminality and so on. “This victory is a victory for all, it is not a victory for only Gov. Kayode Fayemi, it is a victory for all the Ekiti people.” Fayemi also described his victory as significant to the future of democracy in Nigeria. “This was just not an Ekiti election, I want people to understand that this election has a lot of significance to the future of democracy in Nigeria. “The fact that we have witnessed a free, fair and transparent election process has huge importance for similar exercises like Osun State next door to us and eventually the national elections in February 2019,” he said. The governor-elect thanked all the APC leaders, including President Muhammadu Buhari, National Leader of the APC, Sen. Bola Tinubu, former governor of Ogun,  Chief Segun Osoba, former interim Chairman of the party, Chief Bisi Akande, as well as party leaders in the state. CSOs Call For Urgent Legislation Against Vote-Buying Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room, a coalition of no fewer than 70 civil society organisations (CSOs), has called for urgent legislation to tackle the challenge of vote buying in Nigeria’s elections. The Convener of the group, Clement Nwankwo, in a statement on Sunday after monitoring the just-concluded governorship election, said that the “worrying trend of vote-buying” had escalated to desperate levels. Nwankwo said that the major political parties shared blame in this act. “This trend portends grave danger to Nigeria’s democracy as it undermines the responsibility of citizens to freely choose their leaders and threatens the essence of democracy. “Vote-buying represents a major setback to the gains made with Nigeria’s electoral process and denies citizens the power to hold elected official accountable and responsive to the needs and aspirations of Nigerians. “Vote-buying is also a threat to the emergence of women as elected representatives with the increasing cost of electoral politics,” he said. Nwankwo said that the Situation Room observed widespread financial inducement around many polling units. He said that in some cases, the location and positioning of the polling booths and ballot boxes contributed to the non-secrecy of the ballot and vote-buying, adding that major political parties were quite culpable in the breach. According to him, the widespread nature and brazenness of vote-buying by political parties and candidates create dent on the outcome of any election and raises concern that Nigeria’s electoral process is being monetised with impunity. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 