MAKURDI – The forum of the three major socio-cultural groups in Benue State has urged the people of the state to rally round Governor Samuel Ortom to succeed in the implementation of the Anti-Open grazing law. The tribal groups, the Mzough U Tiv (MUT), Idoma National Forum (INF) and Omi Ny’Igede (ONI), stated that the success of the law would encourage mass participation of ranching in the country as well as increase crop production. Chief Edward Ujege, Chairman of the Forum, who is also the President General MUT disclosed this in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT in Makurdi on Sunday, added that it would also put an end to killings by herdsmen. He said that while the implementation of the law would lead to increased farming activities, it would also boost the agricultural base of the state since farming was the mainstay of the Benue economy. “At present, we cannot talk about the sustenance of Benue State’s economy because of the onslaught by the Fulani herdsmen. Our rural populations who in their small measure have been contributing to the local economy have deserted their communities. “The Forum of Mdzough U Tiv, Idoma National Forum and Omi Ny‘ lgede is therefore deeply appreciative of His Excellency Samuel Ortom for consistently and firmly staking his neck to entrenching modern way of animal husbandry through the promulgation of the law on ranching. “The success of the governor‘s efforts in this regard will encourage and guarantee mass participation in agricultural activities which is the main economic stay of our dear state apart from the civil service. “It is on this note that we the Forum of MUT, INF and ONI wish to state unequivocally our unflinching support to His Excellency Samuel Ortom, the Executive Governor of Benue State and the Open-Grazing Prohibition Law,” Ujege said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 