Barrister Kenneth Udeze, the National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA), in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s emergence as chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), chances of his party in the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections and the Federal Government’s plan to submit a supplementary budget to the National Assembly. Excerpts: How do you see the recent APC National Convention and the violence introduced to it by some delegates? It was a shameful and disgraceful sight to behold on national television and glaringly before the international community. However, we thank God Almighty who answered the prayers of the masses. God has sent a warning signal to Nigerian voters and we don’t have to wait for angels to come down from heaven, knock on our doors and warn us not to allow APC to come back to power in 2019. There is no better way to expose APC self serving and violence tendencies other than the show of shame that took place at the Eagle Square. It is not done anywhere, having the Number One Citizen address the world and at the same time disgracing and desecrating the Office of the President. It is time for Nigerians to look beyond the so-called ‘body language’, which has long expired within the first one year of APC administration and team up with Action Alliance (AA) and its political allies to vote out this unimaginable curse on Nigeria in the name of merger of strange bird fellows and backbiters. What happened in the convention of APC was more of internal intimidation to arm-twist its membership and delegates from freely making their choice. But, I can guarantee you that the last is yet to be heard of the implosion of exits and decampment that will follow up in the coming days. We are happy that they have succeeded in washing their dirty linen in the public through the injustice and lack of fair play meted on Imo and Delta states delegates and other states under APC executive intimidation. Would you say that Adams Oshiomhole would perform better than John Odigie-Oyegun as the APC helmsman and deliver both the South South and South East votes in 2019 elections? Let me congratulate him for emerging as the National Chairman of a struggling APC. It does not matter how his emergence came about. At least it is on record that he is a product of the so-called APC selective convention. Talking of Comrade Oshiomhole’s capacity to deliver Edo State and the South-South come 2019 elections is a very tall task to achieve in a very free, fair and credible election. He can only succeed in winning election with an extension of the usual violence and intimidation APC is known for today in Nigeria. Nigerians are not fools and cannot be deceived any longer. Go to the streets, markets, churches and mosques, the story is not different.… ‘APC-led government has impoverished Nigerians’. We have a bad news for Oshiomhole’s APC if they intend to come back to power through violence means or rigging. They can only rig or engage in violence where the opposition tolerates. The more bad news is that the present opposition parties in Nigeria are very sophisticated in approach. They are doing a lot to reach out Nigerian electorates without noise making or media hype. The outcome of 2019 general elections shall shock the incumbent, both at the states and federal level. Oshiomhole has lost his good will in the core labour unions, within his state and among critical stakeholders. It takes divine miracle to restore such understanding among allies he deserted in the course of governing Edo State. In view of this, I don’t see him performing better than Odigie-Oyegun as APC National Chairman. What is your party’s plan for the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections? Action Alliance has party structures across the states of the federation and the core structures are in the individuals and persons that run the affairs of the party across these states. In view of this, the party has the capacity to participate and win elections in Nigeria, including the upcoming Ekiti and Osun governorship elections. However, contesting elections or fielding candidates in every election is not the main priority of my administration as the National Chairman of the party. My administration is more interested in rebranding, reinvigorating, introducing and announcing the party to the good people of Nigeria for them to embrace our vision, mission and ideology. My team is more interested in opening the party platform to Nigerian youths, women and persons with disabilities to explore their political potentials and aspirations. Sometimes, we participate in elections to remind the public of the existence of our platform where we hope to form government in the near future as nothing is impossible in politics. Action Alliance as a party, though spread across the nation, is not keen or desperate to win Presidential election. But, if such opportunity comes up, we shall embrace it because we have an existing programme in our manifesto on how to govern this great nation. We are now narrowing down our interest to states where we are visibly and structurally present to make the necessary impact, instead of a party that has all state executives and structures, but is practically nowhere. In as much as we have committed members and followers in Ekiti and Osun states, for example, there is a possibility that due to financial constraints in the party, which is a basic necessity in an electioneering campaign, the party has put a machinery in motion to align with other allies and progressive political parties to form a Government of State Unity (GNU) where all aligning forces forming the electoral alliance shall be part of governance in these states for the common good of all. This is basically what we expect during the elections, while guiding jealously other states and areas we are very strong to win elections. AA will surely be an envy of others after building and repackaging it to the admiration of the good people of Nigeria. How do you see the 2018 budget and the plan of the Presidency to send in a Supplementary Budget to the National Assembly immediately? The APC-led government since inception of its administration in 2015 has never been fair to the good people of Nigeria who voted them into power. It is one story to another. From body language of their hero, to budget padding, to recession, to political witch-hunting of opponents, to blame games between the executive and legislative arm! The worst is that at the end of the day, these arms of government still feed fat on the blood and graves of poor Nigerians, while the living masses suffer the continuous incessant budget delays. A calculated attempt by the APC-led Federal Government to impoverish Nigerians and turn them to beggars! No wonder it was reported recently that six Nigerians get poorer in every one minute, though we in AA do not believe in that statistics because we strongly believe that more than that number get poorer per second in today’s Nigeria. The legislature and executive should stop this hide and seek, respect themselves and stop playing with our intelligence. Sections 58, 59 and 81 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) is unambiguous on the powers or functions of both arms in budgeting or appropriation processes. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 