Title: Are You Not A Nigerian (Thoughts On A Nation At A Crossroads) Author: Bayo Olupohunda Reviewer: Tomi Falade Publisher: Narrative Landscape Press No of Pages: 316 An old Nigerian proverb says; the one being carried does not realise how far away the town is. That’s because a person being carried bears no pain on the journey. To such an individual, it is a smooth, enjoyable ride all the way. The dirty truth of the Nigerian situation ensures that this is not a luxury many Nigerians have or enjoy in their lifetime. Some of these experiences, from one man’s perspective is what celebrated journalist and media practitioner, Bayo Olupohunda, has put together in this book that is a reflection of Nigeria. ‘Are You Not A Nigerian?’ is compacted in six different sections with a varying number of articles ranging between seven and 20. The book is a collection of essays written while Olupohunda was a columnist with 234NEXT and later Punch newspapers between the years 2009 and 2016. ‘Are You Not A Nigerian?’ examines the many inadequacies and intricacies of the fourth republic – Nigeria’s disappointing democracy. It describes a personalised scenario and allows the reader draw conclusions. These scenarios points equally to all. With the unique skill of a master storyteller, Olupohunda draws in his reader, entices them with a juicy tale of an experience the reader cannot but relate with, and dares the reader to not identify with the situation. This then allows the reader to form an answer to the question; are you not a Nigerian? Section One, which has a total of nine articles, is titled ‘The Way We Are’. In this section, many of the essays touch on specific known and unknown Nigerians, and while entertaining to read touches on issues of human perception, attitude and the character ills that are part of humanity. It is a deep revelation of the truth of the way we are. In Section Two, which the author titled ‘The Nigerian Condition’, the reader is opened to the truth of the way Nigeria is. The parts public and private entities play in the creation of the Nigerian condition are highlighted. The essay that forms the title of the book is also domiciled in this section, alongside 17 others. In the essay, the reader, if Nigerian; is taken on an all-too-familiar ride of an encounter with a member of the Nigerian Police Force. The police officer in the essay is actually the supplier of the title when he asks the author, “Are you not a Nigerian?” ‘Bros Jonah And The Breath Of Fresh Air’, the third section of the book focuses specifically on things that have to do with former president, Goodluck Jonathan. This third section forms a critique of Jonathan’s sojourn as the number one citizen of the country, and the happenstances that surround his time in government. 10 essays make the total of articles in this section. The second essay in this section, titled Jonathan’s failing Presidency lends credence to the critique, which while unabashed expresses a state of mind that is very real. In Section Four, titled ‘Sai Baba, 2015 And The Promise Of Change’, the author leads the reader on the happenings that begin the dawn of a new era in Nigerian government. This chapter focuses on the early days of Buhari’s government. Asides sounding somewhat congratulatory, we get a glimpse of the admonitions of a satiric writer as the author in many of the 20 essays that forms the section, offers counsel to the president. Perhaps one of the most relevant parts of the book in this present clime; especially with the approach of the 2019 general elections, The core is politics, and the author treats the topic like a surgeon; dissecting and opening old and political wounds that need to be healed. This is continued, though on a milder level in Section Five, which the author titles ‘Party Politics and Politician’. With just seven essays, the section is a worthy successor to Section Four. In the book’s last section with 14 essays, the author again allows in a bit of his ‘Nigerianess’. Each of the essays is a brief reminder of what it means to be a Nigerian both home and abroad. The last essay, ‘My Generator Has Gone Silent’ forms a ray of light at the end of a dark, dank tunnel. The ray of light, a testimony of renewed power supply seemed almost too good to be true as the author describes it – and it was. As a footnote, the author informs that the situation had again deteriorated, and paradise for Nigeria was still a way off, and the Nigerian Saga continues. Olupohunda’s book is not just a collection of essays written overtime. For any reader, it is a journal on Nigeria, and a well of information for Nigerians who need to remember or reminisce, and foreigners who seek to understand. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 