DUTSE – The Jigawa State government has released about N2.9 billion for the execution of various projects in the state health and education sectors. Hon. Bala Ibrahim, the state Commissioner for Information, revealed this while briefing newsmen on the outcome of the state executive council meeting. He said the release of the money was in line with the state government’s concerted efforts towards ensuring access to secondary healthcare services for the teeming populace. He said that it approved and awarded the contracts for the construction of three new general hospitals in Guri, Garki and Buji local governments at a total cost of N1.497 billion with completion period of 12 months. The commissioner added that to ensure the production of adequate manpower to manage the growing number of health facilities in the state, the government awarded a contract for the construction of new School of Nursing and Midwifery in Babura Local Government Area at the cost of N591.56 million with a completion period of 12 months. Bala, however, revealed that to tackle the challenges of growing number of school enrolment and retention created by state policy on education, “Education Change Agenda,” the state government approved N819.60 million for various projects in the sector. He said that the projects included the construction of an additional three classrooms and six-unit toilets in 26 secondary schools across the state. He also revealed that other projects include contracts for the renovation of classrooms, wall fence and provision of power generating sets in about five secondary schools. “However, the council rectified the contract awarded for the supply of 12,243 student’s seats which include 8,243 for Islamiya Primary and Arabic secondary schools and  4,000 for conventional senior secondary schools in the state. “The council also rectified the contract awarded for the supply of 2,000 units of double bed camp for onward distribution to boarding schools in the state,” Bala said. The commissioner then reiterated the commitment of the state government to execute laudable projects and programmers that would improve the social and economic life of its citizens in accordance with the cardinal objectives of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC). comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 