It’s no longer news that the Super Eagles of Nigeria played abysmally in the on-going Russia 2018 World Cup in their group stage. This was a team that was ill prepared under unprofessional NFF President, Amaju Pinnick and his cohorts in Abuja Glasshouse. Of course, the Super Eagles couldn’t surpass the first round of the FIFA most glamorous event after playing three matches and winning only one as they exited  from Russia 2018, courtesy of Argentina. The Super Eagles left Russia ingloriously. The hundreds of contingents who were on the pay-roll of the federation President had nothing to lose but Nigeria did. Too bad. When  Amaju Pinnick came on board as President of the Nigerian football governing body, methinks he brought in the magic wand with which he administered the Delta State Sports Commission where he achieved much, perhaps the reason  the out gone president of the NFF, Alhaji Aminu Maigari, paved the way for the Itsekiri born sports administration neophyte to succeed him in 2014, which also deprived Ambassador Chris Giwa his ambition to becoming the President as at the time when elections were being held in Warri (for Pinnick) and the other one in Abuja (for Giwa) simultaneously. At the end of the entire exercise both FIFA and the then government of Nigeria upheld the election of Amaju Pinnick; while Giwa took his case for  redress to  a Jos High Court. However, we have been proved wrong today by Amaju’s incompetence and Alhaji Maigari’s interest after all! It is evident in the performance of the Super Eagles how Pinnick had solely ran the national team of Nigeria ditto the employment of coaches; I mean series of coaches, all of whom did not take the Eagles to anywhere. These indigenous coaches only succeeded in breeding bad blood amongst the players and members of the crew who were assigned with other responsibilities in the Eagles. Aside this hatred and envy in the nucleus of the coaching crew, choice of venues for matches became an issue of personal aggrandisement and dictatorship. The president of the federation could decide venue of any match for the team without proper consultations with the team, coaches and the NFF technical board. This absolute power play and showmanship of the president was arrogance in his leadership. Amaju had, on several occasions, fell out with his numerous indigenous coaches on issues of national interests concerning the success of Nigerian football and he has always found his way through. He has had similar face-off with the incumbent Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung, in the areas of coaches’ employment, monies allocated to the national team and the like; Amaju had always wriggled his way out. And with his Technical Board Committee which comprises twenty five members or thereabout, he is also not at peace with them with a lot more issues surrounding the Glasshouse, staff, and his ineffective management of the national teams which had also come to his  ears. When you propose a venue of a football match for your national team against another country in an area where there is insecurity, where the players will be vulnerable to attacks in Nigeria and the players are saying; “No, we can’t play there, and besides, the pitch is not too good for a free flow of football (emphasis mine); and you go ahead to call their bluff, what do you expect from such team of yours? In the first place, the team will obey you as their president; the team will play under apprehension, pressure, distraction, anger with less concentration and the zeal to win, and even if they win, you have not been able to subdue their reservation and dislike to prosecute a match in a state where terrorism is the order of the day during the time, in spite of whatever security measures you may have put on ground. Football does not harbour hate, nepotism, secular politics, bribery or sentiment, especially if you are the one at the helm of affairs. Any leader who cannot lead by humility in any place of authority aside football will never do well. The players have their ego, pride, arrogance and guts as professionals; therefore, it will take you, the leader (president), to know these players one on one and deal with their excesses in a play way methodology. Unfortunately, here in Amaju’ s world – it’s ego for ego! I weep for this present Glasshouse because if nothing drastic is brought in to pragmatically redefine the fate of Nigerian dwindling football, it would be worse than this in the coming decades even if we escape FIFA’s ban on the recent imbroglio of Chris Giwa taking over the Glasshouse as ruled by the Jos High Court! Good Morning! comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 