Wednesday July 18, 2018 witnessed another fraud scandal in the public service buoyed by the report of the Panel set up in 2017 by the Federal Government to probe the alleged missing N62billion from the covers of the NSITF. In this report, CHRIS EBONG, OLUSEGUN KOIKI and OYENIRAN APATA examine the implication of this development on the society. The Administrative Panel of Enquiry inaugurated on February 15, 2017 by the Federal Government to probe the N62 billion scam at the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF)  on Wednesday, submitted its report to Dr Chris Ngige the Minister of Labour and Employment. During the presentation of the special report, Mr Ishaya Awotu, the Chairman of the panel said that there were irregular allowances totalling N5.7billion paid to staff and management. Some of the allowances, according to the panel, were Management Staff Allowance, Staff Education Allowance, DSTV Subscription Allowance, and Dressing Allowance. Other payments, according to the report, were generator and motor vehicle fuelling allowance which were not provided for in the Condition of Service of the Fund. The panel observed that between 2013 and 2017, the Internal Audit Department of the NSITF did not audit the cashbooks of the various bank accounts at the headquarters, adding that the lack of effective auditing of the Fund’s accounts and records violates section 1701 of the Financial Regulations. The report stated: “There were several transfers of funds in bank accounts without authorisation and approvals. The sum of fifteen billion, seven hundred and thirty-seven million, seven hundred and fifty-seven thousand, six hundred and ninety-seven naira, and ninety- one kobo (N15,737,750,697.91) was transferred from one account to another. “Pieces of evidence to show the approvals and payment vouchers authorising the transfers were not presented to the panel. The panel observed that N2.990 billion was expended on computerisation and other related ICT equipment. Despite this expenditure, not much was achieved on computerisation of the Fund, defeating the purpose of the expenditure,” Mr Awotu said. He, however, added that the sum of two billion, six hundred and fifty million and seven hundred and thirty-one thousand, two hundred and twenty-five Naira, and ninety-three kobo N2,650,731,225.93 were deducted from various payments, noting the deduction was in respect of withholding Tax, Pay-As-You-Earn (PAYE), Value Added Tax (VAT), Pension and National Housing Fund were not remitted to the relevant authorities. In his reactions, Ngige said a committee would be set up to implement the report of the committee. According to him, anyone indicted will be prosecuted. “This is not my report, but a report of the Federal Government of Nigeria. Those findings, especially about overseas trips which are unauthorised will be dealt with because they are actions that breached public service rules. It is not true that parastatals are exempted from public service rules. This report will be fully implemented and areas of lapses corrected. Many government organisations have gone under because of situations like this,” he said. Analysts frowned at the constant fraud allegation in the country’s public service describing it as embarrassing. They called on the government to ensure that the perpetrators of the NSITF fraud are called to book. FG’s Reaction Reacting to the report, the Federal Government has inaugurated a nine-man administrative panel of enquiry into the finances of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) and gave it six weeks to turn in its reports. Senator Ngige, who constituted the panel in Abuja, Wednesday, said they are to look into the financial state of NSITF with a view to purging it of all negative trails of the last board and management. He urged that the panel is granted unfettered access to relevant documents to enable it swiftly carry out its assignment without hindrance as witnessed in the company in the past. Ngige immediately announced a compulsory 30-day leave in the first instance for six top staff of the fund including the General Manager, Legal, Adebayo Aderibigbe; Deputy General Manager, Finance, Henry Ekhasomi; General Manager, Social Security, Ishmael Agaka; DGM, Internal Audit, Zwalda Ponkap; GM, Information, Catherine Ugbe, and GM, Compensation, Dr. Kelly Nwagha. The Minister explained that, while the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) was already handling the criminal aspects of the infractions, it was necessary to investigate the entire scandal, administratively. “The EFCC had discovered various acts of fraudulent diversions from the Federal Government and private sector contributions amounting to N62.3 billion as at 2015, allegedly perpetrated by the past board and management staff of NSITF,” he stated. A statement by Samuel Olowookere, Director, Press at the Ministry, indicated that EFCC was already prosecuting the former Managing Director, General Manager, Legal and the Deputy General Manager, Finance and Accounts of the Fund. According to him, the Minister lamented that no accounting audit report and returns had been done in the organisation since 2013 in blatant breach of the Act establishing the fund. “On the assumption of duty in November 2015, I requested for the audit report to enable my office to render same in my annual report to the President as required by Section 30 of the NSITF Act, CAP. N88, Laws of the Federation, 2004, but no feedback was given on the matter in 2015, 2016, and even 2017. All efforts made in this direction were frustrated. “In 2017, I specifically requested the Auditor General of the Federation to conclude periodic audit check as required by Section 85(4) of the Constitution. This yielded no result as the officials of NSITF gave no cooperation to the Federal Government auditors,” Ngige said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 