Abuja – Atiku Abubakar, former vice president and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential hopeful, has explained how he intends to resolve critical issues in the polity such as national unity, power, unemployment, security, and others. While responding to questions, Atiku explained in his twitter handle that his government would involve the private sector to increase power generation in the country. “We shall increase power generation by ensuring full participation of private sector. We shall issue licences to enable the private sector to invest in mini-grid capabilities to service local communities or local government, states, regions or target industrial clusters. “Our electricity generation plan shall be diversified to include clean energy (hydro, solar, and nuclear) in addition to natural gas. “As you may be aware, the transmission infrastructure of the power sector is aging and in dire need of investment. “We shall provide incentives, including tax breaks, to the private sector to invest in the development of multiple greenfield mini-grid transmission systems. “In the meantime, we shall consider concessioning to the private sector, segments of the national grid under some form of PPP over a period of time.” On security, the presidential hopeful said that his government would undertake a comprehensive review of the nation’s security architecture and also commence the gradual process of instituting state police and community policing in line with the principle of restructuring. He said: “We must understand the root causes of the security challenges in the North. “The full economic potentials of the region remain undeveloped resulting in high rates of youth unemployment, high levels of poverty and deprivation, and income inequality. “Access to education is more restricted, resulting in more out of school children in the North than anywhere else in Nigeria. “Unless these issues are tackled, youth restiveness, sectarian violence and other acts of insurgency and terrorism shall continue to bedevil the region. “My first critical policy priority, therefore, is to support the northern states in rebuilding their economies and opening up economic opportunities for their citizens. “This will reduce frustration and alienation and minimize grievances. “We shall same time undertake a comprehensive review of our security architecture and enhance its preparedness to meet challenges. “As part of the review, we shall commence the gradual process of instituting state police and community policing in line with principle of restructuring.” Speaking on job creation, Atiku said his government would look away from oil and focus on four areas that would help to grow the economy. He said: “As long as the growth of the economy is driven by the oil sector, job creation is bound to suffer. “To tackle the job and poverty challenges bedevilling the economy, we shall focus on four areas. “First, we shall stimulate the growth of those economic sectors which are considered the domain of the poor – i.e. Agriculture and Micro & Small Enterprises (MSEs) “For the MSE sector, we shall set up a Venture Capital Fund to enhance their access to finance and hence their ability to grow and employ more hands. “Second, we shall set up a National Innovation Fund to support budding entrepreneurs, especially young men and women with brilliant ideas. “Thirdly, we shall promote a Special Apprenticeship Programme that will support the training of up to 1,000,000 youth (including the NYSC) each year in diverse fields, by local master craftspersons. While they undergo the training, we shall match them with potential employers. “Fourth area of focus is the aggressive promotion of Nigeria as Africa’s leading business process outsourcing destination with the potential to create two million direct and indirect jobs.” He said his government would ensure that Nigeria fully explored the vast opportunities that abound in the global market for IT and IT-enabled services to create quality jobs for our youth. “To lift our people out of poverty, we shall improve their access to basic services including education, health, electricity, and water – by making these services not only available but affordable,” he said. Speaking on the currency, the presidential hopeful said that the only way the Naira would be more valuable was to apply a diversified structure for our economy, adding that through this, the nation’s economy would become more productive. “We are committed to revamping the non-oil sector through increased private sector investments. “We shall diversify our export base by providing export expansion incentives to manufacturers. “Increasing our exports means increased foreign exchange earnings and a stronger currency,” Atiku said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 