Abuja – The internal crisis within the All Progressives Congress (APC) degenerated Wednesday as aggrieved members coalesced under the Reformed All Progressives Congress (R- APC) and announced a new national executive of the party with veteran politician, Alhaji Buba Galadima, as chairman. The group, which claims the authentic APC, denounced the Adams Oshiomhole-led APC National Working Committee (NWC), which, it said, is a product of trickery and impunity. It also carpeted the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari as rudderless and incompetent. Addressing journalists on the movement last night, Buba Galadima said they acted to save the party and the country from total collapse, pointing out that the recently concluded APC congresses and national convention was the last straw among serial abuses genuine members of the party have been subjected to. Alhaji Galadima said the congresses were intensely disputed having been conducted with impunity, total disregard for due process, disregard for the party constitution and naked display of power, practices, he stressed, have no place in “a party we all worked very hard to put in place”. He also lambasted the party which, he said, has squandered the good will it enjoyed and failed to deliver on its promises to Nigerians. “You will recall that in the build up to the 2015 general elections, some political parties and groups came together, and formed a brand new political party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). This merger was based on the strong belief that Nigeria had come of age, but was severely underperforming and unable to meet its potentials for good governance. The Nigerian people entrusted power to the APC based on its promises and potentials. “We are sad to report that after more than three years of governance, our hopes have been betrayed, our expectations completely dashed. The APC has run a rudderless, inept and incompetent government that has failed to deliver good governance to the Nigerian people. “It has rather imposed dictatorship, impunity, abuse of power, complete abdication of constitutional and statutory responsibilities, infidelity to the rule of law and constitutionalism. It has failed to ensure the security and welfare of our people and elevated nepotism to unacceptable height. “The APC has failed to deliver on its key promises to the nation. There is no evidence of any political will to reverse the decline of our party, while leaders who have created these circumstances continue to behave as if Nigerians owe our party votes as a matter of right.” Flanked by Alhaji Kawu Baraje, chairman of the defunct New PDP, the R-APC new national chairman, said the APC government “has been a monumental disaster, even worse than the government it replaced. The political party that was a vehicle for enthroning the government was rendered powerless by manipulations and complete lack of due process in its operations”. To further justify its action, the group observed that the APC if left in its present condition will not survive the many litigations it has across the country. He said many aggrieved members who bought forms were not allowed to actualise their ambition at the congresses and convention against the provisions of the party’s constitution. He wondered whether the party would come out unscathed from the legion of litigations. “There are countless cases in courts all over the country challenging the legality of congresses and even the national convention itself. It is very likely that the judicial decisions on these cases will result in massive chaos, confusion and uncertainties. “The fate of a party in this state with a few months to the elections is best left to the imagination, but it is not a fate we believe our millions of members should be abandoned to. There were parallel congresses in 24 states namely: Abia, Adamawa, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Borno, Cross River, Delta, Enugu, Imo, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Lagos, Niger, Ondo, Oyo, Rivers, Sokoto and Zamfara. “These congresses in wards, local government areas and states all over the federation produced different sets of delegates. We, therefore, had an unfortunate situation where the party has been seriously factionalised and divided in not just 24 states but the 36 states and Abuja FCT. “The so-called national convention of the APC was even worse. The national convention of the party was ridiculed with constitutional infirmities that were so glaring and obvious that no fair minded person can claim that a legitimate and lawful executive emerged from that process. “The chairman of the organising committee, Jigawa State governor, His Excellency, Alhaji Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, declared 18 seats unopposed and uncontested, since only one valid candidate stood at the end of the grossly manipulated nomination exercise for each of the offices. He, therefore, proceeded to declare them duly elected in flagrant abuse and violence to the constitution of the APC. “Indeed, Article 20 of the APC constitution is very clear and explicit. It envisages a situation where if at the close of nomination, only one person is nominated, the convention must vote ‘Yes’ or ‘No’, for each candidate before he is declared duly elected. “We all witnessed on live television and at the venue, Eagles Square Abuja, that the convention chairman, only put the ‘Yes’ question to all the delegates, using words to the effect: Do you affirm? Do you agree? There was no opportunity whatsoever given to the delegates to say whether they are voting ‘No’ for any candidate as the ‘No’ question was never put to them. “The nPDP, a group that has made a major contribution to the emergence of the APC administration has made strenuous efforts to invite attention to inequities, injustice and poor management in our party without any success. The nPDP had shown good faith and commitment to the party, but it has been rewarded with indifference and even contempt. It is obvious that the leadership of the APC has decided to shut out members of the APC, as well as other members who have raised genuine grievances and a desire to improve the responsiveness of the APC to the desire of members for a party founded on democratic principles.” The R-APC chairman said that it was left with no option to seek ways to refocus the party. “Under the circumstances, patriotic elements and most of the original founders of the APC have found themselves in the opposing side of this charade. Most of the delegates who bought and paid for forms for the congresses and convention and were elected as delegates have come together to take control and give legitimacy to APC to be now known as and called REFORMED-APC (R-APC). “The R-APC as constituted have officers in all the wards, 774 local government areas, and all the 36 states of the federation, including the FCT. “The R-APC also have National Executive Committee, the National Working Committee and other organs of the party are properly constituted and functional.” He listed some of the national officers of the R-APC to include: Yobe State – Buba Galadima (National Chairman); Kano State – Bala Muhd Gwagwarwa (National Deputy Chairman, North); Abia State – Chief Theo Nkire (National Deputy Chairman, South East); Ondo State – Hon. Eko Olakunle (National Vice Chairman South West); Kaduna State- Hon. Hussaini Dambo (National Vice Chairman, North West); Kogi State – Mahmud Mohammed Abubakar – (National Vice Chairman, North Central); Benue State – Hon. Godwin Akaan (Deputy National Secretary); Oyo State -Dr Fatai Atanda (National Secretary); Edo State- Kazeem Afegbua (National Publicity Secretary). Others are Adamawa State – Daniel Bwala (Financial Secretary); Jigawa State – Abba Malami Taura (Deputy National Auditor); Kwara  State – Hon. Kayode Omotosho (National Treasurer); Anambra State- Barr. Nicholas Asuzu (National Youth Leader); Rivers State – Barr. Baride A. Gwezia (Legal Adviser); Katsina State – Haj Aisha Kaita (National Woman Leader); Bauchi State – Mrs. Fatima Adamu (National Welfare Secretary); Ogun State -Alh. Isiak Akinwumi (Deputy Financial Secretary); Zamfara State – Alh. Bashir Mai Mashi (Deputy National Treasurer) and Abuja – Hauwa Adam Mamuda (Deputy Welfare Secretary). Also announced are: Sokoto State – Hon. Shuaibu Gwanda Gobir (Deputy National Publicity Secretary); Katsina State- M. T. Liman (National Organising Secretary); and Niger State – Dr Theo Sheshi (Deputy National Organising Secretary). According to Alhaji Galadima, the R-APC includes all the progressive forces in APC, namely leading members of the defunct nPDP, CPC, ANPP, ACN and others. While urging Nigerians not to despair over the failings of the APC, he assured that the R-APC, will work with like-minded political parties and groups to offer Nigeria qualitative good governance in 2019. Nigeria, he alerted, faces “an existential threat arising from three years of near destruction of this country and the exacerbation of our ethnic, religious and divisive cleavages.” “We will in concert with others offer real change to Nigeria. Not fake change. It is clear that our party needs a leadership that will live by its founding ideals. “We have therefore decided to legitimately lead those members to work to rebuild our nation more firmly on genuine democratic principles, to enshrine good governance and restore the faith of Nigerians in the possibility of the existence of a prosperous, secure and peaceful nation”, he said. Recall that new PDP which forms the bulk of the R-APC, had in a letter in April to the APC and President Muhammadu Buhari alleged mistreatment by the party and demanded an inclusive congress ahead of the party’s national convention, moves that were largely rebuffed. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 