LAGOS – The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), at the weekend announced a ten-day suspension of the services of four shipping companies as part of the efforts to resolve the recent protest by truck drivers at the Lagos Port Complex and the Tin Can Island Ports, Lagos. This was contained in a press statement signed by IsahSuwaid, Assistant General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications Division, for the General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, NPA. The affected shipping companies whose suspension takes effect from Saturday July 14, 2018 are: Maerskline, CoscoShipping, APS and Lansal. The suspension, according to the statement follows the Authority’s checks, which revealed that the four companies have failed to fully comply with the directive to acquire and operate holding bays as they have either failed to utilise their holding bays at all or do not have adequate capacity to handle the volume of containers that they deal with. Some of these companies, it further stated,  have also been found to import a larger number of containers than empty containers exported thereby making the country a dumping ground for empties. “These conducts have contributed to the persistent congestion around the Lagos Port Complex and the Tin Can Island Port, spreading to other parts of the Lagos metropolis where truck drivers with no immediate business at the ports now park their trucks”, the statement declared. At the expiration of this suspension, the Authority said it would review the level of compliance to its directives and determine further actions. In addition to this, the NPA said it would henceforth embark on a regular compliance check of the operations of holding bays by shipping companies and terminal operators and defaulters will be sanctioned. Stakeholders have also agreed that while the call up system through the ports management as advised by shipping companies will remain in force, personnel of the Nigerian Navy will discontinue the issuance of call ups, even though they will remain on the traffic management team. The Authority also stated that the planned introduction of a new service charge called “Empty positioning fee” by shipping lines is illegal and should not be honoured by any operator. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 