NJOKU – Sani Sami, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and gubernatorial aspirant in the 2015 general election in Kebbi State, has berated the National Assembly for calling for the establishment of state police. In an interactive session with newsmen in Abuja, Sami explained that in as much as it is a welcome development to institutionalise state police, he, however, said that the call came at a wrong time. Sami said though he believed in state police, the present members of the National Assembly lacked the integrity to midwife an enduring state police. Rather, he argued that the federal lawmakers should direct their efforts towards enhancing funding for the police and other security agencies to make them perform optimally, pointing out that there is great gap between the salary of members of the National Assembly and police personnel. “In as much as I am not opposed to the establishment of state police, however, such call should not be from the present National Assembly. “The National Assembly is asking for a debate of futility in calling for the establishment of state police. “If the senate president will be accused of sponsoring some thugs and the thugs will use that opportunity to use arms available to them and operation vehicles given to them to rob in his state, then he has no responsibility to preside over the senate to call for state police,” the APC chieftain said. Saying further, he noted: “I take responsibility for this. State police is very important considering the numerous security challenges facing the country, but the point I am making is that Saraki lacks the responsibility to lead a senate that is asking the Federal Government for the establishment of state police,” the former Kebbi State gubernatorial aspirant argued. “We will require state police at a time we have responsible people presiding over affairs of the National Assembly,” Sami contended. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 