Telecommunications operator, Globacom on Saturday sent a new batch of winners in the GO RUSSIA promo to watch the World Cup in Russia. At a send-off ceremony held  at Globacom headquarters, Mike Adenuga Towers in Lagos, the company encouraged them to be good ambassadors of Nigeria in the East European country. “We congratulate you on winning in the GO RUSSIA promo. Be good ambassadors of Nigeria in Russia, conduct yourself well and portray the country in good light all through your stay there”, it said. According to the company, the four new winners are 40-year-old Chartered Accountant Nwarisi Nsirim Sonny from  Eche LG, Rivers State, 43-year-old motor dealer, Mobolaji Bolaji David from Ilesha, Osun State, 40-year-old Abuja-based Customs Officer, Akano Isaac, and 25-year-old Ojulari Peter from Ilaje in Ondo State. The lucky quad happily departed for Russia from the Murtala Mohammed International Airport on Saturday. With this batch, the company has already fulfilled its promise of sponsoring 22 winners in the promo to Russia. 21 of them successfully made   the all-expense-paid trip, while    Osagie Edwin Isibor, a member of batch 2, could not travel owing to ill-health. The winners thanked Globacom for introducing the promo. Said Nwarisi John, “Globacom, una do well o! Keep it up, you have done very well. You have promised and you have delivered”. On his part, Mobolaji David, who confessed he was initially skeptical about the authenticity of the promo, gave kudos to Globacom for the wonderful opportunity given him to visit Russia. 25-year-old Ojulari Peter said he was delighted to make the number of winners adding, “Thank God, Thank Glo, the trip promises to be interesting as Russia is the destination for all human beings now”. Members of the third batch who arrived from Russia on Thursday were also received by the company at the same event.  One of them, Oladele Oluseyi Adetokunbo, described his experience in Russia as “Amazing”, adding that they were treated like kings. “We thank Globacom for everything, it was simply a once-in-a-life-time experience, It was simply surreal!” he said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 