Lagos – Justice Mojisola Dada of an Ikeja Special Offences Court on Thursday declared Chief Innocent Chukwuma, Chairman of Innoson Group of Companies, wanted. The decision of the court was sequel to an oral application filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Justice Dada had earlier issued a bench warrant against the defendant for not appearing in court despite several invitations. At the resumed proceedings on Thursday, Justice Dada declined to listen to any of the applications from the defence counsel. She insisted Innoson must appear before her in court. While addressing the court, the EFCC counsel, Anselm Ozioko, informed the court that they were not able to execute the court’s bench warrant. Ozioko insisted that it was disrespectful for the defendant to fail to appear in court for the fifth time. He added that the court and the law should be disrespected by anybody, no matter how highly placed in the society. In his response, Chief George Uwechue (SAN), Innoson’s counsel, said even when the court did not want to listen to the application of a defendant, it was duty bound to do so when it bordered on challenging its jurisdiction to hear the matter under consideration and make a formal ruling on it. He said: “At the last hearing in this honourable court on the 25th day of April, 2018, this maintained its position at the previous hearing, that the court could not take any of the first and second defendants pending applications on the ground that the first defendant had not been arraigned. “We submitted that the court has a duty to take any application which challenges its jurisdiction or is based on abuse of process. “To support our position, we cited the case of Igbeke v FRN (2015) 3 NWLR (pt.1445) 28 at page 49 D-H (ratio 2). “It was the interruption by the complainant’s counsel in the course of our reading the case that led to the incident that brought about the sudden end of the proceedings. “We urge the court to allow us complete our presentation because, indeed, we have another case – a Supreme Court decision in support of our position which is COP v Amuta (2017) 3 NWLR (pt. 1445) 379 at 391-392 paras G-O. “In that regard, my lord, we have the following applications directly challenging the jurisdiction of the court and on the grounds of abuse of process: the first and second defendants’ notice of preliminary objection dated 15th January, 2018 urges the court to dismiss the charge and discharge and acquit them for want of jurisdiction and abuse of process. “This notice of preliminary objection can be taken in the circumstances but because there is an appeal which has been entered, it will be more appropriate to stay action on that application until the appeal is determined. “The application dated 12th February, 2018 also challenges the jurisdiction of the court and can be taken. We urge the court to make a formal ruling on this issue after due consideration of the authorities we cited above.” The EFCC is accusing Innoson of obtaining containers of motorcycle spare parts by false pretenses between 2009 and July 2011 in Lagos, “with intent to defraud”. The goods, said to be property of GTBank Plc were allegedly obtained from Mitsui O.S.K Lines Limited in Apapa. The commission also alleged that Innocent Chukwuma and Charles Chukwuma, “with intent to defraud, induced the staff of Mitsui O.S.K and Maersk Line Limited, to deliver” to them through their clearing agents the motorcycle spare parts, moulds of spare parts and steel structures, and raw materials called polyvinylchloride, imported from China. The accused were said to have falsely pretended that they were authorised by GTBank to clear the goods and take delivery of them. The matter was adjourned till June 22, 2018. But Innocent Chukwuma was reported to have replied the court also on Thursday, describing the court’s declaration of him as a wanted person as an action targeted to humiliate him. In a statement by Cornel Osigwe, Head, Corporate Communications of Innoson Group, the accused argued that the court’s declaration was done in bad faith. Part of the statement reads: “Declaring me wanted was done in bad faith and is simply to embarrass my personality, defame me and malign my character aimed to distract me from my daily activities in ensuring that Innoson Motors continues to produce durable made in Nigeria vehicles.” “Meanwhile, I have also appealed against the order declaring me wanted and as well filed a motion for the stay of its execution.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 