Jos – Jonathan Ishaku, member of Editorial Advisory Board of Independent Newspapers Limited (INL), has accused the Federal Government of treating Fulani herders with kid gloves while they kill and sack villages across the the federation, especially in the North Central region. Ishaku was the guest speaker at the maiden colloquium organised by the Plateau State chapter of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) in commemoration of this year’s World Press Freedom Day on Thursday in Jos, the state capital. In a presentation, ‘Herdsmen Violence: The Politics of Security Management in a Fragile State’, Ishaku blamed Nigeria’s failure in tackling the issue on the leaders’ lack of will power against primordial sentiments. He said the on-going treatment of herders’ attacks and killings with kid gloves by the federal authorities might be an invitation to anarchy, if not urgently addressed. “It may take less than the killings of a few villagers or the murder of priests by the Fulani herdsmen to set the ultimate fire that will totally consume the nation,” Ishaku warned. This was the view expressed by various speakers on Thursday at the colloquium. He maintained that the ongoing violent attacks should not be addressed as “farmers/herders clash” as there is more to what is happening than meets the eyes. According to him, “One area the nation has been playing politics with national security management is the issue of Fulani herdsmen terrorism, beginning from 2010 that the nation woke up to the reality of a new emerging threat from what became known euphemistically as unknown gunmen terrorising farming communities in the Middle Belt. “The Nigerian government is presently battling allegations of complicity in the activities of Fulani herdsmen terrorism in Nigeria. Nigeria’s politics is determined by a variety of primordial factors, including religion, ethnicity and region, simply because it suited the competing political elite to play them up for personal and aggregated interest. “On Fulani herdsmen terrorism, there was no word from the government in spite of its equally devastating activities. Since no one can accuse Buhari of lacking in military skills to stem the herdsmen terrorism as he did Boko Haram, he is simply accused of siding with his Fulani kith and kin.” On the lingering allegations of military complicity in the violence, he said: “Tragically, Nigeria appears to be failing principally because our leaders are powerless against the pull of primordial sentiments. Next time, it may take less than the killings of a few villagers or the murder of priests by the Fulani herdsmen to set the ultimate fire that will totally consume this nation.” Earlier, Paul Jatau, the state NUJ chairman, stated that the event was put together to commemorate this year’s World Press Freedom Day and that the choice of the theme was to address the issue in the front burner of public discourse. 0 comments