Chief Sunny Onuesoke, a public affairs analyst, is a former governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State. He is currently the Special Projects Director to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State. In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he spoke on the three years of President Muhammadu Buhari’s leadership and other key issues. Excerpts: The Muhammadu Buhari administration will be marking three years on May 29. What is your honest assessment of the performance of the government? It is called three years of massive misrule. The three years is an error in Nigeria history. It will take Nigerians half a century to wipe it away from our minds and memories. It is a mental torture on Nigerians including APC as a party. It was the worst Nigerians did to call for a change. Where do we stand today if you want to compare the wasted years of President Muhammadu Buhari in the historical journey of Nigeria as a nation? . Buhari took Nigerians back to 1976 when he was Petroleum Minister. As for me, I regret the wasted years as a dent to my biological counts. Has he done anything differently from PDP government since he became president? Yes, he has done a lot of things like increasing the fuel pump price, terminating close to 12,342 manufacturing and small scale factories all over the country, killing the health and education and the aviation sectors, from N145 to a dollar in 2015 to 489 per dollar in 2016. Scaring away prospective investors with his unguarded utterances and so on . He is completely different from PDP. PDP was a fast growing party with solid all-embracing ideals and suddenly APC came and crash all the efforts and development PDP took pains to build for 16 good years. The president said his focus will be on three key areas Security, Economy and War against Corruption. How has he fared in these three key areas? What the president was saying to Nigerians was that he came to leadership with three points agenda to create insecurity, increase inflation and, thirdly he came to leadership with the promise to institute corruption like what is going on now at Aso rock and environs. How do you grow the economy with insecurity,corruption and massive killing all over the places?. There is no reasonable foreign investor that will stake his efforts, money and time in such horrible situation we are now in today in Nigeria. The president on his inauguration also said he will president for everybody and not for nobody. Has he lived up to that promise? For sure he has lived up to that promise. From his one-sided appointment you will know what I mean. For trying to construct railway routes to Niger and Chad, that clearly shows is for everybody but nobody . Appointing his kinsmen alone into strategic institutions shows he is for everybody but nobody. It took the president over six months to constitute his cabinet and three years down the line, he has not reshuffled. What do you think is responsible for this? He has the right to reshuffle and not to reshuffle. Supposedly the team is doing well that means there is no need to reshuffle. Like I will always say, Buhari is just out to rule with what I call the policy of vindictive and pay back over the years of what he perceives as what was done against him way back then in the 80s. He was not prepared to rule and he never knew former President Goodluck Jonathan will peacefully concede defeat as he was not ready to spill any blood of Nigerians because he wants to continue in office. Because he was not prepared to rule so he never prepared the list of his proposed ministers that was why it took him time to constitute his cabinet. How will you assess his relationship with the National Assembly? It has been a  zero friendship relationship. This is the worst the country has experienced with the executive and legislature since 1960. How do you describe an executive that doesn’t respect the federal legislature? . A legislature that cannot enforce their laws and orders despite being an independent arm of government? . We have no legislature in Nigeria especially at the federal level. Our problem in Nigeria is purely about not telling the truth. What is a legislature that can’t implement her decisions? Having declared for reelection, do you see him winning in 2019 if he becomes the flag bearer of APC based on his performance? That question is strange. APC is already fragmented into ashes and various split groups. Like I said,  earlier APC is totally dead. Those that installed them has almost left the party, so there is no need discussing their victory. It is better Nigerians start thinking about how to manage their failure come May 29 2019. The game is over and the so-called kitchen cabinet is aware of it. APC is playing with time just to complete the mess they started in 2015. Some prominent Nigerians have asked him not to seek reelection, should he heed this counsel? The choice remains with him if he wants to disgrace himself out of power or not .     Nigerians have made up their minds not to vote APC again. As for me,  I will advise Buhari as a father of the nation to allow peace reign. If he knew what is good for a decent man like him, the best thing to do is to quit when the ovation is loudest. But from indications,  Buhari will heed the call of Nigerians and he will not contest. Having experienced both APC and PDP, is there any difference between the two? Clear cut difference! It Is like comparing black to white .How could you compare oranges to apples? . PDP is a refined political institution compared to an adhoc setting like APC. We have the best of hands politically in PDP compare to APC. PDP is made up of refined presidential materials like Jonathan , late  Umaru Yar’Adua, Atiku and others too numerous to mention because of time and space. Please there is no legitimate index for now to compare our great party,PDP to such a low breed political gathering called APC. What are your expectations for the 2019 presidential election? Expectations are already settled by the handwriting on the wall. From indications,  APC has accepted defeat and failure. All  President Buhari and his  clueless government should immediately do now is to apologise before the end of the second quarter of 2018. How could Buhari tell Nigerians that he wants to contest for second term?. It is totally unacceptable to his APC party and Nigerians in general. Do you see former President, Olusegun Obasanjo’s Third Force making any impact in 2019? I doubt it . Nigerians has seen a lot of mergers and formations by many  forms of third force. As for me I do not think Nigerians needs third force today. We should build on the two major parties to make them a class for other Africa countries to copy. Some Nigerians are calling for a declaration of state of emergency in Benue. Are you in support of this? Not at all, I totally will mobilise Nigerians to go against it. If anybody is campaigning or moving for a state of emergency in Benue then that person remains the enemy of democracy. We are running a full blown federal structure that is already in existence. If the federal government declares a state of emergency today in Benue it then means there is a conspiracy against the state by the federal government. It will take the federal government security chieftains within 72 hours to put Benue in a calm situation and restore law and other. If we must redeem the image of this country called Nigeria then we must be able to stand tall and take some decisions that will convince the international communities that we are set to go and ready to join the globalisation network. A state of emergency in Benue will send red signal to the international communities that Nigeria is not ripe enough to stand  with the rest of the world. I am not party to that call at all. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 