Political activism has fully hit the ground in Osun State following the lifting of ban on campaigns by the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), on gubernatorial aspirants on the platform of the party. Twenty-seven  aspirants have signified interest in the plum job being occupied by Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. In this interview, Dayo Oyebanji said the lifting of ban was a demonstration of proper arrangement for electioneering by APC. Excerpts: The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) officially declared lifting of ban on open campaign. How do you feel? The lifting of the ban is a demonstration of the proper arrangement on our part as a party. It shows that  our party is organized and we are ready to take on and continue the leadership of the state. Come September 22nd this year and by the grace of God by November 27th, APC candidate will also be swore in and the state would continue to enjoy the unprecedented developments and dividend of democracy. What is your take on the number of aspirants jostling for the governorship seat in the state? It symbolizes demonstration of determination of our party to continue in its bid to move the state to a greater heights. If you look around, you will notice that all the aspirants that are contesting on the platform of APC are qualified and capable people, very good administrators and top politicians. As a matter of fact, with the total number of the contestants jostling for the State governor’s seat, this shows how democratic we are in our party. It also show that our party have enough people capable to be governor and continue with the good legacies of our amiable governor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. With the number of people contesting on the platform of APC, what is your chances of emerging the flagbearer of the party in coming gubernatorial poll? My chances of winning the party primary election is very bright, considering  the fact  that we know the quality in the leadership that is require to continue the good work of Rauf Aregbesola, I am qualified and capable to continue the good legacies of Ogbeni, in fact I have all what requires to be the governor which majority of the party leadership know. What is your   plan for the people of the state? I will like to inform you that my manifesto is the same as the manifesto of our great party, APC.  My manifesto is to ensure accelerated economic growth of the state of Osun. What is your advice for the party members and the people of the state? My advice to every members of our great party is to rally round and ensure that we continue to demonstrate level of maturity. When it comes  to campaign, they should avoid any activities capable of causing crisis in the state, we don’t want hooliganism that we have witnessed in the past before administration of APC came back to being. You observe that our great party has demonstrated high level of modernization. This is the first time that aspirants would be given equal opportunity and be made to understand the rules of the game and it shows that we are ready for the election. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 