Minna – The Bishop of Minna Diocese (Anglican Communion), Rt. Rev. Daniel Yisa has called on Christians to wake up and be actively involved in next year’s general elections because “the current crops of politicians are capitalists who only think of themselves not about Nigerians.” Bishop Yisa condemned in strong terms what he termed, an act of capitalism being practiced by present-day politicians and the only way to break the jinx, he said is for Christians to align with politicians of like minds in faith and character and join forces to vote out such self-seeking politicians and give Nigerians democratic governance. Yisa in his charge to the 1st session of the 10th Synod at the St. Peter’s Cathedral Church, Minna said it is saddening that political illiteracy and related vices are responsible for the delineation between what is going on in Nigeria today that has made a particular religion like being lord over others. Bishop Yisa, speaking on the theme, “Can politics and religion mix: Christian perspective” further blamed the church for politicians’ abysmal failure, however, said there is no biblical inhibitions stopping Christians from voting or being voted for into any positions in the country. The era of playing second-class citizen is over; Yisa said as he encouraged adherents of the faith, “Nigerian Christians must be actively involved in politics. Our politicians must allow God to lord over their political views, leaders must be ordained by God.” The clergy further argued that “Nigerian politicians, as far as I know, are practicing capitalism, they are only calling it democracy because that is what they painted it to be but the truth is that the system is, the rich gets richer and the poor get poorer.” He argued that true democracy is all about governance devoid of self-centeredness, that which accords equal opportunity and making things better for every Nigerian irrespective of religious, tribal and political affiliations. Yisa who, however, said there are still few people in this government that are not self-seeking encouraged Christians to align with God-fearing politicians to rescue the nation from a government that seems to have lost focus and done more harm than good to the Nigerian populace. “I will call on Christian politicians in Nigeria to join hands with God-fearing politicians in other faith so that the country can be better of. Inequalities, good governance and active participation in politics are the pathway to getting things right in any democracy”, he said. 0 comments