Ibrahim Idris, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), who was billed to appear before the Senate last Tuesday, for the fourth time in two weeks, shunned the Senators. At exactly 12.01, it was announced that there would be a briefing in the Upper Chamber by Inspector General of Police (IGP) on the spate of killings across the country and the inhuman treatment of Senator Dino Melaye, All Progressives Congress (APC), Kogi West. As contained in Tuesday’s Order Paper, Senate leader, Sen. Ahmad Lawan, Yobe North said, “that the Senate do receive the Inspector General of Police to brief this Distinguished Senate on the spate of killings across the country and the inhuman treatment of Distinguished Senator Dino Melaye over a matter that is pending before a competent law court.” Having waited patiently for the IGP to come into the chamber to brief, the Senate Leader at 12.08 stood and said that it was clear that the police boss was not around to brief the lawmakers, describing the situation as sad and unfortunate, adding that the Senate, as an institution was at a crossroads. At 12.25 am, Senate President Bukola Saraki, following a motion that they go into a closed-door session, announced that the Senators should dissolve into a closed-door session. Idris had last week, Wednesday, May 2 refused to honour the invitation of the Senate without reasons. The Senate had penultimate Thursday summoned Idris to brief the lawmakers at plenary over the ordeal Senator Melaye, APC Kogi West, the Chairman, Senate Committee on the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in the hands of the Nigeria Police on alleged illegal possession of ammunition. But, the IGP refused to honour the invitation. The Senate then gave him last penultimate Wednesday to appear before the Senators, but he refused without giving any on why he did that, but was said to have travelled to Birnin Gwari, Kaduna State. The IGP, who failed to appear the penultimate week, was said to have travelled with President Muhammadu Buhari on a visit to Bauchi State. Idris was re-summoned to appear last week at 11am, with Senate President Bukola Saraki insisting that he must come in person and that the dignity and integrity of the Senate must be protected. The IGP’s non-appearance last Tuesday made it the fourth time he had shunned the summons of the Senate. The first was when he was invited to speak on the petition against him by Senator Hamman Misau, APC, Bauchi Central. Senate Declares Idris Personae Non Grata Following the IGP’s refusal to appear before the Senate at plenary for the fourth time in two weeks to speak on the spate of killings across the country and the inhuman treatment meted on Senator Dino Melaye, APC, Kogi West, the Senate on Wednesday passed a vote of no confidence on Idris, saying he is not fit to hold any office, both home and abroad. According to the Senate, his persistent refusal to appear before the lawmakers at plenary, having been invited severally, was a great danger to the nation’s democracy. This was disclosed by Senate President Bukola Saraki at the end of a closed-door session that started 12.25 and ended 1.15pm for the lawmakers to brainstorm on the next line of action following the IGP’s action. At the closed-door session, the Senate resolved to grant the Police boss persona non grata by writing international community, embassies, Nigeria international partners and the Interpol that he is not okay for his present position. Senate’s Action, A Deliberate Blackmail – Police However, in its reaction, the Nigeria Police said  the Senate’s resolution on Idris for refusing to appear before its plenary to speak on the spate of killings across the country and the alleged inhuman treatment of Melaye, was nothing but a deliberate blackmail, witch-hunting and unfortunate. The Force said the police owed no apology to any individual or groups in its effort to ensure preservation of law and order, supremacy of the law of the land, and to make sure that all Nigerians are subject to the same law, no matter what their position is in the society. The Police, in a statement, signed by ACP Jimoh Moshood, Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Force Headquarters in Abuja, said the Senate’s resolution on Idris as unfit to hold any public office within and outside the country, was “a deliberate blackmail, witch-hunting with mischievous motives to hand-twist the IGP to pervert the end of justice in a felonious and serious offenses.” The police further warned the Senate not to harbour criminal elements among its fold or condone criminality and that the Force would not be intimidated by any individual, groups or institution, constituent or otherwise to abdicate from its constitutional responsibilities of protection of lives and property and due enforcement of the rule of law, and law and order across the country. The Force said that “the action of the Senate, in its resolution against the IGP,” was “a deliberate blackmail, witch-hunting with mischievous motives to hand-twist the IGP to pervert the end of justice in a felonious and serious offenses of Criminal Conspiracy and Unlawful Possession of Prohibited Firearms for which Senator Dino Melaye who was indicted by two Principal Suspects (Kabiru Seidu a.k.a Osama, Nuhu Salisu a.k.a Small) arrested for several cases of kidnappings and armed robberies in Kogi State were already standing trial in a court of competent jurisdiction.” The Statement read: “The attention of the Nigeria Police Force has been drawn to the media reportage of the Senate’s resolution on Senate Order Paper of today, Wednesday, 9th May, 2018 after a closed door session that the ‘Senate declares the Inspector General of Police, IGP Ibrahim k. Idris, as an enemy of democracy and unfit to hold any public office within and outside the country’. “It is urgently imperative that the Nigeria Police Force respond to this resolution of the Senate, which is a deliberate blackmail, witch-hunting, unfortunate and mischievous. “In accordance with the extant laws in Nigeria, the functions, duties and responsibilities of the Inspector General of Police as stated in Section 215(1a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 as amended, and the Police Act and Regulations Section 309(1) can also be carried out as mentioned in sections 7(1),312(1), 313(2) of the Police Act and Regulations by a senior officer of the Force of the rank of Deputy Inspector General of Police or an Assistant Inspector General of Police who if permitted by the Inspector General of Police to act on his behalf or represent him in an official capacity at any official function, event or programme within and outside Nigeria can do so in consonant with the provisions of the Police Act and Regulations. “It is on the basis of the above that when on the 25th of April, 2018, the Senate invited the Inspector-General of Police to appear before it on the 26th of April 2018, in respect of the felonious offenses for which Sen. Dino Melaye was taken into Police custody, investigated and arraigned in a Court of Competent Jurisdiction in Lokoja, but because the Inspector-General of Police was on official assignment with the President of Federal Republic of Nigeria to Bauchi on same date, he delegated the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Department of Operations, Assistant Inspector-Generals of Police and some Commissioners of Police conversant with the matter to brief the Senate. “The delegated Officers went with a brief of the Inspector-General of Police on the matter to the Senate to enable the Senate appreciate the issues raised to guide their resolutions on the matter but the Senate refused to listen to the officers delegated by the Inspector-General of Police in line with his powers recognised by both the Constitution and the Police Act and Regulations. “The Senate again on the 26th of April 2018 wrote the Inspector-General of Police re-inviting him to appear before the Senate in person on the 2nd of May, 2018 but this time around the IGP was on official assignment to Birnin-Gwari Area of Kaduna State in company of the General Officer Commanding, One Division, Nigerian Army Kaduna, Major General Mohammed Mohammed, to attend to some very serious security matters of National Importance, but he promptly delegated the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Research and Planning, Assistant Inspectors General of Police and Commissioners of Police to represent him and brief the Senate on the same subject matter but the Senate again refused to accord them audience insisting that the Inspector-General of Police must appear in person. “On the 8th of May, 2018, the Inspector General of Police sent a letter to the President of the Senate, Federal Republic of Nigeria signed by the Commissioner of Police, Legal and Prosecution Department, explaining why he would not be appearing before the Senate on the 9th of May, 2018 due to legal restraint as a result of pending cases before the courts filed: (i) by Senator Dino Melaye against the IGP and the Nigeria Police Force in the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja in suit No. CV/1610/18 slated for hearing on the 11th day of May, 2018 (ii) by the Inspector General of Police against the Senate in the Federal High Court, Abuja in suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/457/2018 adjourned to 31st May, 2018 for hearing. “It is on record that consequent on the confession of criminal offences indicting Senator Dino Melaye by the principal suspect Kabiru Saidu a.k.a Osama “31 yrs”, The Nigeria Police Force, sent a letter of investigation activities/invitation dated 2nd March, 2018 addressed to the Senate President, Federal Republic of Nigeria informing and requesting him to release Senator Dino Melaye to report to Commissioner of Police, Kogi State Command on the 7th of March, 2018 to answer to criminal offences of Conspiracy and Unlawful Possession of Prohibited Firearms leveled against him, this is to enable the Police Investigation Team carryout a discreet and thorough investigation into the case. But, Senator Dino Melaye refused to honour the Police invitation. “It is pertinent that the Nigeria Police Force informs the members of the General Public that the reasons for which the Senate has summoned the Inspector General of Police is official and not personal, and the 1999 constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended and the Police Act and Regulations allowed the IGP to delegate Deputy Inspector General of Police or Assistant Inspector General of Police to represent him. Consequently, the action of the Senate in its resolution against the IGP today is a deliberate blackmail, witch-hunting with mischievous motives to hand-twist the IGP to pervert the end of justice in a felonious and serious offenses of Criminal Conspiracy and Unlawful Possession of Prohibited Firearms for which Senator Dino Melaye who was indicted by two Principal Suspects (Kabiru Seidu a.k.a Osama, Nuhu Salisu a.k.a Small) arrested for several cases of kidnappings and armed robberies in Kogi State are already standing trial in a court of competent jurisdiction. It is important to correct the impression created in the minds of the people from the Senate’s resolution that the IGP is not and will not be an enemy to democracy. It is also of significant note to state that IGP Ibrahim K. Idris, has served meritoriously for above 10 years in the United Nations Peace Keeping Operations in several countries unblemished. “The Nigeria Police Force is the first defender of Democracy and all democratic institutions in Nigeria and will continue to do so. It is factual and verifiable that Senator Dino Melaye was discharged and certified fit to stand trial by the National Hospital, Abuja, before he was arraigned in Chief Magistrate Courts in Wuse, Abuja, and Lokoja. “The Inspector General of Police and the Nigeria Police Force will not be deterred by blackmail from any individual or group no matter how highly placed from the enforcement of law and order and ensuring that the rule of law prevails. No matter whose ox is gored. The Nigeria Police Force, therefore, owes no apology to any individual or groups in its effort to ensure preservation of law and order, supremacy of the law of the land, and make sure that all Nigerians are subject to the same law, no matter what their position is in the society. “The general public are hereby implored to disregard and discountenance the resolution of the Senate on the IGP as a deliberate blackmail, witch-hunting and mischievously aimed at casting aspersions on the hard earned integrity of the Inspector General of Police and the Nigeria Police Force. The Nigeria Police Force, as a law abiding organisation, will continue to hold the Senate of Federal Republic of Nigeria in high esteem, but wishes to impress on the Senate not to harbour criminal elements among its fold or condone criminality. “The Force will not be intimidated by any individual, groups or institution, constituent or otherwise to abdicate from its constitutional responsibilities of protection of lives and property and due enforcement of the rule of law, and law and order across the country.” Having dared the Senate, it seems the battle line has been drawn between the Senate and Idris. Thus, Nigerians wonder if it right for the IGP to decline Senate’s invitation. IGP Behaving Like An Emperor – Analyst Roland Okha Izevhigie, a retired civil servant and public affairs commentator, said: “I was not surprised to hear that the Inspector General of Police refused to honour an invitation from the Senate. This is because, this is a man who was given an instruction by the President to go to Benue State at the beginning of the killing in Benue State and refused to honour the President’s instruction and nothing was done to him by the man who appointed him. “In my personal opinion, I just believe that the IGP was appointed to carry out a specific assignment, which has not been made known to Nigerians. I sincerely believed that with time the true picture will be exposed to all Nigerians. “I can’t imagine an Inspector General Police appointed in a democratic government behaving as an emperor and the President cannot call him to order. It shows that he is appointed to carry out a specific assignment that is not yet known to Nigerians. “I want to remind him that this country belongs to every Nigerian and should have it in mind that no one man is superior to another before the law of the land. Let me also remind him that members of the National Assembly are all elected by the people of their various constituencies therefore should be very conscious while handling any issue emanating from that arm of government. “I will want to call on the executive arm of government under which the law enforcement agents are operating, to check the excesses of the law enforcement agents to avoid rubbishing democracy. As I said earlier nobody is above the law. Any person found breaking the law should be brought to book, but not in this type of an uncivilised way the IGP and his men are going about it. This is why I reminded him earlier that Nigeria is under a democratic government. “The IGP behaving as an emperor could instigate the masses into unpleasant action that may lead to something else even if he is given a specific assignment for political fortune for his master he should carry it out with utmost caution to avoid the unexpected. A word is enough for the wise and I beg to rest my case.” IGP’s Conduct Dragging Nigeria Backwards – Political Activist Obiorah Obeta, the Publicity Secretary of Wake-Up Enugu Movement (WEM), believes that the conduct of the IGP is dragging the country backwards. Obeta, whose group seeks to enthrone good governance and return power to the people in Enugu State, made it clear that Idris has no powers to resist an invitation from the Senate. He said: “It is an error, one of the things dragging the country back. An IGP is not bigger than the National Assembly. The National Assembly represents Nigerians and can summon the IGP. The IGP does not have powers to resist the invitation.” He maintained that the conduct of the IGP has dire consequences for Nigerian democracy. According to him, “It is a very big blow to our democracy. There is a popular saying that where two elephants fight, the grass suffers. We do not expect the National Assembly to go into war with the IGP.  If it happens, the whole country will be submerged. It is the duty of the President to call the IGP to order because he appointed him.” IGP Responsible To Presidency, Not Senate – YPP Chief Chief Vitus Iwegbulam Ikedibia, human rights activist and chieftain of Young Progressive Party (YPP), said: “The IGP is an appointee of the President and not that of the Senate and as such, he is directly responsible to the Presidency and not to the Senate. “If the senate feels uncomfortable with any action or conduct taken by the IGP, it (Senate) should channel its grievances to the Presidency for necessary action and not to invite the IGP to appear before it. “Again, if the IGP honours the invitation of the Senate and at the end of the day, it feels disappointed with whatever explanation the IGP offers to them, what happens? Will it (the Senate) relieve him (IGP) of his appointment or to get in touch with the Presidency for necessary action? “That is why I am saying that the IGP can decline invitation to the Senate if he feels that it is superfluous. We have unprecedented security challenges in this country and the IGP should not be distracted in his fight against insurgency. “Let the Senators pre-occupy themselves with their legislative business instead of delivering into issues that might not help us as a nation. “I read from one of the national dailies recently that the IGP has offered an explanation as to why he was unable to honour the Senate invitation. So, what is the fuss all about?” IGP’s Action Amounts To Disrespect To Nigeria  – SDP Stalwart Immason Obineme Ihesinachi Igwe-ex-councillor and chieftain of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), on his own, stated: “Who is the IGP to reject invitation by the senate to appear before it? “The Senate is the highest legislative body in this country and for the IGP to ignore her invitation amounts to sheer disrespect to the nation. “In the western world such as the USA, Senators are more respected than every other government functionary. But, here in Nigeria, they are treated with contempt and disdain. “The IGP should apologise to the Senate for not honouring its invitation, else they should ask the President to sack him. “The action of the IGP is a disrespect to the Senate, which should not be swept under the carpet. It is unhealthy for our democracy and should be treated as such. The IGP did what he did because he feels that he has strong connections with the Presidency.” However, at a recent meeting between President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Assembly leadership, Senate President Bukola Saraki and House of Representatives Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, the President’s attention was reportedly drawn to this raging war between Idris and the Senate. Till date, the Presidency is yet to publicly respond to it. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 