Young, aspiring and talented artiste, Nuhu Zakari, popularly known as Nuzak who recently dropped the audio and visual of his single, ‘The Boy’, featuring indigenous rapper, CDQ has blamed fellow musicians who use their songs to promote drugs. Nuzak, who is signed to Royal Empire Music and Art Label, owned by a Lagos socialite, Prince (Dr) Kazeem Eletu-Odibo said; “as a musician, you shouldn’t be encouraging lewd lyrics in your songs if you care about its negative effects on your fans, majority of whom are youths. The artiste, in a chat with INDEPENDENT went on to berate his colleagues who take drugs for inspiration, saying, “It is not good to abuse drugs. We all should know that. You can only take drugs on a doctor’s prescription. Abusing drugs can endanger lives – be they musicians or other Nigerians.” Nuzak continued that “I have heard that some musicians take drugs, especially Marijuana and codeine to gain inspiration. This might be true, but I don’t do drugs and I don’t believe in drugs. Everyone has his own choice. For me, I don’t smoke and I don’t drink. I wouldn’t stop other musicians who feel it is okay to smoke because I don’t do it. The smoking I mean is cigarettes, not drugs such as marijuana or drinking codeine. I don’t buy the idea. It’s just out of line. “If one is to sing, it should be to make people happy or to preach to them, not to make them go down the wrong path. If you are preaching to the people to go into drugs, then you are just singing for the sake of singing. Your song will be meaningless even if it’s trending and accepted by your fans.” He also blamed the fans who patronise the songs. “Sometimes though, the fans are the ones requesting for corrupt songs with lewd lyrics. The trend on the streets now is ‘shaku shaku’. “That’s why the likes of Brymo, Asha, Adekunle Gold and other conscious singers get low patronage from their Nigerian fans. Nigerians just want to dance and while away time without caring about the songs’ impact on the youth.” Nuzak who has worked with the likes of Sean Tizzle, Oritsefemi and Abdulala (Black Tribe), also dreams of working with the award-winning trio of Wizkid, Davido and Olamide in his future songs. His album, which dropped on Wednesday, May 9 is a new street anthem, directed by Dindu and laced with catchy lyrics that are sure to get pundits rocking the dance floor. It was produced by Rexxie, mixed and mastered by Marqai. While there are speculations that the song, shot in the Osapa London area of Lekki is the grass to grace story of Prince Kazeem who recently celebrated his 40th birthday amidst funfair, the artiste has doused the speculations, saying that while there are correlations, it is not his Kazeem’s life story. The Olowo Laiye Mo crooner equally spoke on his choice of versatile indigenous artiste, CDQ, saying he is one of the rappers in Nigeria he respects a lot. “The way he does his things and his singing prowess are superb. He is always prepared. I believe in his dream and spirit. I fell in love with him on his first release. Other artistes are good but I just like CDQ passionately and working with him is a dream I just want to accomplish.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 