It is not yet certain how the battle for the control of the Imo State chapter of the All progressive Congress (APC) would turned out amidst contentions over legality or otherwise of the process. Nevertheless, the political machinery of Owelle Rochas Okorocha which until recently could be described as relatively formidable in Imo State considering the electoral successes under two different political platforms in 2011 and 2015 is facing the most difficult test which the Governor obviously never bargained for. Whatever happens, the events of Okorocha’s political conquest would, no doubt, remain a watershed in the history of governance in that southeast state. Okorocha has been, more or less, the “Lord of the Manor” of Imo State. The governor’s hold on governance has been peculiarly individualistic while his politics has been first and foremost about the personality of Okorocha who by some inexplicable reasons also has acquired the notoriety of erecting controversial statues. Okorocha not only loves controversies, he has a way of deploying acrimonious politicking into personal advantage. Notwithstanding, the emerging scenario in the APC politics in Imo state appears to be a different kettle of fish for the stormy petrel of Imo state. While Okorocha pretty knows and appreciates the capacities of the array of players assembled against him, crave to push through with his burgeoning hegemonic politics appears to be his driving force. While Okorocha is very much unsure of the support of the electorate, he is nevertheless banking on the presidency to ride roughshod over his political adversaries. But as things stand presently, it is doubtful if Okorocha could possibly go it all alone and still emerge the primus-inter-pares of Imo state politics after 2019 general elections. It increasingly looking like something will have to give eventually, but it is unlikely how much concession Okorocha would be ready to swallow to save his ego from being fatally deflated. More important to Okorocha is apparently the imperative of controlling the party structure in the state in actualisation of his a succession agenda that fit the permutation of the political dynasty he seeks to enforce in Imo State. If all had worked in his favour when the process of constituting the new leadership for APC began, his anointed in-law who is presently his Chief of Staff would be now be rest assured of the governorship ticket would have lightened up the dream of Okorocha’s political dynasty. With party structures in the bags, it would be pretty easier for Okorocha to bamboozle President Muhammadu Buhari and the party leaders at the national level and as a consequence bully or cow opposition elements within the state APC. All permutations now seem to be in flame. Okorocha is arguably one of the most troubled politicians in Nigeria today. It is understandably hurting for Okorocha to be seen as struggling to install the leadership of the APC in Imo State when he should be revered as the indisputable leader of the party in the southeast.  Without the party structure, his travails would be beyond the failure to install his son in-law as successor. Up against political hawks who are nonetheless as formidable, he would practically be fighting from the sidelines in Imo State and may end up an Abuja politician by the time 2019 rat race winds up. However, in spite of the unfolding drama arising from the congresses of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, the forthcoming 2019 election would, to a large extent, determine if Okorocha still enjoys such reverence as Jagaban of Imo state not to talk of ever been revered as the political Asiwaju of the southeast. To be sure, the battle for the control of Imo state promises to be an epic one. Whatever the emerging scenario turns out to be in the foreseeable future, there is no doubt that Imo state indigenes and indeed Nigerians could hardly forget a governor in the name of Okorocha was in the saddle in a state with enviable profile of being home to arrays of learned and lettered minds in Nigeria. However, it is indeed interesting to imagine why and how Okorocha had expected mutual indifference to his political jokes in Imo State. What exactly was he thinking and by what strategy could that have materialised without expecting a fight as hectic as the current one that is yet unfolding. It couldn’t have been that Okorocha has nothing tangible or worthwhile to show for his two terms as governors in Imo State. If insecurity should be the only explanation for his unbridled ambition to turn Imo State into a family affair, it therefore boils down to how politically immature and clannish he could be if invested with higher office since it is often a truism that “power corrupts and absolutely power corrupts absolutely’. There is therefore a huge lesson to be learnt from the unfolding drama in Imo State. A befitting statue is being erected for Okorocha by the elite who are challenging his political obduracy. It is hoped people would learn a lesson or two from what has become of the attempt to force a dynasty down the throats of the people in a supposedly democratic system. Okorocha loves erecting statues but he has succeeded in turning himself to one that would be a reference point not as a three dimensional effigy but documented in our recent history of political engagement. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 