Yenagoa – Bayelsa State government has said it would pick the bills of the injured and the burial expenses of the victims of the protest by the women and youths of Amassoma at the Niger Delta University, Wilberforce Island, in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of the state. This was one of the decisions reached at a meeting on Friday between Governor Seriake Dickson and various stakeholders, including the leadership of the community and the Governing Council of the NDU, to resolve the unrest at the university, which claimed several lives last Tuesday. This contradicts claims by the Bayelsa State Police Command under the leadership of Don Awunah, Commissioner of Police, that nobody was killed when security operatives clashed with the Amassoma community protesters. A press release signed by Governor Dickson’s Special Adviser on Public Affairs, Daniel Alabrah, said the state government would also set up two separate committees to examine the immediate and remote causes of the disturbances as well as promote genuine reconciliation, peace and unity in Amassoma. James Ibori, former Governor of Delta State, it added, accompanied Dickson to the meeting with the Amassoma community held at the Late DSP Alamieyeseigha Banquet Hall of Government House, Yenagoa. The governor expressed regrets over the incident and described it as unfortunate, sad and avoidable, and urged the people not to take the laws into their hands. He said a formal delegation would also be sent to commiserate with the bereaved families while those detained by the police would be released. Dickson said that efforts were on to ensure the reopening of NDU to resume academic activities as soon as possible. He called on the people of the state to be wary of those he described as failed political leaders and desperate aspirants bent on fomenting crisis to destabilise the state. He maintained that Amassoma occupies a special place in his heart, which informed his administration’s decision not only to invest in the development of NDU but also locating its single biggest investment, which is the N80 billion Bayelsa international airport project in the community. In his remarks, Ibori expressed support to the reform agenda of the state governor and urged the people, especially Amassoma community, to rally round government to attract more development. In his presentation, the representative of the youth leadership of Amassoma, Simeon Ayogoi, condemned the action of the youths who attacked the police operatives drafted to maintain law and order in the community. He also took a swipe at the police for firing live bullets, describing the conduct as most unprofessional. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 