Engineer Olusegun Oni was a former governor of Ekiti state. He is among 33 governorship aspirants on the platform of the All Progressives Congress who will participate in tomorrow’s primaries to pick the party’s candidate for the state’s governorship election. In this interview, with select group of journalists last Sunday at his Ifaki-Ekiti country home, he spoke on the violence that marred the conduct of the primary last week. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: What really happened yesterday at the venue of the primary? The basis of what happened yesterday was that one of the contestants indeed nominated at least the Secretary of the committee. If you are going to a competition and one of the competitors chose the referee, you can know how frustrating it would be. The frustration of that may have led a lot of people to react negatively. So that is the source of the frustration. Why should the system allow that? Why did the National Working Committee who should take responsibility not be more circumspect? I was the Deputy National Chairman of the party for nearly four years. I knew I was taking part in a contest that must be free, fair and transparent. I did not nominate a single person in that process. I’m not stupid but I believe the sanity of the system must be kept by all of us. To discover that what happened is a very sad thing that no one can defend. They said there were some officials of that same aspirant caught with some tags. Where did they get the tags? Who gave them? Did they forge them? Or they were given to them? And we saw many of them with tags. I didn’t bring in a single person outside the delegates. And it’s not that I’m foolish. It is just that we have to keep a system. If we say we want democracy, let us have democracy. What we are having now is a group of smart alecs trying to always take the rest of the people for granted. They seek their way into anything and of course, cover it up with collusion from as many aspects of the society as possible. The question I want Nigerians to ask is, is it fair for a contestant to be involved in the selection of the umpires? If we are all going to be involved, they should have called all of us to a table, if we all to have one, one member. Afterall, we were entitled to agents and we all contributed agents in fair proportion. But what we discovered was that the agent of that same contestant was manipulating the system openly and other people became annoyed. So I want to say that we must get to the root of this. We shouldn’t be treating the effect, we should treat the cause. What is your message to the National Working Committee? My message is that they should take what happened yesterday as a challenge and clean up their act. I am sure some members of the National Working Committee, if they listen to me now, would say, yes, because some of them have been complaining in the past. You see, I believe that evil should not be so emboldened. If we embolden evil so much, we are putting in jeopardy the society at large. I don’t believe we should keep quiet about what happened. If anybody wants, they can disqualify me or do anything to me. I’m not after being Governor of Ekiti at all cost. I’m contesting because I believe it would brighten the chances of my party. So there is no need for me to go through the backdoor and manipulate the system. I’m not going to do that but I’m also not going to allow myself to be taken in for granted again, taken for a ride. We either have democracy or we don’t have it. So this is very, very sad. It is a sad occurrence. It has given Ekiti a very bad name but it’s not the people of Ekiti that we should blame because frustration will lead to aggression. And when A frustrates B, B would become aggressive and will direct his aggression against anybody at sight. It could be D, it could be E, you know, innocent people, innocent systems and so on. I don’t support violence but at the same time, I know human beings are human beings. Don’t push them towards it. Don’t cheat them. Do you still have confidence in the Electoral Committee headed by Nasarawa State Governor Tanko Al Makura? At the same time, what do you suggest as the way forward on this issue? Well, I won’t suggest anything. The National Working Committee should look at it. Let us trust their ability to deal with the situation. But the committee, it’s very unfortunate because I saw in Governor Al Makura determination, focus and so on. But if you are playing in a mine field, then suddenly, you’ll get cropped out. The field was already a mine field, impregnated by one ambitious and desperate contestant. I don’t know how many of them there are already compromised but we saw at least one was in the open. So I will recommend that Governor Al Makura, if he is still willing to do it, should be given a fresh team to do it with because I know he would feel very bad. If I were, I would feel very bad myself, that upon all the determination…I’m not sure the man had sufficient sleep one or two days prior working. I deliberately did not get in contact with any of them. When we wanted a copy of the ballot paper, when we couldn’t find it, I went back home. That is the way it should be. The minimum standard is it should be error-free. And when you do that, people would regard you as foolish, that you don’t know what you are doing. Some of us believe that even with their impregnation, we would still win. That is why we always work harder than necessary because we give allowance for what people will steal. How do you see the security operatives yesterday because those who disrupted the exercise were caught on camera but they were not apprehended? That is part of the concern I have because was anybody arrested? No! Why did they fold their arms and not do anything to restrain that violence? Do we know the extent the security themselves have been compromised? Because we understand that some of them were even involved in helping people to thumbprint. If that is true, that is very, very dangerous. Some people believe that the only way they can achieve their objective is to cheat through the system: Go and give this to so, so people, go and give this to so. so people and so on. What we do is not a lack of mentality of giving but a restraint because that mentality of giving can compromise the system and we don’t want the system compromised. So as far as I’m concerned, the security agencies didn’t do well enough. The cameras showed it. If we are going to have a repeat, we should ensure that they would do better. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 