High Chief, Dr. Winifred Adefolahan Awosika is a great force to reckon with in the education sector. As the founder of Chrisland Group of Schools, she set the pace on how a standard school should be run in order to produce excellent successful children for the future. In this interview with Ifeoma Ononye, she tells the success story of her schools and how she had to fight her way through from being a housewife to a successful entrepreneur Some are of the opinion that Chrisland simply means the land of Christ, is that the true meaning of the name of the school? It is called Christian Land. The name is not from my husband. The area in Opebi where our school is sited is Christian Land. It was initially called Abule Onigbagbo. It was the area where Yoruba refugees, Christians who were persecuted took refuge. The school started at Ladipo Oluwole boy’s quarters. My husband bought five acres of land at Opebi. He had already divided the land into two and he wanted to build an estate at the back of our family house. The family house was very huge. In fact, when a friend saw me there, she asked if it was a hotel. My husband liked big buildings. So the land we have there at Opebi was supposed to be for an estate, but I had to beg him. In fact, I knelt down in our bedroom to beg him to let me use the land for the school. At first he was reluctant. I begged him that I was bored and had to do something. I had this urge within me to do something. At that time, did he know you had started a school at the boys’ quarters at Ladipo Oluwole? He did know that I had started the school there. The day he came there and saw the layout of the school and how I changed that place, he was overwhelmed. He said he didn’t know it meant so much for me to go out. He felt he was taking good care of me, bought me cars and there was no need for me to do any other thing. That was also how he felt good allowing us to use the land at Opebi. When I went there to see half of the land, I thought of the name that the land possess already, which was Abule Onigbagbo (village of believers, of Christians) was just fine. That was how I got the name of the school. It is Christians Land, shortened to Chrisland. At the time you established the school, did you have a background in education or were you at some point a teacher? Yes, I was a teacher.  Just like I said, my husband was against my going out to work. He insisted that a woman’s place is in the home while the man is the breadwinner. He made sure that we were very comfortable. When I became bored, I used to read the newspapers, especially the advert column to see if there were any schools that needed an English teacher. I taught briefly at Methodist Girl’s High School, Yaba, but just for a few months. When I got pregnant, I resigned and stayed at home. I taught briefly at Oshodi Grammar School too. Later, I told my husband that I want to do something more concrete. I went to do my postgraduate diploma in education to equip me. At first, I was admitted back to the University of Ibadan for the postgraduate programme. I had to travel for two weeks to Ibadan for the classes. When I came back, my husband insisted that I would not go back for the diploma because while I was away for two weeks, he went through a lot looking after the children. For two to three years, I had to forget the admission and the diploma. Within those times, he traveled to Japan and I decided to use the opportunity to go to the university of Lagos to find out about the diploma program again. On my way, I met my lecturer at Nigerian College, Enugu, Professor Nwosu and he was excited to see me. His wife was young and was always coming to our hostel at that time as if she too was a student. So we had a good relationship. He asked what brought me to UNILAG, and I told him I wanted to inquire about Diploma in Education. He took me straight to Chief C.O Taiwo, the provost. He introduced me and there and then, I was given admission. So, when my husband came, I told him I had been given admission now in UNILAG and not Ibadan. I told him I have one lecture in the morning and as soon as I finish, I will come back home and take care of the home. That was how I got his consent. When I listen to some discussions now, I wonder. You have to obey your husband and corporate with him, and kneel down when necessary. Don’t become so sorely headed that you feel you and your husband are now equal, no! Whenever we have a ceremony and my husband walks in, I will get up from my seat. There is no pride for your husband. Even when he gave us Idimu, there was a big poultry farm there but he gave it to us. So also, if you have a good marriage, it will add to your success story. Before I started making any income, my husband provided everything. I had a Volvo car, 2.1 and a Toyota car that were brand-new at the time. Because he took good care of us, I had full concentration on my goal. He saw my passion and keyed into it. You had money and every other thing all sorted out, but what were the other challenges that you passed through? Well, I will refer to Lagos State of that time. I had resolved within myself that I would not beg for approval for the school and they thought that I was a bit arrogant. I saw the schools that were being approved but I refused to move. And I was thinking that the parents of the students would fight for the approval but whenever they came for inspection, they say, no wonder she is so arrogant because everything is as it should be. When Chief Jakande said that they would not admit students from private schools, the parents told me not to worry. People like Abiola who had their children in Chrisland back then encouraged me that we would find a secondary school to put our children. Tell us a little about what is behind the success of your school. We were told that many of your staff have been with you for more than 30 years. In my own capacity as the founder and dreamer of Chrisland, fortunately, I have good people like the Vice-Chancellor of our university, Professor Mrs. Chinedu Peace Babalola to share this dream in a very positive way. I have someone like Mr. Igili, whom I call the custodian of Chrisland history. Children that left Chrisland 20 years ago, Mr. Igili knows where each child is and what they are doing. Chrisland family is a very happy family. Everybody is dedicated and committed. I am proud to be a member of the Chrisland family. The success of Chrisland is God’s grace upon us. It is God’s blessings and that is why Chrisland is what it is today. When you have a vision and you have good people to share this vision with and to keep it alive, that is what makes success. We have wonderful people to share this dream and to make sure it is very much alive. There are many people that still don’t believe Chrisland is up to 40. We are 40 years young because we still have eternity before us within which we hope to flourish. Because it is said that ‘forty and still flourishing’. We are still flouring under divine grace. The school was established on October 3, 1977, with two of my children and three of my friends’ children. Chrisland was founded on love. So every staff and parent knows what it means to be a member of a Chrisland family. Chrisland was not founded because of money but to do something good for humanity in the field of education. That was the guiding motive behind establishing Chrisland; to do things as they should be done so that that the world will see and appreciate. When we started, Chrisland did not put any signboard anywhere, except what we wrote at the gate at Opebi. But when people saw a Chrisland child somewhere, they will see something good in that child and bring their children. Whenever I needed a staff, a teacher in mathematics or a non-teaching staff, a good person will just walk in looking for a job. So I didn’t do much advertisement or publicity. I told myself that Chrisland must advertise itself and that is what has been happening. What we are today, I say in total humility and appreciation that it is God’s own doing. It is not of my own doing. If you have a vision and you don’t have good people to share it with you, you are wasting your time. So I have good people. People have been working with Chrisland for almost 40 years that we have been in existence. Anywhere I go, I meet people that tell me their children went to Chrisland and they are doing well. From kindergarten to tertiary level, we tend to build the children on all-round education to enable them to be all they can be in life. We keep improving on whatever we are doing to remain the best at all times and to achieve the best. This is the story of Chrisland. People tell me that whatever they read about Chrisland there is always ‘the light’. When a child that went to Chrisland writes me from abroad, he or she says ‘mummy, I am showing forth the light’. Every Chrisland child knows what it is to show forth the light, in their character, academics and everything they do. People see a Chrisland child and notice something special. So even though our university is young, Professor Babalola noticed and said that these people are light filled. Where there is light, there is no darkness. If we had light in Nigeria, some of our problems will be dissolved under the energy of light. The light will eliminate darkness and stop it from destroying good thing. But we are praying that God will spread his light all over our country and even in the whole world. 0 comments