Thousands of Nigerians have reacted to the disagreement between ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo, and President Muhammadu Buhari over a $16b power project. Many of the Nigerians insisted that regardless of the woeful performance of other Presidents in the country, Obasanjo doesn’t deserve to be pardoned. It will be recalled that President Buhari has stated his readiness to probe the $16b power project, saying that Obasanjo has a case to answer over the project. In his reaction, Obasanjo said he was ready to face any panel that might be set up to investigate the allegation of $16 billion spent on the nation’s power sector during his eight-year tenure. In an opinion poll conducted by Sunday INDEPENDENT, the majority of the respondents strongly agreed that Obasanjo should be probed. When asked, ‘do you support calls that ex-President Obasanjo be probed?, 61 per cent voted for Strongly Agree; 14 per cent, Agree; 18 per cent Disagree; and 7 per cent of the respondents said they strongly disagreed. Apart from the opinion poll, the respondents expressed their support for the probing of Obasanjo, saying that other countries earlier prosecuted their presidents. Others argued that starting with Obasanjo would make other leaders conscious. One of them, Abiola Obayomi B. @abibeo_oba, said: “Buhari should prosecute him if he is not afraid. Why are our former presidents accused of corruption not facing prosecution? Here are examples of serious nations fighting corruption.” “I am happy that Buhari has started probing. Even if he gets a second term, one day he will be out and others can probe him for the killings in Benue and other corruption in his administration. Then we will know how much he spent in the UK and the owner of the private jet his son used!” @NaijaOur added. Fred Mathew @fredamarion said: “What goes around comes around that means nobody is free and I have said it several times that he that wants to come to equity must come with a clean hand,s, if we as a country want to fight corruption all the past leaders both big or small, should be in the prison by now.” “Can’t wait for @officialefcc EFCC to give Obasanjo the Melaye or Jang treatment, anyone will do. I will pause for one week of calling Buhari a thief,” @IPOBWarrior said. El Gordo @ElGordo91015021 noted that:  “Buhari should probe him down to the monumental corruption he called a library!” Despite the calls for Obasanjo’s probe, Ekiti State Governor Peter Fayose; ex-President Jonathan’s aide, Reno Omokri; and an ex-aviation minister, Femi Fani-Kayode defended Obasanjo, arguing that Buhari is an infidel. Fayose  @GovAyoFayose said:  “I’m enjoying this latest brickbats between President Buhari and ex-President Obasanjo. They should keep exposing themselves for Nigerians to know what they have been hiding. Nigerians should remember I warned that those who brought Buhari will regret entrusting him with power.” Reno Omokri added:  “Buhari is an ungrateful ignoramus for saying he is paying Obasanjo’s debt. Obasanjo did not spend $16 billion on power. Obasanjo actually paid all our foreign debt and left a total reserve of $67 billion. It‘s Buhari who has borrowed more in 3 years than Peoples Democratic Party borrowed in 16 years.” “Obasanjo was in power from 1976 to 1979. He did very well and he handed over power to a democratically elected Government. He did exceptionally well, repaired and strengthened our economy, built up our foreign reserves, paid off our foreign debts, restored our pride and reputation in the international community and so much more,” FFK added. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 