Exactly six months after 93-year old Comrade Robert Gabriel Mugabe, the President of Zimbabwe stepped aside as the oldest democratic ruler in the world, Malaysians last week, May 10, installed the 92-year old Dr. Mahathir Mohammed as their Prime Minister. The news must have come as a rude shock to the Not-Too-Young-To-Run movement in Nigeria. But in my state, Plateau, it must have been warmly received in the political camp of retired General Jeremiah T. Useni, the 75-year Senator whose gubernatorial ambition was finally set at the go only yesterday with the formal inauguration of his campaign organisation. But the greater celebration must be taking place in Aso Villa, Abuja, where, in spite of calls by his erstwhile military colleagues and former Presidents, Generals Olusegun Obasanjo and Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, to give way to a younger man, the 76-year old incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari is determined to re-contest the 2019 elections. In a previous article published here, I explained that the “generational stirring [for the Not-Too-Young-To-Run movement] rides on the hypothesis that the older generation, which continues to occupy power, has failed the nation. It argues that the old politicians have been unable to divest themselves from their old habits of profligacy, self-aggrandizement, nepotism, divide and rule, etc, which have held the nation back for far too long. A concomitant postulation to this argument is that the old politicians being “analogue” were completely impervious to new and innovative ideas of governance in this ICT-driven age, ignorant of winning global best practices as well as woefully lacking of the competitive edge that will lift the nation into the league of world economic players.” I am a supporter of the Not-Too-Young-To-Run movement but like I remarked before, it shouldn’t derive from a sense of entitlement or sheer naivety: “Trendy suits, 21th century education, glitzy Smartphone, fancy technological gizmo, etc, don’t [necessarily] make good policies” as we are witnessing in Kogi State today where a youth is a governor and another is a Senator. I wrote that young people who had no experience outside street runs, adept only at “toasting” and “slaying”, spending hours on end in night clubs at weekends and familiar just with “Aluta” university campus politics are not prepared enough for real governance, especially when “suddenly they find themselves making laws for child education and childcare, family laws, insurance and banking, maritime and shipping, etc.” Although, I concluded that a generational shift was necessary, I thought that society needed more than just raw youthful energy; experience, disposition and institutional memory are equally important. This calls for a synergy that better reflects the composition of society as a whole, not mere generational or gender take-over. But in politics nothing is clear cut. After the brilliant presidency of the youthful President Barrack Obama, American voters elected a 74-year old Donald Trump as successor. In the same manner Theresa May, 60, succeeded a younger David Cameron, 50, in the United Kingdom. Nigeria followed a similar pattern in 2015 when President Muhammadu Buhari , then 74 years old, beat the younger ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, 59, at the polls. Political theorists have no definite answers on why voters vote the way they do. The factors vary. Back in 2015, President Buhari’s past image as a no-nonsense General, anti-corruption activist and stern disciplinarian stood him shoulders above the tottering incumbent President Jonathan. But it was only after he took a whopping six months to put together a wobbly cabinet that the alarm started ringing that perhaps our memory played a horrible trick on our senses. Today, we are saddled with a government that is yet to deliver on the promised “Change.” It is either Nigerians underestimated the enormity of our problems in 2015 or Buhari was overrated. Malaysians last week brought Dr. Mohammed back from retirement to an office he left 15 years ago. I believe this decision was based purely, like in Nigeria, on nostalgia. Dr. Mohammed was the architect of modernisation and infrastructural development of Malaysia. But will the gamble based on his past accomplishments pay off? Or was he also overrated as the man to bring changes to reverse the economic downturn and the rot in government in present-day Malaysia same way as Nigeria? Memories are tricky things for elections. Some memories are built on solid premises but, unfortunately, many have been built on mere fantasy. In invoking memories for political purposes, campaign experts, being masters of mass deception, carefully manufacture propaganda through the blending of reality with humongous dosages of fantasy; they create icons in the places of flukes by blotting out their negative attributes while exaggerating the few positive ones. This methodology was at play in Nigeria in 2015 and during the Malaysia’s election. In comparison, however, Nigerians never had an objectified political memory of President Buhari as a military Head of State because his stay in power was brief; less than two years; whereas Malaysians had Dr. Mohammed for 22 years (1981-2003). I would say the Malaysians had a better memory of their candidate than we did in 2015; so probably their wager will pay off better. One of the lingering memories of Dr. Mohammed concerns the saga over his life-threatening heart problem during his administration in 1989. He had vehemently rejected all entreaties to have him flown to the United States for needed surgery. He maintained that the only way to kindle confidence in the healthcare system in Malaysia was for him to have the surgery in the country and by Malaysian doctors. Not only did he survive the surgery but went ahead to build a world-class health system in the country. This compares poorly with our President who only last week flew for a medical review in the UK just when Nigerian health workers commenced a nation-wide strike. In spite of President Buhari’s health challenges, there is no evidence that there would be any giant leap in our health-care system any soon; in fact, courtesy of his wife, Nigerians have since learnt that even the glorified hospital at Aso Villa has no drugs for common headache. Even after three years on the saddle. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 