Awka / Abakaliki / Umuahia / Asaba / Owerri / Enugu – The sit-at-home order issued by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) on Wednesday recorded partial compliance in the South East, Port Harcourt, Calabar and Asaba. However, it claimed the lives of two persons in Nnewi, Anambra State and Aba in Abia. The police ahead of the IPOB sit-at-home order for Wednesday had told residents to ignore the call and go about their normal businesses, assuring them of their safety. The Anambra government also ordered workers to report to their duty posts or face ugly consequences. It was learnt that Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra asked permanent secretaries and heads of departments and agencies to monitor the situation and report accordingly. Engr. David Umahi, Chairman of South-East Governors’ Forum and Ebonyi State governor, had warned that any trader in Ebonyi who failed to open his shop on Wednesday, in solidarity with IPOB, would forfeit the shop to the government. The IPOB sit-at-home order was to mark the May 30, 1967 declaration of Biafra by the late Odumegwu Ojukwu who led the Igbos in a civil war between 1967 and 1970 and to honour those who lost their lives within the period. A Federal High Court in Abuja had on September 20, 2017 proscribed IPOB and declared it a terrorist organisation in Nigeria. Anambra Residents of Awka, capital of Anambra State, on Wednesday defied the pro-Biafra sit-at-home order as they resumed their normal socio-economic activities. Government offices and other public places, including banks, schools, markets, motor parks and private offices in Awka all conducted their businesses without molestation. Some of the residents called on IPOB to refrain from making the Federal Government regard the region as ingrate. Charles Igwebuke, a civil servant, said that it was high time such directives should not be allowed to get to public domain. “In the first place, which national tabloid published the directive that gave it the wide spread it enjoys for that is the beginning of the problem. “It has come to a point where every publishing house in the country should abide with the things that unite us as a nation rather than the things that separate us or be sectioned,” he said. The main Eke Awka market opened mid-morning following what was said to be an order from above. Leaders of the market had on Tuesday announced the closure of the market against Wednesday. However, Onitsha and Nnewi, were completely shut down in compliance with the sit-at-home call. Onitsha Market as well as other markets and Nnewi markets were shut down. Commercial banks and other big companies in both cities were also shut down. Motor parks in Onitsha and Nnewi were deserted as not a single bus could be found there. As a result, roads were also deserted especially in the early hours of the day. In Nnewi, about 7:30a.m, there was a report that a member of the IPOB was allegedly shot following a clash between the pro-Biafra group and a combined team of the army and police at St Mary’s Anglican Church Uru-Agu area of Nnewi. An eyewitness told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the security team had intercepted a band of IPOB members in front of the church. He said that as an argument ensued between the security team and the group, a policeman opened fire and killed an IPOB member instantly. The security operatives, he said, fled leaving the young man who later bled to death. It was said that the clash occurred when the IPOB members came out early morning blocking major roads to Nnewi from Onitsha axis making bonfires to enforce compliance to the sit-at-home call. Ebonyi In Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, the order recorded little success as most markets in the city opened for business. When our correspondent visited the Rice Mill, Motor Spare Parts Market and the popular Meat Market at the heart of the city, the markets were bubbling as usual. However, two transport companies, Onitsha South Mass Transit and Peace Mass Transit closed operations to Onitsha, Aba and Port Harcourt. A driver with Onitsha South Motors, who begged for anonymity, said that the company closed the designated routes for fear of attack on the way. But all commercial banks in the city opened for business while some shops at the popular Ogoja Road were locked up. Umuahia In Umuahia, Abia State, the IPOB sit-at-home suffered minor setback as commercial and social activities went on unhindered. Though some shops, hotels and banks operated behind closed doors, ministries and other government institutions opened for full services as civil servants went to their offices unmolested. Port Harcourt Business operators and commercial areas opened for business on Thursday in Port Harcourt. A correspondent, who monitored the situation in some parts of the oil city, reports that business activities were not crippled as envisaged by the directive. Although few shops were under lock and key out of fear of attack by members of IPOB, many traders at the popular Ikoku spare parts market opened for business. Some of them at the Nkpolu Oroworukwo Tiles Plaza said that although their shops were locked, they were still attending to customers. Calabar Igbo traders in Calabar, Cross River, defied the sit-at-home order. A check by our correspondent at some popular Igbo business areas in the state shows that all their shops were opened for normal businesses. At Bedwell area in Calabar, a community largely occupied by the Igbo automobile spare parts, business activities were ongoing. One of the traders, Innocent Chukwuma, said that staying at home because of the order from IPOB would not put food on his table. Another trader at Bedwell, Nonso Obi, said IPOB cannot determine the daily activities of Igbo indigenes. Obi urged the group to embrace peace and shun all forms of violence and agitations. At the Marian and Watts markets, where the Igbos largely occupy shops, normal business activities went on unhindered Asaba The IPOB order partially paralysed business activities in Asaba and environs. Some traders closed shops while others opened for business. At the popular Ogbogonogo market traders sat at the front of their shops waiting patiently for customers. The ever busy Asaba-Onitsha Expressway and Nnebisi Road were scanty with traffic as motorists especially the Asaba-Onitsha intra-state buses were nowhere to be found. Mrs. Rosaline Okafor, food seller, who spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT said she came to the market to get her daily bread, regretting that the market was still scanty as at 12 noon. In Akwaebulu and Okwe axis of Asaba, pupils attending private schools were not in school as findings revealed that the school proprietors had told the students to resume school today. Owerri The sit-at-home order was not complied with in Owerri, the Imo State capital. Although there was palpable tension in the city the day preceding Wednesday, as early as 7a.m, the city had begun to bubble with its usual activities as commercial and private vehicles flooded roads, just as markets and fast food centres, fuel stations and banks all operated unhindered. Civil servants, teachers and school children reported to their places of work and learning. Artisans were equally conspicuously seen in their places of means of livelihood. However, the presence of armed security personnel was heavy in all strategic locations apparently to forestall possible breakdown of law and order by the IPOB boys and miscreants. Aba A 22-year-old boy was hit and killed by a stray bullet from a team of soldiers who had shot indiscriminately to disperse a group of protesters along Port Harcourt Road, Aba, Abia State. The protesters had barricaded the road to enforce the IPOB sit-at-home order on Wednesday. An inside source told DAILY INDEPENDENT in Aba that the deceased, Nnamdi Ikem, was hit by a stray bullet as some agitators barricaded the road to enforce compliance of the IPOB order by residents. The source, who did not wish to be named, said when a military Hilux van ran into the barricaded part of the road, the military men came down to dismantle the roadblock but were booed by the group. In the ensuing drama, the soldiers who felt threatened started shooting into different directions while the agitators ran away from them. According to the source, it was during this time that Nnamdi was hit by the bullet. Residents, including his younger brother, who tried to assist the boy, were said to have been harassed by two gun-trotting soldiers, and the boy lost the fight for his life. The soldiers denied being responsible for Nnamdi’s death, and demanded from those present evidence indicating that the boy died from their bullets. Afraid of what might happen next, those gathered dispersed, abandoning the lifeless body of the boy. The corpse was later dragged by the two soldiers into their waiting Hilux patrol van to an unknown destination. Contacted, the father of the deceased, Joseph Ikem, who was visibly shaken by the sudden death of his son, wondered why the soldiers decided to take away the remains of young Nnamdi. “I am really downcast over this ugly incident. A stray bullet from the soldiers’ gun killed my boy and, as if that was not enough, they also took the body away to an unknown destination. “As it stands now, we don’t even know where and how to begin our search to recover his body for burial.” At the time of filing in this report, Nnamdi’s corpse was said to have been taken to Uratta Police Station, after it was rejected, for want of clearance, at the mortuary where the soldiers had wanted to deposit the body. Meanwhile, the sit-at-home order reigned in Aba with total compliance by residents. Banks, major markets like Ariaria International Market, Eke Oha (Shopping Centre), Eziukwu Market, and Ahia Ohuru, all had their entrance gates and line gates opened by market union leaders, but traders, shop owners, and buyers deserted the markets. Smaller markets like School Road Market, Saint Michaels Road Phone Accessories Market, Ehi Road Market, Ngwa Road Market, Nsulu Market, and Akwette Street Markets were also without activities. Enugu The sit-at-home recorded high compliance in Enugu State. However, the compliance was not total as some people still defied the IPOB order. Following the sit-at-home, commercial activities were paralysed in Enugu, the state capital and other urban centres in the state, such as Nsukka and Agbani. In parts of Enugu metropolis, markets, shops and other businesses were shutdown. Most commuters in Enugu, especially civil servants, were stranded along the road as commercial vehicle operators, including bus and taxi drivers, complied. The streets and major roads were turned into football field by school children who were on midterm break. For instance, at Ogbete Main Market, our correspondent observed that the main entrance gate was open but most of the shops were under lock and key. Meanwhile, Enugu State police on Wednesday confirmed the arrest of Benjamin Onwuka, the leader of Biafran Zionist Movement (BZM). Ebere Amaraizu, the spokesman of Enugu State Police Command, confirmed Onwuka’s arrest in a statement he circulated to journalists in Enugu. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that Onwuka and members of his group were marching to Enugu State Government House to hoist Biafran flag when they were arrested. In the statement, Amaraizu, a Superintendent of Police (SP), confirmed that Onwuka was arrested alongside 21 of his followers, based on intelligence information. It would be recalled that Onwuka had been evading trial in a court of competent court of jurisdiction over his alleged role of murder, armed robbery and unlawful possession of firearms before he resurfaced on Wednesday and fell into the hands of the security operatives. “Suspects are helping the operatives in their investigations”, he said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 