Lagos – When the Federation of International Football Association (FIFA) selected Moroccan Said Belqola to officiate the 1998 World Cup final match between hosts, France and Brazil, the world football governing body was indirectly saying that Moroccan referees have come of age. The late Belqola never proved FIFA wrong as he demonstrated courage to handle the big stars that were on parade inside the Stade de France at Saint-Denis in Paris. He was able to manage the stars, which included current Real Madrid manager, Zinedine Zidane, Ronaldo Da Lima, Thierry Henry, Rivaldo and Dunga, among others. After the tournament, Sepp Blatter, then the FIFA president, while answering questions from journalists from Africa, was quoted as saying that Belqola’s involvement in the final match showed how referring had improved in the continent. “It is a major boost for Africa and football in general. He did very well in the match and I think Africa is keeping pace with time in all areas including football matters. This performance has shown that African referees are ready to cease the moment,” he said. But Nigeria has failed to cease the moment as the country’s referees have continued to perform below par in virtually all assignments. Late last month, the nation was plunged into embarrassment when referee, Joseph Ogabor, was handed a one-year ban by the Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) following his involvement in a $30,000 bribe scandal during a CAF Champions League match between Plateau United and USM Algers of Algeria in Lagos. According to information released on its website, CAF indicated that investigation and evidence showed that Ogabor had contacted South African match officials to provide ‘technical assistance’ to Plateau United during their first leg match against USM Alger on April 7, 2018 in Lagos. CAF warned Plateau United and all other clubs with such intention to stop giving complimentary gifts that will create wrong perception in the minds of the people to match officials. The ugly development received wide condemnation from around the continent. To many Nigerians, Ogabor’s action was just one of the sad commentaries among the country’s umpires. To such group of Nigerians, Ogabor’s attempted offer on the South African referee revealed the goings-on in the domestic league and has made it difficult, if not impossible, for deserve league winners to emerge. Speaking to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT on the ugly development, a coach of one of the top five clubs on the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) log, who pleaded anonymity, said that issues like that were prevalent in the league and wondered why Nigerians were still lamenting, “the absence of our referees in international competitions. “When the issue came up, I regretted it but honestly, I was not surprised because in Nigeria, the league has gone beyond some teams. That is why clubs do everything to win their home matches because they are not sure of the result outside their stadiums. “Are you now surprised why bodies like CAF and FIFA will hardly consider our referees for their tournaments,” he queried. Realistically, Nigerian umpires, with the likes of Ogabor, have failed to make any mark beyond the country. For instance and surprisingly too, Emmanuel Imiere was the last Nigerian to officiate at the African Cup of Nations and that was in far back 2006 in Egypt when he handled the Group C game between Zambia and Guinea in Alexandria. Since then, Nigerian officials have made cameo appearances at Cup of Nations with all of them being either third or fourth officials. For instance, in 2008, Peter Edibe was the only Nigerian official at the Africa Cup of Nations hosted by Angola. He was on the line in a couple of matches but did not handle any game. The same Edibe was also the only Nigerian considered in the 2010 edition in Ghana, where he also served as one of the assistant referees. In 2012, he was also the only Nigerian umpire during the AFCON in Gabon and Equatorial Guinea, albeit in an assistant capacity. Edibe also acted on Assistant capacity in South Africa in 2013, as he was also the only Nigerian official at the event where the late Stephen Keshi-tutoured lads braced all odds to win Nigeria’s third unity cup. In the 2015 edition of the Cup of Nations, the same referee was selected solely from Nigeria to be one of the assistant officials, but in 2017, Abel Baba made inroads, as he was selected to be Nigeria’s sole referee in the championship held in Gabon. At the World Cup, the story has remained the same. In the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, Noumandiez Doue of Cote d’ Ivoire, Bakary Gassama of Gambia, and Djamel Haimoudi Algeria were the three officials that represented Africa. In the 2006 edition in Germany, FIFA considered only Abd El Fatah Essam of Egypt and Codjia Coffi of Benin, while in 2010, the world football body considered only Mohamed Benouza of Algeria and Koman Coulibaly of Mali. Meanwhile, in the 2018 World Cup due to start in June, FIFA released a list of 36 centre referees and 63 assistant referees with Nigerian officials expectedly missing in the roll call. Sixteen African officials, made up of six centre referees and 10 assistants, were included with South Africa, Kenya, Zambia and Ethiopia producing officials. Also producing referees are 2018 finalists, Senegal, Morocco, Tunisia and Egypt. Announcing the officials, FIFA said that each referee was selected based on his skills and personality, as well as his level of understanding of football and ability to read both the game and the various tactics employed by teams. This is obviously the issue with Nigerian referees. They have shown poor grasp of the game and, according to popular opinion, are easily induced and coerced to influence the outcome of matches. This is why not a few Nigerians believe that real champions do not emerge in the Nigerian league. According to Tajudeen Disu, who spoke to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT sometimes ago, Nigerian clubs have failed to perform in the continent because real winners were not always crowned champions due to bad refereeing. He was talking when Rivers United and Rangers crashed out of the continent. “The win-at-home syndrome has made it possible for our clubs not to match others when they go out to play on the continent because sometimes, real winners do not emerge because officiating favours only the home teams.” Certain characteristics will stand out a quality referee in a championship. Such qualities as physical fitness, accurate judgement and interpretation of the rules of the game, integrity and honesty, effective on-field communication, and courage are some of the attributes of a good official. But Nigerian referees have shown poor judgement in vital match situations. While suspension of referees over poor handling of matches is a global phenomenon, the rate at which it occurs in the NPFL attests to the officials’ poor knowledge of the game or their deliberate intention to ignore the extant rules guiding it. For instance, during week 14 games of the ongoing season, the LMC recommended the suspension of up to 15 referees due to poor handling of matches. Writing on their twitter handle, LMC noted that, “The referees’ performances were well below the high standard expected in the league, including questionable decisions and failure to submit match reports on time.” Home teams win matches not because they merit the wins but because the referees succumb to intimidations from home fans. This is where Ike Shorunmu, former international, while speaking to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT, seemed to absolve the referees of any wrongdoing. Speaking to our correspondent earlier in the week, Shorunmu said that referees were humans and that they needed to be protected by enough security at match venues. “Sometimes, their intention will not be to favour any team but when their lives are in danger, what do you expect them to do. The solution is to provide enough security at stadiums and clubs need to educate their home fans,” he said. To Emeka Inyama, former NFF executive committee and chairman of Abia Warriors, the problem is that referees depend solely on officiating. He said referring should not be the means of livelihood, lest they would be compromised easily. “Normally, refereeing should not be a means of livelihood. It should be out of the love for the game. Referees ought to have their original jobs so that they won’t have to depend on what they get from officiating. But, here, many of the referees have no original jobs. This is where remuneration becomes a problem and they could be compromised.” 0 comments