Ughelli – Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (APC, Delta Central) has condemned the murder of Jeremiah Oghoveta, the All Progressives Congress (APC) ward chairmanship aspirant, at Okwagbe, Ughelli South Local Government Area Ward 10, Delta State, by his kinsman for political motives. Omo-Agege, in a statement signed by Efe Duku, his aide, lamented that the chilly allegation that the young leader and grassroots mobiliser was heartlessly murdered by his kinsman for political motive was a horrible desecration of the human life in Urhoboland. In the statement, he extended his heartfelt condolences to the Oghoveta family for the murder of the pro-Great Ogboru and pro-Omo-Agege politician whose unwavering commitment to right causes placed him above many as a leader. He urged the police to carry out a thorough and speedy investigation into the murder, assuring that justice would be done. “Justice for Jeremiah, to his murderer(s) and for society at large. Whoever has a hand in this murder will face the harshest consequences prescribed under the law.” “Also, I learnt that the near-death attacks on Comrade Chuks Erhire (director-general, Senator Omo-Agege Constituency Office), Barrister Ejiro Etaghene (vocal media supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari, Chief Great Ogboru and Senator Omo-Agege) and Hon. Julius Akpovoka (ardent supporter of Chief Great Ogboru and Senator Omo-Agege). “They were all admitted to hospital in critical emergency states when, without any provocation whatsoever, hundreds of thugs allegedly hired by a politician and led by his lackeys went after them at Orchids Hotel, Asaba, on May 6, 2018, obviously for their political tendencies. Comrade Erhire and Barrister Etaghene are still in coma or critical state in the hospital,” he added. According to the statement, without question, these attacks are distasteful and unjustifiable. “We see no positive gains for any political leader or aspiring political leader who directly or indirectly harms or kills people, including his party members and kinsmen? Such evil has no place in our society and the APC. We will never allow it. We will resist it with all our strength under the law. Our national security apparatus will be encouraged to deal decisively with this rampaging murderous tendency. This is a firm promise.” He advised the perpetrators and executors of the violent attacks to rethink their strategies for the 2019 general elections for the good of their people, as the path of peace is the best. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 