The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has destroyed over 749 substandard LPG cylinders in Katsina, following what it described as illicit trade of life endangering items to the public. Osita Aboloma, the Director General of SON while reacting to questions from newsmen at a destruction exercise of the LPG cylinders in Katsina State, said the withdrawal of the cylinders from circulation during mop up exercises in Kaduna and Kano States, was in line with the SON Act No. 14 of 2015 which gives the organisation the powers to seize suspected substandard products for a period of 90 days in the first instance, for quality verification without recourse to judicial intervention. “Many have expired, while some supposedly new ones were badly welded, thus posing great danger to lives and property” he said. The Regional Coordinator admonished those dealing in the LPG gas cylinders and accessories to abide strictly by the safety requirements in the relevant Nigeria Industrial Standards (NIS), given the potential danger that the substandard cylinders could pose to lives and property. He noted that SON would give the benefit of doubt, warning that they would face the full weight of the Law if found to continue in the unpatriotic act. On why the substandard cylinders were brought to Katsina for destruction, he noted that there was a mutual agreement with the owners of the Dana Steel Rolling Mill facilities to assist in that respect and recycle them for other uses to avoid environmental pollution. He added that due certification of LPG storage vessels, proper maintenance and handling of cylinders, safe and ethical practices are necessary steps to avoid explosions and gas accidents. While challenging SON officials to ensure that only certified LPG vessels and storage tanks are in operation across the country within the shortest possible time, Aboloma added that the certification of LPG storage vessels by authorised and competent bodies is an international practice and a mandatory requirement to assure the integrity, effectiveness and suitability of the vessels to store liquefied petroleum gas without failure. He also disclosed that LPG vessels in Nigeria are certified to the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Code, Division 1, Section VIII: 2015 by SON. The certification, he stated is one of the requirements of the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) for the issuance of operating license to LPG Plant Operators. Brand new vessels are certified for five years, after which revalidation is carried out every three years, he said. Yakubu commended Dana Steel management for making their facility available for the destruction exercise and called on other stakeholders to collaborate with the agency in the bid to improve lives through standards and quality assurance. It would be recalled that the agency recently, intensified its efforts to remove uncertified LPG cylinders that find their way into the country through unapproved routes, noting that LPG cylinders not approved by the standards body are considered unsafe for both domestic and industrial use. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 