Osogbo – A governorship aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun State, Adeolu Durotoye, has said that he would run a government with human face. Durotoye also promised to provide a free train service once a week to farmers and traders in the state to transport their farm produce and other goods to markets in Lagos. The aspirant, while featuring on News Point, a Correspondents’ Chapel of the Osun State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists in Osogbo, said that he would make the state a business hub and food basket of Nigeria. Durotoye promised that if he gets elected as the next governor of the state, he would ensure that he pays the workers regularly and pays compensation to those whose properties were acquired for public works, promising that he would create two hundred thousand jobs for the teaming youths of the state within the first twelve months of assumption of office. According to him, the way to run Osun is to create jobs for the teaming unemployed youths throughout the state. There are three ways to create jobs and these are through private initiatives, public partnership and public initiatives. In doing this, “I have gone round the state and found the need to make development go round the state instead of concentrating it in one place.” According to him, “The largest individual producer of rice in Nigeria today is Cosmas Maduka. He has cultivated 1,650 hectares of land. I have spoken to him. I have spoken to some industrialists in South Africa and Turkey. If elected, I would talk to the owners of Osogbo Steel Rolling Mills and Machine Tools to ensure that they start functioning to engage our youths.” The aspirant said that with the engagement of the youths, the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) would increase; adding that payment of salaries would be made easier. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 