May 1, Workers Day was welcomed by many Nigerians, and the Vice President of Nigeria; Prof. Yemi Osinbajo posted a thread on his Twitter account of the role of government and that of the working citizens. His post elicited diverse response from social media denizens all around the country. @ProfOsinbajo: It is my thesis that while governments role is in casting the vision and creating the environment for nationhood, the real building of nations is done and best seen through the efforts and accomplishments of many outside of political leadership. Men and women in business, agriculture, education, entertainments and the arts, who by just doing their business diligently, or serving faithfully or making sacrifices contribute to building the economies and social systems that ultimately build the nation. Comments: @_jamesfr_: Nigeria can only be better if our leaders begin to live above politics and embrace truth, love and equity. Many killings are going on in our country yet nothing concrete has been done about them. Consider if it were your children or even the children of politicians. Many were murdered in a church in Benue yet our lazy senators did not find it wise to visit and commiserate with them rather they trooped to visit their fellow lazy senator @dino_melaye God have mercy on Nigeria! @DonMarvinx: And what is the duty of the “elected?” @abekaato: To hand the country over to God. @DonMarvinx: But we’re being handed over to Boko Haram. @AbdulUmaruAli1: Oh yes, that’s true. @UncleWach: Mr Vice President, you’re at every event in Nigeria speaking grammar, wasting taxpayers’ money without implementation. Do yourself a favour by speaking less and doing more of actions. God bless Nigeria @SaxChi61: The man talks too much and does very little in essence. His oga has refused to face Nigerians one on one or be interviewed by Nigerian journalists for three years now. These guys are a waste of air. @theJafmeister: Despite all the responses to this tweet, there’s no form of engagement or response from @ProfOsinbajo. We forgot that the Donald Trump we are talking about after @MBuhari visit to DC won the presidency on the back of social media and proper engagement on Twitter no matter how crass. @anaconda23101: This actually got me wondering also. When he posted such, I expected that he should have been anticipating responses and would have been prepared don answer them @theJafmeister: I wonder o. There is never any form of engagement for him and others. What are we to do with this information? 0 comments