Barrister Kenneth Udeze, the National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA), in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, spoke on the crises in APC as a result of the ward congresses, President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term ambition, among other crucial  issues. Excerpt: With the APC ward congresses enmeshed in controversies in parts of the country, do you think the party will go into the 2019 general elections in one piece? There is this saying that you should be mindful of what you wish others. APC and the people that make up its organs are facing presently what they wish other political parties after winning governance at the centre. Most cases of internal party crisis you hear from other political parties are indirectly caused and sponsored by some APC elements. You cannot be a member of two political parties at the same time. The crisis in APC today will definitely have adverse effect on the outcome of their performance come 2019. They will not control the legislative arm, that is for sure, and must lose some states to the oppositions. If the party is not at par with the likes of Buba Galadima, one of its key stakeholders, its obituary will not be far. The issue of tenure elongation has exposed the APC leadership as power mongers who can do anything to remain in power. Otherwise, why must APC not adhere strictly to its constitution? How do you see President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent statement that a lot Nigerian youths are lazy, idle and always look for free money? A man of President Buhari’s age speaking in that manner must be as a result of personal experience, either from his household or community, not necessarily this generation of Nigerian youths, who are very hard working. I lost the remaining respect I had for him when he referred other political parties in Nigeria as mushroom parties, just because he was privileged to be elected President. The manner of ridicule he gets from other statesmen show the personality of Mr. President, who doesn’t show respect to other stakeholders. The comment on Nigerian youth can be juxtaposed literally as that of the wicked and selfish leader who crossed to other end of the river and removed the log that aided him to cross, from his followers. His comments are the worst description a leader can give against the mentality of his dependent forces of nation building. This brings to question the intelligent quotient of Mr. President. As a nation, we have no option than to face the consequences of our actions vis-a-vis electing our servants. As we make our bed, so must we lie on it. Action Alliance is encouraging Nigeria youths to unite and vote out this unprogressive APC regime in 2019. What is your take on the recent invasion of the Senate chamber by suspected thugs, allegedly led by suspended Senator? It was a sad and interesting drama worthy of documentation in the archives and demonstration in our Nollywood so that the generation of this 8th National Assembly will continue to wallow in the shame that took place during their days due to bad governance and leadership. Action Alliance condemns the action of Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege and the entire Assembly because there is enough blame to go round. Narrowing it down to your question, the suspended senator was not properly advised before resorting to self-help when the matter was already in court, which he personally instituted. What he did could be likened to contempt of court on his part. He has no business going to the Red Chamber having been suspended, and already in court challenging his suspension. He should have relaxed like Sen. Ali Ndume and wait for the outcome of the court process. This action portends a great danger on our nation, which is facing the direction of a failed state. Our present leaders, elected or appointed, cannot escape nemesis should anything happen. Security wise, every Nigeria is living in fears today because protection of the lives and welfare of citizens, which is the primary purpose of government, has failed under this present APC regime. What is your take on President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent declaration for his second term bid? The President has succeeded in removing his name from the history Hall of Fame where leaders like Nelson Mandela thrive posthumously. What does it take him to shock political scientists, observers and watchers from this part of Africa and the rest of the world, that someone can lead and change a nation to a better direction under one term in office? He is not a man of his own because it is obvious he cannot take certain decisions on mater of principles. He has followed the part of cabals and may not come out of it successfully due to the high level of political games up against APC by the masses of Nigeria, who are the electorates. Some politicians keep saying he has the right to go for second term. But the question is: Must he go for second term considering his age and health? If our laws prescribe 65 years as retirement age of civil servants, why can’t a man of 76 retire politically and allow the younger generation? More so, when his party APC has failed on their core campaign promises of economy, insecurity and fight against corruption. Some stakeholders believe that the nation cannot do without the APC and PDP considering their structure, spread and financial power. Do you agree? Practicably that is the sad reality we have today. However, the only way any party can upstage this bitter, but true analysis, is by coalition of strong political forces comprising of the civil societies, the masses and progressive political parties, who must join forces financially and otherwise to change the status quo. No one single political party outside government can cause the upstage, unless there is a loose alliance, assuming the parties in question intend to retain their identities. What is your view on the recent unveiled looters’ list by the Federal Government? That is what one of my uncles, Ogidiga, refers to as American wonder. The more you look, the less you see policy of the APC-led Federal Government. Despite all the noise of looters since the inception of the APC government, what was released was nothing, but shocking disappointment of a government that claims to have recovered the biggest loot in Africa. Nigerians are no longer the fools some leaders use as tissue paper. Thank God, even the blind can see the hardship and terror of a government. The list is a mere tool to redirect Nigerians’ attention from the maladministration of APC government and the killings that take place every day. The list of purported and unsubstantiated looters are to distract Nigerians from demanding the release of Leah Sharibu, the innocent Christian girl still in the hands of terrorists who are known by the present APC government. The list is to cover up the bad governance and hardship going on in Nigeria. Incidentally, the stomach is not stupid and cannot be crying for nothing. The looters’ list is a mere political cover-up and witch-hunt  that does not add any value to the lives of Nigerians. As for PDP’s apology, it shows that they have conscience at least, unlike the present APC government. Is your party presenting candidates in the Ekiti and Osun states governorship elections? What efforts are being made to ensure that they contest and win? Action Alliance has strong presence in the South West region. We shall be presenting candidates in the governorship elections of Ekiti and Osun states. Action Alliance is not participating, but contesting to win. The party has lined up programmes to assist our candidates to win. The party shall kick start from Ekiti one of our programmes known as ‘Be-A-Millionaire Raffle Draw’ where the party intends to organise raffle draws designed to produce millionaires out of the masses. The idea is for membership recruitment drive and to empower our members financially by making them millionaires (hope for the hopeless). We shall use other constitutional programmes to mobilise support for our choice candidates, such as Action Alliance Charity, Action Alliance Vanguard, Action Alliance Leadership Training Programme, Action Alliance Mothers’ Day, Action Alliance Football Competition, Action Alliance Bible And Koranic Quiz, etc. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 