Never before in my life have I experienced this depth of frustration and helplessness. With all my innate sense and knowledge of what is right and wrong; with all my experience as a Lawyer of International repute for the last 33 years and experience and extensive contacts in the Federal Civil Service for the last 19 years at the highest levels, including one of which I acted as Director General/Chief Executive, never before have I felt this level of helplessness and anguish, the continuing pogrom against the Tiv people. My heart bleeds, that, once again, within a short period of 3 months I am compelled to write on what seems to be the genocide and ethnic cleansing being methodically and systematically conducted against us, the TIV people – inhabitants of the Benue valley, and as it’s becoming increasingly clear, based on recent happenings, with the active collusion, collaboration and participation of the Nigerian Army. On the 8th of January 2018, in response to the invasion and killing – (ethnic cleansing) that occurred in Tiv land, I wrote the piece titled ‘Weeping and Wailing for Benue’ wherein I cried “where is our standard bearer, who, like Moses in the battle against the Amaleks at Raphidim, will hold up his arms for us to prevail or like Joshua, will stretch out his spear toward Ai (for Joshua drew not his hand back, wherewith he stretched out the spear, until he had utterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai). Who is the standard bearer at this time of our travails, when a mighty army surrounds us and is about to overwhelm us? How can we even sing our Lord’s song in our own land? Alas, our elected leaders have sunk into their shells with flimsy and pitiable excuses. At a time like this, we need leaders to stand up and radiate energy, exude confidence and hope of a better tomorrow, onto a pulverised and traumatised people and not slink into hiding like some vermin or other creepy creatures afraid of the sunlight. Where is that leader? Where is that standard bearer? In spite of my writing, in spite of the national and international outcry and global condemnation, the murders, the killings, the pogrom have continued unabated. Like I asked the questions on the 8th of January, I ask again today, where are our elected leaders? Hundreds of Benue citizens are being killed on a daily basis – the latest of which was the attack on the Catholic Church in Gwer East and the killing of two Catholic Priests and the lay faithful at their morning Mass. Numbers in terms of deaths no longer shock even the people of Benue. There appears to be a well-designed, orchestrated and approved plan (at the highest levels) to systematically and methodically exterminate the Tiv race from the face of the earth. Since the murder of the Catholics, hundreds more have been killed in Gwer West and East, Guma and the Logo local governments. There is no official word from any authority in Nigeria. Not the Police, not the Army, not the Presidency. There is a seeming conspiracy of silence throughout the nation. If you weren’t a Tiv person (did not personally feel the pain and anguish of the Tiv people) you would not believe that this magnitude of murder is being conducted on a daily basis in Nigeria in this 21st century. The murderous Fulani herdsmen have sacked and taken over all Tiv ancestral homes and land in Nasarawa State, comprising Obi, Awe, Kiana, Adudu, Nasarawa Toto, Doma and the East side of Lafia. Large groups of Armed Fulani marauders are camped in those villages from where they move into Benue to plunder, maim and kill. In Benue State, the Fulani killers have taken over and now occupy most of Guma, Logo, Gwer west and East Local Governments. On Sunday, the 22nd day of April, I personally had a horrendous encounter with these Fulani killers. I had attended a thanksgiving service at the NKST Church Naka organised by the Benue Society for the Blind and to also commiserate with the victims of the Army attacks on Naka (the burning and sacking of the city). On my way back to Makurdi, I was advised to go through Taraku-Aliade road (a distance of about 2½ hours, given the nature of the road as against the Naka – Makurdi road, a distance of about only one hour). This according to the residents was because, that country side is taken over by the Fulani killers. Because I did not completely believe that in this 21st century, a government with coercive powers of the police and the military would stand idly by and watch one race exterminate another and occupy their land, I chose to ignore the advice and proceed on this route. To my utter shock and dismay, this decision was suicidal. It was only the grace of God that brought my team and I out of that occupied zone alive. The entire countryside, stretching from Naka town to Adeke in Makurdi, a stretch of about 60 kilometers or one-hour drive, had no single living Tiv soul. All homes, houses and farms were deserted  and in their place I saw Fulani cattle spread over the entire country side like water on land (must have been over a hundred thousand cattle) with murderous Fulani guards slinging AK47 rifles on their shoulders in broad day light (about 3pm) without a single Police or Army presence. Half way through this valley of death, one of the Gun toting herdsmen decided to take aim at us. It was the quick reaction of the Police guard on my team who quickly aimed and cocked his gun at him that caused him to beat a retreat. I can confirm that the Fulani’s have taken over more than 40% of Tiv land, farms, villages and cities and still occupy them as we speak without as much as a whimper from the relevant authorities tasked with the responsibility of our security. I urge all Benue citizens wherever they may be to stop running, stand and defend your inheritance (the land of our fathers as they defended it against the jihadists in 1804) if the Government cannot defend you. Ultimately, arm yourselves with PVC’s and ensure that this government, which has failed abysmally in its singular duty of providing the welfare and protecting the security of our people is voted out of office come 2019, like general Obasonjo said, ‘you don’t sustain failure’. Angya wrote in via lucyianoo@gmail.com. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 