P/Harcourt – The International Sporting Press on Wednesday in Brussels, Belgium, honoured the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, with the “Power of Sports” award. He was nominated by the International Sports Press Association-Africa (AIPS) Africa. Witnessed by Sports Personalities and Journalists from across the globe, the award was for his remarkable fidelity in raising the bar of sports matters and using sports as a catalyst for development. The event held at Le Plaza, Brussels and was performed by the President, AIPS, Mr Gianni Merlo and President, AIPS Africa, Mr Mitchell Obi. Sports Journalists from 108 countries witnessed the event. Presenting the award, Mitchell Obi, said Wike was being recognised for the use of sports as a tool to effectively engage the youth, urging him to sustain his commitment to sports development. In his acceptance speech, Governor Wike dedicated the award to God, his immediate family and the good people of Rivers State who have supported his efforts at creating a New Rivers State. He noted that the award would spur him into greater commitment to the service of Rivers State and humanity. Wike, also on Wednesday, presented a lecture titled: “Peace and Progress through Sports in the Niger Delta Region of Nigeria” wherein he canvassed that sport has functions beyond its simplest form as a game to encompass a cost effective means for addressing a broad range of socio-economic challenges that impacted on peace and human progress. “Arguably, there is no social activity that can match the role sport plays in breaking down barriers, bringing people together across nations, promoting understanding, positively engaging the energy of youths and in mobilizing support for social causes. ” Therefore, event at the simplest level, sport not only improves the mental and physical health of participants; it also helps to inculcate such timeless values as honesty, hard work, obedience, respect, team work, discipline, and leadership in the youths. “And as you know, these are all useful values for creating peaceful and progressive societies as well as for achieving national peace and basic development goals, including poverty reduction”. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 