Lai Mohammed, Femi Adesina and Garba Shehu seem to be in competition for who can defend Buhari the most. What they eventually dish out to the public sometimes stand commonsense and good morals on their heads. Granted, they are protecting their pots of soup; but I think in trying to be economical with the truth, statements should at least be congruent. I can bet my pen that if Femi Adesina, the Special Adviser to the President Muhammadu Buhari on Media, were not in Aso Villa, he would have been singing a different song from the newsroom. Before his latest public relations somersault, Mr. Adesina had defended Buhari when the latter alluded that most Nigerian youths were lazy bones. “We have a very young population; our population is estimated conservatively to be 180 million. More than 60 per cent of the population is below the age of 30. A lot of them have not been to school and they are claiming that Nigeria has been an oil producing country, therefore they should sit and do nothing and get housing, healthcare and education free,” were Buhari’s words outside our shores. But Adesina, in his defence, said: “Typical of their stock in trade, manipulators and twisters of statements of Mr. President, who lie in wait to make mischief, interpreted the comment to mean that President Buhari had taken all Nigerian youths to the cleaners. But elementary English recognises a wide gulf between ‘a lot of’ and the word ‘all’. How can ‘a lot of them’ suddenly transmogrify to mean ‘all of them?’ Mischievous and unconscionable!” Well, I believe many journalists are not friendly with figures. So, I won’t blame those journalists or former journalists who don’t know that statistics make use of majority to represent the whole. Adesina added that it was “futile for mischief-makers to lie in wait, and take a minor part of the words of the president, and turn it into negative commentary, peradventure they could diminish the profile of the president.” But part of the statement that gladdens my heart is: “Nigerians across all walks of life know who is serving them faithfully and truly, and they will always reciprocate such fidelity as occasions demand.” Of course, we know. Recently, a widely circulated statement credited to Buhari read in part: “What is the difference between me and those who elected us to represent them? Absolutely nothing. Why should Nigerian president not fly with other Nigerian public? Why do I need to embark on a foreign trip as a president with a huge crowd with public funds? Why do I need to go for a medical trip abroad if we cannot make our hospital (sic) functional?” This is a very laudable presidential statement. It is only a president who means well for Nigeria that can make this sort of statement and see to its implementation. If Buhari did not know this before he became president, this would have been a scoop for him and his handlers. No, those we elected to lead us think that it is an evil statement; hence, Adesina came out again to say the comments are false and a new dimension in the plot to diminish the stature of President Buhari before millions of Nigerians who love and adore their president. Adesina’s words: “First, it was a pernicious twisting and misinterpretation of the words of the president by mischievous elements; perhaps they can earn him opprobrium and infamy. When they see that the gambit is not achieving the desired results, they have now gone into utter fabrication of apocryphal statements, which they purvey through the social media. “Fortunately, the Chatham House lecture of 2015 is in the public domain. The concoction by haters and agents of disunity is not part of the text of the lecture at all. “The morbid minds that created the falsehood simply want to de-market and demean the president, having seen that defeating him in a free and fair electoral contest is a tall order. “Therefore, they desire to instigate the electorate against him by creating statements that never existed, and attributing such to him.” Adesina, however, added that the “dubious” people would not succeed, as Buhari’s reputation “has been built over time, and sustained for decades”. The comment fits Buhari and his campaign promises. So, when I saw it on Facebook, I believed he made it. But when Adesina countered it, I went back to listen to the Chatham House lecture again, this time thoroughly. Lo, Buhari didn’t say such. Now, it is not about denials; it has come to affirmations. Please, Mr. Adesina, kindly tell us – I don’t mind a personal mail, which may be published – what Buhari said or thinks about medical tourism. Did he promise to starve even Aso Villa clinic of drugs and be wasting our money overseas for treatment? We need answers quick, because in less than a year, we will decide who occupies Aso Villa. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 