President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote at the weekend, disclosed that he had been engaged in strategic investments in the country in a bid to complement the Federal Government’s economic recovery and growth plan, adding his investments in agriculture and fertilizer production are in the direction. Dangote spoke at the flagship of the conglomerate; the Dangote Cement Plc commenced the training of its newly engaged managers in order to sustain its leadership and competitiveness in the industry. He said the decision of the Government at diversifying the economy away from oil to agriculture remains the viable solution to creating a healthy economy, and that private sector has important roles to play which was why he has taken up the challenge to lead the way as a foremost private sector operator. According to him, Nigeria has wasted so much foreign exchange importing foods that ordinarily should be produced locally and even exported, and that until a new approach at redirecting the economy from import dependent to an export one, which the present government is leading, no meaningful changes can happen. “We have invested massively in rice, sugar, dairy products, and tomatoes. Our rice-out grower scheme will produce rice by next year and that will reduce our rice import to nearly zero because Nigeria imports more than half of the rice it consumes. “We have expanded our sugar operations with our operations in Tonga in Nasarawa in addition to Numan sugar projects where sugarcane is being planted for raw sugar production that will be refined”, he said. Dangote Cement new managers who were inducted weekend at the Dangote Academy Ikeja, Lagos are being trained under the newly established scheme: Management Trainees Programme (MTP). Joseph Makoju, the Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Dangote Cement Plc, lauded the programme, saying it would support the overall drive of the conglomerate. Mr. Makoju said the management scheme was part of the effort of the conglomerate “to sustain our exponential growth, competitiveness and market leadership.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 