Lagos – President Muhammadu Buhari’s confirmation of mismanagement of $16 billion power project fund during the administration of his now political enemy, former president Olusegun Obasanjo may have put the former’s anti-corruption war under scrutiny. To many Nigerians, Buhari should prove to them and international community that he is indeed committed to fighting corruption by instituting a probe to unravel how the mismanagement was carried out and the culprits punished accordingly. This is even as a report ‘Inside EFCC report on corruption allegations against Obasanjo’ published by Premium Times, an online newspaper over the weekend claimed that the report signed by the then EFCC’’s director of operations, Ibrahim Lamorde addressed various allegation, including conspiracy, fraudulent conversion of funds, abuse of office, among others against the former president. One of the allegations read, “that ₦521 billion was sunk into the now defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria, and yet, Nigeria was in darkness.” However, the report concluded, “Going by the evidence from the facts assembled during the course of the investigation, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo could not be directly linked with the allegations.” “Now that the president has agreed with some Nigerians and non-governmental organisations, who have been crying since over the alleged misappropriation, he should swing into action no matter who the corrupt former leaders now associate with, if he wants Nigerians to take him seriously,” says Friday Ameh, energy consultant. “Culprits of poorly implemented national projects must be made to account for their action and this is the time for Buhari to demonstrate that he can muster enough courage and political will, now that he has come out from his shell. We are waiting for Buhari to walk the talk as the implementation of the war has so far been everything but fair, as well as lacking the power to take some action on some individuals allegedly said to be corrupt. “In the spirit of his avowed commitment to corruption war, Buhari should give us details and breakdown of the alleged mismanagement of the fund to counter the defense of Obasanjo and the alleged report by EFCC or else, the credibility of his war is at risk,” says another analyst, who adds that the current frosty relationship between the two may have provided the needed platform for Buhari to act now. There is no doubt that in recent times, there has been no love lust between the two leaders over ideological disparity in the running of affairs of the country. The development resulted in the Obasanjo throwing of jibes at Buhari in his caustic remarks of the administration through his characteristic letter writing, which dubbed the Buhari’s administration as a failure whose performance is not at par with the high hopes of Nigerians. Obasanjo had also vehemently kicked against the re-election bid of Buhari and advised the latter to swallow a humble pie by retiring to his Daura country-home after the expiration of his tenure. He had told Buhari, whom he supported wholeheartedly in 2015 to wrestle power from his godson, Goodluck Jonathan for the topmost job, many monumental sins, why he shouldn’t venture into the country’s political space again. But, last week it appears the taciturn general and head of state may have decided to break his silence on the various jibes thrown at him by Obasanjo as he decided to take him up over the controversial $16billion power project during his administration. Buhari’s ‘exploration’ into the $16billion power project debacle may have awoken the memories of Nigerians and critics who wonder why there has been fruitless efforts to unravel the mystery behind the alleged scam which is currently hindering the growth of the nation’s power sector. The House of Representatives had in 2008 described $16 billion spent on power by Obasanjo’s government as a massive waste, blaming it on “poor budget planning and a lack of proper oversight by relevant bodies.” Besides, the  Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project had also in 2016 urged the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, to immediately appoint an independent counsel to investigate allegations of corruption in the spending of $16 billion on electricity by Obasanjo’s government. Buhari’s Jibes At the reception of the Buhari Support Organisation led by the Comptroller-General of the Customs Service, Hammed Ali, the President questioned why there was no stable power in the country after a former president claimed to have spent $16 billion on a power project. He said there was no corresponding power supply to Nigerians despite the huge funds expended on the projects by  Obasanjo, adding that past administrations failed to invest in infrastructure in the country. He said that no roads were repaired in the country after his days at the Petroleum Trust Fund. Buhari said anybody who claimed to be fighting for the country should not be misappropriating or misapplying the nation’s resources the way some people did. He reiterated his position that past Nigerian leaders did not save during the oil boom era. Controversy Over  $16billion Power Projects Spokesman for the Obasanjo-led Coalition for Nigeria Movement, Mr. Akin Osuntokun, described the allegation as a rumour concocted by those in the late President Umaru Yar’Adua’s government and then spread by a former lawmaker. He said several investigations and reports had shown that only $6bn was spent on the power sector during Obasanjo’s eight-year tenure. He said Buhari was playing cheap politics with statistics. The CNM spokesman said the late Senior Special Assistant to Obasanjo on Power Sector Reform and Coordinator, Seke Somolu, had provided all evidence as regards the matter. He said that as far as Somolu was concerned, only $6.3bn was spent on the power projects during Obasanjo’s regime. Osuntokun stated, “Seke sought to educate us saying $16bn was voted but warrant was issued for no more than $6.3bn spent largely on orders for turbines which could only be manufactured to specifications since they could not be picked from departmental stores’ shelves. Part of the disbursements also went into drawings, building of bridges on which the turbines would be ferried and compensation for communities from whom pieces of land was acquired, and much more. “This once again demonstrates what I have cited as the pathological incompetence of this President. Is it not beneath the dignity of the exalted office he holds to join the chorus of beer parlour gossips? How can a president who has all the information at his beck and call degenerate to this level? And Obasanjo Throws Another Punch Obasanjo explained that  the President’s allegation was  based on  ignorance of the nation’s leader, stressing that: “The answer is simple: the power is in the seven National Integrated Power Projects and eighteen gas turbines…” Referring Buhari to his autobiography, My Watch, Obasanjo maintained that he had cleared allegations about the power project in the book. He said, “It has come to the attention of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo that a statement credited to President Muhammadu Buhari, apparently without correct information and based on ignorance, suggested that $16bn was wasted on power projects by “a former President.” We believe that the President was re-echoing the unsubstantiated allegation against Chief Obasanjo by his own predecessor but one. “While it is doubtful that a President with proper understanding of the issue would utter such, it should be pointed out that records from the National Assembly have exculpated President Obasanjo of any wrongdoing concerning the power sector and have proved the allegations as false. “We recommend that the President and his co-travellers should read Chapters 41, 42, 43 and 47 of My Watch for Chief Obasanjo’s insights and perspectives on the power sector and indeed what transpired when the allegation of $16bn on power projects was previously made. If he cannot read the three-volume book, he should detail his aides to do so and summarise the chapters in a language that he will easily understand. Probe To The Rescue? Two civil society organisations, the Socio-Economic and Right Accountability Project and the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership, said  Buhari should probe and not just comment on the $16bn power projects and perceived corrupt former leaders of the country. The SERAP Director, Adetokunbo Mumuni, said, “We have consistently maintained the position that previous regimes have misappropriated large sums of money on projects. What should happen is that the President must look into this vacuum and bring whoever is involved to justice. Nigerians insist that impunity must not continue. “People must be held accountable for what happened in their regimes, no matter how highly placed they are. It does not matter who the corrupt former leaders now associate with. If the President agrees with us that there is indeed misappropriation, the government should move to bring the culpable people to book.” Also, CACOL Director, Debo Adeniran, said, “Our stand is that the Federal Government should waste no time further but should probe whoever is behind poorly implemented national projects. Now that the President has confirmed that $16bn was wasted under former President Olusegun Obasanjo, the Buhari administration needs to summon enough courage and political will to bring the culprits to book. “Power, influence and political leanings should not be considered in bringing whoever is guilty to book.” President of SSEAC, Chris Okonkwo told Sunday INDEPENDENT that there is no need for probe, but mere explanation from the incumbent and former presidents surrounding the controversy. ‘’Let the former president give us the record he has, publish it to debunk the supposed figures emanating from the current president. Let the current president also give his own figure’’ It’s obvious that the last is yet to be seen on the controversy surrounding the $16billion as supporters of the warring parties are stuck on digging deeper to win their principals’ heart. Nigerians are no doubt waiting to see how   Buhari would use his anti-corruption mantra to demystify the nation’s political thin-god. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 