ASABA – Senator lfeanyi Okowa, Delta State governor, has lamented that Nigerians were far from where they ought to be because of the current challenges facing the country. Governor Okowa spoke at the Government House in Asaba Monday while swearing in Chief Judith Enamuotor, former member of the Board of Trustees of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as Special Adviser. He regretted that the economic crisis that hit the country adversely affected the tempo with which development activities would have taken place in the state within the last three years. He revealed that the advice he gets from his Special advisers and members of the State Executive Council helps a lot in taking decisions that impact on our people. “Deltans are very patient, peaceful and understanding people. We thank them for their continuous partnership with government in consolidating on the peace we enjoy. I pledge to consolidate on the existing peace and tempo of development in the state,” he assured. Governor Okowa added, “Delta State is blessed, there is no doubt about that and we have recorded successes, especially in the area of peace and provision of infrastructure, we are confident that we will continue to listen to the voice of our people,” he said. Governor Okowa commended the legislature, judiciary, religious leaders, traditional rulers and people from all walks of life for working to promote peaceful co-existence among the diverse ethnic groups in the state. He said such harmony has given his administration the enabling environment for development activities to take place. “We will continue to be accountable, transparent as we continue to work for our people,” he said. While congratulating Enamuotor on her appointment, the governor urged all political appointees to “relate strongly with all Deltans to build a stronger relationship for the benefit of our people.” Chief Enamuotor in her response, gave thanks to God for the opportunity to serve Deltans and the Delta State Government as Special Adviser, assuring, “I will do all I can to add value to the government of His Excellency, Governor Okowa’s administration which has done very well.” The swearing-in ceremony was witnessed by Justice Marshal Umukoro, the Chief Judge of Delta State; Justice Stella Oghene, President, Customary Court of Appeal; Hon. Sheriff Oberovwori, Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly; Hon. Loveth Idisi, member of House of Representatives, members of the state executive council, traditional rulers, among others. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 