The Board of the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC) on Monday handed over the massive market it constructed at Ugbuwangue to authorities of Warri South Local Government Council, acknowledging that some issues occasioned delay in the eventual handover. Olorogun Williams Makinde,  Managing Director of DESOPADEC, whose message was delivered by the commission’s Executive Director of Projects, Pastor Philip Gbasin, noted that the modern market at Ugbuwangue “is one of the finest and biggest infrastructure so far executed by DESOPADEC”. According to Makinde, as soon as the board assumed office, everything was done to handover the market to the council authorities before the Michael Tidi administration did the needful to ensure the actualization. Michael Tidi, chairman of Warri South Local Government Area, in his opening address, expressed joy at the takeover of the market. He averred that on assumption of office as chairman of Warri South Local Government, his administration went round the major markets in Warri and consulted widely to ensure that the council eventually took over the market at Ugbuwangue. The Warri South Council boss assured that his administration would renovate the market to make it conducive for business. The Olare-Aja (head) of Ugbuwangue Community, Prince John Edede-Yonwuren, in a message through patriarch of Yonwuren dynasty, Pa Agindotan Yonwuren, thanked the Delta State government, the board of DESOPADEC and authorities of Warri South Local Government Council for making the eventual takeover of the market a reality. Vice Chairman of Warri South Local Government, Mrs. Divine Iniovosa; Executive Director, Planning, Research and Statistics in the Board of DESOPADEC, Victor Wood; Executive Director, Social Service Development, DESOPADEC, Ochor Ochor; the member representing Itsekiri Ethnic Nationality in DESOPADEC, Chief Thomas Ereyitomi; Delta State PDP Deputy Chairman, Ada Val Arenyeka, Chief Fred Ogbe and Leader of Warri South Council legislative arm,. Kingsley Edafiadjebre, were among dignitaries that graced the occasion. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 