Yenagoa – Mrs. Rachael Dickson, the wife of the Bayelsa State Governor, has lamented that most of the deaths involving pregnant women could have been avoided if they are adequately taken care of. She spoke during the start of a three-day summit in Yenagoa for royal queens in the Niger Delta organised by the Bayelsa State Traditional Rulers Wives’ Association. Bayelsa currently has the poorest record of maternal mortality rate among the states of the south-south region in particular and Nigeria in general, with an alarming figure of 1,870/100,000. The situation has prompted the state government to come up with a policy to cater for pregnant women from conception to delivery. Mrs. Dickson said she was very worried about the number of avoidable deaths resulting from pregnancy, stressing that most of them would not have occurred if adequate care were given to the women. She said the state government was concerned about the well-being of pregnant women and had evolved measures to save pregnant women and reduce infant and maternal mortality rate, including paying them monthly stipends and other benefits until they are safely delivered of their baby. She said she was optimistic that the government’s policy of providing support for pregnant women in the state would greatly help women. Mrs. Dickson said that every pregnant woman in the state is very important to the government as the nine months’ period of their pregnancy is very sensitive and requires the needed attention. “We will be paying our women who are pregnant monthly to ensure they are able to buy whatever they need. We will also care for them medically to ensure that cases of maternal and infant mortality are reduced. “Most of the deaths you hear of involving pregnant women could have been avoided if they were well cared for. We are concerned about such avoidable deaths and by God’s grace will reduce and even stop it”, she said. She called on pregnant women to take advantage of the offer by visiting government-owned hospitals, and be mindful of foods that are not good for them during their pregnancy. The governor’s wife also urged the visiting wives of monarchs to use their positions to support women, especially girl-child education, which she said the state government is strongly championing. In his remarks, King Alfred Diete-Spiff, Chairman, Bayelsa State Council of Traditional Rulers, called on the royal queens to play their role in actualising the dreams of young women and also get involved in nation building. 0 comments