Awka – It was a mixed bag for yesterday’s celebration of Democracy Day in Anambra State with some stakeholders dismissing the event while others celebrate it but were worried over the future of the nation. Dozie lkedife, former president-general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, and Sylvester Nwobu-Alor, Second Republic legislator, dismissed the celebration as meaningless. Others like Ndubuisi Nwobu, state chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and Ifeatu Obi-Okoye, national publicity secretary of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), felt otherwise. According to Ikedife, the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government shut many ethnic groupings out of governance, while others do not even believe in the government. “So many people have nothing to celebrate and many are excluded. In the streets of Nigeria, you see it in the faces of people that there is nothing to celebrate. “Democracy Day in Nigeria of today is for only those who believe in it. “But they are also worried about how the present Federal Government pilots the affairs of the country, saying that the way it is going gives room for a lot of worries,” Ikedife said. Nwobu told DAILY INDEPENDENT that Nigerians needed to continue to he optimistic that things would be right with time. But he was worried that freedom of speech, of movement and security is lacking generally, to the extent that ruffians could invade the Senate and till date there had been no arrest. The Federal Government, he added, owes it a duty to Nigerians to sustain all institutions of democracy are allow them to carry out their functions in the best interest of the citizenry. He said: “The signs we see give cause for grave concern and that is why we shout on roof tops that this government should allow democracy to thrive.” For Obi-Okoye, no matter how bad the situation in the country may be, Nigerians must as responsible citizens continue to have hope in their government. “We must continue to believe in one united Nigeria. We must continue to hope through intervention of clear forces that will be able to foster better unity and better development for our country, Nigeria. “I am one of those who still believe in this country despite the odds, despite the circumstances, the failures, the religious issues, the lack of vision and responsibility in governance. I still believe that some day, there is hope at the end of the tunnel. “To that extent, there is need to celebrate democracy because the worst democracy still remains better than the best military regime, as it were,” Obi-Okoye said. He said Nigerians “will continue to celebrate democracy with the hope that one day a leader with a clear vision for this country, a party that is motivated by clear norms, leaders who will have perfect plans for development of the country will emerge. “I call it transition because each term or tenure provides a learning opportunity for all of us.” He also said that despite some imperfections, the electoral process had improved from days of ballot paper or box snatching, writing of results at home to a near perfect process. The process, he said, also goes down to Anambra state where successive administrations had been better than their predecessors. Nwobu-Alor, who was director-general of former Governor Peter Obi Campaign Organisation, was very critical of the nation’s journey through democracy. To him, Nigeria has not done anything to merit any celebration. According to him, to achieve some measure of democratic practice, Nigerians need to imbibe all the principles and tenets of democracy by enthroning justice, equity and good conscience in all they do and say. He lamented high cost of petrol, inability of the country to provide power supply, which has consumed billions of naira, lack of basic food items and the problem of herdsmen who also kill farmers. The Second Republic legislator also lamented that the corruption “which the present administration said it is fighting is now at its peak; geographical spread enshrined in our constitution has been thrown to the dogs, the entire administration is now rolling down the hills and if care is not taken it will crash and disappear into thin air”. But he still believes that tomorrow will be better because all the resources with which the country is blessed are still there. “The big question is: how do we get these honest committed politicians to exploit the nation’s endowments? We should forget about money, about friendship and relationship; we should obtain our PVCs and do proper homework on the voting day and vote only persons of good character, integrity and commitment of the nation’s needs,” he added. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 