I have been warned severally to make my scribbles really innocuous, in order not to draw the ire of those in Douglas House, Owerri, who reportedly are not very kind to opposition. I had tried the much I could to restrict myself from saying it as it is, but my instincts always failed me. Don’t blame me; though I am outside the state, my mother and siblings are in Imo, and I can’t afford to mortgage their welfare by keeping mute. So, I hereby petition the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) and other security agencies to watch out, in case anything unexplainable happens to yours sincerely. Straight to the business of the day. Before the All Progressives Congress (APC) ward congresses across the country on Saturday, May 5, I had told those who cared to listen that the congresses would be a foretaste of the 2019 ballot. While watching the news that Saturday evening, I was having a good giggle. I saw how “my governor my governor” was fuming before the commissioner of police and other security agents when “my people my people” who own Imo State and its politics showed him that ‘a na enwe obodo enwe’ (every town has owners). After the episode, my governor hurried straight to Daura in far away Katsina State to meet his kinsman (still wonder why they call him Okoro-Hausa?). There, Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo told President Muhammadu Buhari that the “funny politics” witnessed at Saturday’s ward congresses of the APC across the country must stop. There were cases of violence and ballot box snatching in Delta, Imo, Oyo, Rivers and other states during the congresses. In states like Katsina, Kebbi, Sokoto, Zamfara, Kano, Bayelsa and Kwara, there was no fuss. Though reports had it that in some of those places, there were no congresses, but selection. However, Lagos had good congresses without imposition or violence. Jeremiah Oghoveta, a chairmanship aspirant in Delta, was reportedly stabbed to death. In Imo, suspected thugs attacked the party secretariat and held many to ransom for hours. Speaking with journalists after meeting Buhari on Sunday, Okorocha said internal democracy was the way to go. “We expect internal democracy and internal democracy is the way to go. This kind of funny politics that we are playing must stop… We do not want people to carry ballot boxes and steal results. This looks so primitive. “I intimated Mr. President, and we will make sure that such things [stopped]. He spoke like the president and he will take the necessary steps to correct this in our party, APC, not just in Imo State but across the whole nation, and to also make sure that there is respect for internal democracy in Imo State.” Oh, my governor knew what internal democracy is when he was trying to force his son in-law down the throats of Imolites? Or did he just realise it when he was outsmarted by ‘ndi nwe obodo’ (owners of the town). I had warned him that Imo people are smart, pointing out to him that Imo currently boasts of the highest number of professors in Nigeria. But he trusted his guts. I used to be a fan of Dee Anayo Okorocha; that was before he was demystified by Imo governorship. I was proud of him when, in the build-up to the 2013 elections, he dazzled other presidential aspirants at Eagle Square, Abuja, with his unmatched oratory. Then, I was ready to vote for him as the president of Nigeria, but he did not make it to the general elections. It was this same Buhari that edged him out and grabbed the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) ticket. I later discovered that my man’s ‘packaging’ got me there. Still on the congress, Governor Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara said anybody who has a complaint should channel it to the committee that was set up by the party. “You know, in a democracy you cannot expect everything to work 100 per cent. But in our region, from the information available to us, everything went well in Katsina, Kebbi, Sokoto, Zamfara and Kano. Where people expected that there may be a problem, the exercise was successful.” “But anybody that has complaint, there is a committee set up by the national executive of the party; they should take their complaints there, so that they will be attended to,” Yari said. Okorocha had pulled some dangerous political stunts, not minding whose ox is gored. He had explained why President Buhari would not have automatic ticket of APC to run in 2019. This was despite the endorsement of the president by Imo APC. In another stunt, he renamed Assumpta Maria Avenue, Owerri, as President Muhammadu Buhari Road. But when missiles came from that direction, he denied it. Okorocha should learn some politicking from the likes of Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State, who abruptly found the caution pedal when Ekiti people came for him over his endorsement of his deputy as the next governor. What happened on Saturday was just a family affair in APC. At the general election, when opposition from within (APC) will join forces from those from without (other parties), your guess is as good as mine. My governor my governor, I wish I were in Imo to know “how market” with you and your ‘mpunity’. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 