Nigerian politicians are some of the most outrageous human beings on the face of the earth. Their level of narcissism is unparalleled. Their attitude oozes contempt and greed. For the most part a large percentage of them have no visible means of livelihood. They prey on the system and show no mercy for the people. The exact reason why years after independence, the country is seemingly not doing as well as it ought to. We could deceive ourselves, claim that the years of the military were the years of the locust, dragged the country back by many years. That is a fact. The military adventurists plundered for decades, but that is not the curse on the country. Regurgitating the same story is what politicians use to diffuse their guilt and shift blame. In any case, politicians always provided support for the military, showed them the ropes and looked the other way while the military rape was on. It is therefore curious that the chaos that was the APC congress across the country is seemingly seen as news in a country that has built its democracy on a shaky system, driven by very ‘powerful’ individuals at all levels from ward levels to the highest levels in the land. These ‘powerful’ individuals cut across party lines. They dominate the two most viably visible parties in the land, the PDP and the APC. In the real sense, Nigeria lacks strong ideologically driven political parties. On the contrary, what exists is what the late political science lecturer, former Senate President, Chuba Okadigbo, referred to as mere gatherings lacking in all the structural prerequisites of viably functional democratic party structures. A late Chuba should have known; he was as cerebrally professional as he was a close participant in the political system before his tragic death. It is always very hilarious watching members of both the PDP and APC gatherings trade blames and point fingers at each other in a hypocritically selfish attempt at claiming sainthood over each other’s political actions. Because of the paucity of ideological convictions, the membership of either of the groups depends on the politically expedient chances therein. Politicians move from and to both groups at the drop of a hat. Since 1999, some politicians have moved interchangeably between the PDP and the parties that preceded the formation of the APC, an amalgamation of the CPC, ANPP, ACN and the AD. The members of the political class in Nigeria are crassly fluid; some have oscillated between two parties countless times, depending on where they feel their political fortunes can increase. They do not have any sanctions; no party constitutions have any laws for loyalty; neither can doors be closed against anyone. They are very clever men and women. The laws are often made to make the politicians comfortable with any level of impunity. And impunity Nigerians have seen across the several groups masquerading as political parties. So weeks back, a former Deputy Senate President, Ibrahim Mantu, a man notorious for his political brigandage, told Maupe Ogun-Yusuf of Channels TV, in an interview, that for twenty years, he had facilitated the success of his PDP party in elections by bribing INEC and security officials. He said his bribe giving did not need to be for his success as a candidate, just anyone in his party. In a nation that has become numb to outrage, the nation smiled and moved on, no challenge, no arrest of a man who claimed to be ‘confessing the truth’. As with Nigerian political big men, he gets a free pass; he is seemingly above the law…a former number six man in Africa’s most populous black nation. He goes home to continue where he stopped. The country moves on. Then last weekend, the ruling APC was supposed to hold its ward congresses across the country. It was reportedly chaotic in almost all the states. In Ekiti state, the APC governorship primaries ended in chaos. In Delta, a chairmanship aspirant lost his live. In Ebonyi, two congresses were held. In Rivers, it was chaos. In Imo, there was drama and chaos. In Adamawa there was crisis. The list is endless. But we sneer at the news and move on. Nigeria is adept at treating symptoms; we never confront the disease. So the sad news made this writer remember the confession a Senator Mantu never made. In all his ‘confessing the truth’ he never told the country and the world how politicians, like him, import thugs and pay them for violence to be unleashed on opponents at intra party levels and even at general elections. Most Nigerian politicians do not serve the people; they serve themselves. No one can risk all in planning violence just to serve the people. It does not add up. The do-or-die politics of ideologically vacuous political parties in Nigeria is what makes the country on permanent reverse gear. The political merchants invest too much in ‘buying’ services of INEC, security agencies and merchants of violence to offer any service to the people thereafter. Investment of such magnitude is always for profits. A Mantu confessed the truth; he is not the only demon. Nigerian politicians abuse power and privilege and there is no intra or inter party democracy. The very reason elections are flawed and the best candidates never venture to contest is because the system seemingly protects the errant. We seemingly have moved on from a Mantu bribery of INEC and Security agencies confession of truth but there are a whole lot he never confessed. He never told us how the bribery propels desperation and the fact that thugs, used to enforce actions are also paid. The flawed congresses of the APC across the states are not exclusive to the party. Other parties are just like the six of APC’s half a dozen. The desperation of political charlatans who know they have no value is what has been holding the country down. Mantu confessed, but what have we gained from his confession or the truths he never confessed but which the people know too well. 2019 is coming and other unconfessed truths of our warped political system would again play out and the circus of lies and desperation continues. Indeed, “There was a country” apologies to the legendary Chinua Achebe). comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 