Lagos – The Management of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has given approval for upward review in the transport and local allowances for Corps Members during Orientation Programmes. A cross-section of 2018 Batch ‘A’ Corps Members commended the Director-General, Brigadier General Suleiman Kazaure during his visit to the Ebonyi State Orientation Camp recently. The transport allowance for each Corps Member has been increased from N1,500:00 to N1,800:00 while the local allowance is now N1,400:00 against the earlier N1,000:00. The elated Corps Members poured encomiums on the Director-General’s welfare oriented style of administration. While addressing the Corps Members, Kazaure added that efforts are in top gear to increase the monthly allowance of Corps Members in line with the Federal Government approved minimum wage for Civil Servants. He urged them to avoid all forms of social vices like drug addiction, armed-robbery, prostitution, fraud, among others, but live responsibly as worthy ambassadors of their families and the NYSC Scheme. The NYSC Boss also warned the Corps Members to avoid lone movements and dangerous terrain that may expose them to danger. The Director-General who advised them to add value to themselves by acquiring a skill through the Entrepreneurship Development Programme of the NYSC Scheme added. ‘There is no shortcut to success, try your best and leave the rest for God”. While addressing Corps Members in Enugu Camp, the Director General admonished them to be patriotic towards the corporate existence of the country. ‘The essence of NYSC is to foster National Unity therefore, try and be your brother’s keeper and also remember that you are expected to improve the well-being of your host communities,’ Kazaure added. Similarly, the Director General has enjoined corps members nationwide to desist from indecent dressing and be security conscious as they receive deployment letter for Place of Primary Assignment (PPA). Speaking during a visit to the Orientation Camp in Obubra, Cross River State prior to the end of three-week orientation exercise that commenced on April 23, 2018, he warned the female Corps Members to avoid indecent and provocative dressings that may contradict the cultural beliefs of their host communities. The Director General urged the corps members to eschew caution as they are posted to new environments after the Orientation Course and tasked them to be wary of people with questionable characters, but conduct themselves as role models and responsible leaders. Speaking further, the Director-General also urged them to strive and add value to their host communities by leaving good legacies through the provision of developmental projects that would ameliorate their sufferings. “Avoid unauthorised journey, don’t indulge in night parties and make sure you conduct yourselves as good ambassadors at all time,” Kazaure said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 