Timi Frank, a chieftain of APC and founding member of the New PDP that pulled out to join APC, has warned of a repeat of history, four years after. Will the group make good its threat? In this interview with TONY EZIMAKOR, Frank says the likely hood is very high. Excerpt: What’s is the reaction of the New PDP to the disclaimer posted by Senator Adamu Abdullahi over recent ultimatum issued by nPDP to APC? I am here to clarify issues and debunk some of the lies from some of our members, that is Sen. Abdullahi and Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin, who were in my party secretariat yesterday to oppose the view of the majority, to oppose what our leaders and chairman in our group have said. Recall that Alhaji Kawu Baraje was in the secretariat recently to submit a letter to inform the party of the grievances of the new PDP that joined the merger that brought the APC into power. I want to make it very clear that we have no faction in our group. I saw in some of the papers I read today there is a crack in the new PDP. There is no crack as far as we are concerned. We only have one group, we have only one leader and that leader remains only Alh. Kawu Baraje and I can tell you clearly that without fear or favour, and I want to make it known to all of you that Alhaji Kawu Baraje is not alone in that letter. He has the mandate of over 95% of some of us that joined the new PDP into the APC that make new victories successful in 2015. Then PDP has always made the claim it was instrumental to the APC victory… (Cuts in) Yes, as you can see and everybody knows that it was because of our participation to join the APC that practically brought the victory we are all enjoying today in the APC. So, when people like Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, who used to be one of us came up with some of his positions yesterday, you wonder. I want to clearly make it known to the Nigerian people that they must have forgotten history and I want to make it known to you that whatever they’ve said to counter our move, are total lies. One of the claim is that you have benefited in the nPDP… (Cuts in) Nigerians are there to testify, they said the new PDP group has benefitted massively from this government. That is one of their claims, but that is not true. If we have benefited the way they’ve said, neither Kawu Baraje nor our group would have received the mandate they have to write any letter to the party. I want to make it very clear that we are not here to respond to individuals, we are here to make it known that our proposal, our letter is to the party. So, it is left for the party to either take it seriously or not. But, I believe any serious party will take whatever position or decision we have brought to them to look into. Today (Tuesday) makes it seven days from the day our group brought this letter to the party. But, as it stands, we’ve not gotten any response yet from them. As we’ve said, whatever we must have said in that letter, it is not an empty threat. If they choose to ignore us, so be it. But, at the appropriate time, we are going to respond to Nigerians based on what we’ve said. It is not just a mere threat, it is not just a mere ultimatum. But, I will tell you clearly that we are meeting our leaders, we are going to come up with a clear position to brief Nigerians on our next step, if finally they don’t attend to us. And again, I want go back to some of the benefits that they said our group have benefitted. The Senator and Jibrin said yesterday that we benefited in getting Senate President for the new PDP and the Speaker, some senators, governors and so on. For God’s sake, these are elective positions. Nigerians are aware how we succeed in getting the Senate President for the new PDP and the Speaker for the new PDP. They were not supported by our party. They were not supported by the executive arm of government. We managed to get these two positions by the grace of God and by the support of Nigerian people. And also, the support of senators and members of the houses that believed in them. They have confidence in the leadership of Senator Bukola Saraki and Hon. Yakubu Dogara and they chose to stand by these two people because they believe these two people will take the party and Nigerians to the Promised Land. So far, so good, we are very happy with them. They’ve done very well despite challenges and the circumstances and hurdles they passed and are still passing through till today. So, nobody should give credit to either the party or anybody to say that they gave us anything to the new PDP. We fought to get these two positions. So, when they also said we got Gov Aliyu Wammako, probably Musa Kwankwaso, Senator Danjuma Goje, and I think they mentioned some other names. These people were elected on their various states, they were elected by their people to represent them in the Senate and the House of Representatives. They never got there based on the fact that they are from new PDP. They should be able to benefit because they contributed in bringing the change and government of today, but that is not the case. Are you saying nobody from the new PDP received patronage from the APC? It is very clear within our group today. They only two beneficiaries in our group are Rotimi Ameachi, who finally became Minister of Transportation, and Sen. Hajiya Alhassan, who is the Minister for Women Affairs. These are the two people we can remember. So, I want to make it very clear that we are not going to be intimidated by anybody. APC seems to be repeating history, history of what drove your group out of PDP? I want to use this opportunity to remind my party that this is same way we were trying to correct the wrongs of Jonathan’s government then in the PDP, they never listened to us. We told them when we were aggrieved, our leaders moved round the states to talk to party members, to ask the government at that time to listen to our views but at the end of the day, they refused, they ignored us. That is  how we left. And when we left, we happened to join the APC and that was how today, we are enjoying from this so-called ‘Change’ agenda we are talking about. So, if today 95 per cent of us who came from the new PDP are aggrieved and they felt they are going to undermine us, or they are going to ignore our group, so be it. If as it is they ignore your letter and call the bluff of your ultimatum, what will your group do? I believe we are going to take a decision that will benefit the Nigerian people because we believe that democracy should be all-inclusive. Democracy should not be a situation where when you speak the truth, you will be harassed; you will be intimidated and so on. Today, any person that is being harassed within the APC, go and check his identity, they are those of us who came from the new PDP to the APC. It is ongoing. We have not seen where anybody from the ACN or the CPC or the ANPP or the section of APGA that happened to join us is being intimidated or harassed. It is clear. So, we are not going to be intimidated. We believe we are going to be doing the right thing. We believe we are going to do everything possible to rescue Nigeria, the way we rescued Nigeria from PDP. So, if today, we decided to lay our complaints to the party and they feel it is not important for them to attend to our issues, we will leave them to God. God will some day judge. Senator Abdullahi suggested that your group is being sponsored… I want to repeat that for someone like Sen. Abdullahi to be accusing the Senate President of being the person sponsoring Alhaji Kawu Baraje to be doing all of these, that is not true. The Senate President is only one of our leaders in the new PDP. So, he doesn’t have the time to persuade anybody to do anything outside the group. Whatever position that Alhaji Kawu Baraje takes today is a group decision, not himself as a person. And he has the mandate to continue to speak for us as our leader. So, I want Nigerians to disregard every information from Senator Abdullahi Adamu. We all know his past antecedents. You can remember during the days of Abacha, the position he took. This is somebody who called for rally in Nasarawa State as at then to support Abacha. We all know the position he took under the third term bid. He was one of those that supported former President Obasanjo in the bid for a third term. So, he is somebody that always tries as much as he can to be in the good books for anything that will benefit him or to support any government without advising the government that it is either doing wrong or bad. As long as he is being protected as a person, he doesn’t care. Please, Nigerians should not take whatever comes out from him and their group very seriously. We have no crack, I repeat, we are still one and everyone of us that left are still together. Why didn’t consult him? They said again that we never consulted anybody. In part of their statement, they made it very clear that Baraje and the group never consulted anybody. Of course, we never consulted people like Abdullahi Adamu and Co because we know they had not been with us. Even when we were doing this new PDP as at that time, many of them were one leg in, one leg out. They never believed we were going to achieve it. They were not even part of us when we started. I can tell you clearly, we know our leaders. We know the leaders who drafted the agenda of the new PDP. Senator Abdullahi Adamu was not even one of them. He came in at the dying minute when he saw that we had almost achieved victory. I can tell you all these pieces of information because I was privileged as one of the youngest persons that were in the new PDP as at then. I was the National Youth Leader of the new PDP. I know so much about whatever I say to you; that it is nothing, but the truth. We do not know some of the names that signed their letter yesterday. Again, somebody like Jibrin, of course, you should know that he’s very very aggrieved, with the leadership of the National Assembly. You should know that he is not happy with the Speaker. We are not expecting anything good from him or to support our position. I can tell you that clearly. Somebody like Jibrin is neither here nor there as at now. Even in Kano State, his own state, he has lost out politically. So, he is trying to use this as an opportunity to gain relevance politically from the system. You just said that your group played a key role in rescuing Nigerians from the past PDP administration, three years after, the party you joined hands to rescue Nigerians has been receiving bashing from Nigerians, would you at this stage look back and say that what you did was right in rescuing Nigerians? Well, I will tell you clearly that, yes, as at the time we took the decision we took by leaving PDP, we believe as at that time, we took the right step. We did not have the celestial or spiritual power to know what would be bad and that is why we decided to come up, and to tell Nigerians, and to tell our party this is not what we bargained for. So, it is now left for our party to listen to us, to take our positions and decisions very serious. You can see we are not just sycophants in our group. We don’t just sit down and keep quiet because we want to keep quiet. We speak when necessary. That is why I can tell you again, the same way, the same strategy we deployed in telling our former party then, the PDP the truth that they ignored, that we decided to tell our party of today the truth of the injustice, oppression that is going on in the party. There is too much of oppression, harassment and intimidation for some of us that came from the PDP to join this coalition. Do you think telling the APC truth can make it win in 2019? When that time comes, we cross the bridge. That is why we decided to come together to point out the wrongs and advise them on the part of the truth. It is left for them to listen or not to listen. Campaign strategy used in the PDP… (Cuts in) I have said when we get to that bridge, we cross it and when time comes, I will tell you clearly. We are meeting and we going to come up with a decision that we think Nigerians will be happy within the next 24 hours. Well, it is left for them as that time to either know whether they will win or they will lose. But to us, we know that we have values, we have a lot of values anywhere we go to. We have a lot to contribute from our group. It is left for APC to take the opportunity of embracing or to benefit from the values we have or throw away those values from us. I believe they will find themselves to be blamed. What about your ambition on the position of chairmanship of the party? Well, it is one of the things we are considering, if things go our way, and I can tell you clearly that we will be running if our party is going to respond to us and if we are still going to remain in this process. By the grace of God, I will make my position known to the Nigerian people shortly. Are you part of the ongoing coalition, even the PDP has said they are ready to team up with other to oust APC in 2019? The PDP knows we are beautiful bride. They know the capacity of those of us that left because that is the party we were part of. They know the roles and the importance and the damage we caused when we left the PDP. So, I believe they want to take advantage of that. That is why it is left for the APC to know whether we are useful or not. So, if we are useful or not useful, so be it. We are politicians and as I have said, we are going to take a position on the next step very soon. How soon will this meeting be? The APC is in the process of what I will call transition period and it is obvious that the sitting leadership of the party may not be in the right position to address the issues you are raising presently. Don’t you think it would have been better to wait for the incoming executive to address these issues? We cannot wait for that. There is an executive right now. They are the ones that received our letter. They should be able to respond to our letter. Secondly, as I have said, we are meeting, we are going to be meeting and we will come up with a position and decision within a possible short time based on our seven days ultimatum. We don’t want to be…, our leaders are not those who want to gain popularity from the media or the pages of newspapers but we want to stand by discipline and our action will be made known to the people very soon if they fail to respond to us. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 