Government remains the ultimate owner of the concessioned facilities but the private sector is mandated to develop and operate those facilities under agreed terms over a certain period. “This is a worthy model, which has not only improved operations at our ports, but has also attracted commendation from within and outside the country. She said the fact that government was considering adopting the concession model for the railway and aviation sectors derived from the success of port concession. “I have implicit confidence in the present government’s ability and commitment to the improvement of public infrastructure in the country and one is delighted to note that concession has become the model being adopted for both the railway and aviation sector reforms,” she said. The STOAN chairman commended the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) for launching a Safety, Information, Operation and Communication Centre to enhance 24-hour operation at the ports. “The commissioning of this centre and the recent launch of four new tugboats by NPA will deepen reforms at the port. “It will complement the efforts of terminal operators to make our ports competitive, ‘’ she said. However, before the 2006 concession terminal operations, Nigerian ports faced major challenges which placed the ports among the most inefficient in the world. Before concession, the average waiting time for ships before berthing was 21 days; vessels’ turnaround time was seven days, while dwell time of cargo was as high as 45 days. Virtually all the major seaports across the country were heavily congested leading to insecurity and pilferage, delays in cargo clearance and inefficiencies in cargo handling, largely due to manual processes. As a result of the challenges, the Federal Government in 2006, concessioned cargo handling operations at the ports to 25 terminals operators under various lease agreements ranging from 15 to 25 years. The private terminal operators say they had invested about $2 billion dollars (N610 billion) in modernising and upgrading their various terminals as well as on manpower development. As a result of the huge investment, ship-waiting time has been eliminated to zero day, while vessel turnaround time has also improved significantly based on cargo type. Congestion at the various ports has also been eliminated, resulting in a huge cost-saving running into about N30 billion annually. Significantly, port concession, which ceded the cargo handling operations in the nation’s seaports to private terminal operators in 2006, saves Nigerian importers and exporters about $800 million (N244 billion) annually, formerly paid to shipping companies as congestion surcharge during the pre-concession era, says a recent study by Akintola Williams Deloitte, Nigeria’s leading accounting firm. According to the report, while Nigeria has been able to save cost in that direction, the bureaucratic cargo clearing processes of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) takes about 82.1 percent of the charges incurred by consignees at the ports. The report titled “Public Private Partnership (PPP) as an anchor for diversifying the Nigeria economy: Lagos Container Terminals Concession as a Case Study,” also disclosed that the investments by terminal operators have resulted to increased ship traffic and throughput which also led to a 400 percent rise in container throughput from 400,000 TEUs in 2006 to 1.6 million TEUs in 2014. “This has also removed ship waiting time at the container terminals, as ships now berth on arrival, vessel turnaround time has been reduced from five days to 41 hours while average dwell time for cargo clearance went from over 30 days to 14 days. Deloitte also revealed that a value chain analysis of a 20-foot container laden with cargo worth N44.42million ($100,000) imported into Nigeria from China requires about N6.5million to clear and transport to the importer’s warehouse. “About N5.3million (representing 82.1 percent) of the amount, is paid to the NCS as Import Duty, Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme (CISS), ECOWAS Trade Liberalisation Scheme (ETLS), Port Development Surcharge and Value Added Tax.” The report further stated that shipping companies are responsible for 13.8 percent of the port cost (N897,000); terminal operators 1.8 percent (N117,000); Customs 82.1 percent (N5.3million); transporters 1.1 percent (N71,500) and clearing agents (N78,000). “The value chain of a typical container terminal operation begins with the shipment of the goods through a shipping line to the host country. The consignee pays the freight charges for the shipping as well as the container deposit fees. Demurrage charges may apply where the consignee fails to return the container on time,” the report added. “Upon arrival of the container at the Nigerian port, the consignee pays terminal handling charges, storage charges, delivery charges and customs examination charges to the terminal operators and the relevant customs import duty and among others. “Cargo owners use terminals as cheap storage facilities as the current policy provides for 3-day free storage after which a charge of N900 is applied per day and regulated by the NPA. Importers take advantage of the low storage charges offered by the terminal operators to store their imported goods at the terminal as opposed to a site warehousing facilities that charge as much as N60,000 per day,” the report further stated. Recall that before the port reform of 2006, the report pointed, Nigerian port system faced major challenges which made it highly inefficient such that average ship waiting time before berthing was 21 days; vessel turnaround time was five days while dwell time for cargo was as high as over 30 days. “This was blamed on poor infrastructure leading to heavy congestion, insecurity and pilferage, delays in cargo clearance and inefficiencies in cargo handling. This led to port concession on Land Lord model that gave exclusive rights to the terminal operators to operate, maintain and invest on port facilities, while the NPA retains ownership of the terminals. However, speaking on the issue, Dr. Osita Chukwuma, the chairman of the Apapa chapter of the International Freight Forwarders Association (IFFA), stated that the concessionaires have not fulfilled part of the agreement in terms of developing facilities at the ports. Speaking in an interview with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, he said that the concessionaires were taking undue advantage of the Nigerian environment to make port users to pay high charges. Chukwuma said that in other countries where concession of ports have taken place, the concessionaires develop facilities that facilitate trade and wondered why the same thing was not being done in the country.  He argued that since the concessionaire were not doing what they agreed to do in agreement they singed with government, the concession should be cancelled. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 