Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has charged President Muhammadu Buhari to end his blame game and use of hate language against past leaders as cover for his poor performance, economic hardship and escalated insecurity his administration has caused Nigerians despite ample resources at its disposal. In a statement signed by Kola Ologbondiyan, the national publicity secretary, PDP alleged that “Buhari does not have a single development project initiated and implemented by his administration in any part of the country in the last three years.” The part said the president had also failed to fulfill the least of his 2015 campaign promises, which were used to deceive Nigerians into voting him into office. “Now that he has failed, one wonders what other false promises the Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) will anchor its 2019 campaign and elections on. “It is tragic that instead of being remorseful, the Buhari Presidency finds it convenient to engage in endless blame game, shameful attempts to appropriate PDP projects and programmes, as well as dishing out of false performance indices ahead of its third anniversary on May 29. “Worst still, President Buhari finds solace in commissioning projects executed by other leaders, like his humiliating commissioning of a regular bus station constructed by the Lagos State government and a borehole in Jigawa State, which show crass failure of governance,” the opposition party stated. PDP described as embarrassing Buhari’s demarketing of Nigeria whenever he travels out. “Nigerians can recall President Buhari’s poor showing at the 2018 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in London, where his only achievement was to further demarket our nation by declaring our youths as lazy and lovers of freebies,” it added. Advising Buhari and his handlers to know that Nigerians were tired of their ineptitude and blame game, PDP said: “The beauty of democracy is that it affords the citizens the inalienable right to remove any government that does not effectively govern, and this is the inevitable end of the APC, come 2019.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 