Lagos – The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola yesterday said the rehabilitation of the Ikorodu-Sagamu road would boost agriculture and the economy of Lagos. Fashola said that the road was strategic to industrialisation and agricultural development, which were the priorities of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration.
He pointed out, that the road was strategic and would promote the growth of agricultural activities, boost business for industries in the axis and create employment opportunities.
The Minister listed the Odogunyan Industrial Estate, the NNPC Mosimi Depot and other firms as some of the beneficiaries of the project.
Fashola said that the project had a national outlook and urged politicians to shun sentiments and focus on the developmental goals when constructing projects.
“The present government is very strong on agric and very strong on industrialisation and, indeed, on energy.
“President Muhammadu Buhari has said I should tell you that not only are you getting Ikorodu-Sagamu Road, work has also started on Lagos-Ota Road to Abeokuta. And work would continue on Lagos-Ibadan expressway.
“And if we get approval in the 2018 budget, hopefully, we would be able to start work on the last part of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway,” he said.
He said the contractors’ first priority was to stabilise the road before the rains start.
He urged residents to be patient and cooperate with the contractors as the construction was likely to cause them some inconveniences.
Mr Wael Salem, General Manager, Arab Contractors Nigeria Limited, said, “We would try our best to make the road motor able.”
The Ayangburen of Ikorodu, the traditional ruler of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi, represented by Otunba Ayodele Elesho also thanked President Buhari for making the project a reality.
He assured the contractors of the cooperation of residents of the community.
Sen. Gbenga Ashafa, Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, President Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora, Mr Jimmy Benson, Federal House of Representatives member representing Ikorodu Federal Constituency and others commended the Buhari administration.
They all noted that the important road had been abandoned by previous administrations and appealed to the contractors to deliver the project on schedule.
The 30.1-kilometre road links the Ikorodu round about in Lagos and Sagamu in Ogun State.
The project is being handled by ARAB Contractors Nigeria Limited and has a completion period of 36 months. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 