Nothing suggests that the dead truly deserves the solemnity of national mourning in our clime! Perhaps the torrent of crocodile tears amidst the siege that has befallen the country is enough to safely conclude victims would at least find a perfect rest; after all away from the troubles of their fatherland. Just how quickly can the sore get that terribly awful? It would seem the growing lists of the bereaved almost on a daily basis hardly deserves the empathy of political leadership to which sovereignty has been surrendered. Momentary outrage over needless massacre of defenceless innocent citizens has become a peculiar feature of the contradictions that collectively define us as a people. Tragically, it would now seem political leadership is incapable of arresting the drift that grips the nation beyond latching on to the latest controversy over $496m Tucano deal to once again flaunt legitimacy to democratic mandate. What a country indeed! Interestingly, the controversy over the purchase of Tucano fighter jets comes handy in bolstering the dynamics of denial that is effectively the lifeline of our politics.
It should be interesting that ‘Tucano’ has become a new entrant into the ever expanding political lexicon of Nigeria. Nothing depicts the failure of leadership at a critical time like this than the ferocity with which the urgency of Tucano jets to be delivered in 2020 has become relevant in masking the failure of governance. Are we then to believe the acquisition of Tucano jets was all that was needed to secure the country ad-infinitum? Much more germane would, no doubt, would be to stem the failure of leadership that has become too palpable to discountenance! It shouldn’t be that the people of Benue state and other indigenous communities of the middle belt as well as flashpoints of bloodshed across the country would put their hope on the arrival of Tucano jets in 2020. To this extent, the bravado of the executive regarding justification of its violating constitutional procedures is just sickening. It should not have taken days or weeks for the President to obtain anticipatory approval from the national assembly. After all, the idea of spending $1b from the excess crude accounts had been on the card over three months ago.
One could not but be alarmed at the laborious argument of Jigawa state Governor, Abubakar Badaru at the end of the National Economic Council (NEC) on Thursday. It was not unexpectedly that NEC through the governor rose stoutly in support of extra-constitutional payment for the now seemingly cure-all fighter jets. The trouble however is the condescending argument about how President Buhari in his wisdom had to quickly jump at the offer to sell the jet fighters to Nigeria before America once again rub it in or President Trump changes his mind. But if we even assume the frenzy to acquire these jets has become inevitable, does it not amounts to hypocrisy on the part of a leadership that has let no one in doubt about its conspiracy of silence over the organised wanton killings across the country. It should curious that the government is not deploying as much energy and passion into explaining the failure of security agencies in curtailing the pogrom in Benue the way it has been defending payment for fighter jets that will be delivered two years ahead.
It is tragic government has been dancing on the graves of innocent victims some of whom are babies mowed down so heartlessly including foetus of hapless pregnant women whose bloods are sure to haunt sooner than late. How does the acquisition of one million Tucano jets even at no costs explain away the tragedy of an era where the Commander-in-Chief that told the world how the Inspector General of Police flouted his orders to provide security to the people of Benue state? The new twist about killer herdsmen being foreigners or trained by late Libyan leader, Gadaffi could only make sense if the government would be ready to deploy maximum force in flushing out the miscreants if indeed there are not spirit beings; launching unpremeditated attacks from the Jupiter or mars. Why has the government not offered explanation as to how operation cat-dance has been a colossal failure so far in Benue? Beyond enforcing believability in the president’s decision to unilaterally spend money from excess crude account for the purchase of fighter jets, who is offering explanation on how suspected soldiers rubbed salts on the agonies of the people of Benue by completely razing down Naka communities in the fashion of Odi massacre.
The world should indeed be laughing as those trusted with security of the country beat their chests over payment for war planes that would only be available for use in 2020; hopefully if most of the indegenous communities have not been totally subded by the ranpaging armed bandits. Whatever the case, we hope the maccabre dance on the graves of innocent citizens would not have taken a full-blown momentum by the time the rat race for 2019 take the centre stage. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 