To mark this year’s World Press Freedom Day last week with the theme “Keeping Power in Check: Media, Justice and the Rule of Law,” the Plateau State Chapter of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) invited me to deliver the leading paper at a colloquium on the subject of “Herdsmen Violence: The Politics of Security Management in a Fragile State.” The following is an edited excerpt from the 16-page presentation. “In his 1983 book titled “The Trouble with Nigeria,” the world acclaimed writer, Chinua Achebe, concluded that “The trouble with Nigeria is simply and squarely a failure of leadership.” Three decade after Achebe’s assertion, successive Nigerian civilian governments have been led by leaders exhibiting chronic leadership challenges; the immediate past President Goodluck Jonathan was described as “clueless” and the present President Buhari, who had predicated his campaigns on “Change,” has been dismissed as “lacklustre.” While it is true that leadership challenges contribute to the national problematic, it would be misleading to completely ignore the contributory role of structural flaws within the neo-colonial state itself. This post-colonial state embodies inherent threats from its territorial space, population, government and sovereignty, making security governance perpetually vulnerable or fragile. These structural flaws are partly responsible for the recurrent eruption of ethno-religious violence within the polity which has now given rise to the emergence of various types of armed groups ranging from religious insurgents, resource-control militants, and ethnic militias and even orchestrated urban rioters. In my research work, I have consistently referred the herdsmen violence within the conceptual framework of a deeply divided society. True, factors like climate change, migratory pressures, global rise of religious fundamentalism, armed proliferation, etc, are key drivers in the violence; but I think in Nigeria they all conflate under the framework of a deeply divided society. In Eric Nortlinger’s definition the term or phrase “divided society” can actually be applied interchangeably with ‘plural,’ ‘vertically segmented,’ and ‘communally divided” society, but many scholars like to draw distinction between pluralistic societies and deeply divided societies. Guelke (2012) says, for example, that the most frequently occurring features of deeply divided societies are differentiated by divisions arising from “class, caste, religion, language, race, ethnicity and clan” which tend to weave competing binaries. These differences, which tend to span both the social and political realms, are responsible for creating such binaries as “settlers vs. indigenes”,  “us vs. them,” “northerners vs. southerners,” “Christians vs. Muslims,” “farmers vs. pastoralists” and other contrasting social-cum-political identities… But social scientists generally believe conflicts to be endemic in all societies; there is hardly any society, deeply divided or not, pluralistic or not, without any form of conflict. Perhaps the difference between deeply divided societies and other vertically segmented societies lies in the intensity of identity mobilization along cleavages (Deutsch, 1953) which may lead to acute tension and conflicts. This is often the outcome of social relations involving threat elements. Crawford Young (1976) says: Detection of threats to the collectively [of a cultural group] is a potent factor of cultural mobilization; anxieties and insecurities dictate solidarity responses. Moments of crisis engender acute anxieties and highly polarized perceptions… Such fears are expressed in symbols and stereotypes that reinforce the “we versus them” divide and as tension increases, Young says, “all parties to the crisis [begin to scan] the horizon for the dark clouds of cultural threats.” … Against such background, the nexus between political leadership and conflict management is crucial. Lustick (1978) observes, for example, that the principal characteristics of deeply divided societies are derived from the approaches of political leaders and how their actions in turn influence societal perception and behaviour. Young (1976) made a similar point when he emphasizes that the nature [and operation] of cultural pluralism differs “under different types of regimes, illustrating the significance of the character of the political arena as an independent variable.” This fact, according to him, accounts for the great variability in the interplay of … forces within plural societies: it explains why most Latin American societies and some African countries like Julius Nyerere’s Tanzania and Leopold Senghor’s Senegal, in the past, [and Sierra Leone presently] have been less susceptible to divisive ethno-cultural identities. Let me look briefly at the Sierra Leone example. You will recall that only March this year, Sierra Leoneans went to the polls to elect the successor to President Ernest Bai Koroma who had completed his maximum 10 years tenure. In the contest which went into second round in April, Julius Madaa Bio of the opposition party (SLPP) emerged winner after beating Samura Kamara Wilson of the former ruling party (APC); both candidates are Christians. Sierra Leone, however, is about 78% Muslim; Christians constitute only about 21% of the population…. “Since [1951 cross carpeting in the Western House] , ]Nigeria’s politics is determined by a variety of primordial factors including religion, ethnicity, region, etc, simply because it suited the competing political elites to play them up for personal and aggregated interest. A regime that makes parochialism… the basis for the distribution of government’s patronage … is bound to accentuate the deep divisions in the political community. In this regards, I think, President Buhari started on a very wrong footing with his famous “97% versus 5%” distribution formula.  In 2016 [while responding] to allegation that he was engaged in nepotism and discrimination against a part of Nigeria, he said that he was voted overwhelmingly (97%) by a part of the country while he merely garnered a meagrely 5% from another. By implication, it meant that his government would favour the northern part of the country, which had always rooted for him, than over others, like the south east, which did not support him. Since then, the President has been questioned about whether he would rule in the overall interest of all Nigerians, or just a part of it… Although, one may consider the President’s remark either as trite, or a Freudian slip, to the people of the South East it re-echoes decades-old acrimony and conflicts (the pogrom and the Civil War). Some analysts have even attributed the President’s statement to the resurgence of separatist sentiments in Igboland as represented by the bombastic agitation of the Nnambi Kanu-led Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB)…” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 