BMI Research Report has said that Nigeria’s expansionary budget reaffirms its larger expectations on the country’s budget balance over the coming quarters.
The report said that while the total public debt burden would remain manageable, the high cost of servicing these obligations would limit the potential for a more productive fiscal stimulus.
According to the report with the theme: ‘Outlook for Nigeria’s economy,’ while the total public debt burden would remain manageable, the high cost of servicing these obligations would limit the potential for a more productive fiscal stimulus.
The report also revealed that the latest version of long-awaited Nigeria’s 2018 budget reafirms BMI’s view for a modest increase in the country’s budget deficit this year.
“Although not yet signed into law, the latest iteration of the legislation as passed by the Senate last week marks another substantial uptick in spending, which we believe will contribute to a deficit equal to 3.2 per cent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2018, deeper than that of consensus (2.9 per cent) and the government itself (1.7 per cent).
“Furthermore, we note that while the budget is ambitious in terms of its allocations to key areas of much-needed capital spending, persistent headwinds to implementation and political considerations are likely to see capital expenditure fall short of target. Instead, we believe that recurrent spending will see more substantial growth due to costs associated with the forthcoming election and the government’s efforts to boost its popularity as the vote approaches.”
While the report insisted that the 2018 budget represents little imminent threat to fiscal stability, it however, projected that the budget continued Nigeria’s recent trend of loose fiscal policy.
The report said that this did not represent any meaningful threat to the country’s fiscal stability, adding that higher oil prices would partially offset the impact of another year of record spending, given that revenues from the hydrocarbons sector, which had historically accounted for as much as 79.9 per cent of total government income.
“Our Oil & Gas team forecasts the price of Brent crude to average $73.0/bbl in 2018 and $77.0/bbl in 2019, up from just $54.8/bbl in 2017. With the government forecasting a benchmark oil price of just $51.0/bbl, we believe it will enjoy some wiggle room in terms of spending, muting the impact of the expansionary budget on the size of the country’s fiscal deficit.
“Moreover, with one of the lower public debt burdens in Sub-Saharan Africa at a projected 18.2 per cent of GDP in 2018, we see little immediate threat to broader fiscal stability.”
The report observed that while the government was spending more, long term economic benefits from the increased spending would be limited.
It said that tight monetary conditions had seen rising domestic bonds yields since the collapse in oil prices, increasing the government’s cost of borrowing.
“The government now expects 24.2 per cent of total expenditure to go towards servicing these debt obligations. Another issue will be the implementation of capital expenditure. High levels of corruption and bureaucracy in Nigeria not only deters private sector investment (increasing the country’s dependence on the government investment into areas like infrastructure), but also adds headwinds to the government’s ability to execute budgeted spending.
“We see little sign of change over the coming quarters, meaning some of the more productive areas of the 2018 budget are likely to have a weaker impact than the government hopes for” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 