Although President Muhammadu Buhari and leader of the ruling All Progressives Party (APC) may have settled for Adams Oshiomhole as the next chairman of the party, ahead of the June convention, Sunday INDEPENDENT gathered at the weekend that Buhari is still worried over crisis generated by the process in arriving at the decision. Consequently, Buhari, who is said to have cautioned the members against playing into the hands of the opposition as a result of the brewing discontent particularly among those feeling short-changed, is insisting on a ‘consensus’ arrangement for party offices, particularly, that of the chairman. By this, a source close to the party told the paper at the weekend, that Buhari has decided to reach out to John Odigie-Oyegun and his supporters and other aggrieved members to have a feeling of ‘no victor, no vanquished.’ “What Buhari wants is for the party to show the whole world that it is united and the officers mostly were elected based on a consensus arrangement. But, I can tell you that the president is more concerned with that of the chairman of the party, who he is determined to work closely with to achieve his re-election dream,” says the source. However, it was further gathered that the Bola Tinubu factor and party’s decision to send election monitors outside their states, among others, seem to be threatening the consensus agreement. Specifically, although some members acknowledged the fact that Oshiomhole has done a lot of consultations in his quest for the chairmanship of the party, others, particularly, some governors are still opposed to him because of his alleged connection to Bola Tinubu,a national leader as well as an influential figure in the party. “But governors like Rotimi Akeredolu, Nasir El-Rufai and Yahaya Bello of Ondo, Kaduna and Kogi respectively who are believed to have political axe to grind with the former Lagos governor are alleged to be preparing for a showdown with him at the convention,” according to the source. Another source said at the weekend that although Oyegun may eventually not contest so as not to offend Buhari, he went further to say that even then, Buhari was said to have agreed with Tinubu, when they met in London recently on the need to retire Chief John Odigie-Oyegun because his interventions in the state chapters of the party further deepened the crisis in those states, with some experiencing parallel excos. For instance in Ondo State, Oyegun approved the removal of the state chairman, Isaac Kekemeke, who is believed to be having running battle with Rotimi Akeredolu, a loyalist of Oyegun, without the National Executive Council’s approval, as enshrined in the party’s constitution on the sack of any member of NEC. Also in Kaduna, Oyegun’s influence was said to have fueled crisis between Senator Shehu Sani and his group who have been at loggerheads with the state governor, El-Rufai. These issues have pitched the affected governors against Tinubu with some of them allegedly planning to frustrate Oshiomhole’s candidature believed to have received the support of APC national leader, at the convention. Sunday INDEPENDENT further learnt also that the plan by the party to send officials to monitor congresses outside their home states is becoming a matter of concerns to some governors, particularly, those that are embroiled in crisis. Typically, state governors nominate their loyalists to serve as monitors during the congresses to the national headquarters. But, the party’s convention committee is planning a modality that would see the recommended officials randomly posted to any state other than their states of operations to monitor the elections. This would mean that congress officials nominated from Kogi State could end up officiating in Imo State or another state further south. Some governors were said to have expressed reservations as the action would whittle down their powers and influence on the outcome of the elections. “Some governors, particularly, in crisis ridden states are scared that the action would give edge to their opponents and reduce their influence in the state,” says a source. Speaking further, the source said, “The two issues, particularly, the Tinubu connection has left permanent bitterness in the mouths of some members.” For instance, Oyegun’s decision on the Kogi State election debacle and the governorship primary in Ondo State, which produced the incumbent governors, Yahaya Bello and Rotimi Akeredolu did not go down with Tinubu. He had asked for the resignation of Oyegun on his decision, describing as not helping the cause of democracy and not healthy for the growth of the party. Tinubu had at the inception of the party influenced the choice of Oyegun as the party’s chairman against the wish of the governors of the party who had wanted Tmpre Silva, former Bayelsa State governor. Oshiomhole was also opposed to the candidature of Oyegun as he pitched his tent with Chief Tom Ikimi, former Foreign Affairs Minister. Oyegun’s choice nearly marred Tinubu’s relationship with Oshiomhole as both later settled when the choice of Godwin Obaseki was agreed upon as the governor to succeed the former Edo State governor. Oyegun, on the other hand supported Pius Otubu for the governorship position which Obaseki won at both the primary and the election proper. It was gathered that Oshiomhole may have been promised the chairmanship position at the expiration of his term which fueled the rumour going round that Oyegun may be asked to step down and be rewarded with a juicy political position, probably an ambassadorial post. Another source said the president desired a consensus candidate for the chairmanship position to ensure a united party ahead of the 2019 election as there had been fears in some quarters, particularly leaders who were rooting for tenure elongation that the election could breed division and infighting in the party. Hitherto, when the president made known his position on the chairmanship position, major stakeholders, particularly state governors on the platform of the party were sharply divided between Oyegun and Oshiomole. On the side of Oshiomhole are Abdulaziz Yari, Rochas Okorocha, Akinwunmi Ambode, Abiola Ajimobi, Abdullahi Ganduje, Godwin Obaseki, Rauf Aregbesola and Kashim Shettima of Zamfara, Imo, Lagos, Oyo, Kano, Edo, Osun and Borno States respectively. Governors supporting Oyegun are Nasir El-Rufai, Simon Lalong, Yahaya Bello, Bindo Jibrilla, Rotimi Akeredolu, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar and Ibikunle Amosu of Kaduna, Plateau, Kogi, Adamawa, Ondo, Bauchi and Ogun States respectively. Some of the governors were not really rooting for any of the candidates but ready to go along with the president’s candidate. They include Aminu Masari, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, Atiku Bagudu, Aminu Tambuwal of Katsina, Nasarawa, Kebbi and Sokoto States respectively. Apparently to carry the governors along, President Buhari had met with them where he revealed his position as well as support him. His argument is that he wants a united front ahead of the 2019 election and urged the governors to drop their opposition to enable the party arrive at a consensus position. Though, some of the Oyegun supporters were not too comfortable with the position of the governors, they decided to tarry along, just as they did when the president had a change of mind on the issue of tenure elongation. Some of the governors had opposed Oshiomhole because he was seen as someone who is strong willed and cannot be unduly influenced to do their bidding like the incumbent chairman. Apparently with the presidential backing no longer feasible, Oyegun may have a change of heart concerning his decision to contest the convention which has already been postponed to June. Before the presidential decision, Oyegun, following wide contacts, had decided to confront Oshiomhole in the election, believing that he had enough support to win the election. He had rallied some state chapters in his south/south zone which he hails from and which the chairmanship position was zoned to support his ambition of a second term in office. A meeting called by Edo State government to influence the state chapters in the zone to support Oshiomhole failed to achieve the desired result as some state chapters opted out of the arrangement. The state chairmen, who dissociated themselves from the adoption, include Chief Davies Ikanya (Rivers); Deacon Joseph Fafi (Bayelsa); Etim John (Cross River); Amadu Attai (Akwa Ibom), and the Deputy National Secretary, Victor Giadom. Also, a chieftain of the APC in Edo State, Maj.-Gen. Charles Airhiavbere, has faulted the endorsement of Oshiomhole by the Southsouth caucus for the party’s national chairman. He said Oshiomhole is not an alternative to Chief John Odigie-Oyegun. Leading the pro-Oyegun campaign is Rotimi Amaechi, who is an ally of El-Rufai and had been transversing the zone to seek support for the chairman. Apparently not happy with the role of Amaechi in the struggle for the chairmanship position, a youth group last week carpeted him and asked him to drop his anti-Oshiomhole position. The group told Ameachi to concentrate on defeating the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers State. According to a statement by Ebie Paul (Bayelsa); Chidom Ogor (Rivers); Tony Adun (Edo); Edesiri Ojugo (Delta); Victor Eket (Cross River) and Igbiri Cosmas (Akwa Ibom), the group said it backed the Zonal Executive Committee in adopting Oshiomhole as the zone’s candidate. The statement reads: “Oshiomhole fought doggedly for the APC in the South South, and because of him, APC was able to hold on to Edo State. But Amaechi failed to win Rivers State for APC. “Each time there is an election, he decides not to participate and PDP will win, so how can such a man want to dictate who becomes what in APC in the Southsouth? “Rather than strategising how to defeat Wike, Amaechi has been holding meetings to stop Oshiomhole from becoming APC’s National Chairman. Oshiomhole comes to Benin and walks freely because he is loved by his people, but Amaechi cannot walk the streets of Port Harcourt freely unless with soldiers; this is the sign that he is not home with his people. “We appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to open his eyes very well because people like Amaechi lack what it takes to deliver the South South for him. Oshiomhole has done it in Edo State, and we know that APC will pick more states in the South South if he becomes the chairman.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 