Barrister Monday Ubani, a human rights activist, is former chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Ikeja Branch, and currently the association’s Second National Vice President. He spoke with JOY ANIGBOGU on important national issues in the polity. Excerpts: What do you think about the impeachment threat on President Muhammadu Buhari by members of the National Assembly? It is only a threat because they have not taken the necessary procedures. There is a procedure for impeachment of any of the executives; President, Vice President or Governors. You cannot talk of impeachment when the process has not even started. There is a document that has to be signed alleging breach of the constitution or gross misconduct. Unless that process commences, I don’t think that anything done in the House of was serious. It is a constitutional thing and the constitution is very elaborate about it. Few days ago, leaders of the South and Middle Belt Forum visited the Senate leadership over the flagrant disrespect of the legislature which they consider a threat to democracy. Do you agree with them? I totally agree with their views. We must strive to preserve our institutions. The moment you override an institution, the country will be in total mess. When the former president of the United States of America, Barack Obama visited Ghana, one of the things he suggested was that Africans should try as much as possible to build strong institutions rather than strong individuals. According to him, it is the institutions that make a state. There is a constitutional provisions as to what each institution should do that would preserve a society. If you begin to encourage total disrespect to an institution due to perceived flaws of certain individuals that are in that institution, you are destroying that institution because whatever you do would be used as precedence. We must respect our laws because the rule of law is very important. Laws are supreme. If we respect our laws, we should also respect the institutions that were created by those laws. We are lawless and we carry over military mentality into democratic environment. It is high time we respected the National Assembly. I have issues with the National Assembly. I have even taken it to court and I will not because of what is going on there advise for a total breakdown of law. We must respect the institution of National Assembly. If it over steps its bounds, we would correct it through the law. I took it to court because I felt that what the members were collecting (salaries and allowances) was not what they should collect. There have been many instances where it invited government officials under this dispensation and they ignored it. They treated the institution with levity. To me, it is an abomination. Senator Dino Melaye has been having rough time with the Police. Nigerians are of the view that if a Senator could be so inhumanly treated, there is no hope for the common man. What is your view about this? Everyone is important. In the eyes of law everyone is equal, Senator, House of Representatives member, governor, common man on the street. There is nothing that makes anyone unequal as long as he or she is a human being. We must learn to respect the rights of Nigerians irrespective of status, tribe and religious biases. I am not happy the way the Nigeria Police act in most cases. They do not have respect for the rights of individuals. They put you in prison detention without due process. They manipulate and sometimes kill. They torture to extract confessional statements. Sometimes they do a lot of illegalities in other to investigate crime, contrary to the provisions of the constitution and the law that set it up. I am totally against any form of degradation, disrespect to human dignity, maltreatment of any individual, infringement of the fundamental human rights of individuals whether rich or poor. I am not happy with the way they are treating Dino Melaye. Dino said he was not comfortable with the Police in Kogi State because of the influence of Governor Yahaya Bello. He would rather want to be investigated under the watch of the Inspector General of Police (IGP). He said he was ready to submit himself to the police in Abuja for investigation. He could be right after all. It was in this country that an Attorney General and Minister of Justice was murdered. Eventually, they arrested him and he jumped down, or whatever must have happened. He was also taken to a court in a stretcher. Thank God that the court intervened and ordered that he be taken back to a hospital in Abuja. They have succeeded in making him a hero. What they have failed to achieve through the recall process they want to achieve through this other means of making sure they humiliate him and get him convicted by all means. This government said that it would respect the rule of law. The President should call the IGP to order because no matter how you look at it, if the agencies of government are not doing well, he should be held responsible. I prescribe obedience to the law, both for the person that is being accused and government that is prosecuting him. Nigerians are worried that since the invasion of the Senate and the stealing of the mace, none of the perpetrators has so far been arrested. What is your position on this? This goes to give credence to what people are saying that if you are a member of All Progressives Congress (APC) and you do anything wrong, you will get away with it as long as you are in the good book of the powers-that-be. Somebody did something that can be termed an abomination and up till now, nothing has been done. He has even gone to get a restraining order from the court, which means that he has the support of those in power. It does not give the government a good name, no matter how it wants to explain it. If it says it is a matter for the National Assembly, why have the Police not arrested someone who has committed such a heinous crime by attempting to overthrow an arm of government? The government must be careful because Nigerians are watching. What is your view on fears being raised in some quarters that Nigeria is moving towards a failed state? Nigeria needs restructuring.  If Nigeria does not restructure now, you will still have the same problem even if another person takes over from the incumbent President.  The system that we are operating now is programmed to fail. You cannot concentrate power in Abuja with all the bureaucracy and you expect things to work. The Federal Republic of any country does not run the way we do in Nigeria. Power flows from down to up. If the government that promised ‘Change’ does not restructure, it will run Nigeria into a ditch. Let us allow the federating units to control whatever they need to control because everyone is a grassroots person. The moment we don’t allow the free flow of power to the federating units, where such arrangements will engender competition, good governance and transparency there will be problem. In 1960 and 1966, we ran what was considered a Federal Republic. The regions had their constitutions. They were in control of their revenues and paid certain percentage to the centre. The military came with military constitution. The constitution we had in 1999 was a military constitution. The people did not have input in that constitution. Why must the governor of a state recourse to Abuja before he can tackle the issue of insecurity in his state? comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 