Lagos – Sarah Adebisi Sosan Foundation (SASF) has taken its free medical outreach to the Ojo community in the Badagry division where over 500 residents benefited from the exercise. Some of the free medical services rendered to the residents include; malaria diagnoses and treatment, hypertension, high sugar level, diabetics, typhoid, eye screening among others. Funmilayo Sosan Foundation’s Assistant National Coordinator,while speaking at the medical outreach which took place at the Ojo town hall stated that  it was  the sixth edition of the free medical support for people in various communities. She explained that the programme was organized  to  ensure that the down trodden have access to free medical services as a way of preserving their health. Noting  that more people were becoming aware of the free medical initiative of the foundation and they were taking advantage of it, she regretted that mortality rate in Nigeria was very high due to poor living condition and high poverty level. “We are doing our best to better and protect the lives of the people especially the poor and the most vulnerable ones through regular empowerment programme and free medical supports like this,” she said. Sosan  stated that the organisation  had  hired more medical personnel including three qualified ophthalmologists who examined and   conducted test on people eyes and gave them free drugs and  medicated glasses to improve their sight condition. Urging people to pay more attention to their health, Sosan advised that since  the medical services provided by the Foundation was free, people should   feel free to present their health issues to the qualified doctors and other medical personnel engaged by the foundation and follow  requisite  medical advice given them. She added that one advantage of the free medical outreach by the foundation was that it had helped those that have health challenges, but lacked financial resources to take care of themselves to have access to free medical services and regain their good health. One of the  beneficiaries of the programme, who spoke with DAILY INDEPENDENT commended the former Deputy Governor Princess Adebisi Serah Sosan for adding value to the lives of  the less privileged ones in the country. Mrs. Atinuke Omosowone,who said she would not forget the Foundation in a hurry,disclosed  that her son had been suffering from one particular health challenge which he couldn’t cater for until the Foundation rescued her. She appreciated the Foundation that  the  drugs needed by  his son  were provided free of charge by the organisation. She implored  other well-meaning Nigerians  to borrow a leaf from the Foundation by executing other people oriented projects that can benefit the poor. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 