Minna – The crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) took a new dimension Tuesday when the Abdulmalik Cheche, immediate past commissioner for Works, allegedly mobilised political thugs to fight protesters who for two days have now laid siege to Government House, Minna Niger State in the aftermath of the party’s ward and local government council congresses. Vehicular movements along the road linking government house to other parts of Minna metropolis were temporarily disrupted while workers who had reported to duty at Government House, Minna scampered for safety when police tear-gassed the two groups as they engaged one another in a free for all. Already, personal and party properties in Katcha and Lavun local government areas have been destroyed in the past few days as the crisis degenerates while some party members besieged government house demanding the cancellation of the “affirmations and confirmations,” in place of election, conducted to fill vacant positions in all the councils. The protesting APC members from Katcha refused to leave government house until their demands which included; the removal of the council’s party chairman, Alhaji Bala Usman Dagba, calling to order the former commissioner for Works, Abdulmalik Cheche and a serving commissioner, Alhaji Idris Jibrin, they accused of “defrauding the people”. DAILY INDEPENDENT further gathered that the former commissioner, Cheche allegedly mobilised some suspected thugs from Bida to challenge the protesters early Tuesday morning and the ensuing fight prompted detachment of more security personnel in government House. Increased number of Mobile and plain-clothed policemen, Nigeria Security Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and State Security Services (SSS) were on hand to check the fight between the protesters and the hired thugs to avoid possible loss of life and properties. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Niger State command could not be reached for confirmation of the number of arrests made so far. Though no life was lost when fight broke out between the parties, but a number of them sustained various degrees of injuries when the combined security personnel tried to dislodge them from government house entrance gate. One of the government officials who would not want his names printed also told our correspondent that 10 of the suspected thugs have been arrested in connection with the attack on the protesters. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 