OSOGBO – Osun State Chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has carried out make-up delegates’ list to fill existing vacancies in the National Delegates List of the party from the state. The make-up delegates are to add up to statutory delegates’ list for the forthcoming party National Convention and Presidential Primary expected to hold in June this year. At the make-up list screening exercise held at the party’s secretariat along Gbongan-Osogbo Road which was supervised by Congress Committee and Appeal Committee for the state as well as Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) representative, three delegates were picked from each of the 30 local government councils of the state to update the National Delegates List from the state. The new delegates would join the statutory delegates list to replace those who have died, those who have withdrawn from partisan politics, those who have criminal cases against them, those who have been suspended or accused of anti-party activities, those who left the party for another one or those who have been convicted by court of law. Speaking at the exercise, Hon. Salisu Mamman, the leader of Congress/Appeal Committee, said that the committee came to Osogbo, Osun State, at the instance of National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to conduct update of the delegate list from the state. He explained that they are not in the state for party’s congress proper because the tenure of the present state executive would lapse in October 20, 2018. He added that all members of the state executive would remain in office until then stressing that by so doing, there is no need for fresh congress in the state at present. Mamman noted that the committee would come back sometimes in October at the expiration of the tenure of the present executive to conduct congress to fill vacancies into the state executive of the party. The chairman of the committee further said that both the make-up delegates and statutory delegates would join others from across the 36 states of the federation to perform major crucial assignment to elect new national leaders that would pilot the affairs of the party for the next four years and as well participate at the presidential primary to determine who becomes the party’s candidate for 2019 Presidential Election. He therefore appealed to them to conduct themselves in a very mature manner to see to the smooth running of the affairs of the party at various levels. The exercise was witnessed by INEC’s representative, Mrs. Agboola, who affirmed the exercise was in order. Gboyega Famodun, the state chairman of the party, had earlier told the visiting that committee that the exercise was peaceful and assured that members of the party from the state are men of integrity and honour who known what to do when it comes to politics. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 