Asaba – Delta Sate government has warned firms handling road projects with the Ministry of Works to desist from tendering conflicting tax figures. James Augoye, the state Commissioner for Works, in a meeting with the contractors in Asaba, the state capital, emphasised that the aim of the meeting was to ensure that the tax figures presented by the contractors were in tune with their turnover. Meanwhile, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has warned that any local government party chairman who takes a strong position on any aspirant would be removed from office. Augoye advised them to package their documents properly and ensure that their figures were in order, particularly now that the system of advance payment is no longer in line with international best practice. While warning the contractors to ensure that they deliver their jobs as and when due, the commissioner charged them to continue to support the developmental strides of government, especially as the governor would soon commence another phase of roads commissioning. Addressing members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the Delta North Senatorial District stakeholders’ meeting in Asaba weekend, the governor said “the power of the people to choose their candidates is a supreme power” that nobody should toy with. He assured aspirants for different political positions on the platform of the PDP that the primary elections that would produce candidates for the 2019 general elections would be free and fair in the state. “No local government party chairman should take a strong position on any aspirant, and if before the election we hear that there is, the chairman will be removed,” Okowa said. He advised those who have the intention to contest the party’s primaries to consult with the people and shun the use of abusive languages. Moses Iduh, chairman of Delta North PDP, had, in an address, lauded Okowa for successful conduct of Ekiti State governorship primaries for the July 14 general poll. Said he: “We join the family of the PDP in Ekiti State and indeed the entire federation in giving accolade to our very own, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, in whom we are pleased, for the successful conduct of the Ekiti PDP governorship primary which was adjudged free, transparent and credible, even by the aspirants who lost.” He disclosed that the PDP in the state was recording successes because of the delivery of democratic dividends by the governor. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 