Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Opeyemi Oke, has decried the alarming number of cases backlog, put at about 3000, in different courts across the State, pledging that the Judiciary under her watch was determined to reverse the trend. Giving a summary of the cases evaluated, Justice Oke disclosed that land matters accounted for majority of the backlog of cases. This was followed by commercial matters, which are based on breach of contract, debt recovery, mortgage matters, bank and customers related disputes, matrimonial causes, probate and enforcement of judgments, adding that majority of the cases are at trial stages. According to her, in light of the evaluation of 2,886 old cases files, including a 70 year old case, under its Backlog Elimination Programme (BEP), courts in the state are presently in a state of emergency. The 70 year old case, which is the oldest, is only “seeking to enforce a judgment.” Oke made this disclosure at the Foyer of the State High Court in Igbosere last week while declaring open “The Lagos Backlog Elimination Programme 2018,” organized by the Lagos State Judiciary and the Lagos Court of Arbitration (LAC). The BEP is a programme designed to decongest the courts by re-evaluating old cases and find ways of resolving them through Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) or accelerated hearing. The CJ stressed that the BEP initiative was conceived as part of her desire to diligently tackle inordinate delay of court cases and docket congestion. “Delay has led to public ridicule of the judiciary, which is supposed to be the last hope of the common man,” she lamented. “This delay, coupled with the continuous filing of new cases, has led to congestion of the court with a ridiculous backlog of cases, the result of which is that the courts are now in a state of emergency. “Presently there are hundreds of cases in the court dockets aged over 5 years, the oldest of which is a 70 year old case. “This is a far cry from what can be said to be ‘reasonable time.’ Ideally the matters ought to be concluded in weeks, months or at most a year. “Many of these cases ought not to be in court at all as they could have been resolved through ADR.” Citing Section 36(1) of the 1999 Constitution, she stressed that the rights to fair and reasonable timely trial before a court or tribunal is one of fundamental rights. She added that this necessitated the need to urgently reverse the status quo and redress the situation through the BEP and ADR. Justice Oke disclosed that the first phase of the BEP, which is on-going, involves the evaluation of old cases in batches from volunteers from different law firms. She added that they are through with the first batch involving case files aged five years and above; the second batch involving case files of ten years and above; and the third batch involving case files aged 15 yrs and above. She said work is on-going on files involving case filed aged 25 years and above. “After evaluation, facts of each case are summarized; causes of delay identified and recommendation would be made as to efficient means of disposal whether by ADR or accelerated hearing,” she said. The Chief Judge further disclosed that inefficient case management by counsels accounted for 59 per cent of the delay in the backlog cases evaluated so far. Other causes, according to her, included delay occasioned by court indisposition, protracted settlement period, court not sitting at various intervals due to official assignments, interlocutory appeals and numerous interlocutory applications brought before the court. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 