   “What time could have been the best to honour the Noble Qur’an if not the month in which Allah revealed it to our beloved Prophet Muhammad as a guide to mankind?” These were the words of the Amir of MSSNLagos, Dr Saheed Ashafa while formally announcing the grand finale of the Lagos Qur’an Competition (LQC) earlier this week.  The event, with the already trending hashtag #ReciteLagos is slated for Sunday, 27th May, 2018 (12th Ramadan, 1439 AH) at the Main Auditorium of the University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos. Time is 10:00am prompt.  According to Dr Ashafa, 54 sonorous reciters from all the seven (7) zones within the State will slug it out in three (3) different categories (3, 5 and 15 consecutive Juzus), from which the 18 winners would emerge.  Ogun State Governor; Ibikunle Amosun, Lagos State Deputy Governor; Dr Idiat Adebule and Chief Executive Officer of BUA Group; Alhaji AbdusSamad Rabiu will lead other guests to the Lagos Quran Competition.  It would be recalled that the Muslim students’ body held a similar event during the 2016 Ramadan fast. “It’s a biennial event and this is the 15th edition”, Dr Ashafa stressed, adding that it was being held “in honour of our late father, Alhaji (Dr) AbdulLateef Adegbite, the pioneer President of our great organisation, the Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria and the former Secretary General of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), who returned to Allah nearly 6 years ago.”  Speaking on behalf of the family of the honouree, Alhaji Bashorun Ladi Adegbite commended MSSNLagos for hosting the programme in the name of his father.  He explained that the theme of the competition – “Hope for the Hopeless” – matched the personality of his late father, Dr Lateef Adegbite.  He said, “Lateef Adegbite was a legend of his time who did his best to promote the positive in all facets of his life as a youth leader, a teacher, a lawyer, a traditional leader and for the most part, as a Muslim.  “He remains today my hero, as he is to very many children. He mentored and influenced so many people, a habit that came to him naturally.  “I thank MSSNLagos for this honour bestowed on our father, which our family supports. I am particularly excited by this edition’s theme: “Hope for the Hopeless”, which clearly expresses the essence of the life of Late Dr Abdul Lateef Oladimeji Adegbite.”  Dr Ashafa admitted that Nigeria is currently experiencing difficult times, which is undoubtedly affecting all spheres of affairs, particularly the economy and security of lives and property, despite President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment and efforts towards finding lasting solutions to such problems.  He argued that the mind-boggling challenges bedevilling the country can be surmounted if the government at all levels and the led return to the Qur’an, the hope of the universe.  “That is why we have carefully chosen the theme for this year’s Lagos Qur’an Competition to be “Qur’an: The Hope of the Hopeless”. Our guest speaker, an erudite scholar, is Ustadh Muhammad Harun Thani, the CEO of Basmallah Institute for Teaching Qur’an and Islam, Ireland, UK”, he said.   0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 