Uyo – Uyo Senatorial District over the weekend rolled out drums in a political rally to unanimously adopt Governor Udom Emmanuel as its sole candidate for the 2019 gubernatorial elections. Moved by the adoption, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) represented by the state Chairman, Mr Paul Ekpo  declared the governor  as sole candidate and bearer of the automatic ticket of the party. The Uyo Senatorial District consisting of Nine local government areas attributed their support for the governor to the 56 life life touching projects in Uyo LGA, 16 in Ibesikpo Asutan, 22 in Uruan, 11 in Nsit Atai, 16 in Itu, 10 in Ibiono Ibom 20 in Etinan, 11 in Nsit Ibom and 11 in Nsit Ubium Local Government areas of the state. Apart from the numerous projects undertaken in the Senatorial District by the administration, the people also declared to have had a political interest they are seeking to protect by supporting governor Udom Emmanuel for a second term. Unveiling what endeared governor Udom Emmanuel to the people of the Senatorial District, Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly and Chairman of the Central Planning Committee for the occasion, Barr Onofiok Luke  noted that politics is about interest, saying that the first interest of Uyo Senatorial District was the passion for the development of Akwa Ibom without any ethnic  or religious bias, which they see Udom Emmanuel to have exhibited. “The second interest is political. Uyo Senatorial district has to get back to power come 2023 and the easiest way to get that is to support you to finish your second term. We cannot afford to gamble with our opportunity for any reason”. “Another interest has to do with performance. The billboards brought into the stadium have shown it all. There was no enough space to display all in order to comprehend all you have done in the senatorial district. All the nine local government areas in Uyo Senatorial District have reasons to endorse you for second term to continue the good work.” Former Military Governor of the State, Otuekong Idongesit Nkanga, while addressing the adoption  rally expressed great joy to see the people of Uyo Senatorial District; as vote basket of the state, come together to do what he considered the needful; for continued peace, progress and development in the state. “Students of Akwa Ibom political history can very readily attest to the fact that political direction in our clime is often the outcome of the understanding amongst stakeholders across the state, and needless to say that because of the insightful political antecedents as a senatorial district, our compatriots from other senatorial districts have learnt to align with the prepositions that we take in Uyo Senatorial District. “Therefore, it is natural that we have taken a lead in critically considering the second term aspiration of our dear Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel. As a people, we believe in fairness, and we put forward strong argument to support whatever position we take in the best interest of our state. Nkanga who was also Chairman on the occasion further stated that “If Uyo Senatorial District, through Obong Victor Attah served as Governor for eight good years, Chief Godswill Akpabio from Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District also served for eight years, Governor Udom Emmanuel deserves to be accorded same opportunity. “It is fair and justice that Governor Emmanuel from Eket Senatorial District continues till 2023. “As a people, we must strive to appreciate good things regardless of political or ethnic background. I want to assure His Excellency, the Governor that the people of Uyo Senatorial District are standing with and will continue to stand by you in thin and thick. Congratulations in advance His Excellency.” Speaking on behalf of the people of Eket Senatorial District, senatorial leader, Chief Nduese Essien thanked the people of Uyo Senatorial District for endorsing their son to run as Governor for second term, describing it as a thing of joy. The immediate past Governor of the State and Senate Minority Leader, Sen. Godswill Akpabio, speaking on behalf of Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District declared that If Uyo Senatorial District which has the largest number of votes would come out with this massive crowd to endorse the  Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel for the second term, then Ikot Ekpene Senatrial District which he represents would be left with just the choice to emulate same. Reacting to the overwhelming support from the people, Governor Udom Emmanuel expressed appreciation to the people, describing the rally as unprecedented and beyond politics. His words “In this context, love is not a sentiment but a strategy. Today, Uyo Senatorial District has shown the whole world that love is a strategy, and whoever gives love, it is given back in return. “I want to assure Uyo Senatorial District that for this wonderful love, which is not only for me but for the entire Akwa Ibom State, is for Nigerians to emulate. Tell me one state in Nigeria today that a senatorial district has come together like this for an endorsement rally for a sitting governor. Let me categorically state here that I accept with all amount of gratitude the volume of endorsement that have reeled out today. “You elected me to me to do those things, it is not good for me to count them but better for people to give an account. I’m happy that today Uyo Senatorial District has come out to tell the whole the good news about the good things in Akwa Ibom State.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 