Fidelity Bank Plc yesterday presented cash and consolation prizes to winners that emerged at the 6th draw of the Fidelity ‘Get Alert in Millions Promo Reloaded’. In attendance at the event which took place at the Fidelity Bank Regional Office, Abuja, were the Deputy Managing Director,  Fidelity Bank Plc, Mohammed Balarabe, Regional Bank Heads, Abuja 1 and 2, Hassan Imam and Halilu Malibu respectively, National Lottery Regulatory Commission officials, customers and the media. In a related development, the bank emerged TECH TV Most Innovative E-Banking platform of the year at the 2018 Finance Mobile Entertainment Summit and Awards which held in Lagos recently. The report by the Intelligence unit of TECH TV headed by Ace broadcast Journalist; Don Pedro Aganbi indicates that Fidelity Bank, undoubtedly, is rapidly emerging a leader in the online and electronic banking space. The bank continues to make significant investment in digital technology and infrastructure which is a clear demonstration of its understanding of how the emerging digital technology operates and is indeed improving the ease and efficiency of providing banking services to meet the needs of its esteemed customers. Fidelity Bank is equally in the vanguard of educating customers and empowering them to take advantage of the easy to use electronic banking products and services Fidelity Bank. The recent ‘Go Digital’ campaign aptly demonstrates this commitment. Today, with its new and vastly improved user-friendly online banking platform and the personalized self-service feedback system on its flagship Instant Banking Service, *770#, Fidelity Bank is championing digital banking in Nigeria. The prestigious Most Innovative E-Banking Platform of the Year Award was presented to Fidelity Bank by Assistant Director, LIRS Igho Orienru and was received by Patrick Ikpelue, Head Cards Fidelity Bank PLC and Jane Dulen – Ekeke, Head E-Product Sales Fidelity Bank Plc The Tech TV Finance Mobile Entertainment Summit and Awards is designed to celebrate and honour individuals and Organisations who are at the forefront of promoting Financial Inclusion, Mobile/Technology adoption and usage in Nigeria. The 2018 Finance Mobile Entertainment Summit examined avenues for collaborations, partnerships and integration within the Nigerian mobile/Online market particularly in consulting, technology, talent management, mobile/online payments solutions and funding. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 