The Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA) has been urged to take up the responsibility of literary agent to enhance the growth of book industry in Nigeria. Speaking on Friday May 11, 2018 on the theme: Literary Agency and the Promotion of the Author’s Craft and Business, at the just concluded Nigeria International Book Fair, Dr. Lola Akande, the guest speaker said Nigerian publishers have frustrated most authors either by rejecting their manuscripts or failure to pay royalties to those that are fortunate to be published. The annual Author’s Groove, one of the most fascinating sessions of the international book fair, held at Multipurpose Hall, University of Lagos, was attended by writers across the country. Akande, a senior lecturer and one time winner of ANA’s prose prize, stressed that in advanced countries, literary agents hunt for good writers and pay royalties to works that are yet to be published. According to her, the agent, not only publishes the book but market and run competitive publicity for the authors unlike in the Nigeria setting. “The role of a literary agent is to sell saleable material. Literary agents search for new writers and they are often prepared to take immense pains with a writer whose work, in their opinion, shows potential quality or distinctive promise. Agents do not teach people how to write. Every writer must expect disappointments at the outset of their career, but if they have something to say and know how to say it, and they are patient, eventually, they may learn how to satisfy an editor’s requirements,” she said. Chairman of the occasion, Professor Hope Eghagha, head of English department, University of Lagos said all hands must be on deck to safe the country from its various challenges especially with the poor reading culture and menace of social media among the youth. National president of ANA, Denja Abdullahi assured the reading public and Nigerian authors for coalition with relevant stakeholders to achieve this valiant initiative. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 