Senator Ighoyota Amori, the Political Adviser to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Chairman, has said that the party has enough credible candidates for the contest of 2019 presidential election. Amori, in an interview with the newsmen in Abuja on Sunday, said that PDP had credible people that could defeat President Muhammadu Buhari. “PDP is national party. There is no ward, village or unit in this country you will not find PDP, meaning that it is a Nigerian party. “Unless you say you cannot find a credible candidate from across the entire country. “I can tell you that we have more than enough credible candidates or aspirants in PDP for the presidential race,’’ he stated. Amori said it was already known that the All Progressives Congress (APC) had only “one candidate which is President Muhammadu Buhari. “PDP has so many aspirants and the best of the aspirants will defeat Buhari in 2019.’’ He, however, alleged that the APC-led government was now doing media trial of PDP aspirants while protecting its (APC) members who were “fingered as corrupt.” “APC is a party where only a person who has something to hide goes there and become a saint immediately. “If you look at all the people that left PDP because they were being hunted, the moment they join the ruling party they become saints. Once you join APC, nobody can prosecute you,” he stated. Amori, who spoke on the acceptability of PDP after its 2017 national convention said, “Rebranded PDP still remain an acceptable and embraced party to the citizens.” “There is no convention without its challenges. The good thing is that PDP was able to surmount all the challenges before, during and even after the convention,’’ he stated. The senator said though few candidates in the convention were aggrieved, the Reconciliation Committee chaired by Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa was able to resolve the issues. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 