Ibadan – Unity Group, a faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders in Oyo State, on Sunday in Ibadan called on President Muhammadu Buhari and other stakeholders of the party at the national level to call Governor Abiola Ajimobi to order. The group, in a statement issued by Dr. Wasiu Olatubosun, its Secretary, alleged that Governor Ajimobi was planning to compromise the free and fair conduct of the APC congresses in the state. The group accused the governor of pursuing factional goals considered inimical to the realisation of the overall interest as far as the future of the APC was concerned in Oyo State. They warned that any attempt to frustrate the Congress Committee from Abuja to conduct the party’s ward congress in a free and fair manner would have dire consequences. This came just as a member of the Unity Group and the lawmaker representing Ibadan South East/North East federal constituency, Hon. Adedapo Lam-Adesina has cried out that his life was in danger. The lawmaker, a son of the former Governor of Oyo State and APC leader in the state, late Lam Adesina, lamented that his life had been in danger since some thugs disrupted the party’s stakeholders meeting on Saturday. Hon. Lam-Adesina explained that the meeting was disrupted by suspected thugs being led a notable Ibadan chief, caused mayhem at the state party secretariat where the meeting was being holding. The incident led to the vandalisation of the party office, many people sustained injuries, and some vehicles damaged. The federal lawmaker condemned strongly the impunity being perpetrated by the power that be in the state, and warned that if anything untoward happens to his life, people should ask the governor. The Unity Group in the statement signed by Olatubosun lamented, “We are still in shock over what happened yesterday at Oke-Ado when the governor’s men brought hundreds of thugs to maim and kill innocent people during a pre-congress briefing. “The thugs suspected to agents of a factional leader of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) stormed the venue of briefing dangerous weapons and unleashed terror on unsuspecting party members which included a federal minister, National Assembly members and state executive members, among others. “The meeting was later held amidst tight security with Ajimobi and other stakeholders in attendance. The Congress Committee team then sought the consent of all the stakeholders to move the ward congress to today (Sunday) in view of the attacks and time wasted on the briefing while aspirants who had already paid stipulated amount of money into designated banks were asked to come for their nomination forms. “It was later discovered that none of those being sponsored by the governor to occupy party executive positions made payment to any bank before the close of work on Friday and this makes them ineligible to participate as contestants in the Congress. “This development left the governor stranded as he had hoped to repeat the shameful imposition he did with the ill-fated local government council poll. “When it became clear that the Abuja team would employ due process to exclude aspirants without valid payment evidence from the exercise the governor’s camp immediately began to search for a bank that would accept payment on Saturday and backdate the transactions to reflect the payments were done on Friday. This reportedly failed since no bank executive was ready to play ball for obvious reasons. “Still not done with their plan to mar the process, the governor camp made a quick arrangement for the printing of fake nomination form which was delivered to them late in the evening of Saturday. “The same fake forms were taken to the Abuja team for endorsement and distribution but the Committee Chairman reportedly declined the bribe offer which put to him to help them in their satanic mission. “Sources have it that the team leader reminded SENACO agents that both the governor and the party state chairman had informed the APC national headquarters of a consensus arrangement which made Abuja to print single form for each of the available executive posts in all the 351 wards across the state while the same had been given to those who came with their authentic bank tellers as evidence of valid payments. “Meanwhile, with the reality of ineligibility dawned on the governor’s camp, those responsible for the Oke-Ado bloody attacks of Saturday have been mandated to recruit more vicious hands and hunt down all genuine APC members across with specific names as major targets. We are also calling on relevant security agencies to be alive to their duty to ensure that lives and property of all law-abiding citizens are well protected,” Olatubosun added. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 