Lagos  – A Lagos Federal High Court has dismissed the no-case-application of two businessmen, Christopher Andrew Isibor and David A. Akhigbe, seeking to stop their trial over alleged unlawful dealing in petroleum products. Justice Ibrahim Buba’s ruling was premised on the fact that the defendants had failed to put sufficient material before the court to clear them of the charges leveled against them. Justice Buba consequently dismissed the defendants’ no-case-submission, ordered them to open their defence on the next adjourned date which he fixed for June 11 and 12, this year. The duo are being tried before Justice Ibrahim Buba by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), on a four count-charge bordering on conspiracy, unlawful exportation of petroleum product, and keeping custody of funds that were proceed of crime. They were first arraigned before the court on March 31, 2017, on two counts charge of conspiracy and unlawful dealing in petroleum product. But they were again re-arraigned on April 30, 2018, on a four count-charge, following  the third amended charge filed against them. The EFCC alleged in the third amended charge that the two businessmen and a company, Earth Petroleum Development Limited, had on between July 2012 and April 2013, conspired among themselves to commit felony by dealing in petroleum product without lawful authority, by exporting 1,675 metric tonnes of Low Pour Fuel Oil. The commission also alleged that Isibor and his company, Earth Petroleum Development Limited, between April 18 and 19, 2013, took possession of N28.890 million, paid by Bankano Hamani Hamadu Ventures, into a new generation bank, the fund which is said to be for exportation of petroleum product without. While the anti-graft agency also accused Akhigbe of retaining the sum of N2 million, paid by Earth Petroleum Development Limited, in his First Bank Account with number 3042901464, when knowing that the said money was a proceed of unlawful act, and for exporting petroleum product without lawful authority. The offences are contrary to Sections 3(6), 1(17) and 15(2)(d) , and punishable under sections 1(17), 15(3) of the money laundering (Prohibition) Act 2011, as amended in 2012 of the same Act. They had pleaded not guilty to the charges, and admitted to bail by the court. During their trial, EFCC through its prosecutors, Ekene Iheanacho and George Yakua, had called six witnesses and tendered several exhibits which were admitted by the court, as well closed its case. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 