BAUCHI – President Muhammadu Buhari has said that the Federal Government will evolve measures to curb incessant strikes and address grievances by staff of Nigerian universities. Buhari, represented by Dr Gidado Kuma, a Director with National Universities Commission (NUC), spoke on Saturday at the 23rd, 24th and 25th combined Convocation of Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi. He said: “I have noted with great concern the incessant strikes by teachers and other university workers, which most of the demands are germane, but the repercussions have negative consequences. “Let me assure you that this administration will very soon come up with modalities of addressing your grievances without face-off so that we attain stability and balance in the system. “The university is unable to conduct convocations as at when due for sets of students. This is not peculiar to your university, but rather an underlying difficulty the system has found itself over the years.” He said that no nation would progress if its educational system was poor, stressing that government was looking into the operations of agencies in the education sector to find solutions to the problems militating against their desired impact, especially in the university system. He said that the essence of creating a specialised university such as ATBU was to assist the country in training future scientists and launch it into the sphere of technological breakthroughs. Buhari challenged such institutions to surprise Nigerians by presenting new discoveries or inventions that would add value to the technology drive of the country. He called on staff of the institution to re-invent the culture of leadership, followership and stewardship, adding that the students should imbibe the virtue of discipline and respect for their teachers and university authorities. 4 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 