Lagos – Not fewer than 26,637 students who have completed their various programmes from the Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, will pass out this week. Prof. Olanrewaju Fagboghun, Vice Chancellor of the institution, who announced this during a press briefing in Lagos on Monday, said former President Olusegun Obasanjo would chair the institution’s convocation lecture to be delivered by Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission (NUC). Fagboghun, who gave the breakdown of the graduating students, said that 201 bagged diplomas, 21,481 got their first degrees and 4,955 would receive higher degrees. In the postgraduate category, 1,589 would get postgraduate diploma, 299 would bag academic masters’ degrees, 3,022 would get professional masters, while 45 would receive Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degrees. He added that 26 would bag First Class Honours, 1,084 Second Class Honours Upper Division, 17,323 Second Class Honours Lower Division, 108 Third Class Honours, while 108 just passed. He announced the successful accreditation of the institution’s Open Distance Learning Research and Institute (LASE-ODLRI) by NUC, even as the institution was ranked first among state universities in the 2018 maiden NUC’s Open Educational Resources (OER) ranking. Other achievements of the institution, he added, was the commencement of the implementation of International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) by its Bursary Department as well as an award of scholarships to 220 undergraduates who finished the 2016/2017 academic session with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.5 and above. Fagbohun also announced the academic collaboration with some Colleges of Education in the country to run degree programmes the institution’s sandwich programme. The convocation lecture titled ‘Role of Tertiary Education in Promoting Social Cohesion and Peace: Opportunities and Challenges for Nigeria’, would come up on Tuesday, May 22, 2018, while the award of degrees and diplomas comes up on May 23 and 24. Other activities included Convocation Cup competition for staff, Jumat Service, Special Thanksgiving Service, Coconut Breaking Festival, and Command Performance and Convocation Play by the Department of Theatre Art and Music. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 