Lagos – President Muhammadu Buhari is intensifying Nigeria’s oil diplomacy through the allocation of crude oil to its allies in Africa and Asia, a report from Africa Intelligence said on Tuesday. It quoted sources as saying that twelve countries have been shortlisted for the exercise and would soon be announced by the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Maikanti Baru. “The list of countries set to profit from the largesse of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to obtain crude oil would be published in a matter of days,’’ the report stated. NNPC’s Spokesman, Ndu Ughamadu, told DAILY INDEPENDENT that he was not aware of the shortlist of the countries and plan by his boss to name them. Of the shortlisted countries, the report said China and India were the only two countries that would receive monthly 900,000 barrel shipments while the others would receive half that quantity. Apart from Turkey, which had been shortlisted for the first time, are in Nigeria’s turf – Liberia, Sierra Leone, Senegal, Niger, Togo, Ivory Coast and Ghana, it added. It further said in Southern Africa, only South Africa and Malawi were likely to receive 450,000 barrels. “Most of the countries concerned do not directly receive barrels from the NNPC because they are not equipped to trade and/or refine crude oil. Instead Nigerian traders appointed by Abuja in accordance with the shortlisted countries, transfer some of the profits of the sale of crude oil. “This practice, which became widespread under President Olusegun Obasanjo, has enabled Nigeria to maintain its influence on the rest of the continent in key areas. Other OPEC countries follow the same procedure as Venezuela does with Cuba and Caribbean neighbours,’’ it added. Meanwhile, NNPC says its downstream subsidiary, the NNPC Retail Limited, now holds 14 percent of the market share of petroleum products retail business in Nigeria. Bar, made this disclosure at the 1st to 5th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the NNPC Retail Limited which held at the NNPC Towers, Abuja, Tuesday. He said despite being the market leader in the sector, the company was poised to establish even ultra large mega stations and was in the process of identifying the areas where such large mega stations would be economically viable. The NNPC helmsman explained that NNPC Retail would also continue to set up standard stations that would fit into the domains where they operate, disclosing that the focus of the management of NNPC, as owners of the company, was to ensure that its stations were in every nook and cranny of Nigeria. Baru described the 1st to 5th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the NNPC Retail Limited as a landmark event, saying it was the first since the company was established. He said: “Today’s AGM is in line with our drive to sanitise all our books and bring them to currency, the management of the NNPC is committed to ensuring that all the books of all the entities within the NNPC are up to date.” According to him, the AGM combined all the accounts of 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 which had all been audited by external auditors and submitted to the Board of Directors, who in turn had recommended them to the shareholders at the AGM. He also enjoined the management of NNPC Retail to focus on its non-fuel products and services, particularly those with the potential to make a lot of profit. Baru stated that the AGM provided the management the opportunity to review the performance of NNPC Retail, stressing that the company was set up initially as an intervention force to ensure that NNPC could intervene in the supply of petroleum products whenever the need arises. He said the company had since inception lived up to its billing and played a major role in intervening during periods of supply shortfalls. On his part, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who is also NNPC Chief Operating Officer (COO), Gas and Power, Engr. Saidu Mohammed, expressed the commitment to work with the management and staff of the company to enhance its non-fuel business through the incorporation of fast food outlets, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and supermarkets into some of NNPC filling stations that have adequate space. “We are committed to growing the NNPC Retail business particularly to drive the market share much higher and by expanding the reach through filling stations directly owned or through affiliate stations,” Mohammed said. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 