Nigeria’s economy grew by 2 per cent Year-On-Year in Q118 according to the latest release from the country’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), down from 2.1 per cent year-on-year in the preceding quarter. NBS said growth was driven primarily by the oil sector, which continues to beneﬁt from increasing production and higher crude prices, latest BMI research report has said BMI said that though, the growth was significantly below the 2.6 per cent consensus as surveyed by Bloomberg, but said it didn’t believe the latest growth print was reason to doubt Nigeria’s economic recovery. The economy slowed on the back of ongoing weakness in non-oil sectors, particularly agriculture (accounting for 21.7 per cent of real Gross Domestic Product (GDP), where growth slowed from 4.2 per cent year-on-year in Q417 to 3 per cent. The report added that the nation’s Oil & Gas team remained broadly constructive on the crucial hydrocarbons sector, on which the rest of the economy was highly dependent. In Q118, oil contributed 9.6 per cent to real GDP, growing by 14.8 per cent Year-On-Year according to the NBS release. The sector continued to benefit from a recovery in production (which averaged 2.0mn barrels per day in Q118) after a number of damaging pipeline attacks hurt output in 2016 and 2017, as well as higher prices. With these trends likely to offer further tailwinds over the course of 2018, the report believed that headline economic growth would continue to tick up. In addition to the oil sector, manufacturing, accounting for 9.9 per cent of real GDP, offered support to growth, increasing by 3.4 per cent year-on-year. The report added: “The real test facing the Nigerian economy will be whether tailwinds in the oil sector can translate into broader-based economic growth. The main channels that will make this possible are expansionary ﬁscal and monetary policy and short-term stability of the central bank’s multiple exchange rate regime. “Namely, we expect that in 2018 and 2019, an increase in dollar revenues from oil will offer greater support to government coffers, the banking sector’s balance sheets, and foreign exchange liquidity throughout the economy. In turn, this will feed through to stronger growth in the non-oil economy, which came in at just 0.8 per cent year-on-year in Q118. “We maintain that with rising oil prices stemming downward pressure on the black market exchange rate and encouraging further disinﬂation, the country’s central bank will begin cutting interest rates in 2018 in an attempt to kick-start this process.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 