Alhaji Balarabe Musa, the former Governor of old Kaduna State and ex- leader of the Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP), is the current Chairman of Nigeria’s oldest political party, the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP). In this interview with INNOCENT OKONKWO, he speaks on the spate of killings in Nigeria; his party’s agenda for the nation, and why Nigeria is in deep crisis, among other issues. Excerps: What is your thought on the spate of killings in Benue State; is it a jihad or ethnic cleansing as being alleged by some people? The current spate of massacre is virtually in every part of the country and not just in Benue State. Although the killings are taking different forms across the nation but the lives of Nigerians are being wasted day by day for one reason or the other. So, it is a part of the negative state of the nation that encourages the killings because there is no security in the Nigeria at this moment. So what are you asking the Federal Government to do in order to bring the situation under control and restore people’s confidence in government’s ability to protect them against these invaders? The government should be strong enough to take the situation head-on and make it impossible for those that take other people’s lives and their sponsors to get away with such crime, no matter how powerful such individuals may be in the society. Life is sacred and it is the responsibility of the government to protect the citizens against these killers. Are you impressed with the level of leadership that the present administration has given to the nation with just one year remaining for it to complete its first term in office? I have always said that the performance of this administration is not impressive at all. The performance of this government is not as we had expected. The situation is being made worst than what we had during the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s days. The way out is for President Muhammadu Buhari to sit up and ensure that he removes the current negative state of our nation as it is required of him and show clearly the difference between the past and the present. There must be a clear difference between his administration and the past administration. Whether President Buhari plans to contest again in the next election is of no importance, what we are concerned about now is the current state of the nation and how normalcy can be restored. How would you rate this administration’s fight against corruption, is it winning the war as it had promised Nigerians? Many people agree that there is no genuine fight against corruption by this administration; the truth is that the situation is being made worse now because the method of corruption has taken a different dimension this time. I have told you several times before that I am not really impressed with what is going on in the fight against corruption. Can you compare what is happening now and what happened during your active political days especially in the Second Republic? The cost of leadership was more convincing then than it is now. Even the incidences of corruption, stealing and criminal waste of resources weren’t much as they are today and many people who engaged in such practices were investigated and those who were found culpable were punished. As we approach the 2019 general elections, what type of leadership is PRP promising the citizens of this country if voted into power? All I know is that our party will produce relevant presidential candidate in the 2019 election, a candidate that, if given the opportunity by the voters, will definitely remove the ugly situation in the country today and bring about a better Nigeria. Our concern will be to first of all restore the policy of public interest in our nation. Self-interest shouldn’t be our priority. We are going to do that by playing the leading role in restoring the state of the economy. We shall ensure peace; stability; justice; equality; dignity of human life and security of lives and property across the country. We will unite the country and bring out dividends of democracy and even development of the country. We will have our own candidates for the 2019 general elections. However, if for any reason, we find it reasonably clear that we can’t do it alone then we will go into arrangements with other political parties that can work with us in order to bring credibility in the system. We will bring back unity in the country, and bring about true democracy, rule of the law and development. What I mean is that, if we find out that the PRP cannot bring about a better Nigeria alone, we will join hands with other political parties in one way or another and do the right thing for the good of this country and the benefit of Nigerians. We must contest the presidential election but as I have told you, if we find out that we can’t do it alone, we will definitely find ways of working with the right political parties to do the right thing for the good of our country. We have a noble programme for Nigeria, for the security and unity of the country as well as the socio-economic development of Nigeria. So what plans do you have for the women and youths of this country? We have programmes for every Nigerian but we will pay close attention to the issues concerning women and the youths of this great nation. The youths in particular have been taking active part in the politics of Nigeria before its independence. Unfortunately, they have been relegated to the background in the current dispensation. The issue is that progressively the preparation of the youths to take over leadership is now becoming very low. In the case of the women, there is no opportunity for them to take a clear role in the country’s politics simply because of the social problem of women in the society. Secondly, the economic stability of women in this country is very low. We will take the needed steps to encourage the youths, the women and the physically challenged members of the society to fully participate in the political development of our nation. We must make sure that these categories of Nigerians play their own roles as expected of them. There won’t be any discrimination against such Nigerians. How far have you gone in sensitizing the citizens about your party’s agenda and why they should believe in your vision for the country? First of all, we are restructuring the PRP and we have constituted three committees to that effect. We have the Membership Registration Committee because we want to expand the membership of the party to bring in the relevant people who can help to advance the party. It is a committee of 12 people and it has the responsibility of organizing and conducting membership drive for the party. We have also established a Holistic Review Committee. This committee will examine the PRP in the past, future and present, with a view to the 2019 election and after. We have also established the National Convention Committee, made of 33 people; the committee has the responsibility of organizing and conducting the party’s convention at the chapter, ward, local government, state and the national levels. We have put these committees in place to renew the PRP and advance the cause of the party with particular reference to 2019 general elections and after. Your party lacks a national spread and this will surely affect its chances in any election, what are you doing to give the PRP the national appeal it needs to boast its chances of having a good outing in next year’s general elections? Certainly, we don’t have the efficient national spread because PRP is the only political party in the country that was established in 1950 that still exists.  All those political parties that were established that time together with the PRP no longer exist and the reason was that PRP is self-reliant and doesn’t depend on any individual or government. These other parties depended majorly on individuals and once the individuals are no more or they changed the course if the responsibility is too much for them, the party will no longer exist but in the case of the PRP, the party has been there from 1950 to date. Now when you talk about national spread, honestly, we agreed that our spread is limited because of resources; you know how the political parties get money now which is through milking the government but we are not involved in that so you will find out that the resources is limited but in terms of self-reliance, we are better than others that is why we have survived. As the current chairman of PRP, do you nurse the ambition of contesting the 2019 presidential poll on the party’s platform? No, I have no ambition to contest the presidential election. I am now 82, and I am preparing to hand over before the 2019 election. I will have to hand over the party to a new and pragmatic leadership but I will make sure that I do not handover the party in disarray, I must make sure that the party stands a better chance of growth and advancement. Are you considering zoning the presidential ticket of your party to the north just as the APC and the PDP had done? We are not concerned with that. In fact, our concern is that the most capable Nigerian should fill that position. We are appealing to all sections of Nigeria to organise and make sure that a competent person leads the country as the President of Nigeria in 2019; it will be good for everybody whoever you are in Nigeria. Some politicians are of the opinion that both the PDP and APC have failed Nigerians, do you agree with such people? Of course, I do agree with such opinion, the evidence is quite clear that is why we have the negative state of the nation now. Normally, we are supposed to be the sixth in the list of most advanced countries in the world by now because of the tremendous resources that we have; only a few countries are endowed with such kind of resources but such nations are now far more developed. In Nigeria, we have virtually everything but we have damaged everything, as a result, we are what we are now. Most of the political parties are opportunists, their parties are not based on ideology but the ideology of the PRP is very clear. How would you advise Nigerians as we approach the 2019 general elections? First of all, Nigerians should by all means make sure that there is free, fair and transparent election leading to a legitimate government. It is very difficult but we have to do it because that is the only way we can have a nation that worth the name and we must make sure that free, fair and legitimate election leading to a legitimate government continues even after 2019. We have to also make sure that the state plays a leading role in the economy to ensure, equal opportunity, peace, justice, democracy, transparent and equal development of the country. There is no way we should rely on privatization to develop this country, privatization is based on self-interest first, public interest second, we cannot develop with that, no country has developed on the bases of that except during the era of colonialism. All eyes are now on the Independent National electoral Commission (INEC), as we approach the election year, do you think the electoral body will conduct credible and transparent election? Well, let us make sure that we make the INEC do what we want because INEC is a public institution. We should not allow anybody to control INEC. INEC should be controlled by the people through the relevant institution which is the national assembly. What is your take on the recent invasion of the Senate where its symbol of authority was taken away? To start with, it demonstrates the negative state of the nation, and the fact that we are approaching the limit of democratic anarchy. If we don’t do anything about that we will not be face with anarchy alone but we will be faced with spontaneous revolution. If the constitution fails to justify the needs of the people, there is the possibility that people will take other measures. We are not talking about a small country or banana republic; we are talking about a country of two hundred million people, a country that has the potential of leading the world. We should not continue to be toying with this country, if nothing works, and things continue like this, we risk an unpleasant consequence as a result. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 