Arsenal attacker, Alex Iwobi, has been certified fit and will travel with the team that will play Atletico Madrid in a Europa League semi-final second leg tie, AOIFootball.com reports, on Thursday. The Super Eagles attacker picked up a knock in the Gunners’ 1-2 loss to Manchester United on Sunday, despite being on the pitch for the entire match duration. However, the player is fit and has resumed training on Tuesday ahead of the crunch tie in Spain on Thursday. He was assessed by the club medical staff on Monday and was certified fit for the clash, calming all nerves that the attacker was initially out of the tie. However, Iwobi has told ESPN FC that the impending departure of manager Arsene Wenger is “a bit depressing and a bit sad for me.” Wenger is preparing to leave the Gunners after 21 years and has said he will take at least a month off after the season to reflect on his future. And Iwobi said the players wanted to give their long-serving manager the best possible farewell. “It’s a bit depressing and a bit sad for me — he has done a lot for me in a short time in my career,” he said of Wenger’s departure. “We’re going to try and give him the right send-off he deserves and end the season on a high and do our best for him.” But Iwobi added that he was looking forward to working with whoever the next Gunners manager turned out to be. “It’s exciting times — we’ll have to wait until after the World Cup to actually meet him,” he added. “So it’s exciting, but it’s also sad times that Wenger is going.” Consequently, he wants to give Wenger the perfect send-off by winning the Europa League. Arsenal face Atletico Madrid in the second leg of the semi-finals on Thursday, with the first meeting at the Emirates Stadium having finished 1-1. If Arsenal were to progress, then Wenger’s final game in charge of the Gunners would be a Europa League final in Lyon on May 16 and Iwobi is desperate to win the competition for the departing Frenchman. “We are trying to make him end the season on a high. “And not just for him but for ourselves as well so we are doing our best to get the result.” Iwobi is still confident of progressing, even though Arsenal were held to a draw against a 10-man Atletico side after Sime Vrsaljko was sent off early on in the first leg at the Emirates. “We are very confident,” he added. “We were unfortunate not to get the result we wanted against them in the first leg but we are very confident and believe we can go to the final.” 0 comments