Lagos – The Nigeria Police Force has reiterated its commitment to ensuring that men and women of questionable characters are not recruited into the police force in the ongoing recruitment exercise which is expected to produce 6,000 police recruits, going on across the six geo-political zones in the country. Emmanuel T. Inyang, Deputy Inspector General of Police in-charge of training, re-echoed this commitment in Lagos on Wednesday when he inspected the on-going  exercise at the Police college, Ikeja. He said that the force is very strict and rigorous in the exercise to ensure that hoodlums such as armed robbers, area boys, drug addicts, cultists and those with questionable mental state among others do not have their ways. The police boss recalled that on February 7, 2018, the exercise was well published in the media, the major Nigeria newspapers, calling on qualified candidates between the ages of 17 and 25 who were interested in joining the police force to apply online. According to him, the force received several thousands of applications out of which, 133,000 were shortlisted for screening. He said that he had been directed by the Inspector General of Police, IGP Ibrahim Idris to go round all the six geo-political zones of the country to supervise the exercise. Meanwhile, the Enugu State Police Command has also said that applicants with tattoos or suspicious body marks seeking for police jobs will be automatically disqualified. The Command’s spokesman, SP Ebere Amaraizu disclosed this in an interview with journalists in   Wednesday in Enugu. It would be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari recently gave approval for the immediate recruitment of 6,000 policemen to beef-up security in the country especially in the North Central states where suspected militia groups have been operating. Consequently, Police commands across the country on Monday began the process of recruiting qualified Nigerians into the Force. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 