Owerri – To all discernible keen observers of the politics of Imo state; Rochas Anayo Okorocha is simply to state the obvious. The Ogboko, Ideato South born businessman turned politician acclaimed as the highest priest and oracle within the All Progressives Congress (APC) political family in the state is indeed fighting the battle of his life and is not taking chances for survival. Prior to the Saturday 5th May ward congress of the party (APC) in the 305 electoral wards in the state, Okorocha who is the chairman of the APC governors forum has bestroded the party like a colossus, dishing out orders and commands to his political disciples, associates and die-hard supporters some of who were members of his inner kitchen cabinet. Like in the military, order flowed from top to the bottom and compliance in a reverse order. The members spoke with one voice and their espirit de corps knew no bound to the envy of the opposition. However, the governor’s ever growing domineering attitude, lack of spirit of tolerance of superior arguments, proposals and ideas on how to strengthen the party ahead of the 2019 great battle was to latter inflict a serious crack on the wall of the once formidable political enclave. The grand daddy of the raging intra-party squabbles which observers believe might send the broom wielding party packing from the Government House Owerri next year is the anointing of Chief Uche Nwosu as the next governor of the state by Okorocha. Nwosu – indigene of Eziama Obaire in the Nkwerre LGA (Imo West) is the Chief of Staff and son-in-law to the governor. This is to the chagrin and consternation of virtually all major stakeholders of the party who see this as a bitter pill to swallow particularly those of Owerri zonal extraction who ardently believe in the doctrine of the Imo Charter of Equity. The charter rotates the governorship seat of the state among the three zones of Owerri, Orlu and Okigwe hence the decision of Okorocha who is from Orlu to hand over power to his son inlaw also from Orlu is stoutly being resisted. The resistance came to the fore on Saturday 5th May this year when the opposition within the party simply known as Coalition Alliance dared the governor and organized ward congress in all the 305 electoral wards in the state in defiance of Okorocha’s order not to do so. Led by a two time senator for Imo North (Okigwe zone), ChiefIfeanyi Araraume, the deputy governor of the state – Eze Madumere, incumbent senator for the zone – Ben Uwajumogu, the National Organizing Secretary of the party – Osita Izunaso, the state party chairman – Dr. Hilary Eke, the state Publicity Secretary – Nwabueze Oguchienti, the Orlu zonal chairman –Prince Ugochukwu Nzekwe as well as a onetime Commissioner for Information Dr. Theodore Ekechi. The group was said to have resolved and vowed to stop the realization of the Uche Nwosu governorship project which they saw as a contrivance of the governor to cover up some alleged atrocities which he allegedly perpetrated since the inception of his regime in 2011. The move to organize the ward congress which was followed by the local government and state congresses was seen as a ploy by the rabid Uche Nwosu governorship opponents to disarm the governor from hand picking delegates for the state governorship primaries. This appears to have paid off as the national working committee (NWC) of the party is said to have thrown her weight behind the group. According to Hilary Eke, Chairman of the party in the state, “the APC, state Congress will hold on Saturday, no going back. The leadership of APC,  has directed that the congress will take place”. When asked the venue for the Congress, since the party secretariat was burnt he said: “There will be stakeholders meeting and in that meeting the stakeholders will decide the venue. I am not the congress chairman to decide where the congress would be taken place”. “So, the stakeholders will come together and the decision will be.taken. It is not the state chairman that will say where the congress will be hold.” What is all the more nightmarish to the governor is the continuous and systematic depletion of the number of his political disciples who have found favour with the opposition and are now singing new songs of liberation from his political bondage. A jolted Okorocha whose political kingdom has been balkanized following the successful conduct of ward, local government and state congresses dismissed the congresses as null and void and of no effect, contending that he still remains the leader of the party in the state and a rallying point for whatever action the party intends to take. The state congress of the party held on Saturday the 19 and which reportedly enjoyed the full support of the Chief John Odigie Oyegun led National Working Committee appears to have sent a lesson to the governor that the game is over. The result is that a wounded lion is now roaring all over the place looking for a prey to devour just as the hunters are still bent to go home with a good harvest of games either killed or caught alive. Basking in the euphoria of a successful outing, the Coalition Alliance has remained resolute and steadfast in their unanimous mission to abort the Uche Nwosu governor dream of the sitting governor, overhauling their machinery and lubricating the wheel of adventure. A defiant Okorocha, although appears unruffled and resolute has been shuttling between Owerri and Abuja with appeals to Aso Rock to annul the congresses that took place in the state. Reprieve however came to the governor when on Friday 18th of this month hundreds of women of the party (APC) protested against the congresses held in the state. The women who gathered at the victory chapel Government House Owerri, also marched to the police headquarters, demanding a new date to be fixed for the congress, and prosecution of those involved in the alleged irregularities in the congresses. To add spleen to his rejection of the party congresses, Sam Onwuemeodo – Chief Press Secretary to the governor in a terse statement stated that In a statement in Owerri, Sam Onwuemeodo explained that aside the concocted story of the Governor leaving the All  Progressives Congress, APC, for the All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, trending on the social media, “we have also been inundated with calls from media practitioners trying to confirm the authenticity or otherwise of the source-less tale”. He said that Governor Okorocha is one of the principal founders of APC and that when he took the mainstream of APGA to join the merger that gave birth to APC, he was not under any pressure to do so, even as he took that action at the risk of his second tenure. According to Onwuemeodo the governor became the propeller of APC in Imo and the whole of South East, mobilizing people for the party in Imo, Ebony, Abia, Enugu, and Anambra States. “He was the rallying point. And he did that in the overall interest of the South-East and indeed, APC. Expectedly, the prevailing political uncertainty within the Okorocha political empire has provoked insinuations in some quarters that the governor had begun clandestine move to dump the party in preference to the All progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) which in 2011 brought him to the power. Indeed, unconfirmed sources had it that he recently offered some bigwigs of the party a huge sum of money as an inducement to smoothen his re-entry into the party but was rebuffed and rejected, having used and dumped the party in 2011. Invariably, a highly placed source within the APC told Daily Independent that one of the leading opposition parties has extended an olive branch to the governor to join the party and to collapse all his structures in it. This, in the thinking of the leading politician is to enable the party muster the necessary financial muscle to face the 2019 great battle.  Whether the rescue mission governor will eventually bid farewell to the APC or not before the approaching 2019 democratic experiment arrives still remains a matter of conjecture but the unassailable fact is that the house (APC) which he labored to build in the state has become an oven to him and he is no longer comfortable with it. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 