Comrade Sheriff Mulade, the National Coordinator and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Centre for Peace and Environment Justice, is an aspirant for Warri South-West seat in the Delta State House of Assembly. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on his political ambition, the situation in the Niger Delta, as well as issues relating to the 2019 general elections among others. Excerpts: What would you say in the current state of the Niger-Delta region? Niger Delta is in comatose and needs urgent attention to resuscitate it. We need to raise a generation of credible leaders who are ready to take up the challenges facing the Niger Delta. We need to holistically look at the environment, checkmate illegal activities and high handedness by security agencies as well as build credible peace process for sustainable development in the region. What would you say is the level of successes so far recorded, especially in terms of peace building in the Niger Delta? The successes are empirically verifiable looking at the current peace in the oil producing regions. There has been near-zero oil pipeline vandalisation, zero skirmishes between security agencies and citizens. The greatest outcome is the increase in oil production which subsequently increased national revenue earnings. It is said that people in the region are worried that most government policies are not implemented, hence the crisis in the region. What is your organisation doing to ensure that the policies are implemented? Firstly, government formulates policies that have no direct bearing to the needs of the people. This is so because people seat somewhere in Abuja and formulate policies without carrying the final users along or even trying to secure a buy-in. For any policy to work, there must be popular participation in the formulation by citizens through wide consultations and the people will then make inputs and see such policy as their own. I will continue to advocate for inclusive governance and voice for the people. I will continue to advocate for leaders to be accountable to the people, this will reduce tension and improve the quality of infrastructure and the lives of the people. How would work with the private sector in achieving peace in the Niger-Delta region? There are many heavy private investors in the Niger Delta region. The multinationals are involved not only in oil business, but other marine related businesses including manufacturing, transportation, hotel and tourism and other small scale businesses. All these businesses can only thrive in a peaceful environment. It is imperative, therefore, that the private sector, the government and the ordinary citizen must form a synergy that promotes peace. So, it is in my plan to work with the private sector to achieve sustainable peace in the Niger Delta region. What mechanism did you adopt to ensure confidence building between the companies and the people of the Niger Delta region to ensure that the potentials of the area are fully exploited? My team and I have consistently consulted with both citizens, extractive operators, the government and other stakeholders in our different town hall meetings, roundtable discussions and conversations periodically. The outcome of these is in form committees set up to look at different areas of grievances and come to commonality and agreement. By doing this, we established win-win situations for everybody and invariably bolstering and fostering confidence of all stakeholders. There is a perception that the youths of the Niger Delta do not believe in dialogue and they always want to resort to violence as solution to issues in the region. What is your advice to them? This is a wrong perception. The youth of the Niger Delta strongly believe in dialogue. It is only when the authorities concerned refused to dialogue that the youth resort to self-help. My advice is for the youths to explore all avenues of peaceful dialogue and be patient. Equally, the government or the oil companies should not take the patience of the youth for granted. There must be a mechanism for quick dialogue to address issues before they escalate. You recently declared your interest to contest the Warri South-West constituency seat in the Delta State House of Assembly. What should the people be expecting from you if elected? I will be offering them undiluted credible services to my people. I will be accessible and accountable. I will offer selfless services and leadership if elected lawmaker. Already, I have been serving my people as an activist. If I am elected, it will be a step-up in my services to them. My people appreciate what I have been doing for them all these years and I believe they will show their appreciation by voting me into the House of Assembly so that I and other like-minded people will help to attract development to the area, as well as constituency projects and empower the unemployed youth in the area. What approach do we expect from you in tackling the issue of conflict resolution in the Niger Delta region if elected to the House of Assembly? My approach is simple; dialogue, dialogue and dialogue. Engage with the people honestly, neutrally, and show enough concern of genuinely resolving issues for a win-win for all the people concerned. How would you engage the youths to have a mindset in terms of good leadership? First, I will lead by example. I will have regular interactions with the youth. I will organise periodic seminars and workshops for the youths. I will encourage the youth to read, learn life-skills, trade and get good education. This is a better empowerment that will prepare them to lead and also to hold leaders accountable. What shall we be expecting in 2019? By the grace of God, I will emerge victorious in the 2019 election. You should expect and see me seating and representing Warri South-West at the Delta State House of Assembly. Expect a more peaceful Niger Delta Region. Expect better development in the region. Expect more responsible and impactful youth in the Niger Delta Region. What is your advice to Niger Deltans, Deltans and your constituency? They should be peaceful and vigilant. They should elect credible people to positions of responsibility. They should register and collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), participate in the electoral process. They should be peace builders and promote sustainable environment and development. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 