Lagos – The Director, Huawei Nigeria Enterprise Channel Department, Mr. Ken Zhao has restated the company’s resolve to always deliver quality solutions to customers through its partners in the Nigerian market. He made this disclosure at a joint partner summit organised by Technology Distributions Ltd. (TD) and Huawei in Lagos, with the theme: Leading New ICT, The Road To Digital Transformation. In attendance at the event were over 150 partners and resellers drawn from the ICT ecosystem. The summit also witnessed the presentation of awards to deserving winners including TD which emerged Distributor of the Year, Cloud Exchange West Africa Ltd. as Data Centre Partner of the Year and the quartet of Sunnet Systems, Datacom Services Ltd., Streamline Acquisition Ltd and Cyberspace Ltd as Silver Partner, among others. In his opening address, Stanley Okpalaeke, Managing Director, TD Solutions lauded the partnership with Huawei as one that has gone a long way in providing access to cutting-edge IT solutions for thousands of resellers in Nigeria and beyond. Tracing TD’s landmark strides as a pioneer distributor in the sub-region, a journey of 15 years that has witnessed significant milestones and achievements, Okpalaeke affirmed the commitment of the management of the company to continuously remain in the forefront of driving IT revolution in Africa through strategic partners with globally-renowned Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) such as Huawei. Also speaking at the event, Kevin Chen, Vice President, Huawei Southern Africa Enterprise assured partners of Huawei’s resolve to oversee an era of prosperity in the partner ecosystem by making available a wide array of benefits and incentives to grow the business relationship between both parties. On his part, Zhao said the company signed with only TD Solutions in 2013, but has now added two distributors, one value-added partner, and over 500 Tier II partners as a result of its total commitment to delivering effective and efficient workable solutions, based on feedback received from customers. He said the onus lies on the company to reward its customers with juicy incentives so as to promote the partnership. “Our company’s belief rests on open, collaborative and win-win policy and as a result, there is a need to keep rewarding our partners in order to safeguard their interest. There is a marketing incentive called Deal Registration Reward Program and it is valid from April 1st to Sept 30th; Demo Incentive Program which is valid from April 1st to Sept 30th, and so many others that are exclusive to our customers,” he said. In addition to the incentives, Zhao cited the existence of Huawei Partner University, Openlab Practice, Online Courses, and Capabilities Development Roadmap, all designed to help partners develop talent and improve their capabilities. He restated that the company was resolute in its stable and comprehensive partner policy, customer-oriented innovative open labs, open platforms and development resources. Other speakers at the event include Ifejola Adeyemi, Regional Business Director, Galaxy Backbone Limited and Alfa Dzikwi, Chief Information Officer (CIO), Seplat Petroleum Development Company who delivered glowing testimonials of Huawei’s suite of enterprise solutions. The event, which witnessed the launch of Huawei’s All Flash Array Dorado and New Generation Server V5, also featured exhibitions and a demonstration of the company’s unique IP, IT and Cloud Communication solutions, among others. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 