Jos  – Professor Mary Lar, widow of the first civilian governor of Plateau State, has tasked Nigerian political class to turn a new leaf and copy the political life of her husband who gave his all for the survival of democracy in Nigeria during his lifetime. Mrs. Lar, in an interview with newsmen at Chief Lar’s Jos resident, said her husband at the point of death in a United States hospital five years ago, gave her his parting words for the people of Nigeria. “Tell the people of my country that I want them to live in peace and harmony with one another and avoid acts capable of causing disunity in the country. Nigeria should remain as one indivisible entity,” she quoted her late husband as saying. She added that Chief Solomon Lar left behind so many legacies that the government and people of Nigeria could borrow from for the good and progress of the country. According to her, the late Lar was “a man of peace, a man of clean heart”, who was dearly loved by his people. “It has been more than five years now since the death of my husband, and he is greatly missed by me, his children and supporters,” she added. Lar, who was born in April 1933, passed on October 9, 2013 at the age of 80. Professor Lar observed further that for her late husband to have personally delivered a letter seeking an end to military rule in Nigeria to the late General Sani Abacha, former military Head of State, at that time Abacha was a dreaded military dictator shows that he was ready to stake his life for his country. “If all the leaders in this country had his kind of heart, Nigeria would have been a better place, as his interest was not for parochial or selfish purpose. “Baba Lar was our pillar and we miss him so much. He was a friend of the downtrodden. He did not discriminate. Baba took care of his citizens. He was there for the needy, poor and downtrodden. He even appointed a Yoruba person as commissioner during his tenure. He carried all tribes along in governance,” she said. She admonished present day politicians to learn from the late Lar’s exemplary life and shun acts that could lead to the destabilisation of the country. 0 comments