Professor Casmir Obialom is Secretary-General of a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), International Peace Foundation (IPF), organiser of Peace and Unity Colloquium aimed at reducing tension that comes with most elections in Nigeria. He spoke with ChinweNdu Nnadozie on the essence of the programme. Excerpts: Can we meet you sir? My name is, Professor (High Chief) Casmir Obialom, the Colloquium Coordinator and Secretary-General, International Peace Foundation, IPF for short What exactly is IPF? International Peace Foundation is a forum for the promotion of peace and development by engaging stakeholders in Peace building especially people at the grassroots level, the programme holds many titles depending on prevailing situation. For instance, the focus of Nigerians seems to be on next general election and the likely inherent negative effects or preempting what would happen in the 2019 election because it is no longer news stating the obvious fact that election periods in Nigeria are always characterised with fears borne out of tension and anxiety and to douse such fears therefore there is the need for talks to stakeholders or peace workers or institutions to embark on these programmes such as we are planning ahead of next year’s polls. Who are your target audience and how do you get them to attend the colloquium? Our targets include all eligible voters, politicians, political party leaders, women and other stakeholders especially those in grassroots areas where pre and post-election crisis is very prone due to their level of exposure and enlightenment. I can tell you the programme has many titles depending on the prevailing circumstance or situation, at the moment the focus of the society is the forth coming election in 2019 and the likely effects. Every individual is a Peace Builder. Also in Peace Building everybody is a stakeholder, however there are individuals and organizations in our midst that require these gatherings to acquire more knowledge for effective services delivery in Peace building and security services. They include; governments, security agencies, legislators, traditional rulers, youths and other groups such as; religious leaders, opinion leaders et-cetera For how long has the IPF been in existence or engaged in such initiatives? The International Peace Foundation has been in existence since the year 2001. The foundation which also has some publications to its credit is reputed for research on world peace and peace education. IPF is volunteering for peace and affiliated to the World Association of Non-Governmental Organisation (WANGO), an umbrella body of NGOs worldwide with diplomatic status at the United Nations in partnership with the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN and the Ministry of Youth Affairs, Niger State. Can you in few sentences sir tell us what this foundation is out to achieve in the Nigerian context? The IPF promotes Peace in whatever it does and it is in summary, a symbol of Peace and National Unity. The emphasis has always been to bring the various interest groups together to enable them reap the dividends of our diversity as a people just as I had told you earlier that the IPF is all about so many things depending on what and how you view it and in what circumstance Is the IPF one of such Nigerian things, does it reach across African continent global services and outlook? The IPF is affiliated to the World Association of NGOs, WANGO, USA, an umbrella body of NGOs with diplomatic status at the United Nations. So, Peace volunteers that cut across the world through the network, the network also makes IPF to relate and interact with other notable Community Based Organisations (CBOs), Faith Based Organisations (FBOs) and the NGOs Have you had such capacity buildings in some states or countries before now and where? International Peace Foundation started its activities far back in Kaduna State where it is registered and certified by the Kaduna State Government as a veritable NGO for peace building, it is also a member of Kaduna state forum for NGOs, it has also hosted a lot of peace programmes in the state that was embraced by the general segments of the society. The IPF is managed by tested and trusted volunteers for peace which has many people appreciative of the foundation. What do we expect at the end of the colloquium you are planning? Building of more peace workers who will be committed and assist in sustaining the tempo by spreading the message of peaceful coexistence among their various communities when they get back to their respective states and local government councils, building new impression about diversity and making people to know more about the benefits of living together as one family not minding our cultural, religious and tribal differences as a people destined by God to be one not minding the differences in tribes and tongues Why the programme now? I am the Secretary General of the International Peace Foundation and the initiator and I have passion for Peace work and services to humanity. My interest in peace emanated from my name, Casmir, a Polish word meaning Peace Maker. We are trying to inculcate peace and peace building in the minds of everyone that will be attending the programme as his or her take home back to wherever they are coming from like a chain thing they will take the message of peace home with them and again pass the message to the people they are representing and so the message of peace and best option than crisis will continue to spread, it is better jaw-jaw than war, war Are you anticipating something bad could happen during 2019 general election? Not really, but being human we try to play human nature of working on people’s psyche as it has to do with elections generally and see what we can do to prevent any eventualities. For instance, we all know what happened during the acclaimed winner of the June 12 election, Chief MKO Abiola which claimed so many lives and what we are trying to do is also to prevent a repeat of such. There were tension and many people out of fears that there will be bloodshed decided to travel back to their respective states and countries. There was these mass movements from south to the north and from north to the southern parts of Nigerian for fear of dear life and eventually some of them died without reaching where they were going but at the end we all know that many of the people who were actually running away from places of abode made it safely to their destinations. Apart from so many lives that were lost on transit, properties were destroyed, some sold their properties believing that that was the end of Nigeria and unfortunately nothing unimaginable happened and many of them couldn’t recover from what follows their actions. Such monies wasted trying to run away from nothing in particular could have been invested in something that will be beneficial to all Why Niger state, Minna the state capital in particular for the peace building colloquium? Why Minna you ask (laughs). Initially we had planned the programme first for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja which is still in the offin, but discovering that Niger state as one of the most peaceful states in Nigeria there was a consensus by the organizers to domesticate it in Niger state as a prelude to Abuja event in the nearest future. Meantime, we have a colloquium coming up lets say, by the second week of next month, 10th May precisely on the theme; Peace Building in a Democratic setting, the stakeholders’ role. The general interest as it may interest you is all about sustaining peace efforts in Niger state by engaging the various stakeholders on Peace Building after the Colloquium till the time of election and after the elections. Who are the guests expected besides main targets from the grassroots areas? We are expecting many of the serving and ex-Governors, serving and ex-Senators, former Presidents, the Inspector General of Police, the President Ohaneze Ndi-Igbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, former Governor of Kaduna state, Ahmed Makarfi and of course our host Govenor, Alhaji Abubarkar Sani Bello, his wife, Dr. Amina Sani Bello and a host of others will be in attendance. 0 comments