Barr Edet Ikotidem is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom State. In this chat with Idongesit Ashameri in Uyo, he speaks on the recent endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari by APC governors for a second term in office, the APC led administration so far, excess crude account, among other issues. Excerpts: How would you view the endorsement of President Buhari by APC governors for a second term in office? President Muhammadu Buhari is not only endorsed by the governors of APC, he has done well, and the governors of our party decided to tell him to continue with the good work because he has laid a foundation which he has to complete. Just like if you start a process of reconstruction, you have to start from a level, maybe demolish the aspect of the wrong structure and then maybe reset with a reconstruction. You cannot just start a reconstruction from somewhere. That is the essence of asking him to continue and complete what he started, to reposition Nigeria to the position that we all yearn for. Forget the noise being made by the opposition today, we know the truth of what has been the situation in the country. How the country’s resources has been plundered by previous governments and the noise we are hearing today is from those who are afraid of being touched by the decision of this government to call them to account for their deeds in the previous administration. Buhari has done well and has the support of well- meaning Nigerians to continue the good work he has started. What is your opinion on the contention among governors and leaders of the APC on the upcoming convention of the party? There is nothing like that. In human relations, in trying to share or retake a position, people must ask for or aspire, there is no dichotomy whatsoever, and we are going for elective congress. Oyegun is free to re-contest just like the President is re-contesting. Oshiomhole also has the right to say he is the one that will contest now, there is nothing like elective dichotomy. It is a normal process. The convention committee has been set up and we are waiting for the convention. There is no crisis; it is just the fear of the people outside. Don’t forget that when the different parties came to merge and formed what we have now, the APC, there was this expression of skepticism and doubt by members of the public. Did that stop APC from succeeding and being what it is today? It is just unfounded fear that does not exist anywhere. Anybody has the right to support any candidate; that is democracy that we are talking about, where people have the right to express their own interest. You might accept this person or another but the  majority of opinion matters, it is not who is supporting who at this stage. So it is just a normal democratic process where people are allowed to express their ambition and certain persons say yes, I support him and the other say no. Does that create any problem, no! What would you say about the millions of money from the excess account? I don’t know what they mean by impeachable offence because if you look at the Finance and Management Act, there is a procedure where the President can incur some expenditure and thereafter present it for ratification by the National Assembly. We are talking about the security of the nation, people are being killed every day; we are crying that he is not doing anything and today people are saying he shouldn’t have taken a step, maybe until the house is burnt. If you see a small flame starting a fire, wouldn’t you quench it and then take further steps after? The President said in a letter that there is an emergency situation as read by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and we all agree. He has done what is expected of him, presented a specific item of expenditure that is mentioned unlike the past where money is withdrawn without us knowing. Today we are talking about how they looted billions of dollars, was there no National Assembly? But the President has said the national assembly should be concerned about what the money was used for. Was the money used for the purpose for which it was said? We all agree that there is need for the President to take steps to address the security situation in the country and that is what he did. There is absolutely nothing impeachable there because he has come to you to say this is what he did in the circumstances we found ourselves to address the security situation .So they should even commend him. This is the same National assembly that appropriated money for themselves and the Revenue and Mobilization Commission has said it is illegal, that they did not appropriate money for themselves and we are not calling for the recall of members of the National Assembly. This one is a specific item, the money has been paid, why don’t we verify, was this money used for the purpose? What do you foresee in 2019 in the state? Then you will know whether Akwa Ibom is PDP state or not. I can assure you that APC will take over in 2019. What gives you that confidence because on ground it appears that nothing is happening? I don’t know where you are picking your information from. That is why you can see that the government in power is jittery. A mere launching of Buhari’s campaign office and putting his pictures on the building, they have gone to mark the building for demolition; that shows they are jittery and know what exactly what is on ground.  That power that they use to manipulate the process is no more with them. It is going to be a genuine election because Buhari is poised to conduct a free a free and fair election, he is a gentleman, in fact he is a more democrat than most people who are proclaiming him a dictator. There seems to be a cat and dog relationship between the executive and the legislature. Do you think that all is well with APC? All is well. The seemingly cat and dog relationship is because Buhari has taken a position. The national assembly has discovered that it is no longer business as usual, no sharing of funds, so Buhari must be arm twisted to do something. What is happening there is mere politics of what you should take home. It is not that they don’t like Buhari but Buhari has said that it cannot be business as usual, there will be more sharing of public funds again. The anti-corruption posture of Buhari is a problem to many of the former governors in the national assembly because there is no how the search light will not be beamed on them. Everybody is now coming together to see if they can arm twist him. It is corruption fighting back even in the national assembly. We have the Akpan Udoedehe faction and the Nsima Ekere faction in Akwa Ibom APC? There is no Nsima Ekere/Umana Umana faction. We have one state secretary, and one other offices. We have not had two offices of different persons operating in Akwa Ibom state. There is no faction between Nsima Ekere and Umana Umana. I am a friend and supporter of Umana Umana. The campaign office that Umana Umana was using is where Nsima Ekere is using. There is unity of purpose. 0 comments