Unity Bank Plc has rewarded three young persons through its UNiFi product, the bank’s new Youth and Digital Banking initiative. The bank said the recipients – referred to as Unifiers – demonstrated innovativeness and distinguished themselves during an online competition. The winners are Tolulope Falope – Builders category; Mobolaji Oriola – Humanitarian category and Albert Kure – Lantern Category. The UniFiers initiative was conceived as part of the bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to empower young people, who have developed definitive initiatives that have an impact on their immediate communities. Each of them was celebrated at the UNIFI launch at the University of Lagos. The three successful candidates received half a million naira each for displaying their projects online as part of the UniFiers challenge and garnering the highest number of votes from fans, who endorsed their projects in each of the categories. According to Bonaventure Okhaimo, the General Manager, Products and Channels, “the UniFiers project is aimed at encouraging creativity and motivating Nigerian youths”, adding: “The bank identified three broad categories for the competition, which included  ‘the Lanterns, targeting science and technology innovation;  ‘the Humanitarians’, riding on  social development and charity and  the ‘Builders’ – highlighting excellence in art, design and culture.” As the Unifiers initiative continued to reflect the core essence of UniFi product offering, the Bank is taking the  winners through a mentorship programme intended to enhance the winning projects and their promoters for the overall benefits of the society. UniFi is Unity Bank’s new youth-focused proposition. In addition to an affordable savings account offering, Unifi also offers a lifestyle application, which provides customers with a full digital platform, packaged to appeal to undergraduates and young professionals. Funwa Akinmade, Group Head Retail and SME Banking Group,  who addressed students during the launch, described UniFi as a “product for the youth generation, which offers a full digital experience that does not require them to ever visit the bank’s branch”. 0 comments