Chief Emeka Igwe is young technocrat and philanthropist from Anambra State. He has received the blessings of his people of Awka South Constituency 1 to represent them at the state House of Assembly. He spoke with DAILY INDEPENDENT about his forthcoming free medical outreach. Excerpts: Who is Emeka Vincent Igwe? I am Emeka Vincent Igwe, a trained electrical engineer but my firm also handles civil engineering contracts as we have qualified Nigerians and some expatriates working for us. We have an arm in our group that handles warehousing and logistics for blue chip companies. We have been active in the oil and gas sector (downstream) for many years and thus have the requisite knowhow and experience of doing business in Nigeria. I am happily married with kids. What is your view on doing business in Nigeria? Nigeria presents opportunities and at the same time challenges. I like to focus more on the opportunities because if you are creative, resilient and hardworking, you will surely earn your rewards. This has always been my message to the youths, not to dwell so much on the difficulties that surround us. Surely, the government both at the federal and state levels have got a lot to do in the areas of providing the necessary infrastructure and operating environment for entrepreneurs to thrive. Perhaps if they could focus on solving the power issue, which drains most of the revenue business people earn, that would be a big step forward. Do you think Nigerian youths are lazy? Well, I am a youth and I know for sure that I am not lazy. Our group employs thousands of young people and these guys are so energetic and creative. They are the engine room of our operations. I can’t call them lazy. What perhaps may be the problem is that some of our young people have not been given opportunities and many have unfortunately been steered in the wrong direction. Look at what’s happening in the entertainment sector, music, Nollywood etc. These sectors are being powered and championed by young people. Let us encourage them more. Why are you sponsoring the Awka South Constituency 1 Medical Outreach programme? I attended the Anambra at 25th anniversary lecture delivered by His Majesty, Igwe Alfred Achebe. He spoke so well about ‘Aku Luo Uno’, that is urging Ndi Anambra to bring their wealth home. I was also at the Port Harcourt event the same year (2016) and listened to His Excellency, Governor Willie Obiano enumerate for Ndi Anambra in Port Harcourt the excellent efforts being made by his administration to reposition Anambra State especially in the areas of security, agriculture, education, infrastructure etc. I knew after these that I must come and contribute to the various efforts both the government and other individuals are making. Team V.I.E medical outreach is my own little contribution towards improving the quality of life of our people, especially those living in Awka South Constituency 1 where I am from. V.I.E stands for Volunteer, Inspire and Empower. 0 comments