The Muslim Media Practitioners of Nigeria (MMPN) has appointed a new 12-member Executive Council to run the affairs of the Muslim media organisation for the next two years. Alhaji AbdurRahman Balogun (Assistant Editor-in-Chief at the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)) was reappointed as the National President by the Shurah (consultative) committee led by Dr. Qasim Akinreti, the current Chairman, Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos State chapter, during the 2nd National Convention of the body held on Saturday, April 28, 2018 at the National Mosque, Abuja Conference Hall, with the theme, ‘2019: Our Role’. Buhari Bukar Bukar from Plateau State emerged the Vice President while AbdulAzeez Wale Abd-Rasheed from Oyo State was appointed the Chief Missioner. Tajudeen Adebanjo (Head, City Beats Desk, The Nation) from Lagos State and Abubakar Suleiman from Nassarawa State were appointed National Secretary and Assistant National Secretary, respectively. Other appointed executive members of MMPN include Adebayo Abdur-Rofih (Oyo) as the Treasurer; Jubril Bada (Ondo) as Financial Secretary; Yaqub Popoola (Ekiti; Ekiti State Correspondent, DAILY INDEPENDENT) as Publicity Secretary; Bilqees Oladimeji (Kwara) as Welfare Secretary; Aisha Alli (Abuja) as Auditor; Abdul Kabir Garba (Lagos; Assistant Editor, The Guardian) as South West Coordinator; and Mustapha Abubakar (Kwara; Information Officer, University of Ilorin) as North Central Coordinator. Why The Theme, ‘2019: Our Role’ Earlier, Alhaji AbdurRahman Balogun, in his welcome address said that conference was put together to bring all the branches together and re-assess its members and also sensitise the public on what should be their role as information managers ahead of the 2019 general elections. According to him, the choice of the conference’s theme, ‘2019: Our Role’, was informed by the words of Almighty Allah in various parts of the Quran where Islam is described as a perfect religion wherein no issue is left untouched. AbdurRahman said the organisation was spurred by the various divine commandments and assertions in the Book of Allah, that MMPN decided to make this a topical issue and join the crusade against bad governance in the Nigerian society, as well as sensitise Muslim brethren on their watchdog responsibilities, while calling on those in positions of authority to always fulfil their electoral promises. He said, “Nigeria is on the march again since INEC announced the February 2019 elections time table. With the announcements, there has been an increase in political activities, from registration of more political parties, to party congresses and conventions, rallies, defections, etc. All these are normal political activities, but they come with complaints of the country dealing with challenges of recession, corruption, insecurity, kidnappings, suicide bombings, infrastructure decline and unemployment, but we found that the root cause of all these is corruption, bad governance and lack of the fear of Allah.” Nigeria’s Democracy Difficult For Media The keynote speaker at the conference, Prof Taofeeq AbdulAzeez of the Department of English, University of Abuja, held the audience spellbound during his informative lecture on the theme, ‘2019: Our Roles’, wherein he revealed that Nigeria’s brand of democracy is making it extremely difficult for the media to discharge its functions effectively. Prof AbdulAzeez said for media practitioners whose primary functions are to inform, educate and entertain, it becomes germane to employ social responsibility principles to beat and tone down the volatility of the news through gate keeping and agenda setting, so as to keep down the heat and engineer the society towards peace. “We all know, however, that all these roles are practically impossible during transition because the stakes are high and competition is stiff. Economic survival and the fear of the obvious may account for certain compromises that may frustrate the truth and impede justice”, he stated. Prof AbdulAzeez, who is also the Chief of Imam of the University of Abuja, highlighted the roles of media practitioners towards the forthcoming elections as including, among others, education of the politicians in and out of politics, advocacy for the demonetisation of democracy in Nigeria, mobilisation of the people, and the demand for the demilitarisation of democracy. Others, according to him, are promotion of our cultural values, sponsorship of capable media practitioners for political assignments and offices, tactical and non-partisan support for politicians’ work integrity and transformation of media associations into pressure groups to demand good governance and assist the masses to make informed choices. MMPN Resolutions At the end of the conference, which had in attendance Mr. Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Power, Works and Housing ably represented by his Special Assistant on Works, Dr. Kadiri Hamzat and the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Abubakar Sa’ad, who was also represented by the Emir of Jiwa, FCT, Dr. Idris Musa, the MMPN condemned the renewed killings in some parts of the country, and urged the Federal Government to get to the root of the ugly development. In its conference communiqué, signed by its President and Secretary, the MMPN reminded those who enjoy killing others in the name of religion that there is no compulsion in religion, as Islam was not spread with force, bombs or killings, but with wisdom and good character. “As we approach the 2019 general elections, the association calls on all lovers of peace, stakeholders in the Nigeria project and media practitioners in Nigeria to ensure justice, fairness, and mutual understanding. There should be no bloodletting, killing and maiming because of power as power comes from Allah”, it added. 0 comments