Unai Emery has been confirmed as Arsenal’s new manager after the club elected against appointing former player Mikel Arteta. The odds-on favourite for the job, a number of bookmakers had stopped taking money last week on the Spaniard returning to the Emirates following a flurry of bets. While Arteta is believed to have been left ‘stunned’ by the club’s decision not to name him as Arsene Wenger’s successor, Emery has got the nod from Arsenal’s board after an impressive interview. Perhaps unlucky not to have his contact extended at Paris Saint-Germain given what he has won at the Parc des Princes, PSG’s loss is certainly Arsenal’s gain. After leading Sevilla to three successive Europa League victories, honours followed as he made the switch to the French capital. While it was Monaco who ended up winning the Ligue 1 title in 2016/17, Emery made sure PSG regained their title this season, as well as the Coupe de France and Coupe de la Ligue. So, what can Arsenal players expect from Emery ahead of next season? Well, they will definitely be made to work extremely hard on the training pitch at London Colney. Emery is meticulous and he spends a number of hours preparing for a game. “For every game I might have spent 12 hours just on the video,” said the manager in an interview with Sid Lowe. “Videos are very important. “We work hard so that they have the best information and it has to be a good video: in an hour the players have to understand everything you’ve seen in 12.” However, it won’t just be at training where the players will be expected to review their previous game or research their next opponents. Players are sent away from training with USB drives and urged to study at home. During his time at Valencia, Emery suspected that one player was not watching the clips and then handed him a blank USB drive before quizzing him about what he had watched. Having played under Emery at Los Che, former Spain winger Joaquin is well aware of the manager’s preparations pre-match. “Emery put on so many videos I ran out of popcorn,” said the Real Betis man. “He’s obsessed with football – it’s practically an illness. He’s one of the best managers I’ve had. Even making star player Neymar study video clips for him to improve, the boss certainly doesn’t take any prisoners. With the Brazilian said to be unhappy with the manager’s training methods, ex-Newcastle man Hatem Ben Arfa was frozen out by Emery after not putting in enough effort on the training pitch. “I’m not the kind of coach who says: “Let’s do a few piggy in the middle exercises and get home for lunch,”” Emery once quipped. While Arsenal players will have to come out of their comfort zone when the manager takes his first training session at London Colney, it’s clear that they can succeed if they all agree with his philosophy and pull together as one. After leading Sevilla and PSG to multiple trophies over the past few years, Arsenal could be set to reap the rewards of having the highly-rated manager in charge. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 