Abuja / Ado-Ekiti – The national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has threatened to disqualify any aspirant in the Ekiti governorship race whose supporters are implicated in the violence that marred last Saturday’s governorship primaries in that state. The party also vowed to prosecute all supporters and individuals found to have instigated the thuggery and mayhem that marred the primary. Bolaji Abdullahi, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, issued the threat on Monday shortly after receiving the report of the Governor Tanko Al-Makura-led committee that conducted the botched primaries in Ekiti State. The National Working Committee, he said, would meet late Monday night to take decisions on the report. He warned that any candidate that was found to have instigated the crisis or whose supporters masterminded the chaos that trailed the suspended exercise would face consequences prescribed by the party and the law. “We just received the report of the chairman of the committee that we sent to Ekiti to conduct the governorship primary, the governor of Nasarawa State, Tanko Al-Makura. He gave us a full report of what transpired in Ekiti. “They also made specific recommendations which gave the NWC a couple of options on how to proceed. “The NWC is meeting tonight to consider the report and tomorrow morning we will be able to make our decision clear on how to proceed. “But what I can assure you is that all the individuals that took part in disrupting the exercise in Ekiti had been fully identified and we know the people they represent at the event. “If we find them culpable, accordingly, the principal they represent will be disqualified from the exercise and the individuals that participated in the disruption fully prosecuted”, he said. He refused to disclose those candidates under scrutiny but assured that a comprehensive profile of those that disrupted the exercise and their principals were with the party’s leadership. It is yet to be seen how far the party can go given that supporters of Ekiti State governorship frontrunners under APC, including Kayode Fayemi, former governor; Babafemi Ojudu; Bimbo Daramola, amongst others were visibly seen in footages aired by various television stations as they scattered ballots returned by voters. On requests by some aggrieved APC members in Ekiti State for the Al-Makura committee to be disbanded and another appointed, Abdullahi said the NWC had not found any reason to disband the committee. “We have not found any reason to suspect that the committee is incapable of conducting the primary. I don’t expect any change to happen now. “Again don’t forget that we have one week to submit a candidate to INEC. So, we don’t have sufficient time to begin to set up a new committee,” he said. He also spoke on vote-buying by some candidates, stating that the NWC would look into the issue and determine whether it was partly responsible for the disruption. He explained: “By tomorrow, we will be able to tell you clearly how we will proceed. “But we have to take all these in context. Don’t forget that other aspirants will also submit their own reports. “When we take all these together, we will be able to decide how to proceed. “If we have sufficient reasons to dance, the exercise, we will. As we speak, the five ballots that have been conducted are in the custody of the police in Ekiti. “They are intact and are with the police. Nobody has tampered with those.” On the widespread complaints about the conduct of the ward congresses, he had this to say: “The report we have received so far is that there are a couple of disruption across the country. “In the conduct of the overall exercise, we have situations in a number of places. “But we cannot take decisions on them until the committees that were sent to conduct those exercises report back officially about what transpired and the report of the appeals committee that started sitting today. “It is when we receive these reports that we will be able to know how to progress. “We have not received any report from any state until the committees we sent to the states come back with reports. “That is when we will be able to react on individual cases. “The statement we issued is just a general overview of what has been coming in. “But in order to be able to deal with each case, we will have to wait for the committees that were sent to each state.” Ekiti APC Crisis Worsens As Group Sacks State Exco Meanwhile, the crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC), the major opposition party in Ekiti State, has worsened as a group called Concerned Stakeholders announced the sack of the State Working Committee of the party on Monday over allegations of open bias. The group, in a massive protest held Monday morning, blamed the current imbroglio in the party on the alleged embarrassing conduct of state officials. The sacked officials have temporarily relocated from the party secretariat to a popular hotel in Ado-Ekiti while the police have taken over the party office. Adeoye Aribasoye, the Coordinator of the group, who spoke to journalists after the protest, accused the embattled officials of plunging the party into needless crisis. He said the State Working Committee members had betrayed the party constitution by allegedly placing their personal interests over and above party interest. “We are concerned APC members in Ekiti. We had it on good authority that the peaceful election held on Saturday would have been successful but for the connivance between our party chairman and Governor Fayose. “The election could have been adjudged the best in Ekiti and Nigeria at large,” Aribasoye stated. The protesters, who brandished placards with various inscriptions, also passed a vote of no confidence in the state Chairman of the party, Chief Jide Awe, and party spokesman, Taiwo Olatunbosun, for allegedly supporting one of the aspirants in the race. The protesters comprised mostly delegates and party leaders from the local government and ward levels. They accused Awe of working in cahoots with Governor Ayodele Fayose to destabilise the party ahead of the July 14 governorship election and accused him of having been offered N75 million to carry out the sinister job. Awe, the embattled chairman, narrowly escaped being lynched by irate party members save for quick intervention of security men. According to him, “We are hereby passing a vote of no confidence in Awe and the SWC members for taking sides. “It was Awe and Olatunbosun that allowed those thugs to enter and disrupt the poll. “The same Jide Awe now going around to say the election should be cancelled. “He even met with governor of Nasarawa State, Tanko Almakura, and APC National Vice Chairman, Pius Akinyelure, on Sunday to ask for a consensus in favour of Segun Oni. “It is against the tenets of democracy and APC statute for SWC to be showing open bias. “As a result of this, we held a congress today where it was agreed that a caretaker committee, to be led by Hon Kayode Eehunjobi as Chairman and Michael Akinleye as Secretary be set up.” When asked whether the congress had the power to remove state SWC members, Aribasoye retorted: “Anybody can convene the congress and it is the most powerful organ of the party. So, our decision is binding on the party,” he maintained. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 