Lokoja – Dino Melaye, a senator representing Kogi west senatorial zone of the state. His name means many things to different people. He could be adjudged to belong to the good, bad and the ugly depending on the sidelines one belong to. He is fiery and combative in his approach to issues that he believed in, while he could be meticulous and pragmatic in challenging the establishment to reverse some of their policies that lacked human face. This portrait of him often brought him on collision part with the powers that be. His recent travails in the hands of the APC administration in the Kogi state and that of the central government attest to his pragmatic disposition against some of  their actions . Dino , a prominent member of the All Progressive party (APC) worked tirelessly to ensure that the November 23  2015 governorship election in Kogi is won by the party. He worked closely with the late standard flagbearer of the APC prince Abubakar Audu who died on the cusp of winning the election. Some school of thought alleged that his role in the  aftermath of the  death saga contributed immensely to the success of the  now incumbent governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello who came second in the earlier held primary election of the party while his Okun brother James Abiodun  Faleke who was a running mate in the election was holed up from entering Lord Lugard House in lokoja. Thus , he has become the toast of Governor Yahaya Bello , no wonder that on the day of the inauguration of the administration, 27 January, 2016   Dino automatically became the godfather.He had declared at the inauguration that the coming of the governor was divine and whosoever that challenge the process was challenging the almighty God. According to him ” The people of kogi voted for Prince Abubakar Audu while God voted for Yahaya Bello ” the statement that has pitched him and his people across the Okun Nation. Dino was to play a major roles in the appointment of key officials of the administration. However, the relationship become frosty when Governor Bello stripped  him  of his powers to  constitute his Ijumu  Local Government Council committee. With the action of the Governor, the die was cast. Open confrontation became the order of the day between Bello’s administration and the loquacious Senator. They maintained steady no  love lost using every arsenal at their disposal to advantage. Dino who was on the inception of the administration as friend and a brother has become the enemy that must be crushed by all means. Dino was to survive the brutality of the administration sometime in May 2017 when some  gunmen stormed the gate of the kogi state polytechnics Lokoja the venue used by the senator to address his constituents. The gunmen numbering about 20 armed with sophisticated weapons shot sporadically at his vehicle which resulted in the death of three  persons  while scores were wounded. Meanwhile, the leadership of the party in the western senatorial zone , the zone that Dino represents  in the senate had in June 2017 commenced the impeachment process by collating signatures of the eligible voters from the area for his recall. Speaking to Daily Independent at the INEC headquarters, the Administrator of Kogi/ kotonkarfe Local Government of the state Barrister,Mohammed Tanko said the recall became necessary to save the zone from undue ridicule by  Senator Dino who  has flagrant disrespect for the rule of practice as it relates to a politician of his status. He added that the people of the zone who are law abiding citizens would not resort to actions that will cause the breakdown of law and order hence their resolve to legal approach to the matter. According the Administrator, Dino’s  stay in the hallow senate is  a gross  infringement on the political aspiration of the people of the constituency, saying that they are in INEC to submit their petition to recall the senator. He warned the electoral body not to subvert the peoples will but to listen to their  clarion call by accepting the petition  to the effect that their referendum should be honoured In his reaction  to the demonstration from his whatapp page, senator Dino alleged that governor Yahaya Bello was planning to secure  front pages of major newspapers to portray him in bad light before the citizenry that the process of his recall has commenced. He stated that the reasons adduced for their planning for recalling him was just a figment of their imagination hinting that it was on record that he was among the senators in 2016 with the highest numbers of bills and motions which amuses him of their  futility. He added that he will continue to speak the truth no matter whose ox is gored , while advising the governor to pay workers their salaries and to stop chasing shadows. Meanwhile the returning officer for the recall of Senator Dino Melaye, Mallam Ademu Yusuf while announcing the result from the seven local government councils, said the collation was done in Kabba, the headquarters of Kogi West senatorial district. Mallam Yusuf noted that out of 360,098 total numbers of registered voters in all the seven local government councils, 188,588 registered voters signed for the recall of Senator Dino Melaye. “Constitutional requirement for the recall is 50.1 percent of the registered voters is required to effect the recalling process and already we have 52.1 percent,” he had stressed. However, the embattled senator went to court to stop the planned recalled which lingers on to the Court of Appeal which unturned his prayers, although the Supreme Court is yet to determine on his appeal  , the Independent National  Electoral Commission ( INEC)  has assured the people that it will commence the verification of petitioners on Saturday 28/4/2018. The National Commissioner, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in charge of Kogi,  Kwara and Nasarawa states,  Alhaji Mohammed Haruna  stated this  in a stakeholders meeting held on thursday  in lokoja the kogi state capital. The Independent National Commissioner appealed to the people of Kogi western senatorial district to exercise their constitutional right peacefully on the slated date, adding that the commission would conduct the exercise without fear or favour. He noted that the recall can only succeed if the people concern obey the rules of the game,  calling on the security agents in the state to provide adequate security during the exercise. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Professor James Apam said section 69 and 110 of the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria 1999 as amended and Section 116 if the electoral Act 2010 as amended provides that a petition for recall shall be presented to the Chairman of INEC by representatives of the petitioners. Apam added that last year some constituents in Kogi western senatorial district signed a petition to recall their representative,  Senator Dino Malaye . According to him “While the INEC in line with the provisions of the constitution and the Electoral Act was in the process of initiating the recall,  the Senator challenged it in Court up to the Appeal Court which halted the process by an injunction pending the determination of the case. “But recently the court of Appeal gave INEC the go ahead to carry out the exercise and that is exactly what we are about to carry out However, the attempt to recall the Senator Dino Melaye suffered major setback as petitioners who turned up for the verification exercise on Saturday  were so insignificant to effect the changes. Declaring the result , the  INEC returning officer  Professor Gabriel Moti of the university of Abuja affirmed that the verified signatures of 5.34% of the total number of registered voters in the constituency cannot satisfy the requirements of the  law for referendum. Independent gathered that lots  of people , organisations and associations across the state worked in unison for the defence of  Dino’ s mandate. Kola Olagbodiyan, a stakeholder in the Okun politics and the National publicity Secretary of the PDP had on the eve  of the verification exercise  urged his compatriots from the zone to bury whatever differences they may be nursing to save Dino noting that supporting the recall amounted to wholesale of the zone to outsiders who were bent  to  rubbish the western senatorial district of the state. 1 comments