Lagos – Barrister Seyi Akinwumi, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) first Vice President, is hoping that the Super Eagles win the summer World Cup in Russia. Nigeria in Group D of the championship will kickoff their chase for the trophy on June 16 against Croatia before playing Iceland on June 22 and last group game against Argentina on June 26, 2018. The Super Eagles best outing at the World Cup was a second round appearance in 1994, 1998 and 2014. Despite not gpoing beyong a second round, Akinwumi in an interview on Tuesday in Lagos, hopes that the team wins the trophy on July 15 when the final will be played. “We go to the competition with the expectation to do the best we can,” he said, adding, “It is a tough call for any team, not just Nigeria alone, to win the World Cup. If any country says that it is going to World Cup to win it; it is only hoping, so we too are hoping that we can win it.” According to him, NFF desire was for the Super Eagles to be the best team at the World Cup, noting that in order to achieve this lofty ambition it had done all within its power to ensure that the Super Eagles win the World Cup. “Quoting the president of the NFF, he will always say that every parent desires his or her child to be the best in class. What you will do then is to prepare that child for school; get the best teacher or lesson teacher for him, and hope for the best. “All that we can do as a federation is to put everything in place for the players to be focused. Once they are concentrated on the pitch, they are as good as matching anybody. He is confident that the Super Eagles have what it takes to win the World Cup saying, “I think that with the quality of players that we have, anything can happen, especially if we are able to win our first match against Croatia and that is the plan. “If we are able to win that first match, I believe we will get to the second round and from there anything can happen because at that level, it is eleven against eleven.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 