“Voting is the foundational act that breathes life into the principle of the governed” – Deforest Soaries There is chaos in the nation’s political space. Pretend as the political players may, there is real scary chaos. The ruling party, the APC has been unable to have a cohesive party. The uncertainty that trailed their Presidential Primaries in 2014 seems to rear its head at every stop. After the primaries, the selection of a Vice President almost took an eternity, unusually.
Then the party won the 2015 election and the battle again shifted to the legislative house – the National Assembly. The contest for leadership of the 8th Assembly ushered in a very divided 8th Assembly. The party was broken from then on as the same party could not speak with one voice. The emergence of the ‘Unity and Like Minds’ groups in the National Assembly blew the whistle for the rancorous days ahead.
The leadership of the party became an issue as no one was sure of the right leadership. The party, at some point, could not precisely point to whom to credit the leadership with; some claimed the President, and others attributed the leadership to both Asiwaju Tinubu, on one side, and the National Chairman, Chief John Odigie Oyegun, on the other.
The executive/legislative relationship for a party with clear majority in the National Assembly has been very turbulent. Denying the chaotic relationship has been likened to trying to cover a nine months pregnancy with a palm.
So today, the APC has been unable to organize successful ward and state congresses in most states around the country. It has been reports of chaos, anarchy, deaths, multiple factions, violence and power show of various degrees.
But guess what, the most viable opposition party, the PDP has been very subdued, no vibrancy, no voice, and no activity to assure the people that they can provide any alternative. Their recent apology hangs loose.
But the reasons are not far-fetched. The two parties seem to be six and half a dozen. In actual fact, the membership of the APC allegedly has about fifty percent of their members as ‘graduates’ of the PDP School of politics. The only difference between the two parties seems to be in the alphabets.
So the country is dealing with organs with purely dysfunctional amoebic political structures. There are no well-structured systems of growing the Nigerian brand of democracy. The political class is hell bent on playing individually graciating politics election after election.
With the chaos around the country, the leadership of the APC or what is left of it is moving on like everything is just fine. But lives have been lost, properties have been destroyed, fear of monumental proportion is gripping the people as we move towards 2019.
We just see very perfunctory media appearances here and there in a veiled attempt to deodorise the stench from a very nationally appalling APC ward and state congresses.
The question remains, why the chaos in the APC and the deafening silence of the supposed opposition PDP, few months to a general election? The answer, dear readers, lies in the type of politics that the political elite have imposed on the country. There is no iota of intra party democracy.
We are back on the road well-travelled. God fatherism, party financiers, party chieftains (can’t seem to fully understand the meaning of these) and all sorts of political turn coats hijack the democratic processes, anointing, selecting and choosing their favoured candidates to throw into general elections.
The result? There is total absence of democracy at the lowest levels…the ward, local government to state levels. The parties are hijacked by those who abuse both financial and political powers for purely selfish reasons. Those who rape the system are the investors who install their stooges and cronies at intra party levels and then fight at the general elections with money and influence to get them installed, not elected.
Make no mistake about it, the PDP that lost power in 2015 were guilty of this theft of intra party democracy. Thiers was probably the seeming John the Baptist of the APC.
So it is absolute delusional for those people who christen themselves democracy advocates to continue urging the people to get ready to vote for people thrown up from a warped intra party congresses and primaries, which had people emerging not out of valid and transparent democratic processes within the political parties, for the best candidates to emerge for the benefit of the people and country, but as some warped investment by party ‘strong’ men who abuse power at all levels.
So it is a round robin game for Nigerian voters to sit by waiting for candidates thrown up from very undemocratic processes in the various parties in the country.
The country has been on its knees since independence because, in truth, real democratic processes are not honestly followed by political parties including the APC and the PDP, the two most viable political parties in the country. What continues to be all motion and no movement in the politics of the country is a refusal of the political elite to give real value to the voting processes election after election.
The sad news about the APC today was that of the PDP yesterday and there seems to be no end in sight.
So to be a voter in Nigeria, to me, seems to be a flawed principle of whitewashing the process already usurped by ‘powerful’ politicians.
Democracy can thrive and real development would begin when the voter in Nigeria truly determines who gets elected. For now, the hijackers of the process in all parties are having a free reign. What a sad commentary on the seeming giant of Africa? 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 