P’Harcourt – Ahmad Ahmad, President of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) on Monday performed the Real Madrid Football Academy foundation laying ceremony in Port Harcourt. The project was initiated by Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, will be completed in seven months. It will be opened to children between 8 and 16 years. Ahmad, who said that the academy was not only for Nigeria, but for the continent, believes that it would help promote international football best practices in the continent as well as raise future stars, noting that the timing of the academy was a proof that it was ordained by God. To Governor Wike, the academy would help in building new stars across the country, and that it would be opened to all kids, but with special preference to Rivers Children, whose resources would fund the project. “When we initiated this project, people doubted it, making cynical comments. However, today, it has come to fruition. It will be a solid foundation for our children. “We are proud to be associated with the best club in the world. Therefore, we will groom the best set of footballers.” “Sport is a catalyst for development.  What we are doing is for the interest of everybody.  To tell our footballers, we will do everything to support you”, he said. In his remarks, AIPS President, Mr Gianni Merlo, said, “This is an important project for the whole world. It will mould international stars that will shape the game in the future”. President of Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinick said that with the Academy, Nigeria would ensure the emergence of another generation that would keep the nation’s flag flying in the international football circle. Other officials of Real Madrid who graced the occasion include: Inigo Arenillas, Manager, Real Madrid Foundation, Africa/Middle East and Oscar Diaz, Real Madrid Fund-Raising Officer. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 