Otunba  Henry  Oladele Ajomale’s tenure as the chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos state ended last Saturday when a new chairman,  Tunde Balogun, was elected by the party members. Highly experienced and pragmatic,  Ajomale who has been the state chairman since the days of the defunct  Action Congress (AC) spoke in this interview with select newsmen on crucial issues within the party, both at the state and national levels. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: To what extent would you say your party has fulfilled the campaign promises when you look at the promises made in 2015 by APC and President Buhari himself? The president has done a lot in terms of promises made when you look at the circumstances that surround his coming in to government. It was based on information from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) themselves, the likes of former Minister of Finance, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and others saying that we are comfortable and Nigeria is perhaps the best economy in Africa. They were dishing out figures and data of where Nigeria was at that time, but when we got in, we found out that the whole thing was empty. So, in order to reappraise your plan, you have to start all over again to reappraise that plan because based on the misinformation given to Nigerians that Nigeria is buoyant; it was based on that that we planned our programmes. If you look at our programmes, there is no way you can execute them without money. And immediately we got to office, the economy was not what they said it was. We went into recession and in recession, what can we do? And if the president can bring the economy out of recession within one year; he should be congratulated because I have not seen any country that came out of economic recession within one year. We are going to come out of recession strongly. If PDP had returned to power, I am sure we would have been bankrupt by now because there would not have been any money. Today we can be proud that we have about $50 billion in reserve. That means that the reserve can support our economy for over six months. And we believe if we are going like this, in two to three years more, Nigeria will reach that level we are talking about; the best economy in Africa. Some eminent Nigerians have advised President Buhari not to return in 2019; do you see him returning in 2019? He will return. I can bet you. What gives you that confidence? Because I know the people of this country are behind him. Many of those criticising him don’t vote during elections. They consider the election day as resting day and holiday. It is only their cooks and gatemen who vote that day. Would you say President Buhari has done enough to get block votes in South-West in 2019 elections? There is no way anybody can claim Buhari has done enough for any zone. But I have no doubt in my mind that he is going to win South-West. He will win South-West flat. The day after the election come back to me. But don’t you think the division among APC leaders in South-West, especially the Abuja boys and Lagos boys will affect your party’s chances? They are all members of the party. If you know us, you will find out that when election comes, we merge and we do the same things we have to do. Abuja boys are benefitting from this government so, they won’t vote against this government. I have no doubt that they are going to vote the same way. Some people are of the view that the task given to APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, by President Buhari to reconcile disgruntled APC members across the country should begin from Lagos State given the not too cordial relationship between Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and his predecessor, Mr Babatunde Fashola. How do you know the issues between them are not settled? How do you know they are not on good term? We have to be civil to one another; you give me respect, I give you respect. That is the most important thing in the party. What about the APC National Legal Adviser, Dr. Muiz Banire, who is also having issues with the party? That is his own problem and let him solve his own problem. If he feels that he has problem with the party, he should know  how to solve them. He is our man, he is a member of the National Working Committee and there is no fight in the state executives with him. We have no problem with him, he is our national officer. To us, we have no problem with him. Some political parties are planning to merge and form a formidable block to challenge APC in 2019? Are you not afraid that the merger will be a threat to the ruling party? We have done it before, we merged before; three and half political parties joined together then and it was successful. If they can merge and win the election, fine, but I know they don’t have the liver to be able to do it. Only them are going to be there; it will need the grassroots support. It is not the grassroots that is speaking. It is those who have benefited from the largess of the country in the past that are criticising now. Your party have been accused of not defending the policies of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode-led administration, especially on issues of Cleaner Lagos Initiative (CLI) and the Land Use Charge, can you react to this? You don’t know the programme we are having with the governor. Certainly the party will come out at the right time that would be acceptable to all our members and all the citizens of Lagos State; indigenes and residents of Lagos State will be happy. To us, we are not supposed to intervene into the activities of government, we can only advise. And certainly we have detected certain things in those two programmes, but that is not for public consumption. When we finish, we would table it to the governor and we will tell him the reactions of the people why certain things must be done. The Lagos APC executives is also being accused of breaching the party’s constitution with the series of endorsement of Governor Ambode by leaders and executives as if the ambitions of others have been foreclosed. For instance, your presence at the endorsement of Ambode by Lagos West Senatorial District has also raised concern about the role of the party’s executives in the endorsement galore, what is your reaction? Let me make it clear. I was there and I was invited because I am a member of the Lagos West Senatorial District. I was invited to that meeting and when they did the endorsement; did you see me speaking at the place? I did not speak because I was invited to attend the meeting because I reside in Lagos West Senatorial District and that was why I was there. That doesn’t mean that I, as the state chairman is endorsing anybody. Are you, therefore, saying the APC 2019 governorship ticket is still open? Of course, it is open. We have said that several times. Those who are endorsing Ambode are endorsing him and if they want to vote for him, they can vote for him. But that did not preclude anybody contesting; it is open. But it is expected that the executive should have come out to stop some of the Ambode Support Groups coming out at this time. Don’t you think so? How do you know that others are not forming their own groups? As I know now, it doesn’t look likely Ambode alone will contest for the governorship primaries. People have the right to start campaigning now. There is still going to be primary to scale through. If anybody can defeat him at the primary, fine but as an incumbent, he is doing all these things in mobilising his supporters. I sit down here watching what is going on, nobody will ask me not to give form to whoever may be interested in contesting the governorship election. You can’t stop anybody who wants to contest and that is perhaps why he is working hard for people to endorse him for a second term. But the stage is still open for anybody to come out and collect form to challenge the governor. To me that is what the constitution says, it doesn’t preclude anybody from running. One of your elected officials, specifically Senator Olamilekan Adeola aka Yayi, who is currently representing Lagos West Senatorial District, is presently showing interest in contesting for governorship in Ogun State. What is the stake of the people he is representing? To us in Lagos, he did not tell us that he is still not in Lagos. I hear rumours but he has not written to us that he is not representing Lagos anymore and that he has shifted his base to another state. When he does that; he cannot contest here again. If he is going to Ogun State to contest, he cannot contest in two places the same time. Are you saying that you are not aware of some of the statements that have been credited to him about his interest in contesting for governorship in Ogun State? Interest is difference from contesting, has he contested? You can show interest and if you know it is not paying you, you can withdraw. To me, when election comes; if he go and get form there; he cannot get the form here. It will be injustice to hear rumour and then denied him of the seat. Do you want to recall him because of the information that he is contesting. Has he contested? There is someone who went to Kogi to contest. He is also a member of the party and if he now comes to say that he wants to contest in Lagos again, we will say no, because you have transferred your card to Kogi. So are you saying Faleke can’t run in Lagos again? His own case is settled, he cannot run in Lagos again. There is no way he can run in Lagos anymore. But if Faleke goes to court and the court says he can run again, what will be your party’s decision? So be it, I have no problem with the court. If the court says he can contest, so be it. I am a lawyer and I will not go against any ruling of the court. I will obey it. If the court says he has the right to come back, he will be allowed to contest. But to me, he has already transferred his card to Kogi State; so to me he is no more here. At the end of his tenure, we will pick another person. He left because of certain reasons and he had transferred to Kogi now, but if he transfers back and the court says we have no right to deny him, who am I? I will give him the form. We all have to obey the judgment of the judiciary. I am not part of those who are going to disobey the court. There is a trend in Lagos where people move from one senatorial district to another to contest for office like Senator Tokunbo Afikuyomi who crossed from Lagos Central to Lagos West during 2003 election and we now have Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, who represented Lagos Central from 2007 to 2011 now aspiring to run for Senate in 2019 in Lagos West, what do you say to that? If you are living somewhere in Lagos Island in Lagos Central Senatorial District, and you built your house in Lagos West and you now transferred to Lagos West and you transferred your voter card along with it; who has right to tell you where to stay in Lagos? How do you see the ongoing division in some local governments over plans of some Federal and State lawmakers to return to legislative chambers for fourth or fifth consecutive terms in 2019? How do your party intend to handle that? Is there anything in our constitution or the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that says somebody cannot go 10 times as a legislator if the people are still voting for him anytime he participated in primary election? So, who am I to stop anybody that he cannot contest for fourth, fifth or sixth term as long as people are voting for him. The older they are in America, the better they are. We knew about Senator Robert Kennedy who was in the Senate for over 30 years before he died recently. I don’t see where they wrote it in the party’s constitution and Nigerian Constitution that a lawmaker cannot run for more than two terms; it is only the governor and president that cannot serve more than two terms. How do you see the decision by Asiwaju Tinubu that the party executives who have already served for three times or more should not take part in the forthcoming congresses? We feel that the younger generation should be given opportunity because all those serving the party in the last 12 years would have been old now. So, it is right and proper for us to consider the younger generation to come on board so that they can fast track the evolution of this party. Would you say you have groomed someone that will take over from you? We have capable people who will take over from us. I won all the governorship elections, senatorial elections, local government elections and many elections while I was in office. I have trained enough people for them to be able to take over from me. Therefore, I want to move on. I feel we have to leave the place for younger people and to me, it is a wise decision. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 