However, despite the efforts of the financial institutions to provide funds to SMEs, Ayodele Akinbami, a bakery owner in Agege suburb of Lagos State, says one of the biggest impediments to the development of SME development in the country has to access to finance. He told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that the prevailing interest is too high for SMEs. He said that commercial banks charge as much as 30 per cent interest on loan given to small business owners and others, adding that only a business could borrow at that rate, make a profit and pay the loan back with interest. An industrialist, and the General Secretary of the Yaba Industrial Estate Residents Association, Mrs. Bamgbose Alaba, said she had tried, but failed many times to obtain money to expand her vegetable oil business. “I have gone everywhere. If you go to the banks, the first thing they want to know is how soon you can pay back the money. If you tell them that you want to borrow the CBN fund, the banks will tell you that they don’t have the CBN loan to give, that what they have is shareholders’ money and they cannot give shareholders’ money at 9 per cent. “I even went to a microfinance bank which urged me to borrow their own money at the interest rate of 60 per cent per annum. They said after doing that for two years, they would now expose me to the CBN fund.” Another small-scale entrepreneur and maker of sachet water, Mrs. Veronica Onule, said she had tried many times but failed to obtain N5m from the fund to expand her business. She said: “The banks keep asking for landed property. It is hard for small manufacturers to come up with some of their requirements.” Onule added that some of the banks also declined to give long-term loans to industrialists and instead preferred to give the loans to importers and traders who would pay back within a short period of time. “We tell them that the short-term loan they give to importers cannot work for industrialists. Some of them even give the loan to operators of fast food restaurants, anybody who will pay back immediately,” she alleged. One Prisca Adele, alleged that when she approached some of the banks to make enquiries about the percentage of the fund that was reserved for women, she was told that the fund had been disbursed and was no longer available. “We do not know who has been accessing the funds,” she told our correspondent. An SME operator said a source at one of the banks that he refused to name, informed him that the fund was accessed by some big manufacturers who went behind to form small cooperative groups, masking as SMEs. The SME operator, who pleaded anonymity, said it was easy for big manufacturers to access the loan because they had landed property and could meet other conditions for borrowing. A wine manufacturer and chairman of the Matori Industrial Estate Residents Association, Linus Kotey, said it would be necessary for the government to establish an SME bank to service the sector. According to him, that will go a long way in overcoming the huge funding challenges faced by operators. Mr. Paul Ugbajeh, a bottled water producer at Iyana Ipaja, said that he had tried to process the various types of bank loans through two different microfinance banks, to no avail. “I have tried to access the loans to expand my business, by applying to two different microfinance banks but I have been denied. “I have provided all the required documents, but have heard nothing from them, and I keep asking. “I had to approach a friend of mine because there are prospects in water and Ice block business that I want to expand into,” he said. Similarly, Mr. Segun Kuti-George, Chairman, Nigerian Association of Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI), Lagos Chapter, said that none of his members had been able to access neither the government loans nor the bank’s loan. He said that the association has taken deliberate efforts to assist its members in writing presentable proposals submitted to the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency (SMEDAN) for processing. Also speaking to financial mirror on phone, Mr. Olufemi Egbesola, President, Association of Small Business Owners, (ASBON), said that none of the members of the association has accessed any loans. He said that most of the small-scale operators have turned to relatives to get funds to start or expand their businesses, since the government and banks loans were not forthcoming. “To me, I think the process of accessing the loans is too tedious. “You are asked for this, we bring, tomorrow they ask for something else, collateral documents and so on, even after fulfilling all the requirements, we still have not heard anything,” Egbesola said. Mr. Adetokunbo Kayode, President, Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), says the management of the funds for Small, Medium and Enterprises (SMEs) by banks in Nigeria is a weak link in the financing of small businesses. He said: “We all appreciate government’s interest to support SMEs, especially on the issue of funding. But the management of the SME funds by the banks is a very huge issue, a weak link in the chain. “We all know our banks are not structured to fund SMEs. The organized private sector is therefore ready to help canvass and develop new concepts of alternate funding mechanism for SMEs. This will include finance leasing, peer certification for scrutiny of facility for SMEs.” Kayode also called on the Federal Government to fully operate the National Economic Council and urged state governments to replicate the same. According to him, that is the body that will help plan the economy, where critical policies are determined. He said this would bring the era of reactionary and ad hoc policies to an end. He, however,  advised that government at all levels should imbibe the ideal that governance was for the welfare of the people, and that to achieve that, there must be a national vision. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 