Abuja – The presidency gave indications on Thursday that the flight which conveyed President Muhammadu Buhari on a trip to the United States of America had some technical hitches, a development that prompted a stopover in the United Kingdom. The presidency also confirmed that due to the technical hitches, the same presidential jet which conveyed him to America had to make a brief stopover in London. Buhari had met President Donald Trump on Monday, where they had “heart to heart” discussions on challenges bedeviling the country, particularly on security and economy. The Nigerian president, however, left Washington, DC, on Tuesday. He was expected back in the country between Wednesday and Thursday. But delays associated with his journey back to Nigeria prompted some social media frenzy, to which the two media aides to the president made attempts to clarify. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, first gave a clue that the president’s flight was having some challenges. According to the SSA, “The president had a technical stopover in London. I am sure if you keep your ears to the ground, you will hear of his arrival soon.” He, however, stated that there was nothing to worry about. Shehu also said, “The big jet is under repair. It has been taken for major repairs. So the president is using a small plane and there is a limit to the distance the small plane can cover. “So the technical stopover I talked about is that the journey from US to Abuja is broken into two. Technical stopover is that the plane stops at a point, refuel, do some checks and then proceed on the journey. “This is very normal. There is nothing unusual about it. In any case, they are already on their way back home. “It is a routine thing. The plane can do Abuja-Washington, that’s about 12 hours and the maximum the plane can fly is 12 hours, 40 minutes. But you don’t need to push it to the edge”. But few hours later, apparently irked by the controversies, Femi Adesina posted another message on his twitter handle, saying that Buhari was due back in the country on Thursday. He posted: “MB arrives Abuja this evening. The good work of rebuilding Nigeria continues”. Recall that Buhari, in the better part of 2017, spent months in an undisclosed hospital attending to his health. He had on arrival after one of such medical trips said he had never been that sick in his life. PDP Asks Presidency To Explain Buhari ‘Secret Itinerary’ However, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has charged the presidency to come clean on why Buhari who left Washington two days ago after a visit to see US President Donald Trump did not return promptly. The party urged the presidency also to end its official secrecy and come clear on the reasons for President Buhari’s alleged ‘technical stopover’ in London. In a statement on Thursday, PDP said that it is inviting Nigerians to note that President Buhari left the United States 48 hours ago, yesterday, and embarked on an unofficial visit to the United Kingdom for undisclosed reasons without transmitting a letter to the National Assembly. The party insists that the action demonstrates impunity and another constitutional breach. “President Buhari had on Tuesday left the United States, where he had an embarrassing and fruitless outing and instead of returning to the country, detoured to the UK for another private visit without regard to full disclosure requirements of our constitution and laws. “Indeed, Nigerians are worried about the signal being sent out by this penchant for secret itinerary, particularly, given the poor reputation and governance transparency issues confronting our nation under the Buhari administration,” PDP said through Kola Ologbodiyan, its publicity secretary. The party urged the presidency to understand that President Buhari is not a private citizen and as long as his upkeep and itinerary is sourced from tax payers’ money, there must be full disclosure, as citizens deserve to know the purpose of the visit and the cost to the country. “This is especially as President Buhari’s foreign trips, which come at great costs, have not brought any gains to our country. Instead, the president has continued to de-market our nation in the international arena. The just concluded Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in London, where he cast aspersion at our enterprising youths and failed to return with any dividend readily comes to mind,” Ologbodiyan said. comments