Lagos – Multichoice Nigeria, operators of DStv, has stated that it may consider the Pay-as-You-Consume payment option to drive its future business if there is available technology to enable it. The proposed pay-as-you-consume pricing scheme would charge subscribers according to their effective resource consumption excluding interference. Over the years, the leading pay TV operator and others had contended that the pay-as-you-consume option is not possible because of how they buy the viewing contents. John Ugbe, Managing Director of Multichoice Nigeria, who gave the indication on the sidelines of the ongoing Digital Dialogue in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, said, “Pay-as-you-consume is something we may consider if it is technologically possible, and if the business model supports it.” He maintained that the company currently allows subscribers to suspend their subscriptions twice a year in case they are not in Africa. Speaking with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Caroline Oguma, Public Relations Manager, MultiChoice Nigeria, said the service provider will commence pay-as-you-consume business model when the technology becomes available. She, however, stated that there is no timeline for the commencement of the service as the relevant technology to effect it would determine deployment. “We stand on our position that we will begin the pay-as-you-go option whenever the right technology for it is available,” she quipped. It would be recalled that most pay TV providers had consistently argued that the model is not possible to implement in Nigeria considering that they buy the contents they relay in wholes and not in bits. If DStv goes ahead with the plan, they would have replicated the revolutionary feat Globacom achieved in the telecoms industry through their introduction of per second billing (PSB). Prior to the implementation of PSB by Glo, MTN and Econet (now Airtel) had insisted that it was not possible to operate the PSB until after seven years. However, Glo made it possible immediately it hit the market in 2003. 0 comments