British wartime Prime Minister Winston Churchill said all what a man needs in trying moments is vision backed by faith. He didn’t proclaim it as a mouthy or empty credo; the practical British leader put it into infinite use during the critical period of World War2 to secure the UK from the ruthless Nazi warplanes. His vision was driven by faith in the future that would lead to security that would in turn lay the foundation for economic, social and political stability. In our era in Nigeria, these are the levers the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) is also wielding to deal with security breaches across Nigeria in support of the Federal Government’s onslaught on insecurity. We are facing the same nature of grave existential concerns the Britons experienced in Churchill’s time. And if vision or hope backed by faith in the British system and its institutions delivered the Britons, isn’t it certain that FAAN’s current visionary strategies to tame security flaws would also deliver Nigeria’s aviation sector? There are quite serious issues that approximate a declaration of war in the industry such as invasion of airports by herdsmen and their cattle, hoodlums’ attack on air passengers, armed robberies at the terminals and thuggish activities and other worrisome developments tarnishing our image. The point is that when there is a reign of these sordid acts at our airports, they impact negatively on the economy of the land, seeing that airports are the first point of contact between an array of potential foreign investors and tourists on the one hand and the country on the other hand. There is this internal dimension also. Air travel being the safest and most efficient means of transportation, insecurity at the airports attempts to abort this empirically settled view. This situation tends to give way to a rush for less reliable forms of movement of people and delivery of goods and services across the vast land mass called Nigeria. Needless to say, all these would come at huge and fatal cost to the country, its citizens and the economy. There would be accidents on the bad roads; our fledgling rail network would be stressed beyond its limits; the near-nil water transportation would attempt to fill the gap without success. Nothing, then, can replace the aviation system in the modern age. Implementing any national road map of growth and development with contempt for the sector amounts to taking a step forward and four backwards! FAAN however appears to be presenting a profile that is set to free Nigeria from the scourge and scare of insecurity that is turning out to be a nightmare in many parts of the world. Its vision is a grand synergy between it and the security agencies for information sharing to safe guard civil aviation. On this score, according to FAAN,’’ safeguarding civil aviation…includes the safety of passengers, airlines, ground personnel, crew members, the public and facilities…Every security agency plays a role in the overall security of the nation and as such all must not carry themselves as being superior to the other must work as partners in progress to ensure the airport is safe and free from security breaches. Thus, as the security architecture or society is not complete without the military, police or intelligence, so also is the absence of aviation security  in national security set-up incomplete due to the specialized security service it renders.’’ FAAN is now complementing this national aspect of its war on insecurity with a global content. Between April 14 and 20 2018, FAAN hosted the 59th Airport Council International (ACI) Africa Board conference in Lagos. Now ACI is a reputable body that advances the collective interests of, and acts as the voice of the world’s airports and the people they serve. Comprising 62 regular members in 47 countries managing 250 airports and 27 business partners, ACI Africa promotes professional excellence in airport management and operations. The limitless potential of airports to create jobs, facilitate international trade and tourism and trigger economic growth was captured in the theme of ACI gathering in April: ’’Business Transformation For Sustainable Development Of African Airports’’. Undoubtedly, this international flavor deepened and enhanced FAAN’s key identity as a big constituent in the nation’s plans—long, medium, short—to harness strategic resources and resources for rapid growth and development. Since society’s resources and institutions constitute the oxygen of progress and the future, observers that with the strategy in its kitty, FAAN is poised for the next level of its contribution to national development, beyond what is offering to its constituency. This is the gallant role expected of Nigeria’s public institutions. FAAN should meet this expectation even more now as it partners global bodies for ideas on international best practices. It has been argued by notable observers including ex-President Barack Obama and his Secretary of State Hillary Clinton that the trouble with the African setting is that we don’t cultivate durable institutions to process growth and development; instead we make way for strong leaders out of whom we create demigods. To that we add: Nigeria must invest abiding vision and faith in our institutions for a secure and prosperous future. It was a strategy that worked for Britain at a difficult time in its history and it’s still handy for our age. 0 comments