We all know that many things have gone wrong with Nigeria. What I think we do not yet know much about is what exactly those wrong things are and how they came about. From the standpoint of constitutionalism, it is clear that what has held Nigeria down has nothing to do with her shortage of human and material resources nor associated with any “spiritual attack” or some external conspiracies, but simply the lack of understanding that what the British left behind in 1960 was not a finished product but an inchoate political entity that requires the deliberate constructive effort of whoever is placed at the helms, whether in the public sphere or private sphere (including the ecumenical sphere) to consciously nurture the federation into a “more perfect Union” where “no one is oppressed” . One of the critical requirements for a purposeful nation-building as wisely articulated by the great American Statesman, Thomas Jefferson, is the sovereign imperative to build “a wall between Religion and the State”. In his famous plea to the people of Massachusetts, Jefferson argued that “Believing with you that religion is a matter which lies solely between man and his god, that he owes account to none other for his faith or his worship, that the legitimate powers of government reach actions only, and not opinions, I contemplate with sovereign reverence that act of the whole American people which declared that their “legislature” should “make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof…”. Accordingly, Article 6 of the US Constitution (similar to our section 10) provides that “No religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States.” Unfortunately, we have not heeded this grave warning and that failure has created the opportunity for us to be misusing religion in ways that lead only to national perdition. It creates a convenient diversion from the oppressive class disparity in the polity through so many avoidable but debilitating schisms generated by ethnicity, religion and other divisive issues. The practical manifestations of these leadership failings are to be found in the destructive prolonged military interventions, a bloody Civil War with its lingering aftermaths, the rise of grand corruption as a national malaise and, ultimately, the emergence of the current pro-corruption Mafia that has seized on the apparent low alertness level of the Buhari administration to be waging a war of attrition against its anti-corruption stance. The Vice-President might have been taken aback about the obviously unfair and rough tackle that he was subjected to a few days ago in Benue, when a man in cassock pre-emptively threw sharp political jabs at him; but I was not surprised at all. First, the clerical wing of the pro-corruption Mafia has long sermonised that the Buhari victory at the polls was a sectarian loss and thus have an axe to grind with his administration.  What I find strange is that the government has not done much, in terms of policy re-calibration to redress the burgeoning ubiquitous blackmailing until it has taken a life of its own. The earliest indication that the government was finally coming to terms with the challenge was, when the Vice-president, in Yenegoa in September of last year, on the occasion of the commissioning of the Ecumenical Centre, the “Dickson’s Basilica”, said that fighting corruption is difficult “because it is systemic and affecting all institutions; perpetrated by a leadership elite that includes, not just politicians, but private sector individuals and even RELIGIOUS LEADERSHIP…But what we hear today, instead of the gospel, are cries of war, those telling us from the pulpit that our enemy is a physical one who must be destroyed before he destroys us. It is populist and popular rhetoric; every time it is repeated in a Christian gathering, it excites applause; yet, there it is, completely contrary to everything in the new covenant of Jesus Christ”. From that moment on, I knew that a battle line has been drawn between these two “Estates of the Realm.” The occasion of the Vice-President’s visit to Benue last week, supposedly a peaceful and conciliatory mission, provided the opportunity to ambush and detonate a revenge IUD against him. The Catholic Bishop of Gboko, His Lordship, Williams Avenya, aimed his verbal bazooka, inter alia, at him thus: “The point I am trying to make is that a day is going to come when you as the Vice President, will bear the brunt of that problem of injustices in our land, especially those perpetrated on smaller ethnic groups that have no one to fight for them. So, as a Christian person, exonerate yourself from this situation”. There was also the innuendo that he should immediately resign his position as Vice-president because the government in which he is in is engaged in a genocidal war against his fellow Christians and that by still serving that government he has automatically become an accomplice in a sin for which the gate of Heaven would be shut against him. Institutionally, the government has so far been unable to dispel this lingering charge and clear the air with some credible finality but Vice-President Osinbajo, as it turned out, was a different kettle of fish altogether. He did just that. It could be said that the Bishop met his match, perhaps a lot more, because what the VP said extempore in rebuttal to the unfair ambush more than surprised the audience, as it was evidently acidic: There are Christians and there are Christians; some are not even born again! In very crisp prose, he proceeded to evidentially discredit the claims of the Bishop point by point, thus: “My Lord Bishop, you said you are not a politician. I am also not a politician. As a matter of fact, I’m also a priest and I’m a Christian, a born again Christian. Because I’m a born again Christian, my destiny is not determined by any man but by God who I serve…” As if to assure the Bishop that he was not kidding him, he went further to say: “Let me assure you that under no circumstances, none whatsoever, will I give up my faith or refuse to stand up for my faith. You can take that to the bank. Even the position that I currently occupy, I did not ask for it and I’m prepared to leave it at short notice. I became a born again Christian after I became a professor, a professor of the law of evidence, a professor of proof”. Tactfully, he reminded the Bishop that he is not one of those politicians who came into office with nothing: He is a Professor of Law! The rebuttal offered by the Vice-President serves two important purposes. First, it is a reminder that it is dangerous to mix religion with politics, even though it is perfectly right to allow religion to guide us in the service of the people through politics. Second, the fact that one is wearing the cassock does not confer on him the license to arbitrarily condemn others. The problem of the anarchic behaviour of Fulani herdsmen has since assumed an unmanageable character because it has been unduly coloured with sectarian misinterpretations. The government should admit that it has allowed these negative insinuations to persist for too long. The Bishop was probably surprised that such a spirited defence could come from a government that they have already concluded is incapable of making its case before the Nigerian people; while, on the contrary, they have taken over the space spewing out hateful propaganda sermons everywhere and at will. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 