Damaturu – Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), at its 58th Annual Delegates Meeting and Scientific Conference held in Abuja at the weekend, honoured Governor Ibrahim Gaidam of Yobe State for his contributions to healthcare in Nigeria and spearheading the transformation of the healthcare sector in Yobe. Prof. Mike Ogrima, outgoing national president of the NMA, who presented the award to the governor, described as “marvellous” and “wonderful” the progress Yobe had made under Gaidam in healthcare, saying the governor “deserves commendation” for defying challenges to achieve so much. The NMA cited the broad spectrum of interventions in the healthcare sector that Gaidam made, saying that those interventions improved service delivery and maximised the quality of care across the state. “The Gaidam administration has built a brand new teaching hospital and a college of medicine at Yobe State University to improve tertiary healthcare and grow Yobe’s own corps of indigenous medical doctors. “Major hospitals in Damaturu, Potiskum, Gashu’a and Gaidam have also been totally retrofitted and equipped to make healthcare more accessible and affordable to the people. “The infrastructure I have seen in Yobe during my visit… The establishment of a new medical college and all the interventions in the healthcare sector are marvelous,” Prof. Ogrima said as he presented Governor Gaidam with his award plaque. The public may recall that NMA Yobe State branch and the Society of Obstetrics and Gynaecology of Nigeria (SOGON) have earlier conferred awards on Gaidam for his strides in healthcare and for improving the health of women and children in the state. The NMA also recognised the governors of Sokoto and Taraba states as well as Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu, the wife of the governor of Kebbi State, herself a consultant pediatrician and member of the NMA, among others for their own roles in promoting healthcare in their individual states and the country. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 