There is a popular Yoruba adage that says: Everyday is for the thief but there is a day for owner of item stolen. I am imagining what will be going on in the troubled mind of suspended Professor Richard Akindele of the Faculty of Administration, Department of Accounting, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, who was recently alleged to be involved in sex scandal that has since been generating a lot of public interest within and outside Nigeria. Embattled Akindele was alleged to have, in a telephone conversation, flagrantly demanded for sex five times, for marks, from one of her female post-graduate students, Miss Monica Osagie, before he could pass her. Incidentally, a senior staff in the Department of Accounting who reportedly spoke to journalists on condition of anonymity disclosed that three years ago, Akindele was caught for engaging in sex-for-mark imbroglio. If this is true, it means having failed to retrace his steps due to the juicy benefits he seemed to have been deriving over the years from his alleged sex-for-mark escapades, there may be no room for him to escape justice this time around. This is why many people, within and outside the country that have been following the Richard Akindele versus Monica Osagie shameful comic episode, are anxiously awaiting the final decision of relevant authorities on the ludicrous matter. Perhaps, if the randy lecturer that allegedly has insatiable appetite for harassing female students in exchange for marks had been decisively dealt with in the past to serve as a deterrent to his co-travellers indulging, with utmost recklessness, in harassment of females in Nigerian universities, he would not have had the temerity to extend his shameful act to hapless Osagie. However, I commend the Vice-Chancellor of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede for promptly setting up a committee to investigate the matter. It is also noteworthy that the committee, before submitting its interim report, was reported to have given Akindele and Osagie opportunity to express their views to ensure the investigation was fair and transparent. The fact that the preliminary report submitted by the committee revealed that the audio conversation in the vexed sex-for-mark scandal is that of Akindele and that the voice of the female student in the audio conversation is that of Osagie shows the investigation was in-line with acceptable global best practices. According to a statement signed by Vice-Chancellor Ogunbode, Akindele’s suspension was based on findings of the investigation committee that “established prima facie case of inappropriate relationship by him with the female student, as well as prima facie case of serious misconduct by him in the university, thereby liable, in-line with code of conduct of school rules and regulations”. The university authorities had directed that Akindele, based on the above stated facts, would remain suspended indefinitely pending final determination of the disciplinary case against him by the Council of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-ife. Having earlier commended the university authorities for their swift action, especially in order to douse the tension and end the controversies the condemnable scandal had generated, as well as possible damage it could cause to the hard-earned image of the institution, I will not hesitate to also loud Osagie for the uncommon courage she unwaveringly displayed not only by speaking out and not minding whose ox is gored, but also for unconditionally, unveiling her identity, as well as agreeing to appear before the committee. But beyond the preliminary report which in itself has seemingly indicted Akindele, there should be no delay by the Council of OAU to finally determine the worrisome case. It is in the interest of the university’s apex decision-making body to consolidate on the prompt release of the preliminary report by also quickly making public final determination of the case. This will show members of the public that unlike what obtains in some public universities, OAU authorities will not, for whatever reason, sweep the matter under the carpet. Many are not surprised about the alleged OAU sex-for-mark scandal involving Akindele and Osagie. In fact, there are many Akindeles in Nigerian universities who are sexually harassing innocent and defenceless female students. In these institutions, especially public universities, this rampaging cancerous societal vice is very rampant. Randy lecturers, instead of paying serious attention to the primary objectives for which universities have been established, they shamelessly and wickedly go about sexually harassing female students they are paid handsomely by government to teach. This group of insensitive lecturers are not only a shame and disappointment to the Nigerian university system, they have also inflicted incalculable damages to university education which, ordinarily, is expected to promote teaching, learning, research, as well as mutually beneficial relationships between universities and their immediate communities. Surely, with the continuing presence of randy lecturers in universities, government’s plan to develop tertiary institutions so that they can produce responsible and not half-baked graduates to compete favourably with their counterparts across the world will not succeed. How will lecturers whose main occupation is to sexually harass female students in exchange for pass marks, have time to teach students? It is unfortunate that rather than being ranked as citadel of academic excellence, many public universities in Nigeria, due to the illicit relationships lecturers indulge in with female students, have virtually been turned into busy sexual harassment centres, where sex-for-mark practice has increasingly become a booming enterprise of monumental dimension. For the sake of future of Nigerian youths who are potential leaders, lecturers indulging in sexual harassment should be flushed out of Nigerian university system. Akindele’s alleged atrocity is a reflection of rising wave of sexual vices being perpetrated wantonly by lecturers against female students. It is time whoever that is found culpable must be prosecuted to teach others a lesson. To determine whether or not Akindele deliberately failed Osagie with the score of 33, will it be out of place for OAU authorities to go a step further by giving her papers to neutral lecturers with integrity to re-mark? An enduring lesson female students in the country should learn from this sad incident is that, like Osagie,  they should not hesitate to speak out whenever they are sexually harassed by anybody, no matter how highly placed. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 