Lagos – Former President Olusegun Obasanjo seems determined to go to any length in his quest to prevent President Muhammadu Buhari from extending his tenure beyond May 29 2019. Having written a scathing letter to the president asking him to honourably dismount from the Nigerian horse in 2019, an advice Buhari has spurned with his declaration to seek reelection, Obasanjo, who played a crucial role in bringing the present administration to power in 2015 is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that a new president who will salvage the country emerges in 2019.
To achieve this feat, the Owu-born retired General is ready to make friends and work with his perceived political enemies.
Signs that something is in the offing between Obasanjo and the group came to the fore during the 10th memorial anniversary lecture of former Afenifere and National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) leader, Senator Abraham Aderibigbe Adesanya earlier this month. Obasanjo for the first time attended the lecture and heaped praises on the late Adesanya and other leaders of Afenifere.
When newsmen enquire from Chief Ayo Adebanjo, a chieftain of Afenifere on Obasanjo’s mission, he dismissed it saying while the former president as a Yoruba son and leader is free to attend; the group will have nothing to do with him.
“Was there any one we had done before that he did not attend? And even he didn’t attend the one before that was his choice. If he didn’t attend the one before and he changed his mind to attend this one, that is his constitutional right. Afenifere is not involved in anything with him”
“I don’t know his intention. But if you are sure that that is his intention, tell the public. He will rather react to it. If that is the insinuation in the public, they are entitled to it. By disagreeing with people and criticizing them, I don’t infringe on constitutional rights. The country is free for anybody to hold any opinion. I don’t have control over their minds. The result will show whether their insinuation is correct or not. Is it not those who left PDP to form APC that are now complaining that they are not satisfied and giving ultimatum to quit? They have a right to do that. By the time election comes, we will all show our programmes.
On Monday, Obasanjo paid a private visit to Chief Reuben Fasoranti in Akure, the Ondo state capital where he appealed to Afenifere to join him in dislodging Buhari in 2019.
Obasanjo, whose visit to Fasoranti’s residence came two weeks after the collapse of his political pressure group, Coalition for Nigerian Movement, (CNM) into the African Democratic Congress (ADC) noted that Afenifere has been in the forefront of fighting for the interest of the Yoruba nation while he has been working towards the interest of the country as a whole. He commended the leadership of Afenifere for being in the forefront of a just and equitable Nigeria, and admitted that he is now on the same page with the group; to save Nigeria from the verge of destruction.
Speaking, he recalled how he visited the leadership of the group some 20 years ago, seeking their support for his election but said he was rejected by the group.
He said: “I remember visiting Pa Abraham Adesanya thrice in Lagos, before the election, and I was asked to join Afenifere and the Alliance for Democracy (AD) then, but, I told them that the AD was not my choice of political party.
“Pa Adesanya told me if I joined, things would change but I refused to join them.
“I went back the second time but they refused to work for my emergence. I went there, again, the third time, but, Afenifere maintained their stand; they refused to vote for me but I secured my votes outside Yorubaland, although they supported me in 2003; for my re-election.”
“Our priority is now one, if we do not join hands to repair this country now, it will collapse and this could be disastrous,” Obasanjo added.
In his response, Fasoranti commended Obasanjo for his struggle to make Nigeria a better place, and assured him of Afenifere’s support, to join hands with him, in the struggle.
“We want to encourage you in your struggle to make Nigeria the best. You are fearless and that is one of the traits of a good leader. We have been watching you and your dreams of a better Nigeria shall be realised.
“Nigerians are at crossroads; we are tired of the killings, kidnapping going on across the country and the president is mute and silent about it,” he said.
Fasoranti, however, said Afenifere threw its weight behind the coalition of political parties to forge alliance against President Muhammadu Buhari, in the next general election.
“We are in full support of all the letters written by Obasanjo to president Muhammadu Buhari on the state of the nation. We are dissatisfied with the state of affairs in the country. The country is not being run properly.
“It will be the joy of everybody to present a formidable team to confront the evil government that is there now.
Nothing is being done properly in this country presently.
“Look at the killings in the North, the president is very silent about it. We are all Nigerians; if he can keep silent about the killing of his people; that is bad enough.”
Fasoranti’s latest position is contrary to what he expressed last year in November where he condemned Obasanjo’s relationship with the group.
The elderstatesman who spoke in a radio programme in Akure, said Obasanjo took advantage of the group in 2003 presidential election and “left us in the lurch.”
He lamented that the former president persuaded the six Yoruba states controlled by the Alliance for Democracy (AD), which was then a strong affiliate of Afenifere to support his second term bid, apart from the then Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, who objected to the plan.
According to him: “He tricked us into losing the election at that time and that is the grouse we have against him. At that time, he advised to boycott the election, which we hesitatingly agreed to do. At the end of the day, he landed us on the rock.
“He dissociated himself from what we are doing, so there is no love lost between Afenifere and Obasanjo.”
The Afenifere chieftain expressed doubt on a possible reconciliation between the members of the group and the elder statesman.
“He has his own ways of doing things, he doesn’t compromise even among his own people, he is not 100 per cent accepted because of his utterances in recent times. So, people are watching, I don’t think he has a following.
“You know his own stance, he is very uncompromising, even up till now, and it is very difficult making an approach or coming into an agreement with him,” he said.
The presidency has however dismissed the saying nothing will come out of the union.
Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity in a chat with Daily Independent challenged both Obasanjo and Afenifere to come out with their voters and challenge the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) at the polls to see if they can defeat President Muhammadu Buhari.
“I don’t see anything coming out of the alliance. The two of them which party do they represent? If they have voters card, let’s meet at the polling station” Shehu said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 