Tunisia Tunisia Hope To Hold Their Own Against Tricky Opponents Tunisia have appeared in the finals of the FIFA World Cup on four occasions, the first being at the 1978 edition where they finished in ninth position. Between 1998 and 2006 they had a streak of three World Cup qualifications. They will make their fifth appearance at the finals in the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. In the 1978 competition held in Argentina, they became the first African team to win a World Cup game, defeating Mexico 3–1 in Rosario. A 1–0 defeat to 1974 semi-finalists Poland followed, but although The Eagles Of Carthage then held reigning champions West Germany to a 0–0 draw, they failed to reach the next stage. Tunisia failed to qualify for the World Cup again until twenty years later. Biggest Strength Tunisia are ostensibly a team without stars, but they boast several excellent midfielders who should be well placed to hold their own against Belgium and England in their opening two fixtures. The trio of Ferjani Sassi, Mohamed Amine Ben Amor and Ghaylen Chaaleli offer balance, discipline and energy in the heart of the park, and will ensure that Tunisia remain competitive. They are a workmanlike bunch, but as they demonstrated in their recent qualifying victories, they will be disciplined and tenacious in protecting the backline. Wahbi Khazri and Naim Sliti offer a touch of class, a goal threat in the final third and decent set-piece delivery. Biggest Weakness Tunisia netted 11 goals in qualifying, but they were twice frustrated by a limited Libya side, only scoring once — a Khazri penalty — over 180 minutes. The loss of Youssef Msakni, the top scorer in the current set-up, is both a bitter personal blow for the player and denies Tunisia arguably their chief goal threat. The erratic forward netted a memorable hat trick in a scintillating evisceration of Guinea during the qualifiers, and it’s hard to imagine Fakhreddine Ben Youssef or Taha Yassine Khenissi enjoying similar inspiration. Injury problems for Chaalali, Ben Amor and the influential Ali Maaloul are also concerns for Tunisia’s coaching staff as the World Cup approaches. Star Player Wahbi Khazri may have flopped in England with Sunderland, but back on loan in France with Rennes, he has continued where he left off in Ligue 1. The talented playmaker has nine goals so far, demonstrating the kind of form that saw him linked to the Premier League originally, and relishes representing his country. He was shortlisted for this year’s Marc-Vivien Foe Award and the threat he offers cutting in from the left, or from set pieces, will be a key weapon for Tunisia if they’re to cause an upset in Russia. Prediction Tunisia aren’t a bad side, boasting a strong midfield and several exciting attacking talents. However, as soon as the draw was made, their chances of reaching the knockout rounds appeared slim. There aren’t too many tougher opening fixtures for any side at the World Cup than England and Belgium, and Tunisia could already be out by the time they meet Panama in Saransk in their final fixture. The prognosis already looked bleak before a litany of injuries hit the squad and Msakni was ruled out, and it remains to be seen whether the likes of Maaloul, Chaalali, Rami Bedoui and Ben Amor could be replaced if they fail to make it back it time. Captain: Aymen Mathlouthi Manager: Nabil Maaloul Nickname: The Eagles of Carthage FIFA Ranking: 14 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 