Abuja – Ahead of Osun and Ekiti states’ governorship elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has again accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of registering more election observers with soft spot for the All Progressives Congress (APC) .
The opposition further pointed out that the electoral umpire has allegedly manipulated the INEC voters’ and constituency data to favour the APC.
In a press release signed by Kola Ologbodiyan, PDP’s publicity secretary, the party alleged that INEC boss, Mahmood Yakubu, has secretly registered over 4,000 APC agents as observers for the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections.
“INEC should explain why it registered observers without the knowledge of other stakeholders, particularly the major political parties contesting in the elections.
“It is clear that the sneaky activities of the commission and the APC are all aimed at institutionalizing their planned rigging of the governorship elections but we want to assure that such will be firmly resisted at all level of the electoral process,” Ologbodiyan stated.
The party, therefore, demanded the immediate cancellation of the registration of observers for the Ekiti and Osun states governorship elections and asked for the conduct of a fresh registration that involves all stakeholders if indeed they want Nigerians to have faith in the processes.
The party reminded Prof. Yakubu that Nigerians are taking note of what it considers an erosion of the independence and public confidence in INEC under his watch.
“Nigerians are not ready to accept any process or results that do not reflect the democratic will of the people in any election at any level across the country,” Ologbodiyan said.
The party also said that the quick admission by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of the existence of underage voters in its voter register has vindicated the position of the PDP and clearly shows that it has not been crying wolf where there was none.
“While we acknowledge the development, we reject moves by the commission to unilaterally clean up the discredited register and eliminate the minors without involving all stakeholders including political parties in the process.
“This is principal because we have already been made aware that INEC, under Prof. Mahmood Yakubu has been instructed by the Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to retain the underage voters, particularly in Katsina, Kano states and other porous states where they plot to rig election for President Muhammadu Buhari,” the party said. 0 comments