Lagos – The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Tincan Island Command yesterday, said it generated N104.5 billion revenue to the Federal Government coffers between January and April 2018. The command also disclosed that the amount was against its projection of N116 billion. It however, rated the performance to 90.09 per cent. The Area Controller of the Command, Comptroller Musa Abdullahi made the disclosure during a press conference in Lagos. He equally revealed that the Federal Government initiative on export, especially agricultural commodities, yielded results in the command with the exportation of 45,462 metric tons of goods with Free On Board (FOB) value of N29.146 billion. He gave the analysis of the export as 38,517 metric tons of agricultural products with FOB value of N22.435 billion, 6,945 metric tons, processed and manufactured goods export valued at N6.711 billion, adding that for the period under review, 45,462 metric tons of export valued at N29.146 billion was achieved when compared with the same period in 2017 where 8,140.6 metric tons valued at N7.246 billion was realised between January and March, 2017. The exported agric products include cashew nut, rubber, hibiscus flower, cocoa butter, sesame seeds, processed wood, frozen shrimps and processed leather. While the manufactured products exported within the same period include empty bottles, biscuit, cigarette, polyethylene, billets, soap, hair cream, and tissue papers. According to him, a comparative analysis of the revenue, against the collection of the previous year (2017) for the same period is the sum of N82.154 billion, “there is an improvement in the figure of about N22.68 billion which is equivalent to an improvement of about 27.61 per cent.” The customs boss pointed out that the improved collection so far had been driven by the establishment of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), and strong revenue drive, achieved through blocking of areas of revenue leakages. The controller said the command was committed to the transformation of revenue collection and reporting system with the implementation of NICIS 2, with additional functionability which is an upgrade of NICIS 1. He, however, explained that as part of the specific gains the Command achieved as a result of the implementation, the Command now have the Biometric Access System, as well as the introduction of a ‘one stop shop’, which would enable treatment of declarations with valuables, classification and other related clearance issues/queries. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 