Lagos – Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, the Lagos State governor, on Tuesday joined thousands of workers to commemorate this year’s May Day, just as he commended the organised labour unions for the uninterrupted industrial harmony that his administration has enjoyed since he assumed office. Governor Ambode, who spoke at the May Day Rally, held at the Agege Stadium, Lagos, while attributing the industrial harmony and peace in the state to the maturity and responsibility of the labour unions, applauded them for adopting alternative dispute resolution mechanisms rather than resort to industrial actions. He said, “It is on record that we have never since the inception of this administration, had any dispute with the organised labour and I will be the first to admit that the labour unions in Lagos State have been most responsible and while, at the same time, being dogged in their advocacy for the promotion of the interests of workers in Lagos State, both in the public and private sector groups. “In proof of the maturity and responsibility of the labour unions in our state, the organised labour has consistently met with members of our administration under different fora designed to identify and address possible areas of tension and disagreement before they fester into open conflicts. “This approach has resulted in an unprecedented three-year period of uninterrupted industrial harmony and peace in Lagos State. For this, I most sincerely commend the labour unions in Lagos State.” The governor, who said he was elated to join the workers to commemorate their day, seized the occasion to reaffirm his administration’s commitment to continue to prioritise their welfare and well-being for the continued growth and development of the state. He said it was not in doubt that the development strides his administration had recorded since May 29, 2015 was due to the hard work, understanding and cooperation of workers both in the public and private sectors in the state. “Our administration remains passionate and committed to handling and resolving all issues affecting the welfare, service entitlements, and infrastructural development for all workers in the state. “It is on record that we have never defaulted in meeting our commitment to workers under the Contributory Pension Scheme and have always prioritised the payment of workers’ salaries and emoluments in addition to improving the welfare package of workers across the board,” Ambode said. Describing the theme of this year’s Worker’s Day celebration, ‘Labour Movement in National Development: Dare to Struggle, Dare to Win’, as apt and timely, especially with the 2019 general elections beckoning, the governor said it was imperative for the labour movement to see itself as a constructive partner of the government in ensuring peace and harmony in the society before, during and after the conduct of the elections. Ambode also urged the various labour unions to show their strength and mobilise their members massively to obtain their Permanent Voter Card (PVCs) and use same during the elections to sustain the unity and progress of the nation. He assured that his administration would continue to partner leaders of the Trade Union Congress (TUC) and the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), adding that the requests tabled by both unions would be considered for the continued peace, progress and prosperity, of not just all workers in Lagos State, but for all Lagosians. In their remarks, Chairmen of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC), Lagos State Chapters, Comrades Idowu Adelakun and Francis Ogunremi commended Ambode for the massive infrastructural drive across the state, security of lives and property, as well as prompt and regular payment of salary among other welfares for workers in the state. “The NLC commends our proactive and foresighted governor who has placed the security apparatus on red alert. The spate of operations of kidnappers has gone down considerably and Lagos has therefore become one huge secure smart city for local and international business transaction,” Adelakun said. Ogunremi, on his part, said it was gratifying that Ambode, had ensured payment of about N10 billion to over 2,500 pensioners, while the present administration had equally performed creditably well in areas of road construction, security, traffic congestion, among others. Dr. Joe Okei-Odumakin, President of Women Arise, lauded Ambode for concerted efforts at sustaining workers’ welfare and infrastructural renewal across the state. 1 comments