Abakaliki – Engr. David Umahi, Chairman of South-East Governors’ Forum and Ebonyi State governor, insisted on Tuesday that the South-East geopolitical zone was still facing serious marginalisation in the country. Governor Umahi said this at the Pa Ngele Orunta Township Stadium in Abakaliki during his Democracy Day speech. He, however, faulted the way and manner the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) was approaching the issue. Umahi stated that the governors of the five states in the region believe constructive engagements with the Federal Government, as being championed by the governors and Ohanaeze Ndigbo was the best way to handle the matter. He condemned the method being deployed by IPOB and Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB). He said the method adopted by the groups was inimical to peace and development of the region. Governor Umahi also condemned the sit-at-home order given by IPOB and MASSOB today in the zone and urged Ebonyi people to ignore the order. He warned that any trader in the state who failed to open his shop on Wednesday, in solidarity with the IPOB and MASSOB, would forfeit the shop to the government. He said, “Any trader that closes shop will forfeit the shop forever. Anybody that flouts this order will be decidedly dealt with. I ask Ebonyians to go about their businesses freely and peacefully. “Let me say that when we, the South-East governors, say that we don’t want the activities of IPOB, does not mean that we are very happy with the marginalisation of the South-East in the affairs of our nation. “But we are saying that the way IPOB is going to address the matter is not the right way. The right way is what the Ohanaeze Ndigbo did; which they did in the committee of Igbo people, and that is what we believe. “We call on the Federal Government to look into the plight of the South-East people and address the issue of marginalisation. We believe in one Nigeria that is found in equity and fairness and fair play.” In the early hours of Tuesday, IPOB flyers and posters, urging citizens of Ebonyi State to observe the sit-at-home order in the state flooded the capital city. The flyers contained IPOB’s logo and pictures of some dead IPOB members. The same things were also conspicuous on the posters which were posted in front of almost all the buildings and shops along Ogoja Road, Afikpo Road, Water Works Road, Nkaliki Road, major motor parks within the capital city, among others. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 