Benin – The leadership of the Edo South Senatorial District of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has given a 14-day ultimatum to APC youths who ambushed, harassed and assaulted Senator Matthew Urhoghide to go round the streets of Benin ringing bells and begging for forgiveness. Meanwhile, the leaders and youths of the senatorial zone have passed a vote of implicit confidence on Senator Matthew Urhoghide for his effective representation of the zone in the National Assembly. In a communiqué signed by Deacon Mike Ehima, the PDP Senatorial chairman, at the end of a meeting held by the leaders and executive members of the party in Benin City on Thursday. The meeting stoutly condemned in strong terms the ambush laid at the Benin Airport by some APC State sponsored agents who unleashed mayhem, harassment and assault on Senator Urhoghide on his way from Abuja last weekend. The party also expressed that the tacit support the hooligans enjoyed from Governor Godwin Obaseki was ungodly and unwholesome, as his actions fall short of a statesman and Chief Security Officer. “The actions of the hooligans are sacrilegious to the Benin Nation as, “Okhaivbo” and a celebrated “Odion” is not allowed to be humiliated in our land, not to talk about removing cap from his head. “We also regret that while the evil doers in Edo South prompted our youths to denigrate our own Senator, his counterpart heading the same Committee in the House of Representatives, Hon. Kingsley Chinda, whose position was reinforced by Hon. Baballe from Kano State, was celebrated by their people. “We hold that only fools should rejoice at this senseless and unwarranted assault on him as assault on the entire people of Edo South Senatorial district he represents. “Finally, we pass a vote of implicit confidence on Senator Matthew Urhoghide in his representation of the Senatorial district since his election to the Upper Legislative chamber. “In particular, we endorsed his latest contributions in floor of the Senate in furtherance of achieving the goal(s) of the Committee he heads (Public Accounts Committee) and his follow up in invocation of Section 143 of the Constitution,” the party added. 1 comments