ASABA – A prison inmate has appealed to the Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa for a state pardon as he now regrets his actions for killing his sister. Dele Mokwunye, 41, a native of Idumuje-Unor, Aniocha North Local Government Area of Delta State was 24 years old in 2002 when he brutally murdered his childless aunty with whom he was residing at the time. He butchered the aunt with a cutlass on suspicion that she was using witchcraft powers to hinder his progress while his biological father, who has since passed on, was one of the prosecuting witnesses fielded by the state that gave evidence against him. He was previously sentenced to death by hanging by Justice Anthony Akpovi of Ogwashi-Uku High Court in 2006 but commuted to life in prison by the former Governor of the State; Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan in 2010 and is currently serving his jail term at the Onitsha Prison. He begged the chairman of the Delta State Advisory Council on the Prerogative of Mercy, Chief Patrick Okpakpor, who led other members of the council to the Onitsha Prison as part of their statutory duties for total pardon as according to him the homicide action was a mistake and “temptation.” Chief Okpakpor told convicts transferred to the Onitsha and Awka prisons from Delta State where members of the Council visited, that the Council lacked the power to order release of inmates from custody. He further explained that such power to order the release of inmates from prison custody only resides with the governor as enshrined in section 212 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). Okpakpor also explained that the quarterly prison visitation exercise of the council was not only restricted to prisons within Delta State but to such other prisons across the Federation where indigenes and none indigenes alike, convicted by Delta State High Court are serving their terms of imprisonment. The team which pleaded with the authorities of the Awka Prison to consider the transfer of the three inmates of Delta State origin to Onitsha Prison or bring them back to Warri Prison to enable them have access to their family members. Okpakpor described Governor Okowa as a true humanist and emphasised that the governor considers every individual in Delta State important, their incarceration notwithstanding, adding that he will continue to reach out to them no matter where they are. The other members of the council who were part of the exercise included the Secretary, Uju Monye, Kress Njukwuomeni,  Irene Imilar, Dr. Samuel Efetobor, John Okiroko and Paulina Egbon of the Nigeria Prison. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 