Lagos – A Lagos Magistrate Court sitting in Yaba has overruled the request by Udeme Odidi, the female Lawyer, who allegedly stabbed her husband to death, and sought to stop his burial. Odidi had approached the court to stop the burial of her deceased husband slated for today, Thursday, May 10. She had made the request through her Lawyer, Oluseye Bamijoko, on the ground that the result of the autopsy carried out on the deceased was not made available to them. Odidi, through her lawyer, also argued that the result of psychiatric evaluation carried out on her was not made available to the defence. Kikelomo Ayeye, the Chief Magistrate, had ordered that the defendant be remanded in kirikiri Maximum Prison, while she also directed that she should be allowed access to her doctor and counsel. Earlier, Odidi was arraigned on a lone charge of murder. According to the prosecution, the defendant on May 3, 2018 unlawfully killed her 56-year-old husband, Otike Odidi, by stabbing him with a knife. The offence contravenes 223 of the Criminal law of Lagos State, 2011. The defendant’s counsel, Bamijoko, requested that she should be remanded in Ikoyi Prison, but the prayer was also rejected as there was no female facility in Ikoyi Prison. Ayeye also declined her request to stop the planned burial of the deceased, stating that it would be a rude interruption to the right of the dead. She however ruled that, if necessary, the body could still be exhumed for further investigation. The defence counsel, Bamijoko, had insisted on independent autopsy and psychiatric evaluation of the suspect. Bamijoko told the court that the defendant had been diagnosed with Thyroid disease, which requires her to see the doctor urgently. Ayeye also ruled that Odidi would remain in Kirikiri Maximum Prison pending the conclusion of DPP’s advice. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 