Jada Pinkett Smith‘s new project has her discovering a lot about her 17-year-old daughter Willow Smith — including how she learned about the birds and the bees. On the mother-daughter duo’s new Facebook Watch series Red Table Talk, Jada and Willow — as well as Jada’s mother Adrienne Banfield-Norris — get into an intimate conversation about sex, with Willow revealing that her first introduction to the topic was when she walked in on her parents Jada and Will Smith in the act. “I had no idea!” Jada told Vulture, explaining the revelation was one of the show’s most “shocking moments.” “How did that happen?!” Jada said, laughing and adding that the shock still hasn’t worn off. “I was like, ‘Lord have mercy, what did you see? Thank God I have some therapy fund put aside for you.’ ” While Jada can laugh about it now, she said “it wasn’t funny in the moment.” Luckily, Willow “didn’t really see anything” but “knew she had just walked in on a very private moment.” And how did Will take it? “I haven’t told him yet!” Jada said. “That’s what’s funny, ’cause I want Will to see this! He’s gonna be like, ‘What?!’ He’s gonna call me and be like, ‘What the hell is going on over there?!’” “I didn’t tell him on purpose because I think it’ll be so funny,” Jada added. “He does that to me all the time. I’ll sip on my little tea and [watch].” Her husband will certainly have a lot to see in Red Table Talk. The show allows fans and viewers to join the three generations of women at the Smith home every week for 10 episodes. The candid dialogue will bring together three different viewpoints as Jada, Willow and Adrienne reveal their personal experiences and thoughts about a variety of issues that have touched their family. “Red Table Talk is about raw truth, love and deep passion. My mother is old school, Willow is new school, and I find myself right in the middle,” Pinkett Smith told PEOPLE in April. “I’ve done a lot of sharing and growing on Facebook. Being able to engage with the Facebook Watch community in such a deeply personal way is amazing, and I’m excited to be part of something new.” Added Willow: “As a 17-year-old, it’s important for me to be able to talk openly about what’s going on in my life…there have been too many times I have felt alone. I feel like the only real valuable thing in life is sharing what we’ve gone through. Conversation, storytelling, pain, pleasure, joy, happiness and communicating that to each other is all that life really is. And for real, we put it #AllOnTheTable.” 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 