Comrade Jamaine Amen Imhontuniye is a presidential aspirant under the National Conscience Party (NCP) for the 2019 election. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the three years of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration and why he wants to rule the country. Excerpt: How do you see the three years of President Muhammadu Buhari administration? Nothing much has changed. President Buhari has not delivered in any of his campaign promises. Nigerians are still where they were in 2015. In fact, they are now poorer than the President met them.  Nothing much has changed in areas of education, road infrastructure and redundant economy, among others. Unemployment is higher that President Buhari met it. Security is not improving. It is even worse. On the economy, the Naira has no value. Inflation is high. The system, which depends on oil, has not changed. Nigeria has gone into deficit. We owe the World Bank and several countries. The debt profile is rising on a daily basis. Nigeria owes China and other country. Nigeria is drifting towards a failed nation under President Buhari. There is high level of insecurity as the Boko Haram and the herdsmen have continued to kill Nigerians on daily basis, while corruption, which he promised to fight, thrives unabated. The administration also used its security apparatus to intimidate opponents and critics. Since you announced your aspiration some months ago, what is the situation? Would you say that you are still in the race? It has been interesting. I am still in the race. But, I have become more concerned about how the country is being run by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. I have been consulting, strategising and restrategising, building structures across the country. I am in mobilisation stage within the party. I have been galvanising everyone on how the NCP can take the nation and the party can be made to be attractive to Nigerians to get their mandate. I am also doing a lot of mobilisation of people towards getting their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). I have been holding town hall meetings, educating people on the programmes of NCP. I do this within the party’s platform. I will soon embark on a nationwide tour to sell my vision and aspirations to all the state chapters of the party and other stakeholders among Nigerians. I believe that at the end of the day, we shall succeed. The NCP National Chairman, Tanko Yunusa, has declared interest in the party’s presidential ticket. How are you grappling with the situation bearing in mind that there are four or five other aspirants? It does not bother me. We have different dreams, although we are on the same platform. But like every aspirant and member of the party, I believe in the NCP and the vision of the founding father, the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi. Apart from the party’s 10-Care Programme, I also have my personal programme. As one who has lived abroad (in US) for over 10 years, I have foreign experience from advanced countries, which I will bring to bear, if I am elected. I also have foreign contacts who I wil bring in to help redeem the country, especially in the power sector. I am a self-made man. I will inject my experiences into the Nigerian system to move the country forward. Apart from power, I have ideas on how to solve the nation’s unemployment problems, management of resources, how to engage the youths and make them relevant in the society and governance. Some coalitions are coming up for the 2019 general elections, which may include the NCP. Would you be ready to work with such a coalition if you emerge victorious in your party’s primary and the Presidential slot does not come to your party? If you have a dream, you will not pass it over to another person. A lot of the political parties in the coalitions are not on ground. I don’t see them as vibrant parties that can rule Nigeria. Some of them may not have good programmes and are not ground, unlike the NCP which is everywhere and has identifiable offices in almost all the states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). So, I do not see the coalitions’ Presidential ticket going to another party outside the NCP. But, I do not have problem with parties coming together. I only have problem with their intentions. I questioned the motive of some of them. Some of the parties have mobile offices. If the NCP fails to get the coalition’s ticket, I don’t see it working with them. But, when we get to the bridge, we will cross it. Nigerians recently took President Muhammadu Buhari to the cleaners over his statement that the nation’s youths are lazy people who look for free monies, while a cross section of the political class feel that it would be too risky entrusting the nation’s leadership to the youths. What is your take on these? The average Nigerian does not tires of pushing. We do not take ‘no’ for an answer. In US, where I have been living, you find Nigerians in almost every sector and they are doing very well. The President’s assertion is wrong. Nigerian youths are go-getters and are educated. The President should not use the faults of few people to judge the whole youths. He has not done much to help the youths. The unemployment rate is still very high. He has not empowered the youths. The Niger Delta youths have not been empowered and trained enough, especially when the nation’s wealth is being exploited from their land and their environment devastated. President Buhari administration should do a lot to encourage the youths instead of castigating them. We have millions of graduates without jobs five years after their graduation. How do you see the recent invasion of the Senate Chambers by suspected thugs? I see collusion among some Senators or some other insiders. It was an orchestrated attack. I see a sell-out by the National Assembly security. By now, there should have been an answer. The investigation should not have taken so long. Indeed, what happened was a big threat to democracy. It is risky thrusting the country into the hands of people who cannot manage it. What is your view on the mooted plots to impeach the President by the National Assembly members? The move is right. President Buhari has not delivered in any of his promises. He can be impeached if the National Assembly members are sure of his failures. But, whether he is impeached or not, President Buhari is on his way out. I do not see him returning to power come 2019. He is not a performer. His age and ill-health are his undoing. If the All Progressives Congress (APC) fields him again in 2019, the party is heading for failure. This because Nigerians deserve a better ‘Change’ and not the type they are getting now. That is what that NCP administration will offer Nigerians. I am certain that it is the NCP that will provide the ‘Change’ Nigerians desire, in collaboration with the youths and the Nigerian masses themselves. That is why we are in the race. How do you see the perennial crises in both the APC and the PDP? All I can see is that the crises in these two parties is not surprising. Nigerians can do without these two parties. They have destructive tendencies. They are the ones destroying the country. It is only those that benefit from their rule that cannot do without them. The two parties only favour the elite. The Nigerian masses are united in the resolve to take power from both parties. They are known for recycling people 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 