Mathias Luka Agbu is the founder of Luka Agbu Memorial Foundation, a Non- Governmental Organisation (NGO). He is one of the contenders for Taraba Southern Senatorial Seat in the forthcoming General election. He unveiled some of his programmes and policies in this interview with Janet Audu. Excerpts: Can the public meet you via this medium? Yes, Mathias Luka Agbu is an Engineer by profession, I studied Mechanical Engineering from the Federal University of Technology Minna and after my Youth service, I proceeded to the United States of America where I did my Masters degree in Mechanical Engineering still from University of Texas and I have lived and worked in the United State of America for about 20 years now, happily married with five children. You are contesting for the  Southern Senatorial Zone to represent the people of Wukari, Ibi, Takum, Donga, Ussa and the Yengtu Special Development Area at the National Assembly, what really motivated you? I am motivated by my desire to make a positive difference in the lives of my people and I have demonstrated that through my NGO charity work organisation known as “Luka Agbu Memorial Foundation. In my  personal way, I try to put smiles on the faces of my people. Through this NGO, a lot of peoples hope were rekindled especially orphans and the less privileged , I started this foundation in 2008 till date. I have been able to sponsor up to 200 orphans and the less privileged.  I have also empowered youths and also done community programme, all these are reflections of my heart because my target is to make positive impact where ever I find myself in a society where things are not going right there, I think of the way forward, as an individual I am limited scope and capacity. So I believe politics if used correctly, it can influence people in a very large number. As an individual, I am yet to cover more than two local governments using my foundation, so I am entering politics to better the lives of my people by God’s grace. I am motivated because I love people and I want to add value into their lives and attract federal presence to my state. To answer your question proper, I want to bring government closer to my people and to also bring my people closer to government. You are contesting under which party and why that party? I am contesting under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), it is not as if PDP has advantage over other political parties. When you seek a political platform you will consider so many things like the value of the party you are contesting under, the brand of the party is important, you consider if the party is well accepted, you just have to take all these to consideration, if you are not careful, you may lose out. Having studied the Southern Taraba zone, I felt PDP is the right platform to ride on but the most important thing is actually my vision and mission which my vision can ride on any platform but it makes more sense to identify with PDP which I am also a member, so it is not by accident. If given the mandate, what difference will you like to make? The work of a legislator is to make laws and also to represent your constituency in the National Assembly, my focus is going be on two areas, first, is economic development and second is human development because we see bad representation in our Constituency, we see leadership that is not carrying people along, we see challenges that people are going through, people feel so abandoned and neglected. I am bringing a different style of leadership and my leadership model is servant leadership, I want to serve people, a good leader is a listener who listens to his electorates, I am ready to listen to their cries and grievances to provide solution by God’s grace. So, I am bringing to the table what is not obtainable. People come to leadership for different purposes but I am coming to serve and proffer solutions to the problems my people are faced with every day, so I am going to give priority to the economic development and human development. You spent two decades in the United States of America, what aspect of leadership style or system of America that you want Nigerian Government to emulate? America is considered as the father of democracy so, every country practicing democracy system should look up to America how it is been done over there, there are so much lesson to learn from America when it comes to how their system work. Institutions are very strong in the U.S and the government is not built around individual it is built around institutions, in Nigeria you see people looking up to individuals, in the developed world especially in the US, it is not working by itself, the system works regardless of a leader so, I want Nigeria to get to that level, we have them in the book but are not implemented, now let it work, the system is not going to be who is there but on the fact that we have a system that works, and also in America, the democracy I see in practice is that people have the power, people can challenge their leader, yes they hold them accountable  when something goes wrong they demand their leaders to explain to them what they don’t understand, they give vivid account of their stewardship, and their leaders answers their questions, you see a legislator coming back addressing his Constituency intimating them on what he is working on, what are the issues, the project that he is pushing, what his or her plans are, with that floor of communication between electorates and their leaders, I see leadership there as service, the people are more powerful than the leaders because the leader is answerable to them. So, I hope we get to that point in Nigeria where the electorates will feel powerful to hold the leader accountable when you hold the leader accountable, the leader will really wake-up from his or her slumber. Southern Taraba is highly endowed with both minerals and natural resources especially Wukari where you hailed from, what plans do you have towards harnessing these when you gets to the senate ? There are two roads here, you have to work in collaboration with the state government, as legislator  you are limited to some things, I don’t want to make promises but as legislator and also based on my experience and my international exposure I can easily facilitate by inviting inventors to that area to be able to harness the resources that God has blessed us with in the region, you have to work with the state government to be able to achieve that, I will leverage my international exposure and connections and to see how to achieve that and also the resources that are available at the federal level, you have influence over being a national assembly so, I will utilise that to achieve this. Some individuals are calling for the separation of Nigeria with the belief  that, that is the only solution to our present predicaments what is your take on this ? I don’t ascribe to that because that is not the solution to our problem and it can never be the solution. When we talk of separating the country, it is the same people that will be in the country B if Nigeria is country  A, the only difference will be that you are drawing a territorial line but it is the same people.  I think it’s the right time for us face our challenge headlong. Separation will never be the solution because it is the same people. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 