World’s fastest woman over 10km this year (30:57), Sandrafelis Chebet Tuei of Kenya will lead a team of elite athletes into Nigeria on Thursday for the IAAF silver label road race, the Okpekpe International 10km Road Race on Saturday in Okpekpe near Auchi in Edo state. This was revealed by Mercy Etukudo, the head of Okpekpe road race secretariat on Monday. Tuei, will arrive in company of Mary Munanu, the fourth fastest woman over the distnace this year courtesy the 31:34 she ran last January to come third in the Valencia 10km road race. Also expected on Thursday is Ehtiopia’s Amedework Walelegn, third best ranked man in the 10km race this year as well as 2016 men and women winners, Simon Cheprot of Kenya and Buzunesh Gudeta Getachew of Ethiopia respectively. Josphat Kiprono Menjo, the man who holds the fourth fastest time in history of the 10km (27:04) and his Kenyan compatriot, Ronoh Timothy Kiplagat, who has broken 28 minutes (27:52) over the distance this year will also be on the plane to Nigeria for the race. The athletes, together with their Nigerian counterparts, will go on tour of the course on Friday in line with IAAF requirements. Final registration of all categories of athletes for the race will begin on Thursday May 10 and will close the next day at the Yak hotel in Auchi. The race is powered by Pamodzi Sports Marketing, leaders in sports marketing and hospitality business in Nigeria. However, Charles Kie, Managing Director of Ecobank, has signed for the race, restating his banks commitment on the premise that the race objectives were intandem with the bank Pan African objectives. “I want to use this opportunity to state here that Ecobank fully endorse this race and will like to assure you that we will continue to be associated with the Okpekpe International Road Race,” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 