Dear Bill, thank you for your recent visit to Nigeria. Thank you for all the investments that your Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation have made in Africa and Nigeria in particular. We are a nation of almost two hundred million people so it is understandable that your foundation has invested almost two billion dollars especially in the Northern part of the country without a commensurate output to show for such a huge sum. You lamented about this in your last visit. When you came to Nigeria few weeks ago, you sadly begged our governments to focus on providing good education and healthcare for the people as these two sectors determine the way a nation goes developmentally. Human capital moves economies, you advised, and the human capital must be healthy and educated to be optimally productive. Sir, today is the fifteenth birthday of one of the Dapchi school girls that is still with her abductors, Leah Shuaibu. Some of the Chibok school girls that were abducted four years ago are still with their abductors too. They were all in search of education. As I write this to you, it is with a very heavy heart. Most of the abductees are young girls whose only crime is being born in a country where successive governments have been very unserious about the two most critical sectors you keep talking about – education and healthcare. As I write, most parents in the Northern region of the country where you lamented the lack of evidence of your investment of $1.6billion dollars are withdrawing their children from the schools. They prefer illiterate children alive than their being abducted or killed in schools. Sadly, this is a region with more than ten million out of school children already. The illiteracy and poverty levels are staggering. The girl child high school completion rate is at an abysmal less than 3%! Child marriages are common in the North and cases of Visco Vaginal Fistula (VVF) and maternal/child mortality is very high…highest only after India. I also want to inform you that these two popular abductions are not the only gory stories; there are many undocumented, unspoken about either by the states or even the media. Some male secondary school students from Birnin Yadi were burnt alive in their dormitories as they settled in to sleep after night prep classes. Some college of education students were murdered in their hostels too. But there are no names to them; they are mere statistics. They are mourned only by their families and maybe friends. At the IDP camps, the governors only ensure the ones who survive get their PVCs so they can vote for them at the next elections. Most of the children die before they can live; there are cholera deaths and other diseases too. Most of the girls and women are sexually exploited by those paid to care for them. Their situation is heart-rending. However, with all the lamentations and tragedies most ordinary Nigerians feel very sad about, they keep increasing by the day, and politicians around the country do not care about the damage their inaction about education and the health sector is doing to the development of the country. There are reasons why they do not care about the education of the people and their health. It keeps them ignorant and too sick to challenge their actions and inactions. This is a country where the poor are exploited by the politicians with religion, creed and region. The exploited are sold dummies eternally by the political class so that they would benefit from their poverty and ignorance. As you lamented the fact of non-action in those two vital sectors, they do not care because ignorance and poverty of the people favour the political class. With the world becoming smaller with IT, you must have seen online the political chaos unleashed on parts of the country by a political party, the APC that was organising primary elections and ward congresses. Citizens were killed, there were shootings around the country, some people lost their lives, and the congresses in some states were inconclusive. There are now several factions and the people are very scared. However, these chaotic congresses are not exclusive to the APC. In the past, the other party in the country, the PDP equally unleashed mayhem at different times. There is no intra or inter party democracy in the country, so it is survival of the fittest…money that is claimed not available for education and health is always used to execute elections. Some of them bribe the INEC, Security officials and pay thugs to cause chaos during party primaries and general elections to their advantage. My main reason for writing you this mail is to acknowledge your vision for a better world with your good works and to appeal that you do not turn your back on the country in terms of investments, given the alleged misuse of the past; it is to urge you to continue as a world citizen to urge our governments to put premium on education and health of the human capital that is the engine of development more than any other resource. This write up was inspired by Leah Shuaibu whose birthday is today, a lone girl being held by her abductors because of her faith. Her birthday reminds us all of the Chibok girls still under captivity, the Birning Yadi male students murdered, the women and children in the IDP camps facing untold hardships and many others too numerous to mention here. In all these, our politicians seemingly do not put much value on the education and health of the citizens. Today their attention is solely on the 2019 elections as they plot ways to twat the will of a people they do not care to empower through education and good healthcare. Thank you Sir, for your humane actions around the world, particularly, in Nigeria. Please do not stop urging our politicians that education and health are the most crucial sectors that ought to give any tier of government sleepless nights not politics. So today, we can only pray for the safety of Leah Shuaibu and other girls and boys under untold hardships because they dared to seek education. Can we really wish she has a happy birthday? No, there is no happiness when you are in chains; we can only wish the politicians do introspection and dig deeper and make sure other children can go to school without fear of abduction or death. Leah might not even remember her birthday is today…she has lost touch with the world for so long. But our politicians know that it is election time and they are out politicking…so sad. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 