A Lagos-based cleric, Felix Adunpe, has called on Nigerians and the Super Eagles’ players and handlers to seek God’s face to excel at the 2018 World Cup in Russia. Adunpe, the General Overseer, Signs and Wonders Prayer Ministries, Evangelical for All Nations, Epe, Lagos State, said on Tuesday that God was ready to help the national team beyond their preparations According to him, God directed him to organise a 40-day fasting and prayer in April for the nation on Mount Ikoyi, in Osun and special prayers were also offered for Super Eagles’ campaign at the Mundial. “I urge Nigerians to seriously offer prayers for Nigeria’s Super Eagles and their handlers to spring surprise and triumph in Russia. “The Bible says we should ask, seek, knock in Matthew 7:7. I have designed a World Cup prototype to use as a point of contact for claiming the original Russia 2018 World Cup. “Some men of God have seriously prayed on it at the end of a 40-day fasting and prayers we organised on April 27, tagged ‘Nigeria must be Redeemed’ on Mountain Ikoyi,’’ he said. The cleric, who said nothing should be too big or small to seek God’s intervention, added that churches should remember the Super Eagles in prayers for a good outing at the World Cup. He also called on the national team’s handlers and all stakeholders to seek God’s counsel to get every decision, step, selection and strategy right ahead of the tournament. “God is able to help our national team to bring glory to the country, but we need redemption from God’s anger to move forward. “I therefore, urge all Christians to embark on a three-day fasting and prayers between May 21 and May 23 to pray for the country. “We also need to pray for the release of the remaining children of God in the camp of Boko Haram,’’ Adunpe said. The 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia begins on June 14 and ends on July 15, with 32 countries expected to take part in the world’s football most prestigious tournament. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 