Ado-Ekiti – Miners in Ekiti State have been urged to embrace best practices in their vocation in order not run foul of the law. This was the thrust of a one-day policy dialogue organised by African Centre for Leadership, Strategy and Development (LSD) Centre, with support from the Open Society Initiative for West Africa (OSIWA), held in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State capital. The facilitators urged miners in Ekiti to properly organise themselves and mine right in the state, just as the Joint Task Force (JTF) cautioned them to operate within the law or be prosecuted. With the theme ‘Mining security and the challenges of sustainable mining in Ekiti State’ held at Delight Hotels, Ado-Ekiti. In the communiqué issued at the end of the event, stakeholders urged the Federal Government, through the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, to set up action and inaugurate the already set-up Mines Surveillance Task Force to enable them to effectively step up security in the mining zones. Earlier, in his welcome address, Monday Osasah, the Programme Director, LSD, said Nigeria operates as a single mining jurisdiction governed by the national constitution, which makes mining governance an exclusive preserve of the Federal Government. According to him, this governance structure is seen as the biggest hindrance to the development of the solid minerals sector in Nigeria, adding that this created unhealthy developments, such as illegal mining activities, poor revenue collections from mining operations and systemic hostility to private mining operators by states. He called on government to encourage miners in their business by making access to fund easy through deliberate relaxation of loan conditions, including the N5 billion loan scheme to small scale and artisanal miners. “The government should check the excesses of illegal miners and ensure that uncovered mining pits are covered and properly reclaimed “Miners in Ekiti State should respect the spirit of CDAs entered into with the local communities by living up to their corporate social responsibilities and the terms of the CDAs. “The government should prove its commitment to the development of the mining sector in the state by treating the nomination and constitution of the Mineral Resources and Environmental Management Committee (MIREMCO) as a matter of deliberate policy to have a say in the mineral sector in the country. “Mining stakeholders in Ekiti State should embrace professionalism by making Community Development Agreement (CDA) and Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) practice and procedure standardised and in line with best practices. “Licensed operators should help to check the spate of environmental degradation in the mines by promptly reclaiming mining pits after the conclusion of mining activities,” said he. In his goodwill message, Elijah Udofia, the Ekiti State coordinator of National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA), said the agency had been able to develop regulations on mining activities, and in 2012 trained artisanal miners on safety and gave them personal protective equipment in some of the states in the federation, Ekiti inclusive. The objective of the dialogue, the third in the series, was primarily to provide a platform for interaction among citizens, policy makers and practitioners in Ekiti and make suggestions to resolving the issues militating against effective natural resources governance, particularly from the security perspective. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 