Ado-Ekiti – The governorship primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ended on Saturday in chaos and the exercise suspended indefinitely over violence. The exercise started on a peaceful note, but was disrupted following a heavy down pour, which slow down the process around noon, but was resumed about 30 minutes
Trouble started when agents of some of the contenders accused security agencies of compromising the process in favour of former Governor Kayode Fayemi.
Alhaji Tanko Al-Makura, the chairman of the APC primary and Nasarawa State governor, hurriedly entered his vehicle and left the venue after a meeting with the 33 aspirants on the need to extract commitments from them for peaceful poll.
He however, could not officially brief the press on the pact reportedly reached with the stakeholders.
But, two aspirants, Hon. Bimbo Daramola and former Speaker, Hon. Femi Bamisile, said it was a unanimous verdict at the meeting that the process should be suspended indefinitely.
Daramola said: “There was an issue somewhere about the exercise and they raised observation about sharp practices that had compromised the process, which led to protests and the feeling was that the process should be suspended to avoid bloodshed.”
On the allegation that Fayemi was leading with a wide margin, leading to the protests, Daramola stated: “I don’t believe that is correct. The results have not been counted. So, that was an assumption.
“Ekiti APC is not in any way fractured. We are one big family. If Fayemi defeats us, we are all going to back him, because the party is supreme. But, this must come through a free, fair and credible process.”
The police and other security agencies shot sporadically into the air when the situation was escalating into a full-scale violence.
At press time, Oluyemi Kayode Stadium, venue of the exercise was scanty as delegates escaped to seek refuge in nearby buildings.
Efforts made by Al-Makura to calm frayed nerves were rebuffed.
Security agencies arrested a man for allegedly trying to grab the ballot box and he was stripped naked before he was taken to the custody.
The Director General of Babafemi Ojudu Campaign Organisation, Chief Ranti Adebisi, complained that the process had been heavily compromised
“The guideline stipulated that each aspirant can only bring in four supporters, but Fayemi brought many. His agents, including DSS, were issuing cards to delegates to fill when they vote for him, so that they can later come for the money he promised them.
“I contested against Fayemi in 2007 and I knew what I m talking about. The process has been compromised. Even, Fayemi has been bragging around that he is friend to Alhaji Tanko Al-Makura, so we are disappointed that this could happen,” he said.
Also, an APC chieftain, Femi Afolabi, alleged that the process was compromised by some security agencies, whom he said were dictating who they should vote for after authentication.
But, Fayemi’s agent said it was gang up against the minister that led to the spurious allegation, accusing those peddling rumour as enemies of APC.
“It was a proviso that if you are a delegate who can’t read and write, you can call any of the agents. When they saw that I was the one being called, they started feeling the heat and they were determined to disrupt it.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 