Saturday May 12, 2018, remains another landmark in the calendars of UAC Nigeria Plc. It was the day Larry Ephraim Ettah anchored the ship of UAC Nigeria Plc, after steering it for 11 years out of his 29 years and nine months of his engagement with the company and Joseph Ibrahim Danlami Dada, erstwhile Executive Director, Corporate Services, drew down the curtain on his 35 years meritorious service at Nigeria’s biggest conglomerate. Leaders from ‘Corporate Nigeria’ represented by Banks’ CEOs, top company Chief Executives and the government, led by the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udo Udoma, himself, a former chairman of UAC Nigeria Plc, as well as the diplomatic world, converged to honour these two men who have been serially acknowledged as perfect definitions of hardworking, selfless and committed gentlemen. Speakers at the high-octane event, one after the other, eulogised the retiring UAC Nigeria executives as captains, who were entrusted with the destiny of a ship and have sailed safely to the harbour. Larry Ettah, the outgoing GMD/CEO’s policy of ‘executional excellence’ manifested throughout his tenure as he successfully repositioned the company for sustainable growth. Ettah testifies that “UAC provided me with the key to the world… A key to a world of opportunities and growth through travel, study, challenges and experience that saw me moving across functions and industries. “In all the jobs I’ve held and the tasks I was assigned, the people I had to manage, I thought one thing and one thing only… ‘How on earth to do the best and the right thing for the company.’” Under his watch, UAC Nigeria Plc. went into joint venture projects such as its strategic partnership with Tiger Brands of South Africa on UAC Foods, Imperial Logistics partnership with MDS Logistics Ltd. and Famous Brands with UAC Restaurants all aimed at driving UAC Nigeria to meet the challenges of modern-day businesses. Ettah also initiated various expansion programmes ensuring muscular growth of UAC Nigeria Plc, results of which were the company’s acquisition of controlling shares in Livestock Feeds Plc, Portland Paints and Products Plc while Grand Cereals Ltd witnessed increased capacity expansion and UAC Restaurants witnessed the aggressive implementation of its franchising business modules. Then what follows was the UAC Nigeria’s unique tradition the ‘coronation ceremony’ of the incoming Group Chief Executive Officer, UAC Nigeria Plc., Mr. Abdul Bello with the ‘crown of UAC’ A tradition that has sustained through successive Group Managing Directors till date. The ‘UAC crown’ is the symbolic cream coloured colonial hat which was inherited by the company’s first indigenous Group Managing Director, Late Christopher Abebe, who passed it on, a tradition that has since continued. The newly crowned Group Chief Executive Officer of UAC Nigeria Plc acknowledged that “to whom much is given much is also expected. It’s a big task that I received from you today with great passion and I confirm that I will carry on the journey to continue and increase the good pace that you’ve given this organisation. Setting us far ahead of others.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 