On May 29, the Muhammadu Buhari administration will clock three years in the saddle of administering one of the largest African economies and most populous African country. The occasion provides an opportunity to assess the performance of the government under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) elected 2015 with high hopes and expectations of a brighter future. The administration at inception narrowed down its agenda to three main points- security, economy, including reducing unemployment and combating corruption, which was major bane of the immediate past Goodluck Jonathan administration. While some observers view the performance as a mixed bag, not a few believe that the government has let down many of its followers, particularly those who saw in Buhari a messiah to reduce their sufferings giving his pedigree and track record of high integrity and avowed commitment to the masses. Hitherto, the security of the nation was threatened by the activities of Boko Haram insurgents, who had virtually taken over a large part of the northeast, while kidnapping and armed banditry, among others were rampant in many parts of the country. However, respite failed to come as the magnitude of killings and destruction of property perpetrated by Fulani herdsmen in the last three years have left Nigerians wondering whether Buhari and his government may have been held hostage and possibly abdicated the cardinal responsibilities of government of proving food, security and shelter for its citizens. For quite sometime now, hardly a day passes without records of killings, kidnapping and abductions or giving mass burials to victims of the rampaging herdsmen. Just last week, the Vice president, Prof Yemi Osinbajo and the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi attended the burial of two clerics and other Christian faithful murdered in cold blood by the rampaging herdsmen. Similarly, on the economic front, it has not been too easy, despite exit from the recession and rising external reserves, as well as Gross Domestic Product, (GDP). Most Nigerians say the slight improvement in the ease of doing business in the country, foreign reserves accretion, improvement in GDP and reduction in inflation have not add value to their lives nor improve their standard of living. On corruption, they conclude that Nigeria has recorded more of media trial without with fewer convictions. Besides, the Anti-Graft war is still seen, particularly, by the opposition party, as against perceived opponents of the regime. They are of the opinion that although Nigerians are occasionally briefed on the recovery of large sums of money from corrupt officials, they are still at a loss why the country should be going borrowing, as well as producing deficit budgeting in the past three years, under review. Consequently, some notable Nigerians have started voicing out their frustrations about the regime. Some of them, including Emeka Okereke, Director General,Enugu Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ECCIMA), Garba Yedimakudon, an activist, Lanre Arogundade, Executive Director, International Press Centre, Wale Adeoye, Executive Director, Journalists for Democratic Rights (JODER),   Dr. Dele Seteolu, Department of Political Science Lagos State University (LASU),  Prof.Ayo Adesopo, Department of public Administration, Obafemi Awolowo University Ile Ife, Kamarudeen Adegoke, a social crusader, have passed a damn judgment on the Buhari administration. Others, like Hon Miriki Ebikibina, former youth President of the Action Congress of Nigeria, ACN, but now a chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP; Barrister Henry Iyalla, secretary of the Ijaw Youths Council, IYC say that it has been the bloodiest administration since the creation of Nigeria in 1960. Okereke said, “Am afraid, the general outlook in the country seemingly appears not cheering vis-à-vis the issue of security, economy. Despite the mouthed propaganda that the nation has come out of recession, he admitted that the positive effect has not been felt by most Nigerians. To Okereke, the imminent threat of food crisis as a result of Fulani herdsmen attack is major issue that has derailed the nation’s development. Unfortunately the Federal Government seemed to have found no solutions to these myriads of problems plaguing the nation. “I think the government still has the opportunity to tame the tide even though we have few months to electioneering campaign and 2019 elections. Incidentally these issues were in the front burner of the campaign promises by the present government. So, three years of the present government has been chequered despite all the promises and efforts so far made.” Yedimakudon, noted that “Buhari anchored his campaign on three major areas of security, economy and war on corruption. He also promised Nigerians more jobs. But three years down the lane, those promises remain in the pipeline. “On security its one step forward two steps backward. The Boko Haram insurgency is still with us, even though some successes have been recorded, there is still much to be done in the war against insurgency. Suicide bombings, bombings of mosques, churches and market places are still being carried out by the sect. The remaining Chibok girls and the Dapchi Christian girl, Leah Sharibu who refused to renounce her faith, are still in captivity of the insurgents and government seems helpless. “I also think that whatever gains that were achieved by the government against Boko Haram may have been rubbished by the growing murderous activities of Fulani herdsmen in some parts of the Northeast and the Middle Belt regions. From Southern Adamawa to Benue, Kogi, Nasarawa and Southern Kaduna the story is the same.  Nigeria never witnessed the kind of murders that have taken place under the watch of this government compared to any other. Kidnapping is still the order of the day. Abuja- Kaduna Expressway, Birnin Gwari in Kaduna state have become kidnappers, cattle rustlers and armed bandits den. Most parts of Zamfara state have been overrun by bandits. The list is endless. “On the fight against corruption which Nigerians agreed as a cancer, the Buhari government’s approach to it portrays the administration as merely witch hunting members of the opposition, especially those who served in the immediate past administration who are still in PDP, whereas those of them who defected to the ruling APC are almost safe from prosecution. It’s instructive that since the war against corruption begun immediately the Buhari government was inaugurated on May 29, 2015, no major or high profile conviction has been made by either the EFCC or the ICPC. “For instance, one would have expected that after the celebrated and controversial sting operation by the DSS at the homes of some judges, many Nigerians would think that by now some of those judges would be cooling off in jail after conviction. But sadly that’s not the case. “On the economy, most Nigerians believe it’s not yet Uhuru despite our getting out of recession. The economy has not improved to the level that it could be felt by the ordinary man in the street. The President recently admitted that the three years of his government was turbulent for his countrymen and women. Instead of job creation as promised, what Nigerians have to grapple with are job losses, hunger and frustration. Having said this, Nigerians noted for their resilience and being incurable optimists, are waiting for a miracle for things to change for the better within the next remaining one year of the government.” Arogundade said, “I do not think the Buhari administration has performed up to expectation because during the campaign the APC and President Buhari actually raised the bar of public expectation in terms of what they said they will do. Part of the challenge was that immediately after the election it was not even clear what they promised because they said some of these promises did not come from them. So it was so difficult, but if you look at it in some areas like security, there has been some improvement, although while the government has dealt with Boko Haram 70 percent, the herdsmen killings have come to take that space even in the area of insecurity. We could say that we have taken one step forward under Buhari government and two steps backward. “On the economy, every day the government says we are making a lot of reserve, we have recovered a lot of stolen money but the issue is that this has not affected or reduced the cost of living. This is because the first thing that this government did when they came to power was to increase the price of fuel and that has affected every other thing. This so-called money we are making we are not seeing it reflecting in the lives of ordinary people, and in any case the government is doing a lot of borrowing, which means that the reserve that the government is celebrating might not also impact on the economy because invariably he will have to pay off these loans. If you recollect under Obasanjo’s government, we paid $12 billion, we just took it from reserve to pay foreign debt, so my fear is really that there is too much accumulation of foreign debt by this government.” Adeoye said, “Buhari came with three key promises of job creation, security and corruption. Let us take job creation for instance, more people are losing their jobs, most factories are closing down and I think this has to do with the initial policies of the government. In the first six months that the naira crashed and it affected foreign exchange of so many companies. One of the pillars of industrial development is the provision of electricity. Although in the past three years, there has been improvement but this has not been significant as Nigeria still produces less than 6000 megawatts. “So, I think we cannot actually say that expectations have been met in the last three years. So, when you talk of security, whether Nigerians feel more secure, I think most Nigerians today feel more insecure than they were more than 6-8 years ago, and the conflict has taken new dimensions, with herdsmen killings and the livelihood of the people is been taking away from them. Children are been killed, there are more people in IDP camps and life is becoming cheaper than it used to be in the past. “When you also take the issue of corruption, I think initially he demonstrated that courage and audacity to probe people that were corrupt and I think we can commend him, that some efforts were made, especially when you look at what Magu is doing, but I think there are still many milestones to be covered. For instance, there are still many cases of corruption affecting many people in APC, so we will like to see him do more in those areas. So, in terms of fighting corruption, I think we can give him average performance but generally, I think there are so many levels that are yet to be covered by the regime.” Seteolu believes that the President has failed the Nigerian people. According to him, “The administration promised restructuring of the country’s political system. It has failed to restructure the polity. It promised state police, devolution of powers to the federating units and enhanced fiscal relations, but failed in these respects. The polity remains lopsided, over heated with ethnic agitations and ethnic mistrust.  The President has been nepotistic. He populates his administration with relations and friends. He has not shown sufficient grasp of the intricate problems of the polity. “The government scores fairly high on the Boko Haram threat except the country is bedeviled with other forms of security threats. The Buhari administration should not have the illusion that the terrorist threats will be resolved through strictly military option. It must consider social interpretation of this problem. “The economy seems bright on abstract economic indices. The Nigerian people, however, are poorer, homeless, hungry, jobless, under employed, and dissatisfied with the state of the economy. The administration lacks new and creative insights into the management of the economy beyond neo-liberal framework. “The anti-corruption campaign has been politicised. The administration is not dealing with corrupt official and ex officials of government. The EFCC and the courts are over burdened with anti-corruption cases. I appreciate that the National Assembly is frustrating the attempt to create special courts for corrupt practices. I score this government less than average. I really doubt this government deserves a second term except there is hardly alternative political organ.” Adesopo said that the current administration has failed the people of the country over its electioneering promises in the last three years due to certain factors. Among the factors he mentioned is insecurity and fight against corruption. He said President Muhammadu Buhari has not lived up to expectations, while calling on the administration to double up and put a stop to spate of killings and other insecurity challenges facing the nation. Adesopo noted that the spate of insecurity has been increasing that it has rubbished all the good work that the administration has started. The expectation of Nigerians is to nip the ragging insecurity in the bud, stressing that any government that cannot secure her people is a failure. Professor Adesopo tasked the security agencies to put more efforts in the area of intelligence gathering to aid them in the performance of their duties. He said notwithstanding, the administration has been able to redeemed the image of Nigeria in the international world and made some little impact on some social and infrastructural facilities for the country. Also, Adegoke, a social crusader condemned the present government of being insensitive to the plights of Nigerians, especially over the spate of killings and kidnappings across the country. Adegoke noted that the government has not done enough to tackle the spate of killings adding that the security agencies have not lived up to the expectations of Nigerians. He said the economy of the country would have been turned around by now but the issue of security affected it and rubbished the entire achievements recorded by the administration. Hon Ebikibina said, “There is nothing to celebrate about this government. In all spheres of life, this administration has failed Nigerians. Even those who brought this party to take over the affairs of this nation have now seen that the party has failed. “In the area of economy, it is zero. The former President, Goodluck Jonathan left power when Nigeria was rated the fastest growing economy in Africa. Foreign investors were trooping in here to do business despite the challenge of politically sponsored security problem in the country. “What this APC government did when they came on board was to ban over forty items from being imported into the country. They wanted us to produce what we can consume. Good idea. But can you just start to produce those things in just a day? It takes a gradual process. Allow the importation of what you don’t have while effort is being geared towards producing them, then you stop importation. “President Buhari went to America and the US President, Donald Trump promised him that America would be exporting its agricultural products to Nigeria and our President accepted that. That is unjust to our local farmers. You cannot please American farmers to displease our own people”, he said. For Barrister Iyalla, “President Mohammadu Buhari’s government is an abysmal failure in virtually all its ramifications. Buhari has not shown enough proof that he is a repentant democrat. “The position of the Ijaw Council on the three years of this administration is that they have failed woefully on security. Think about the killings in Benue, Taraba, Nasarawa, Yobe and other parts of the country. The President has never come out to make any categorical statement on the killings, why? “As a President, one should have expected him to deal with the issue of herdsmen going about killing and raping innocent farmers recklessly, yet there is a government in place. This clearly shows that there is a compromise somewhere, otherwise, how could one define the silence! “But for economy, they have not done too badly. At least the foreign reserve has witnessed a tremendous lift. They met a reserve of about US$20billion. That has increased to about US$40billion. That is a good one and they have to be commended for that. “Apart from that, every other aspect of this administration is a disappointment. The whole country is therefore not happy with this level of governance where hardship has become the new order and people are dying of starvation. “On the issue of the anti-corruption fight, Buhari cannot come out to say he is fighting corruption genuinely. No. What we see is selective arraignment. However, despite the verdit, presidential spokespersons Garba shehu and Femi Adesina believe that the president has done very well. Infact, Adesina belives that only the blind would not see good things happening under Buhari’s government. According to Adesina, those who oppose the current administration have made it a point to harp on negative happenings in the country. Listing what he considered as the achievements, Adesina said the positive growth cannot be denied even by “naysayers.” He quoted figures from the National Bureau of Statistics, saying since Nigeria recovered from recession, the gross domestic product (GDP) has been growing consistently, currently recording a growth of 1.95% in Q1 2018 compared to a contraction of 0.91% in Q1 2017. He noted that inflation had declined from 18.72 percent to 12.48 percent in the last 15 months, “even with an increased spending of N1.5 trillion on infrastructural projects”. Adesina compared the $29.6 billion inherited from the Goodluck Jonathan administration to the $49.79 billion foreign reserves despite “modest oil prices” in the international market. “Some people have made it a pastime to talk as if there is no silver lining in the sky as far as the Nigerian economy is concerned,” he said in a statement. “They carry on as if it is doom and gloom all the way, a thoroughfare of woes. This they do, to hoodwink the public, and peradventure gain political advantage for themselves, or their principals. “But facts are stubborn things. Those arrayed against facts may abhor and deride them, but there they are, staring them starkly in the face. “These are just little among the good things happening to the Nigerian economy. Only the willfully blind will not see it, but it does not stop the good work, which continues. Shehu, on the other hand said the government has not performed badly as opposition would want Nigerians to belief He said in a statement, “Nigeria exited its worst recession in decades. After five quarters of negative growth, the economy bounced back into positive territory. Agriculture was one of the stars of 2017, posting consistent growth levels even throughout the recession. “The Naira stabilised against the dollar, after the Central Bank introduced a new Forex window for Investors and Exporters. The stability has attracted billions of dollars in portfolio investments since April 2017. “On the back of a stable Naira and increased investment inflows, Nigeria’s stock market emerged one of the best-performing in the world, delivering returns in excess of 40 per cent. “Nigeria saw bumper food harvests, especially in rice, whose local production continues to rise significantly (states like Ebonyi, Kebbi, Kano leading the pack, with Ogun joining at the end of 2017). The price of a 50kg bag of rice – a staple in the country – has fallen by about 50 per cent as local production has gone up. “The Federal Government launched a N701 billion Intervention Fund (‘Payment Assurance Programme’) aimed at supporting power generation companies to meet their payment obligations to gas and equipment suppliers, banks and other partners. “The impact is being felt, the amount of power being distributed is now currently steady at around 4,000MW and generation now put at 7,000 MW, higher than ever recorded. “The Federal Government began paying pensions to police officers who were granted Presidential pardon in 2000 after serving in the former Biafran Police during the Nigerian Civil War. These officers, and their next of kin, have waited for their pensions for 17 years since the Presidential pardon. “Nigeria rose 24 places on the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business rankings, and earned a place on the List of Top 10 Reformers in the world..’’ The presidential aide revealed that Nigeria had successfully issued two Eurobonds (US$4.5bn), a Sukuk Bond (100 billion Naira), a Diaspora Bond (US$300m), and the first Sovereign Climate Bond in Africa, raising billions of dollars for infrastructure spending. He said the federal government had inaugurated a Tax Amnesty scheme expected to raise hundreds of millions of dollars in additional revenues when it closes in March 2018. He also disclosed that the government had successfully commenced implementation of a Whistle blowing Programme that had so far seen recoveries of tens of millions of dollars. On the Social Investment Programme which he described as Nigeria’s most ambitious social welfare programme ever – rolled out across dozens of states, Shehu said currently, 5.2 million primary school children in 28,249 schools in 19 states are being fed daily. He stated that under the programme 200,000 unemployed graduates had enlisted into the N-power Job Scheme, and a quarter of a million loans already distributed to artisans, traders, and farmers). “The number of Nigerians facing food insecurity in the northeast dropped by half, according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). “The Nigeria Customs Service recorded its highest-ever revenue collection, crossing the One Trillion Naira (N1,000,000,000) mark. (The target for 2017 was 770 billion Naira (N770,573,730,490); 2016 Collection was just under 900 billion (N898,673,857,431.07). “The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), under the new management appointed by President Buhari in 2016, remitted N7.8 billion to the coffers of the federal government. The total amount remitted by JAMB between 2010 and 2016 was N51 million. “2017 was also the Year of Nigeria’s Agriculture Revolution, embodied by the successes of the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (PFI) and the Anchor Borrowers Programme. More than a dozen moribund fertiliser blending plants were revived under the PFI this year. “Finally, this administration has laid the foundation for a 2018 that will be Nigeria’s Year of Infrastructure. A number of important infrastructure projects, in power, rail and road, are scheduled to come on-stream or inch close to completion next year.’’ The presidential aide expressed the hope that this litany would clear all doubts about Na-Abba’s claim that Buhari had done nothing for Nigeria. “Even a beetle-eyed critic cannot pretend not to notice the tremendous progress in the area of security and the war against corruption.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 