What a week it has been for Senator Dino Melaye! As I write, he is still in hospital recuperating after allegedly jumping off a moving police van having been prevented from traveling out of the country. However, last  Saturday, the recall attempt by his constituency, the Kogi West senatorial zone failed to meet up with the legally required  number of verified signatures to effect his recall from the National Assembly. A fight that has lasted for so long, involving both the political, social and legal angles prior to last Saturday. So, a Dino can heave a sigh of relief, recover form his injuries and get back to the Senate to continue his legislative duties. However, as the quest for the recall of the very prominent senator raged, fingers were pointed at the governor of his state, the very young Yahaya Bello as allegedly having a hand in the process of his recall. In a politically dramatic twist, a Dino played a very prominent role before and after the election of the governor whose chi, had cracked his palm kernel for. He was a child of circumstance, a late governor Abubakar Audu had unfortunately died on the eve of being declared winner of the gubernatorial election in Kogi in a dramatic come back mode reminiscent of a governor Fayose in Ekiti state. In the normal Nigerian political way, a Yahaya was marketed by his supporters as the Kegame that would make Kogi state a second Dubai. Dino Melaye, the very dramatic and somewhat controversial senator from Kogi state was at the forefront of marketing and crowning Mr Bello. Citizens of Kogi state and Nigerians can only hazard a guess about the knife that drove a wedge between Dino and the governor. There have been accusations and counter accusations between the two and their supporters. As I write, there seems to be no love lost between the two individuals. So the question remains, as these two elephants fought, what has been the benefit to their citizens? How has the Kogi state, one of the least developed states in Nigeria benefitted from either of these two individuals who seem very obsessed with personal egos to think of education, healthcare, infrastructure etc.? However, while the supporters of both men either jubilate or lick their wounds, it is apposite to recall that since 1999, most state governors and their senators have put their personal ego trips in place of the development of their states. Right now, governor Nasir El-Rufai and Senator Shehu Sani are almost at daggers drawn. Their wrangling has lasted for so long that even their party, the APC in the state seems very factionalized. From Enugu state, the former governor Chimaroke Nnamani of the Ebeano political organization did not have the best of relationship with his political godfather, former Senator Jim Nwobodo who was instrumental to bringing him back from the US and facilitating his emergence as governor. From Abia, former governor Orji Uzo Kalu had issues with former Senate president, Adolphus Wabara. From Ebonyi, former governor Sam Egwu was not best friends with former Senate President, Anyim Pius Anyim. The list, sadly, is endless. And so, the issue of godfatherism, selfishness, greed, insensitivity in Nigerian politics keeps putting a wedge between the people and the benefits of a democracy being government of the people, by the people and for the people. Of all the quarrels, bad blood and all, the people and their welfare are never the issues,  not once, it is always about the individuals involved. These shenanigans going on in states around the country  between governors and their National and State  Assembly members is only possible because the country does not have a strong system that can checkmate the abuse of power at all levels. In climes with strong institutions, no arm of government can act In politically weird ways to satisfy individual egos at any time. It is a shame that a democracy built on a tripod cannot take roots in Nigeria because the people refuse to do the right things. No country in the world that runs a viable democracy experiences the abuse of power and privileges that Nigeria experiences. The political philosophers that fashioned out the three arms of  government did so realizing the proclivity of human beings to abuse power and created a balance. In a country with poverty. Illiteracy, ignorance and docility, the wrong politicians keep accessing power for its own sake and the aggrandizement that goes with it. It remains to be seen how all the fight between the executive and the legislature improves the lives of Nigerians at any level. The infighting between governors and the their legislators at both National and state levels are all structured by politicians for their own good. The people are only remembered at elections. The sad path is that it is this same power mongers at both arms that make sure that the country never builds strong institutions that can check their excesses. In Kogi, the people would wake up one day and see both the governor and Dino embracing and dining together throwing the dubious socio-political mantra of, “In politics, there are no permanent enemies or permanent friends, only permanent interests”. They will make efforts to reunite for their interests not the people. It is not for nothing that the good book says, “ the people perish for lack of knowledge…” Politicians of the Nigerian hue are very rare around the world…precisely why the country is still bottle-feeding ‘a nascent’ democracy almost sixty years after independence. One only hopes the people can learn and act come 2019. 0 comments