The death toll of Nigerians killed in South Africa has continued to climb with two young Nigerians being the latest victims. The latest killing brings the number of Nigerians killed in the former apartheid enclave since February, 2016 to 118. Up to 800,000 Nigerians, mostly young people, reside in South Africa, according to unofficial estimates. The Publicity Secretary of the Nigeria Union in South Africa, Habib Miller, told NAN that two additional Nigerians were killed in South Africa in the past eight days. Miller, who spoke to NAN from Pretoria, South Africa, identified the latest victims as Francis Ochuba, a native of Ngodo community in the Umuneochi Local Government Area of Abia. He named the other victim as Chidi Ibebuike, native of Uturu in the Isikwuato Local Government Area also in Abia. “Ochuba, a property owner, was shot dead alongside his estate agent, a female South African on May 5. They were shot dead as they visited the tenant occupying Ochuba’s house to collect rent. “The incident occurred in Central Johannesburg, while Ibebuike was shot dead at the entrance to his house at Hazyview in Mpumalanga on May 13. “Ibebuike’s car was subsequently, snatched by yet to be identified gunmen. “The chairman of the Nigeria Union in Mpumalanga Province, Amadi in company of other compatriots, have reported the incident to the South African police authorities and investigation is underway.” Reacting to the killings, Malachy Ugwumadu, President of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), said the latest extra-judicial killing of Nigerians in South Africa was one too many. He stated that his organisation abhors extra-judicial killing anywhere in the world, especially in South Africa where there had been repeated cases of extra-judicial killing of Nigerians. Ugwumadu argued that the killing undermined the historical efforts that Nigerians made to liberate South Africans from the clutches of the apartheid regime, adding that the killing has worsened the bilateral relations between Nigeria and the southern African country. According to the president of CDHR, “The worst part of the story is that Nigeria has completely relegated itself in terms of respect we command in the world to the extent that citizens of the country are killed in all parts of the world, including Singapore, Malaysia, India and many African countries. “The shameful reason for that is that Nigeria has completely relegated itself in world affairs”, he said. He called on the Federal Government to deliver appropriate diplomatic response to the South African government. Speaking on the issue, Leon Mbakwe, President, Lawyers Against Corruption, said that the continued killing of Nigerians in South Africa shows that the Federal Government is incapable of protecting the lives and property of Nigerians, wherever they are. According to Mbakwe, who is also a member of the Network for Political Reform, the Federal Government has failed to discharge its primary responsibility of protecting Nigerians wherever they are and should resign. “The essence of government is to protect the lives and property of Nigerians wherever they are and at the moment it cannot not do that, it should resign,” he said. He added that the killing clearly showed that the government and people of South Africa do not respect the people and government of Nigeria and called on the Nigerian government to initiate appropriate diplomatic response to end the killing of Nigerians in South Africa. Also commenting on the killings, Abiodun Aremu, convener of Joint Action Forum, described the killings as unfortunate and condemnable, adding that such cases keep recurring because the Nigerian government had failed to take appropriate diplomatic actions against the killing of Nigerians in South Africa. Aremu said that many Nigerians are desperate to leave the country because of the insensitivity of the Nigerian government to the plight of the people. Meanwhile, Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora, has condemned the latest killings of two Nigerians in South Africa. In a text message sent to DAILY INDEPENDENT, Dabiri-Erewa said it is high time the Ministry of Foreign Affairs review and strengthened the early warning signals put in place in 2017 following killings in South Africa. “The early warning signals put in place by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Interior and their African counterparts in the wake of killings in South Africa last year needs to be reviewed and strengthened by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs”, he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 