P/HARCOURT – Hon. Martins Mannah, lawmaker representing Ahoada East Constituency 1 in the Rivers State House of Assembly, has called for the resignation of Rt. Hon. Ikuinyi Uwaji Ibani, the Speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly, for allegedly mismanaging the affairs of the House and failing to cater for the welfare of staff. The lawmaker while briefing journalists in his office after plenary Tuesday lamented the absence of adequate training and workshops for lawmakers that he noted has affected their performance. “This Assembly, over 80 percent is new members and as a legislature, we are expected to go for seminars, workshops and conventions to improve our capacity, but unfortunately since we resumed, this is our third year, we have only travelled once for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA) meeting. “We have only gone for only one seminar, whereas other states that produce only onions and water melon are able to sponsor their lawmakers to all seminars, workshops and CPA meetings even to foreign countries. “The speaker has failed to deliver all these trainings to members, now as new members how do we contribute on the floor of the House when we have not been adequately trained? Some members do not even know how to move motions,” he said. The lawmaker also complained that for 17 months, staff of the Assembly had not been paid while also lamenting the level of decay at both the Assembly Complex and staff residential quarters. “For 17 months, staff have not been paid; our staff have literally turned to beggars. This edifice was built by former Governor Peter Odili, yet cannot be maintained by the Speaker, Ikuini Ibani, even when the present Governor Nyesom Wike gave N600 million to the Speaker to renovate both the quarters and the complex, the speaker never did it. Look at how the complex is in a mess, everywhere smells, then someone would tell us not to talk.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 