Lagos – Nigerians from all walks of life on Wednesday gathered in Lagos to celebrate with the family of Justice Isiaka Ishola Oluwa (rtd) as he marked his 100th birthday. The event, which attracted its major audience from the judiciary and Kings’ College Old Boy’s Association, also featured the launch and presentation of the book: ‘A Life In Motion, Reminiscences of A Jurist At 100 Years, Justice Isiaka Ishola Oluwa (rtd).’ Pro Chancellor, University Of Lagos (UNILAG), Wale Babalakin (SAN), noted that the jurist is worth celebrating because of his achievements. “We are celebrating today one of the greatest men in Nigeria. He is one of the men who have stood with their convictions, one of the men who have stood for truth,” Babalakin noted, adding that “Justice Oluwa has refused to be intimated by the overwhelming power of those who have decided not to treat others fairly. We pray that he has many more years to live and we are very grateful for the celebration.” Also, Joint Chief Medical Director EKO Hospital, Lagos, Dr. Sunny Kuku, while commending the celebrant, noted that “anybody who has lived up to a century is worth celebrating. Papa is a titan, an icon and one of those Nigerians who have untainted career in Lagos judiciary. “He is one man that is loved by everybody and the oldest Kings College Old Boy living. We are also proud of him and we pray that he lives long to enjoy the fruits of his labour.” While noting that the celebrant wept for joy because of the amount of love that was around him, Dr. Kuku said: “We love him and we pray for him. Baba will still live for many more years to come. He is our hero, we all want to emulate his life and have that kind of reputation when we are 100 years old.” Peju Alias, one of the celebrant’s daughters, described him as “her oracle and confidant,” adding that “for any matter, I consult him.” Speaking on the exemplary qualities she got from the celebrant, Alias commended her father for instilling discipline in her and other siblings, “Discipline is his watchword. During my teen age, the method he used was to enforce discipline on all of us. He would tell us to recite the following ‘the height of great men was not attained by sudden plight, they, while their companions slept, were toiling upwards in the night,”’ she said, adding that it shows that one must be disciplined to be able to uphold oneself, as well as adjust to any situation in life. “This has also been my watchword till date,” she said. Engineer Layi Ajayi-Bembe, chief launcher at the event, noted that “this event is very important because Justice Oluwa is 100 years old. He is one man that has stood alone to fight for the cause of Lagos State. I have known Justice Oluwa for many years. He is a wonderful man.” Ajayi-Bembe, who advised the younger lawyers to emulate his lifestyle, said: “We don’t find people like Justice Oluwa in the ministry again. Unlike his time in the judiciary, we find judges taking bribe, perverting justice. He is just a unique man.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 