Uyo  – At the commissioning of six of the recently completed 40 grassroot roads within Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State Capital, an overwhelmed Uyo resident, a university lecturer, Dr Idongesit Henry declared “Thank you Your Excellency for coming to a village I had lived for 50 years without grading, excavation, drainage, pavement or road. This declaration best explained the feeling of other residents of Uyo who recently experienced a complete turnaround in the state of roads and drainage in their respective areas.
For over 16 years, service roads in communities within Uyo the Akwa Ibom State Capital had remained In very dilapidated states, as the people battled with flood, mud, potholes, gullies, deep ravines etc, and even some of the areas completely cut-off the city centre. The area known as Uyo village, for instance is so close to the seat of power, yet was cut off by poor access roads.
Several save our souls letters forwarded to governments and made available to the media appeared to have fallen on deaf ears as especially the immediately past administration concentrated on major roads, making any diversion into inner part of Uyo a regrettable experience.
Shortly after the second anniversary celebration of the present administration which governor Udom Emmanuel devoted to industralization, which is the main thrust of his administration, the governor launched an aggressive flag-off for construction of service roads in You. Over 40 roads were awarded for construction.
When the State Commissioner for Works Mr Ephraim Inyangeyen, three months ago announced the intention of the administration to deliver 40 new roads to communities within Uyo capital city during the democracy day and third anniversary celebration of the administration, it sounded to many as smooth political talks to woo the people’s continued support.
But the administration not just fulfilled its promise of delivering the declared number of roads, but also to a very great extent maintained international best practices on the quality of roads, with side drains and proper channelization of waters.
At the last batch of commissioning, the Commissioner for Works, Mr Ephraim Inyangeyen said the people living in the areas were completely cut off, as the roads including; Asutan, Mbiatong, Ebong, Effiong Udo Akpan, Bassey Attah, all six roads were unmotorable. He assured that all have been networked.
His words “These roads have completely changed the face of these areas. They thought it was the usual measurement. Today, the entire area has been networked with dual drainages”.
“Your Excellency, we have maintained your stated global standard. Even the people alerted us to force the contractor to adhered to standard. We have really impacted this environment. To the benefit of the large number of Akwa Ibomites living in this environment. The flood has been completely taken away”.
The roads included Asutan Street, Bassey Attah Street, Mbiakong, Ebong Street, Ebong Lane and Effiong Udo Akpan at the Wellington Bassey Way area; Udotung Ubo Lane, Akparen Street and Ibiono Lane in Udotung Ubo axis as well as Prof Offiong Street and Justice Edet Nkop Street at the Shelter Afrique area, roads in Ewet Housing area, etc.
The Governor commenced this round of commissioning earlier in the week with Youth Avenue in Mbiabong Etoi, Concrete Hotel Road in Ewet Housing and the Atlantic FM road connections to represent over 28 roads he had executed in some parts of the capital city as part of the activities to mark the third anniversary celebration of the administration.
Inuagurating the roads, Governor Udom Emmanuel said he was devoting the period of the third anniversary celebration of his administration to commissioning of grassroot roads, to give people at the grassroot levels a proper sense of belonging. He assured the people of his commitment to build roads and connect people in the grassroots to activate the economic and social lives of the people.
He assured that every single street in the state draws his attention at the same level, but the Uyo village and the other areas his administration intervened in this batch of construction had become quite pathetic cases, hence the quick intervention. He expressed the hope that with the road network within the areas, residents of the community would experience improved security. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 