Abuja / Lagos – Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung, has written off the re-emergence of Ebola virus in the DR Congo, saying it will not stop the friendly match between Super Eagles with that country ahead of the World Cup kicking off in Russia next month. The Minister gave this assurance after he met President Muhammadu Buhari behind closed doors at the State House, Abuja.
Rather than stop the game, due to the fear of another Ebola transmission in Nigeria, Dalung said several preventive measures have been put in place, among which were providing a centralised flight for the visitors to Nigeria as well as to ensure that everyone on board is screened both on departure and arrival.
“Nigeria is going to play the friendly with DRC, I have discussed with the Federal Ministry of Health, with the World Health Organization in participation, and we have reviewed the situation and received adequate information about it. So we have agreed on major approaches.
“One, the DRC team is coming through a chartered flight and those coming for the match will be using that chartered flight and they would have been screened from the DRC and they will be screened here in Nigeria.
“No other person that is going to be admitted using any other means of transportation for the match. We also discovered that the Ebola outbreak is limited to a particular place and it has not escalated. So we wouldn’t want to run the risk of setting a precedent which we will later be a victim.
“Based on that we only introduced strict policies to ensure that the match takes place and the match will take place.”
On Super Eagles budget, he said “On the approved budget, I informed him that we have not gotten the releases and we asked him to intervene so that the funds can be released because we have gotten all our funds from FIFA, from CAF, we have had a dinner for the team; our donours have redeemed their pledges but on the side of government we need to round it up and the President has assured he was going to do something about it immediately to ensure that that gap is closed.”
Dalung also has raised the alarm that some dubious persons were extorting money from unsuspecting football fans who want to travel to Russia for the World Cup.
He warned football fans and the public in general to be wary of ticket racketeers who have promised to procure World Cup tickets for football lovers and supporters in exchange for money.
He said that such people have no authority to secure visas for anyone as the World Cup organizers have simplified the process for football fans.
“Government is not sponsoring people to Russia so nobody should collect money, assuring people that government will take people to the World Cup. The public should be aware of people using government’s name to defraud people.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 