Uyo – Net pension under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) has grown to N7.779 trillion, up by N270 billion from the value of N7.52 trillion as at December 2017. Total contributors grew to 7.90 million as at February 2018, from 7.50 million recorded as at March 31, 2017, representing a 390,000 increase within the period of review.
This was disclosed by Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, the Ag Director General, National Pension Commission (PenCom), in her keynote address at the workshop organised by the pension agency in Uyo, the capital of Akwa Ibom State, on Thursday.
According to the Ag DG, who was represented by Mohammed Sanni, the Commission’s Legal Adviser, at the event, the growth indicator came against the backdrop of the increase in new contributions received, interest/coupon from fixed income securities and net realised/unrealised gains on equities and mutual fund investments.
On micro-pension scheme, she said that the commission was intensifying efforts at ensuring that the provision of necessary infrastructure for the launching of the scheme, in line with the commission’s strategic objective of expanding coverage of the CPS to the under-served sectors, was in progress.
The DG maintained that the major kernel of the strategy for expanding coverage of the Contributory Pension Scheme lies in the micro pension designed to serve over 60 percent of the working population, assuring that the guidelines for the Micro Pension Scheme were being finalised preparatory to the commencement of the scheme.
She spoke on the effort of PenCom to enhance the pensions of retirees under the programmed withdrawal.
According to Mrs. Dahir-Umar, “In order to enhance the monthly pension of retirees in the Contributory Pension Scheme, the commission initiated the Pension Enhancement Programme.
“It was discovered that the returns being generated by the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) on the balances of the Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs) of majority of retirees could be used to enhance their monthly pensions.”
She stated that the commission sought for and obtained the approval of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation to implement the pension enhancement which, according to her, resulted in increased monthly pensions for most retirees receiving pension under the programmed withdrawal arrangement. She noted that the PFAs have commenced the enhancement of pensions of all retirees under programmed withdrawal with effect from December, 2017.
Mrs. Dahir-Umar stressed that the implementation of the pension enhancement was one of the significant milestones attained since the commencement of the CPS which confirmed that the CPS had workable internal mechanisms to respond to legitimate demands of retirees as they seek a reasonable retirement income.
She hinted that the commission intends to sustain this periodic review exercise in line with relevant provisions of the law.
On a circular on withdrawals from voluntary contributions (VC) issued by the commission in November, 2017, the DG explained that the circular was necessitated by the observed incidences of high rates of withdrawals from VCs by contributors, which appeared to negate the main purpose of using such contributions to augment pensions at retirement.
In addition, she said the commission would seek to ensure strict adherence to anti-money laundering provisions and relevant tax laws, noting that the main thrust of the circular was that 50 percent of the VCs could be withdrawn once in two years, while subsequent withdrawals would be on incremental contributions from the last withdrawal, while the remaining 50 percent of VCs shall be domiciled for augmenting pensions upon retirement. 0 comments