The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr. Yakubu Dogara recently decried the conduct of the Nigerian Police as unbecoming and unacceptable. Addressing newsmen after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari, the Speaker frowned at the undemocratic conduct of the police which he likened to the antics of barbarian and tribesmen. While the recent face off between the leadership of the Senate and the police authority must have been at the core of the displeasure of Mr. Dogara, there is however enough reason to be alarmed by the seeming helplessness of the police in the face of lawlessness being displayed with impunity and more worrisome in the public glare. It is disturbing that recent developments in the country and particularly in the political arena are already heightening apprehension months ahead of the 2019 general elections. More alarming however is that the Nigerian Police which is the institution charged with the responsibility of maintaining civil order appears to be losing control of the situation. Unfortunately, the inherent danger of allowing emerging developments overwhelm the police is that democracy may come under heavier attacks as politics gather momentum in the months ahead. Any act capable of undermining institutions of democracy with the perception of connivance with the police authority, no doubt, signposts a perilous path in the quest for democratic consolidation. There is therefore the urgent need to reverse the ugly trend in the interest of democracy. The current leadership of the Nigerian Police has been embroiled in series of controversies which impinge on the non-partisanship and legitimacy of the institution vested with responsibility of law enforcement in the country. The invasion of the National Assembly and the impunity displayed with the carting away of the Mace is a clear demonstration of the lawlessness being condoned by the police as well as other security agencies in the country. It should however be emphasised that the interest should not be about individuals but institutions that must be protected in the overall interest of country. It is disappointing that the police and other security agencies could be helpless why such shameful act was perpetrated at the Senate. Similar acts of lawlessness that left police helpless were seen at the botched governorship primaries in Ekiti state. These developments send a clear signal that democracy may be under serious threats as the country enters a critical moment with the 2019 election. However, while it is recognise that the police is confronted by enormous operational challenges, lack of integrity and neutrality of its leadership are  capable of eroding the trust of the public in the capacity to discharge its constitutional responsibility. In the light of declining security situation, the police, more than ever before requires the trust, faith and confidence of the people. The more the suspicion about the neutrality of the police authority, the more difficult it becomes for the policemen in discharging their civic responsibility. It is therefore imperative that the leadership of the police appreciate that the security situation in the country requires more effective policing which could only be delivered when law enforcement agencies are reasonably detached and seen to be patriotic and loyal to the sovereignty of the country rather than individuals. More imporatntly is that the institiution of the police is crucial to the deepening of the democratic process. It is therefore imperative that the police needs better funding and policy reforms to deliver on the mandate of policing. It is our expectation that far-reaching reform of the police has become essential in line with emerging  challenges in the country. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 