Abuja / Ilorin – The presidency on Sunday took a swipe at the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), saying the party was bent on returning to power in 2019 just to continue their circle of corruption. According to Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, anything that causes President Muhammadu Buhari to lose the 2019 general elections will spell doom for the country. He said only discerning minds can understand this. In his opinion piece, he said even Buhari fell victim of his own war against graft in the 80s and that it was only when the authorities learnt of his mother’s death that they let him out of the net. “Top opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members have been granting press interviews and addressing zonal political rallies talking about ‘Changing the Change’ in next year’s general elections, without defining what exactly that means. “As the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) gears up to celebrate the completion of three years of the Buhari government at the centre on May 29, Nigerians need to be reminded of what the reversal of the achievements of this administration will amount to. “The real meaning and cost of the ‘Changing the Change’ is that if they win the next election, they will not take us back to where we were in 2015, they will mostly reverse the progress the APC has brought to the nation. “The main reason for the defeat of the PDP in 2015 was corruption. The present administration at the centre led by President Muhammadu Buhari has so far presented a corrupt-free image of itself. “It has also succeeded in abolishing grand corruption at the top and as attested to by the American President Donald Trump. “The government has significantly brought down the level of corruption in the whole country. It has, however, warned over and again that corruption was fighting back. “Many who are discerning would have read this from President Buhari’s speech when he inaugurated the impressive new headquarters building of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) a week ago. “He narrated how and why he was overthrown as a military Head of State in the 80s. In that speech, he said not only was he kicked out because he fought corruption, the ones who took power freed all those that he had jailed, and whatever they stole was returned to them. “He took their place in prison and stayed there without trial for 36 months, until that day when a journalist in Benin, now in Edo, broke the story that he had lost his mother. That was when he was allowed to go home. “The real difference between the PDP and the current APC administration is that although they mouthed a flood of rhetoric against corruption, in fact rightfully lay the claim of founding the institutions now in the forefront of fighting corruption as a government, the EFCC and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC), they had intended to keep them as toys, or bulldogs which teeth had been removed. “No, they never intended that the war against corruption would be taken this far,” Shehu stated. APC Chieftain Apologises To Jonathan, Laments Killings, Hunger, Injustice Under Buhari In a rare display of statesmanship and courage, Comrade Timi Frank, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has rued the rule of force, growing insecurity, hunger, and the general state of anxiety that have allegedly characterised the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. He expressed this in an open letter to President Buhari on Sunday. In the same letter, he apologised to immediate past President Goodluck Jonathan. The party chieftain said history would not judge him (Frank) well if he maintained a hypocritical position in the face of current anti-democratic tendencies which he had vehemently criticised during Goodluck Jonathan’s presidency. In the open letter released in Abuja and entitled, ‘Open Letter to President Muhammadu Buhari on the State of the Nation,’ Frank observed that the government had shown total disdain for court pronouncements, enforcement of fundamental human rights of citizens, and the rule of law. He said to Buhari: “Under your tenure, the rule of law has been replaced with the rule of force. “You have injected fear into the society. People who voted for you to save them from corruption and ineptitude have been barred from speaking up against the myriad of evil and wicked acts being perpetrated by officials in your government. “Unfortunately, corruption is in the upward swing under your watch. “This is why I had to apologise to Jonathan since events of the last three years have shown the former president was a better leader. “People freely expressed themselves under Jonathan’s administration without fear of being branded cultists’ sponsors, gunrunners or aiding murderers. But not so under this administration. “Under Jonathan, Nigerians enjoyed freedom of speech, association and right to hold dissenting views, including organising and partaking in protests against unwelcome government policies. “All these are no-go-areas today. Does it mean Jonathan was a better democrat? “It is a fact that no member of the APC, which was then in the opposition before 2015, was jailed or harassed for expressing dissent. “However, under this administration, the Senate president is being persecuted; Senator Dino Melaye has been arrested and detained like a common criminal; Senator Matthew Urhoghide had been attacked for telling Nigerians that the Federal Government breached the constitution by paying the sum of $496 million for 12 Tucano fighter jets without National Assembly approval; the trial of Senator Isa Misau by the AGF over his face-off with the Inspector General of Police; the persecution of most members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the name of fighting corruption are all examples of intolerance under this administration. “Mr. President, while your fight against corruption is being promoted as gathering steam, leading to an award given to you by the African Union (AU) recently, the allegation of illegal award of $25 billion contracts levelled against the GMD of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has not been investigated but rather the malfeasance and shoddy dealing in the NNPC has been swept under the carpet because, as the substantive Minister of Petroleum Resources, any probe of the agency would require that you make some explanations.” Frank urged Nigerians to rise up and confront the growing culture of tyranny “and save Nigeria from total collapse under the jackboots of impunity by this administration”. APC Meets New PDP Today Over Planned Exit From Party Meanwhile, the New Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP) group in All Progressives Congress (APC) will meet today with the leadership of the APC over the group’s letter in which it alleged marginalisation by the party. Abubakar Kawu Baraje, Chairman of the group, who gave hints of the planned meeting on Sunday, said the party leadership invited the group for the meeting with a collective decision that it should hold today by 2p.m. Baraje, who made the disclosure in a chat with newsmen in Ilorin, explained the rationale behind the demands contained in the letter. He said moving out of APC was not the paramount interest of the group but that if the party failed to address the issues raised in the letter satisfactorily, the group would meet and consult to consider what should be its next line of action. The nPDP leader said the group was interested in President Muhammadu Buhari realising his second term ambition and explained that the group wrote its letter to ensure that the party addressed its demands before the time of election. He said the group wrote the letter after Buhari declared his interest in 2019 election because it wanted to work for the president’s victory at the poll, but stated that it wanted the issue of marginalisation addressed before the electoral process. “The last time we met here (Baraje’s house) in 2016, I told you that the way the party was going on, we were on the road to perdition. “If you look at the letter we wrote, we never said we gave an ultimatum but that we advised them; we hinted the party because of the ongoing primaries of the party. “Now the party has invited us, exactly on the seventh day of the letter, and they wanted us to meet that same day but because we were speaking for several leaders across the country, we told them we couldn’t meet that same day, so now they have scheduled a meeting for tomorrow (Monday) any time from 2p.m”, he said. Baraje said nPDP members would not immediately pull out of the APC if the party fails to meet their demands. He said that, like they did in the last administration, they would still go ahead and meet with several leaders across the country to stop what he termed impunity within the party. He said the nPDP was made up of men and women who could not be pushed aside, and referred to the resignation of the group’s secretary and former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, as a signal to what may happen if members are not able to convince their followers about the need to remain in the APC. The politician condemned the parallel congresses which, he said, the APC had across 21 states last Saturday, and said it did not speak well of it as a party in government. Baraje said it was never as bad as that in the PDP, and described the development as a dangerous trend. He warned that “the earlier it is addressed the better for the APC.” He said that the party might be experiencing this crisis because of poor leadership on account of its inability to be firm in decision making, following due process, and upholding the rule of law. When asked what he would have done if he were the chairman of the APC to check the wrongs he complained of in the party, he said: “If I was the chairman of the APC, I will listen to my followers, carry everybody along, rule by the constitution of the party, say the facts and damn the consequence, apply the rule of law, and if I do this and the majority is not pleased, I will resign. “Immediately my team left PDP, the party did not find its feet. It was because I applied these principles. “If the president feels he is bigger than the party, I will call his bluff because it is the party that puts him there. Maybe, that is what APC is not doing that created the problem”, he noted. 3 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 