Lagos – Residents around the Olusosun dump site can now heave a sigh of relief as the ongoing capping exercise, meant to douse the fume from the dump site fire and serve as a precursor to the proposed parks, has reached the half way mark.
Speaking to journalists during his inspection of the night shift of the capping exercise at Olusosun at the weekend, the Commissioner for the Environment, Mr. Babatunde Durosinmi-Etti said that the exercise, involving the spreading of laterite to prepare the sprawling location for the emergence of modern parks, had progressed remarkably.
According to him, government in its determination to bring relief to the area ensured that not less than 250 trucks of laterite were spread daily to cover the heaps of garbage and deny the refuse-induced gasses oxygen needed for combustion.
He said that the resort to night shifts was informed by the need to beat the impending rain and fastrack the effort, adding that all hands had been on deck to ensure a speedy and successful exercise. He noted that Lagosians were already enjoying the outcome of the good work as the fire had practically been contained while the emissions had gradually disappeared.
“ As you can see, this environment is now safer, the heaps have almost entirely given way to brown laterite and people have almost forgotten that this used to be a dump site as they find it convenient to operate here”, he said.
On the future of the site, Durosinmi-Etti reiterated that Lagosians should expect the development of recreational parks of many sections, including green areas, Art-in-the-Park and history gallery among others.
The Environment Commissioner stressed that the government in its usual manner would welcome contributions of the private sector, saying that it would not be a bad idea should an organisation adopt a section of the Park.
“The paramount aim of the Akinwunmi Ambode Administration is to meet the yearnings of our people for recreation. Despite that we already have the JJT Park and Ndubuisi Kanu Park in this axis, we can see that we still require more parks to serve the catchments of Ikosi, Ogudu, Gbagada and Oregun etc” he said.
He said that the Olusosun park would be unique for it strategical location at the gateway into Lagos State as it would had to the beautiful skyline of the State. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 