Lagos – “Why do I need to go for foreign medical trip if we cannot make our hospital functional? – President Muhammadu Buhari – February 2015. Though many loyalists of  President  Buhari have described the above quote ascribed to the president as false as such statement was not contained in his Chatham House speech however they could not deny the president’s address at the 56th Annual Conference of the Nigerian Medical Association, held in Sokoto in April 2016. Represented by the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, the president spoke against medical tourism where he said: “While this administration will not deny anyone of his or her fundamental human rights, we will certainly not encourage expending Nigerian hard earned resources on any government official seeking medical care abroad, when such can be handled in Nigeria”. Nine months after returning from medical vacation which lasted 103 days, President  Muhammadu  Buhari on Tuesday embarked on a four-day medical trip to the United Kingdom (UK). According to a statement last night by Malam Garba Shehu, his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, the president had a meeting with his doctor last Thursday when he had a ‘technical stop-over for aircraft maintenance’ in London on his way back to Nigeria from Washington where he had met United States President Donald Trump. Shehu in the statement said the president’s doctor asked him to return for another meeting which he said Buhari agreed to do. The statement added: “President Buhari will return on Saturday, May 12th. “On his return, the President’s two-day State Visit to Jigawa, which was postponed because of the All Progressives Congress, APC’s Ward Congresses will now take place on Monday 14th and Tuesday 15th May. The president first proceeded on medical vacation on January 19, 2017 and was billed to return on February 6. Consequently, he transmitted a letter to the National Assembly that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo would act as president in his absence. But on February 5, he transmitted another letter to the National Assembly from London, extending his medical vacation. He did not return until March 10, 2017. The president again proceeded on another medical vacation in May and did not return until 104 days after. The latest trip has continued to generate widespread criticisms from Nigerians who are appalled by attempts by the presidency to hide sensitive information from the citizens who elected him. It will be recalled that nothing was heard about the president’s whereabouts following his meeting last week with US President, Donald Trump. Unknown to Nigerians , he had departed  Washington had travelled to the United Kingdom (UK). When demands for his whereabouts became persistent, the presidency said he had a technical stopover in London. Some had claimed that the president broke down following his meeting with Trump and had to travel to the UK to see his medical doctors but his handlers decided to keep the information away from Nigerians so as not to raise eyebrows especially with ongoing debates about his fitness for the rigorous campaign for the 2019 elections and the arduous task of governing the country for another four years if he triumphs. Speaking on the latest trip, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina has said that the president is the only person who can reveal his ailment or details about his health. He said “That is something private and personal. The fact that a man is a President does not remove his right and privileges to privacy. So, unless Mr President comes out voluntarily and willingly to tell the country that ‘this is what I have suffered from, this is what I have been treated for’…even the medical doctor does not have the right to say it. “It is in the Hippocratic oath that the medical doctors take. They cannot disclose the ailment of the patient without the permission of that patient,” he explained. There is no cause for alarm because he (the President) is up and about and doing his duties. What he is going for is a review. We all need that from time to time. There is nobody that is 100% healthy. He is just going for a review. I want to believe that he will come back on Saturday as planned,” he said. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in its reaction said  President Buhari should stop deceiving Nigerians about his health and other national issues. Kola Ologbondiyan, the National Publicity Secretary of the party who spoke with newsmen said it was a pity that the President lied to Nigerians about the stop over he had in London a few days ago. He said, “ The President should stop deceiving Nigerians about his health and other issues. “Why did he lie that he merely had a technical stopover in London?  He should take Nigerians and Nigeria seriously. “He could be sick, but he should also know that Nigerians are the ones maintaining his health for him. So, he should tell them the truth all the time “We also hope he has transmitted a letter to the National Assembly about this trip.  If he didn’t,  that is going against the Constitution. It will be recalled that the president, who assumed office on May 29, 2015, first embarked on a six-day vacation in the United Kingdom between February 5 and 10, 2016. On June 6, 2016, he embarked on another 10-day vacation to attend to what the Presidency described as “persistent ear infection.” It had said although Buhari was examined and treated by his personal physician and a specialist in Abuja, the doctors advised him to go for further evaluation as a precaution. He said the President would therefore use the 10-day break to see an Ear, Nose and Throat specialist in London. Buhari returned to Nigeria on June 19, 2016 after spending 14 days in London. In a short interaction at the airport, Buhari challenged one of the State House correspondents who asked him about his state of health to a wrestling contest. “You know I am taller than you. Do you want to wrestle me?” the President had said in Hausa language. The president again left the country on January 19, 2017, for another medical vacation. When the trip was prolonged, his aides announced that the President would be staying back in London to enable him to get the results of some medical tests he did. He returned to the country on March 10 after a 49-day medical sojourn, disclosing that he had never been that sick in his life. After being absent from some public events, including three consecutive weekly Federal Executive Council meetings, Buhari on May 7 returned to London for medical consultation. He came back to the country after 103 days following series of protest from a group, Ourmumudondo movement led by Charly Boy who demanded that he either resume or resign. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 