Lagos – Chief Olabode George, a leader of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in South West says he will never leave the party, saying all that is required is for it to be strengthened. He said that in every human gathering there would always be issues and the best that the party would do was to resolve the problems and move the nation forward. Speaking, when the National Chairman of the Party, Prince Uche Secondus, the chairman of the party in Lagos State, Hon Moshood Salvador and the members of the National Working Committee (NWC) paid him a condolence visit on Monday over the death of his son, Oladipupo, who died in an Ikoyi Hospital in Lagos after a battle with an undisclosed illness last week Thursday, George appreciated Prince Secondus for the honour accorded him even in his moment of grief. The politician said that his son, who died at 42, was the crown prince of the family and that he would be greatly missed by everybody. “My son mixes very well with everyone. He listened to people at the grassroots and he used to share his thoughts with me. He became sick and we took him to the hospital. I later left for Abuja but had to rush down to the hospital in Lagos and I watched my son going down.  We expected him to be discharged from the hospital before he eventually gave up the ghost,” he said. Prince Secondus who sympathized with Chief Bode George, on behalf of the party, over the death of his son stated that the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party was pained by the sad loss and that it was regrettable that such a young man could die at this time. “It is painful that death took away your first son that could have been there to bury you at your departure. However, we cannot question God because all power belongs to him.  We pray that the invincible hands of God would touch your heart. The party is with you in this situation and we will always be with you. We want to assure you that our party will be represented at the burial on Thursday” he said. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 