The United States Government Exchange Program Alumni, OAU Cohort in partnership with the Public Affairs Section of the US Consulate, Lagos, recently trained school leavers in Ile-Ife and environ on mobile apps. The three week training was entitled  “Mobile Apps Summer School” (MASS), which was geared towards exposing participants to possibilities in the Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) through an instructor-led, technical skill acquisition in computer applications and mobile apps development, entrepreneurial mindset development, role modelling and mentorship programme and product development relevant to local needs. The MASS Team Lead and a Hubert Humphrey fellow, Dr. Temitope Aladesanmi of the Information Technology and Communications Unit (INTECU) of OAU, said that the participants were taken through the fundamentals of computer, app development using Scratch programming and app inventor, mentorship and entrepreneurship classes. She said that there were series of practicals, life coaching sessions and fun activities.  In all, 48 participants were trained by seven instructors and eight volunteers who coordinated the practical sessions. At the opening ceremony, Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic), Professor A.S. Bamire, who represented the Vice-Chancellor, lauded the initiative and commended the organisers for extending the frontiers of knowledge to the young students. He reiterated the commitment of the university administration to continue to strengthen town-gown relationship. In his own admonition, the University Registrar, Mr. Dotun Awoyemi, encouraged the participants to take advantage of the programme to set agenda for their lives. The guest speaker, Prof. (Mrs.) O. Adedeji, who is also the first female Dean, Faculty of Science, OAU, shared her life story with the participants, challenging them to reach for greater heights. Mr. Sanya Oluwadare, CEO and founder, Halermy Design Ltd and a Google Local Guide Legend spoke on the possibilities within the IT industry. He spoke on his project with Google on digital marketing and how the participants could benefit. A major high point of the event was the group presentations by the participants. The best three groups during the presentation are currently being prepared to take part in this year Technovation competition, an ideation event held yearly in United States to promote entrepreneurship among girls globally. Aladesanmi explained that the MASS initiative aimed to serve as a vehicle to reduce vulnerability of female school leavers to adversarial situations such as early pregnancy, forced labour, sex trafficking and academic discontinuation through comprehensive ICT training and role modelling. Dr. (Mrs.) Funke Bello (former Director, Institute of Education), encouraged the participants to take careers in STEM related fields mentioning her rewarding experience as a physicist and educationist in a highly male-dominated field. Dr. (Mrs.) Helen Aderemi (Department of Management and Accounting), a US exchange alumnae (Techwomen), discussed the role of entrepreneurship as a means of self-empowerment. Another Techwomen alumnae, Dr. (Mrs.) O.T. Aladesanmi (Institute of Ecology and Environmental Studies) challenged the participants on the need to believe in themselves. 0 comments