Irked by the continued killing of citizens across the country, the Nigerian Senate recently called on President Muhammadu Buhari to sack heads of the nation’s security agencies and the Service Chiefs. The call followed a debate on the renewed killings in Nasarawa State by herdsmen and criminal militia groups. The lawmakers submitted that because Nigerians were increasingly becoming disappointed and frustrated over government’s failings and inactions on insecurity, democracy had become endangered. The Senate, after adopting a motion by Suleiman Adokwe (PDP, Nasarawa State), also asked Buhari to seek immediate help from the international community in curbing security problems in Nigeria. Solomon Adeola Olamilekan (APC, Lagos State) stressed the need to inject fresh ideas in order to find solution to the security problems. He noted that the only way to address the security challenges was to remove the incumbent Service Chiefs to give room for those with fresh ideas. He said: “The nation should do away with unproductive tenure elongation in areas where fresh ideas are needed. We know the way the military organisation operates. Those with fresh ideas dare not come out against their superiors or else they risk premature retirement from service. So, the current Service Chiefs should go to allow officers with fresh ideas address our alarming security issues.” Jeremiah Useni (PDP, Plateau State), identified constant clashes among security agencies as part of the security problems. He said the heads of such agencies should be removed to pave the way for a more harmonious relationship among security agencies. Defending his motion, Adokwe said: “Throughout the weekend and up to the moment that I am speaking, herdsmen have unleashed terror and mayhem on the people of my senatorial district. Many of them have died, numerous wounded and hundreds of thousands are now internally displaced. The victims are largely the Tiv speaking ethnic nationalities, 32 of them have reportedly been killed and we are still counting. “The real tragedy is not in the well coordinated and simultaneous carnage across Awe, Obi, Keana and Doma local government areas, but in the fact that for four days running, this mayhem has continued unhindered, unchecked, unstopped by any arm of the law and security enforcement agency.” He lamented: “Right under the noses of the armed forces and the police, this killing is sustained unabated by sheer negligence or refusal to act by the security agencies. It is a sad commentary.” Adokwe expressed shock that despite the existence of an Army base close to where the carnage was being perpetrated, there was no single shot fired by the army. “It baffles me and beats my imagination that a whole law enforcement agency of the Nigerian state will stand by and witness Nigerians being killed endlessly. Nobody can explain this. “It is no wonder that eminent Nigerians have urged the citizens to defend themselves. I am very emotional on this matter and I am not one given to emotion very easily. But what I have gone through this weekend was very horrifying; it is very distressing and sad. It is as if we were in a lawless society where life is brutish, where there is absence of state powers. We call on the Federal Government to stop this carnage.” Barnabas Gemade (APC, Benue State) said Nigeria was becoming a state without control, one that was experiencing anarchy and ethnic cleansing. “It is a shame that a sitting government could watch criminality go to the level that we have seen it today and rather than rise up and take very decisive steps against it, we embark on deniability and simply shield this evil by just explaining with flimsy excuses that these are communal clashes in those communities. A cross section of Nigerians had been wondering if the sack Service Chiefs could be the best way to address the nation’s security challenges. Security Chiefs Have Failed – Lawyer Edmond Abule Oche, a Benin-based lawyer, said: “The answer is ‘yes’. This is because they have all failed in discharging their duties as expected of them. Majority of Nigerians have agreed that the security system of the country has collapsed and that there is urgent need to resuscitate it to avoid calamities that is now lucking at all corners of the country. “First and foremost, let me point out where and how the entire scenario started. The problem started from the President who appointed them because if you take a look at the appointment, you will discovered that they were not appointed to succeed, but to fail in the sense that the security of the country was compromised by the President while selecting the Service Chiefs by appointing relations, friends, in-laws and their associates. “In security theories and analysis, there is no where you will find a perfect security situation that was provided by relations or friends. Most of the tragedies of nations and families were wrought or masterminded by allied, relations or friends. “So, for Mr. President to have thought that by appointing his brothers, sisters or friends to man the security posts and security machines of the nation will bring about security success of his administration by guaranteeing the safety of lives and property of all Nigerians and non Nigerians living in the country was a misplaced calculation. “My advice to Mr. President is to, without further delay, carry out a clean sweep of the Service Chiefs and general overhauling of the entire security system of the country not only to prevent the country from total collapse security wise but also to save his face and reputation if at all they are still there.” Let Us Try Fresh Hands – LP Chief Chief Unamba Donald Ohiamia, a Labour Party (LP) chieftain, said the President should send the security chiefs packing without further delay “because they have failed us. Whoever thinks otherwise does not mean well for this country and wants all of us to perish.” He added: “Today, it is killing in Benue. Tomorrow, it is in Nasarawa and the next day, it is Borno, Adamawa or Plateau. So, what are we talking about? Let us ease security chiefs out and try fresh hands otherwise we are doomed.” Security System Needs An Overhaul – NCP Chief Onuegbu Vitalis Onyekwele Ibe Uzondu, an Owerri-based chieftain of the National Conscience Party (NCP), said: “It will not be enough to relieve the security chiefs of their duties. The president should go beyond this and overhaul our entire security system that appears to have collapsed.” He added: “Is it true that some foreign security experts recently offered to help us, but were rejected by the Federal Government? I plead that countries with formidable security networks should be engaged to rescue us from the cobweb of insecurity.” ‘Security Challenges Have Political Undertone’ Barrister Adebiyi Adegbenle wondered whether the security challenges that the country has were caused by the Service Chiefs. According to him, the security challenges have political undertone, suggesting that a group in the political class are sponsoring the violence in some parts of the country. Adegbenle asked: “How many Nigerians have the financial capability to purchase or have access to arms and ammunition?” He declared that political class is promoting the current violence for selfish ends. He added: “There is also the problem of distrust and disunity in the country. Until all these issues are addressed, there will not be peace. There would be peace in the land when Nigerians are ready to embrace it and work as one. Service Chiefs Have Failed, They Must Go -Jonah Comrade Kindness Jonah, a human rights activist, believes that all the Service Chiefs should be sacked immediately. Jonah said it is only in Nigeria that people who are not performing in office are allowed to continue, owing to nepotistic considerations. He said it has become obvious that the Service Chiefs have no answer to the killings and allowing them to remain in office creates the impression that the government lacks the political will to stop the killings. Jonah appealed to Nigerians to wake up from their slumber and join the campaign for the removal of the redundant Service Chiefs and replacing them with people who are active enough to tackle the nation’s security challenges. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 