Lawyer to the Chris Giwa-led Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) executive, Patrick Ikueto (SAN) has disclosed that his client will assume office any moment from now having obtained the certified copy of the Supreme Court judgment, which has been served on the appropriate persons. This shall be until the High Court decides otherwise. “We have served the certified copy of the Supreme Court judgment to the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, and the Sports Minister, Solomon Dalung. It is after these processes have been done before my clients will be moving into the NFF office. It is the judgment of court. Since the Supreme Court delivered its ruling on the NFF election on the April 27, there has been diverse interpretations of the judgment by sports analysts and legal practitioners. With the service of the enrolled order of the court, the parties can now lay credence to exactly the decision of the highest court in the land. According to Ikueto, “that ruling would bring sanity to football administration in the country. There was and there is no ambiguity in the judgment. The Supreme Court only referred the case filed by the Chris Giwa-led Executive Committee of the NFF back to the Federal High Court for “Re-hearing.” “In effect, the judgment of the Court of Appeal, upon which the Amaju-Pinnick led Executive Committee of NFF derived their “mandate,” was set aside by the Supreme Court. By the Judgment of the Supreme Court, the orders of the Federal High Court, setting aside the election of Amaju Pinnick and his group, still subsists. Whilst the case is still pending before the Federal High Court, the Chris Giwa-led executive will remain in office pending the final determination of the suit. This is the Judgment of the Supreme Court and nobody should be deceived.” comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 