Dr Kayode Fayemi, Minister of Mines and Steel Development was in a clear lead yesterday in the rescheduled All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary, beaten his closest rival, Chief Segun Oni, former governor of the state to a second position. In a keenly contested election, featuring 32 aspirants, Fayemi, former governor of the state confirmed its popularity amongst the party delegates, polling nearly half of the votes cast at the primary, which votes were still being counted as at the time of going to press. The election was earlier aborted two Saturdays ago following the distruption of the process by hoodlums, who gate crashed into the venue of the election at Oluyemi Kayode Stadium, Ado-Ekiti. Unlike the aborted election, adequate security was provided at the venue of the election, which took place at Damlek Event Centre in Ado-Ekiti. Earlier before the election, Gov. Tanko Al-‎Makura, the Chairman of APC committee on Ekiti Governorship Primary, gave an assurance that the rescheduled exercise would be free, fair and credible. Al-Makura, who is also the governor of Nassarawa State, gave the assurance while addressing the delegates and aspirants at the venue of the exercise in Ado-Ekiti. He said once a delegate had cast his vote, he must leave the hall and would not be allowed in until  the end of the exercise. Al-Makura, who said 2,326 out of the 2,618 delegates had been accredited  to participate in the exercise, urged them  to  respect the ‎rules and regulations guiding the exercise. Voting commenced at 1.07 pm, with the statutory delegates in the first batch to vote. The State Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Ahmed Bello, said he had deployed a  large number of security personnel to the venue of the primary to ensure a  hitch-free exercise. But when asked to give the figure of policemen deployed for the exercise, the commissioner declined, saying “permit me to keep that to my chest.’’ “If you look round, you will see my men in every place, can you count them? “I am just working according to my plans and we will make sure there is no problem, ” he said. Commenting on the exercise, Fayemi, expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the exercise. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 