Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar on Monday visited victims of the Mubi suicide attack receiving treatment at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Yola, Adamawa State, and donated N10 million to the Paupers’ Fund of the hospital. The Waziri of Adamawa told newsmen after he was conducted round the hospital wards to console the victims that he was satisfied with the hospital’s effort in the treatment of the patients as well as their response. The twin bomb blasts occurred a week ago, killing scores of people and injuring many others. The first blast was said to have occurred at the mosque located in the market, killing all members of the congregation before the second one destroyed another part of the market. Atiku applauded the commitment of the management of the hospital and the committee it set up to manage the Paupers’ Fund meant for the treatment of underprivileged persons. “I once donated N10 million to the fund and decided to make another donation of N10 million today because I am quite satisfied with the way the fund is being managed. “Patients that cannot afford to get medical treatment can benefit from the fund.” Atiku underscored the need to recruit more security personnel, especially policemen, to boost internal security. “Happily, I have heard an announcement that more policeman are being recruited, though not sufficient. “There is also the need to look into the training of security personnel, so that they can confront the current challenges.” Prof. Muhammad Auwal, the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the hospital, thanked the former vice president for his support to the hospital. “He is the major financier of our Paupers’ Fund and I want to put it on record that the fund, since inception, had financed the treatment of about 300 patients, including those with major surgeries. “The management of the hospital has no access to the fund and there is no exchange of money at all; we give the service and the fund pays directly into our TSA,” Auwal said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 