KolaDaisi University, Ibadan (KDU), has clinched the second spot at the just concluded Inter-University Public Lecture and Oratory Contest organised by the Students’ Representative Council of Lead City University, Ibadan, Oyo State. KDU was marginally beaten to the first position by the National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) while the host emerged third. KDU, represented by the duo of Omotoke Solarin-Sodara and Obaoluwagbohunmi Akin-Lewis, captivated the audience with their oratory prowess on the theme; “Grazing Reserve Bill or Cattle Colony: An Elixir to Recent Crises Between Fulani Herdsmen and Farmers in Nigeria”. The young University’s debate team, selected from the institution’s Faculty of Arts, Management and Social Sciences and chaperoned by Dr. Titiloye Ojo, Dr. Idayat Lamidi and Dr. Idowu Adekunle,  leaves no one in doubt on the quality of learning at the institution as it brushes other competitors aside. One of the chaperons, Dr. Ojo praised the dexterity and confidence exhibited by the KolaDaisi University team, which he said was the key attributes that earned the University the second place. According to him, the representatives of the university refused to be intimidated by competition, saying “I feel so proud of our team. Our debaters were very brilliant and confident”. According to Lasun Somoye, Head, Corporate Affairs, the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Kolade Ayorinde in a congratulatory message rejoiced with the Faculty of Arts, Management and Social Sciences for doing the University proud at the oratory contest, noting that “this feat is highly commendable and worthy of note as a good start, especially as this was the first competition our students would participate in, since the commencement of the academic activities in November 2017”. Professor Ayorinde urged both the staff and students of the budding institution not to relent in the pursuit of excellence. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 