Lagos – Secretary General of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo, has stressed the importance of dialogue and cooperation between oil industry stakeholders in order to achieve a stable and sustainable energy future. Speaking ahead of the run-up to the 7th OPEC International Seminar from 20-21 June 2018 at the Hofburg Palace in Vienna, Barkindo, stressed the need for cooperation between relevant stakeholders in view of the so-called ‘new energy era’. “We chose this year’s theme ‘Petroleum – Cooperation for a Sustainable Future’ because it confronts one of the key questions of our time: While it is clear that all forms of energy will be needed in the future, it is also evident that fossil fuels will continue to play a dominant role in meeting the ever-rising demand for energy. “Thus, we will gather energy ministers from OPEC Member Countries, non-OPEC producing and consuming nations as well as high-ranking representatives from international companies and organisations, leading scientists and energy experts at the Seminar in order to discuss the contribution of petroleum to a stable and sustainable global energy future,” said Barkindo. He explained that  the seminar’s two-day programme will provide a unique, high-level forum in which the major issues of the day will be discussed, including industry investment, the role of technology and innovation, as well as sustainability and the future of oil. Enhanced dialogue and cooperation between oil industry stakeholders constitute the key ingredients to a successful future and characterise the landmark ‘Declaration of Cooperation’ between 24 OPEC and non-OPEC oil producing countries as a model process. “In an increasingly interdependent and complex world, we all need to work towards a more integrated industry. We need to continually break down barriers, as we cannot work in silos. This has become reality in the ‘Declaration of Cooperation’, which is a historic achievement that has helped to accelerate market rebalancing and enhance stability,” said the Secretary General. “I am confident that this year’s Seminar, with its many highly distinguished speakers and panelists, will bring to the forefront potential solutions to some of the industry’s most pressing challenges, while also enhancing and expanding avenues of dialogue and cooperation,” concluded HE Barkindo. The OPEC International Seminar is one of the premier events on the world energy calendar. The first OPEC Seminar was held in Vienna in 1969, with the Seminars increasing in size and scope over the years, not only embracing petroleum-related topics, but other issues such as global finance, sustainable development and the environment. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 