Abuja-  Gabriel Kolawole of the Federal High Court Abuja, on Thursday admitted additional documentary evidence which were tendered by the Federal Government in the ongoing criminal trial of Gabriel Suswam, former Benue State governor. Two other defendants in the charge dated March 23, 2017, filed before the Federal High Court in Abuja and marked FHC/ABJ/CR/48/2017, are a former Commissioner for Finance under Suswam’s administration, Mr. Omadachi Oklobia, and the then Accountant, Benue State Government House Administration, Mrs. Janet Aluga. The trio were arraigned on June 19, 2017, by the Federal Government on a 32-count charge over an allegation of frittering a whooping N9,781,602,453.8, part of which was meant for police reform programme, and Subsidy Reinvestment and Empowerment Programme. The funds were allegedly diverted between 2012 and 2015, while Suswam was the governor of the state. They were alleged to have conspired and transferred the sum of N9,791,602,453.8 from the Benue State Subsidy Reinvestment Programme, SURE-P account, with Zenith and the GT Banks into illegal accounts with the aim of concealing the money. At a resumed trial, the prosecution counsel, Aminu Akilu, tendered the documentary evidence showing how the sum of N450 million was fraudulently moved from the state treasury under the guise that it would be used to complement 10 months running cost for the government house. The Federal Government through Mr. Ochoga Peter Esuh, the second prosecution witness tendered the documents. Esuh was formerly a cashier, Benue State Government House. The documents admitted by the court were certified true copies of memo to the executive governor (Suswam), payment receipts, payment vouchers of the N450 million and a letter to the Commissioner for Finance, under Suswam’s administration, Omadachi Oklobia, in respect of the money. The two statements of the witness to the police were also tendered as exhibits before the court, despite the objection by the prosecution counsel. Justice Kolawole has adjourned to May 22, 2018 for the cross-examination of the witness.  1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 