Abuja – George Mukundi, former Head, African Governance Architecture (AGA) Secretariat, Department of Political Affairs, African Union Commission (AUC), says Nigeria ranks below 20 per cent in making information on security spending available to the public. Mukundi made the call in Abuja at a two-day International Conference on Security Budget in Nigeria. The conference with the theme ‘Transparency and Accountability: Issues in Security Budget in Nigeria’ was organised by the CLEEN Foundation, a civil society organisation (CSO). He identified limited public participation, lack of clarity and coherence of national security sector policy and strategic plan as some of the issues affecting security spending in some African countries, including Nigeria. Other issues, according to him, include: inefficient implementation of the budget and poor coordination, limited transparency, accountability, corruption especially related to procurement, as well as disconnect between planning, budgeting and spending. Mukundi said: “The way forward for African nation’s is to understand that security budget should be made available to the public. The public is a beneficiary of the budget that government creates, plans and costs. “The citizens should be able to tell what the government plans for them. They should be able to tell if the government is spending on priority projects.” At the event, various speakers called for entrenchment of transparency and accountability in security spending in Nigeria. In her opening remarks, Mrs. Priscilla Ankut, Board member, CLEEN Foundation, noted that “security budget is shrouded in secrecy” in Nigeria. She said: “This acts as a cover for corruption. It should be more inclusive and participatory. It is no longer solely the business of the security apparatus. It has to be inclusive of the whole society. Submitting to scrutiny will avoid waste and prevent corruption.” In his welcome address, Benson Olugbuo, executive director, CLEEN Foundation, stated that the role of budget in an economy could not be over-emphasised. His words: “A budget is expected to be well-designed, effectively and efficiently implemented, adequately monitored and its performance well evaluated also in a very transparent manner. “On a global barometer, Nigeria ranked 90th in the world and 23rd in Africa on budget transparency index, out of 115 countries globally and 38 African countries in the 2017 Open Budget Index (OBI) survey which was released in February 2018. “Nigeria’s score on the index dipped from 24 per cent in 2015 to 17 per cent, and currently ranks behind Rwanda, Zimbabwe and Liberia in Africa, while South Africa has been ranked first alongside New Zealand globally. He noted that many defence and security institutions around the world keep their budgets away from public scrutiny. “While many western democracies have taken the bold step that brought about transparency in the area of defence and security budgets, other new democracies are wobbling along. Levels of transparency vary between western and non-western countries; some countries such as the United States, Costa Rica, Germany, and New Zealand make many budgetary defence details available to the public, while others such as China and Saudi Arabia make very minimal to zero display of their budgets. On this note, suffice to say Nigeria aligns perfectly with the latter category of nations.  A global ranking exists in the area of transparency and defence budgets “Needless to say, no institution, even the military, should be above public review, which is a crucial component of our fledgling democracy. “The CLEEN Foundation is of the opinion that avoiding excessive, wasteful and corrupt security expenditures and procurement requires high levels of transparency and accountability in security budgeting and procurement processes. “Such processes should adhere to government-wide financial management and oversight practices, within a rigorously-observed security policy and planning framework. This includes adherence to Public Expenditure Management (PEM) principles of comprehensiveness, discipline, legitimacy, flexibility, predictability, contestability, honesty, information democratisation, transparency and accountability.” The conference brought together government agencies, security institutions, academia, media and civil society. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 