Allied Thrust and Systems Limited (ATSL) has officially launched its multi-million naira event center, Funplex. Located in the heart of Magodo, Lagos, the formal opening of the delux centre, which started with a special red carpet reception played host to crème-de-la-crème of the society, top executives in the corporate world, hospitality industry, Funplex Event center is part of a mix called the Funplex Resort. The resort houses an amusement park (Funplex Parks and Rides), a hotel for lodging (The Grant Suites), a quick service restaurant and bakery for all sorts of catering needs (Ticklers restaurant and Bakery), and an outdoor bar with a fully air conditioned indoor lounge (Concourse Bar) that boasts of the best grill in town. It has modern facilities like air conditioning systems, well-furnished VIP suites/changing rooms, a standard attendants and level of expertise to small, medium and large organisations as well as individuals who desire the perfect venue for weddings, social and corporate events. Mr. Emeka Nwasike, the Managing Director of Allied Thrust and Systems Limited, while welcoming guests, said the commissioning is a dream come true. According to him, the dream was ignited when Allied Thrust and Systems Nigeria Limited won a BOT contract with Centre for Management Development (CMD) with a proposal to build a conference hall for the centre. “This feat is borne out of our love for hospitality and our desire to be a strong contender and pacesetter in the industry. Already, you can see that Funplex resort is a one-stop-shop for fun and entertainment. Our goal is to provide Nigerians with an event centre that can cater for all their corporate and social needs,” he said. Speaking at the event, Dr. Joseph Yakubu Maiyaki, a former Director General of CMD, who was in office when the institute and ATSL signed the agreement described the project as a good example of a public-private partnership. He revealed that the concession was done as an alternative means of generating income for CMD, while adding that though the institute is government funded, the institution felt there was a need to develop other ways of generating more funds. He expressed satisfaction with what ATSL has done with the property, so far, and hoped that the purpose for the construction of the event centre will be realised. Among the dignitaries who graced the event were HRM Oba Jamiu Ajibola Adetola Lawal, the Oba of Shangisha Magodo Kingdom and HRM Oba Samuel Alamu Oloyede, Onikosi of Ikosi. 0 comments