Abuja – National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) said it has saved about N10 billion for the Federal Government in the last one year, following the setting-up of a Standing Committee on Information Technology [IT] Projects saddled with the responsibility of clearing Ministries, Departments and Agencies(MDAs) on IT Projects. Dr. Isa Ali Pantami, Director General of NITDA, revealed this shortly after his agency was given an award by the Nigerian Union of Journalists in Abuja. According to him,  “Throughout the history of the country, there was no time that the IT sector had to be regulated. “It is only when I came on board that I discovered that we need to regulate IT in the country. “And the first thing we started doing was to ensure that all IT projects in the MDAs are cleared, technically and professionally executed because before I came on board, many MDAs saw IT projects as conduit pipes for siphoning money. “Because when they MDAs go for budget defence at the National Assembly, most of our legislators do not know what IT is all about. So, people find it easy to manipulate them and the budget passed without necessary questions. “With this IT clearance, huge amount of money has been saved, about N10bn so far, not to talk about the technical values added. “Through this regulation, we make sure we promote our cyber security. We create public awareness about cyber security as part of the regulation. We ensure that local companies, indigenous ICT products are deployed in the MDAs. “We do not allow importation of IT products unless we discovered we do not have the capacity in the country. These are some of the initiatives we have taken, which by implication have been creating digital jobs, supporting our indigenous IT companies, and they are happy. “IT companies said the level of patronage as of today is very high compared to before. This is a clear indication that the economy is being supported by this regulation. “MDAs are no more using ICT to syphon money unnecessarily.  We may not stop them all but I can say; at least 90 per cent of them have been blocked so far.” Speaking about the award his agency received, Pantami said the award was a challenge as well as a motivation for his agency to do more. “I am not expecting Nigerian Union of Journalists to come and give me award without doing their background checks, without making an investigation about my personality, what I have been doing, and they found out that I deserve this award. “It is an encouragement for me to do more for Nigeria and at the same time to maintain a professional and cordial relationship with the media itself,” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 