Lagos – The 2018 UEFA Champions League (UCL) final between Liverpool FC of England and Real Madrid FC of Spain, which holds today in Kiev, Ukraine, has so much of history in the making for the managers of both sides as well as the clubs. The epoch making final takes place at the NSC Olimpiyskiy Stadium in Kiev, Ukraine, with kick-off time at 7:45pm BST. However, the Merseyside club, who have won the title five times, beat AS Roma in the semifinals to advance to a showpiece clash against holders, Real Madrid. On the other hand, Real who edged past Bayern Munich in the semis are hunting a hat-trick of triumphs after winning the competition in both 2016 and 2017. Similarly, the coaches of both sides are seemed to biggest attraction in the mix if their club records are anything to go by – Klopp a manager who is searching for victory after five final failures. And Zidane a successful player who also has translated the field skill into management having given the Bernabau side LaLiga title and two UCL trophies; a three-time best player. Zidane triumph this weekend with Real will make him the first coach in the European prestigious cup championship to win the trophy thrice in a row. Thus, there is palpable apprehension if Liverpool should be concerned by Jurgen Klopp’s managerial record in cup finals? Record reveals that the German has contested six-cup finals as a manager – four at Borussia Dortmund and two with Liverpool – but only won one of them. From Dortmund’s 2012 German Cup win over Bayern Munich to Liverpool’s Europa League final loss to Sevilla in 2016, here’s a breakdown of Klopp’s record in finals. Klopp reached the first cup final of his managerial career in 2012, when his Borussia Dortmund side, which had wrapped up the Bundesliga title a few weeks earlier, dismantled a star-studded Bayern Munich 5-2 at the Olympic Stadium in Berlin to lift the German Cup. Shinji Kagawa’s third-minute opener was cancelled out by Arjen Robben’s penalty, but Mats Hummels put Dortmund back in front from the spot, with Robert Lewandowski completing a hat-trick after Franck Ribery had netted Bayern’s second. 2013 UCL – Borussia Dortmund 1-2 Bayern Munich – Lost The 2012/13 season ended on a disappointing note for Borussia Dortmund and Klopp as they suffered an agonising defeat to their old foes Bayern Munich in all-German Champions League final at Wembley. It was a pulsating encounter with chances for both sides. Mario Mandzukic put Bayern ahead on the hour mark, but Ilkay Gundogan pulled Dortmund level from the penalty spot after Dante, who was fortunate not to be sent off having already been booked, caught Marco Reus in the stomach. Robben then struck Bayern’s winner two minutes from time, latching onto Franck Ribery’s flick and beating Roman Weidenfeller to break Dortmund’s hearts. 2014 German Cup – Borussia Dortmund 0-2 Bayern Munich (aet) – Lost Klopp suffered more heartache against Bayern Munich in the 2014 German Cup final. His Dortmund side had beaten Pep Guardiola’s men 3-0 in their previous meeting in the Bundesliga just a few weeks earlier, but there was no repeat of those heroics back at the Olympic Stadium in Berlin. The game, notable for Lewandowski’s return to Dortmund’s starting line-up despite the fact he had already agreed to join Bayern, was goalless after 90 minutes but ended in a 2-0 defeat as Robben and Thomas Muller struck in extra time. 2015 German Cup – Borussia Dortmund 1-3 Wolfsburg – Lost Klopp’s last season in charge of Borussia Dortmund, in which they slumped to a seventh-placed finish in the Bundesliga, ended with another German Cup final defeat – this time to Wolfsburg. Dortmund made a perfect start, with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang giving them the lead just five minutes in, but Wolfsburg produced an emphatic response, scoring three goals in 16 first-half minutes. Luis Gustavo got the first, with Kevin De Bruyne and Bas Dost putting another trophy out of Klopp’s reach. 2016 Capital One Cup – Liverpool 1-1 Man City – Lost On Penalties Klopp had his first opportunity to lift silverware at Liverpool just four months after his appointment as they reached the UCL Cup final against Manchester City. They were many people’s favourites having thrashed Manuel Pellegrini’s side 4-1 at the Etihad Stadium in November, but City were far stronger at Wembley. Philippe Coutinho sent the tie to extra-time when he cancelled out Fernandinho’s opener, but Liverpool’s goalscorer was one of three Reds players to miss their penalties as City won the shootout 3-1. 2016 Europa League – Liverpool 1-3 Sevilla – Lost Liverpool overcame Manchester United and Borussia Dortmund on their way to the 2016 Europa League final and they appeared to be on their way to lifting the trophy when Daniel Sturridge opened the scoring against Sevilla with a stunning strike at the St Jakob-Park stadium in Basel. But having gone into the break with a one-goal lead, Liverpool suffered a depressing second-half collapse. Kevin Gameiro equalised in the first 17 seconds, with Coke scoring twice in the space of six minutes later in the half. “I am responsible for this performance,” said Klopp afterwards. “I promise everybody we will use it and come back stronger.” Such has been the headache of Klopp’s career as manager in the round leather game. Liverpool Have The Backing To Cause An Upset In stark contrast, the Spanish giants are the most in-form team over the last few seasons in Europe. Real Madrid have won three of the last four editions of the UCL and are looking to make it three wins in a row, an achievement which is unprecedented in the modern era. This game no doubt is likely to be will be an entertaining one between the two hugely talented teams, given the magnitude, which may begin on a cautious note. Otherwise, finals can be akin to a game of chess and as the match enters its second half it may well open up further, meaning there should be more goals after the interval rather than before. Liverpool have been one of the most consistent teams in European competition over recent months, and have lost a solitary encounter in the UCL this season. That reverse did come however in their most recent outing, the semi-final second leg away to Roma when they went down 4-2 despite holding both 1-0 and 2-1 leads during the first half – the vulnerability of Liverpool’s back line is without doubt Klopp’s biggest concern. To conclude the campaign in Europe, this looks to be a hell of a tie to sign off the season in style between two teams who play football the right way. Liverpool beat runaway Premier League champions Manchester City three times in a row this past season and there will be plenty backing them to cause an upset against Real Madrid this weekend as well, with Liverpool priced at 3.05 to lift the crown, according to Oddsshark.com. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 