Not until the Lagos State Government, early in the year, opened a special court for trying sexual offences, scarcely could the regular courts in Nigeria conclude trials of sexual offenders like rapists, defilers of minors, among others, that resulted in a conviction. STEPHEN UBIMAGO, in this piece, reflects on the sociological factors that might have aided the perpetuation of this trend… An 18 year old girl, simply identified as Janet, was recently reported to have committed suicide at her residence in a Yenagoa suburb in Bayelsa State. Janet, who was reportedly raped by three boys at gunpoint, instantly suffered clinical depression from the trauma of her sordid experience which led her into committing suicide… A native of Oduali in Abua/Odua LGA of Rivers State, Janet was reportedly running an errand for her elder sister when her assailants forced her into an uncompleted building where they took turns in molesting her. After narrating her ordeal to her sister’s husband who’s a pastor, the latter asked her to describe any of her attackers for easy tracing. She is said to have managed to describe only one of them, who was traced to his house. He’d however disappeared before being reached having escaped to God-knows-where. Unbeknownst to her guardians, who tried to counsel and comfort her with a solemn promise that they would ensure that her assailants were brought to justice, Janet had gone over the edge. Her decision to end her pain with suicide had taken a fatal irreversible bend. Janet fetched a poisonous substance, known as Sniper, downed it but not before leaving a suicide note. She died writhing in agonizing pain in a nearby hospital, where efforts by doctors to save her proved only abortive. The police had launched a man-hunt of the rapists once the report of the dastardly incident reached them. However even their best effort to find closure for Janet and her guardian equally proved abortive, as her assailants left no cues that could lead to their arrest. The above narrative, appalling and depressing as it is, is not isolated. There have been recent reports of the defilement of two year old toddlers and pre-teens, as there have been reports of rape of teenage girls, young adults and even aged grannies. This has given rise to questions as to what could lie at the roots of a trend that seems to defy curtailment. Is the jurisprudence on rape and defilement, as may be gleaned from statute and case law, adequate for arresting the mischief? Or, is the problem not one of adequacy of law but rather of procedural bottleneck that is often encountered in the regular courts, therefore requiring the establishment of special court, as has been done in Lagos. It is instructive that while conviction for rape and defilement had been quite difficult to secure in the regular courts, it was a watershed on February 21 when a 58 year old man, one Obinna Iziejen, was convicted for the defilement of a 12 year old girl. The felon was sentenced to 60 years imprisonment by the Special Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court that was established by the Lagos State Government barely a fortnight earlier on February 1st. Statistical finding however indicates that the malaise of rape and defilement has continued to defy arrest because of the social attitudes and cultural disposition of Nigerians to the problem. According to a recent poll conducted by NOI Poll to commemorate the International Day of the Girl Child, a whooping 34 percent of the participants believed that indecent dressing was the main cause of rape in the society. Eighteen (18) percent believed unemployment was the cause; nine percent believed it was caused by lack of moral values and another nine percent believed it was caused by the inability to control sexual urges; seven percent said it was caused by faulty upbringing. Five percent of the participants believed rape was caused by illiteracy about women’s rights, ungodliness and bad company. In other words, only a measly number of those polled believe that women’s rights are fundamental rights; that women are no lesser human beings whose rights cannot be violated without dire consequences. The point is that an overwhelming majority of Nigerians believes that women themselves, who constitute victims of most rape cases, are the cause of the problem. They believe that women themselves are the inviters, directly or indirectly, of their assailants, hence they do not deserve remedy if violated. Put differently, the Nigerian society largely views rape victims (women) as being the ones that herd the libido of men to the overdrive with the way they dress; with their prideful disdain of male overtures; with their decision to have boyfriends instead of husbands only. They believe that women should be blamed for inflaming men’s urges by being in isolated circumstances with their boyfriends or paying them visits at their residences; that if women did not expose themselves in aforesaid various ways, they never could be rape victims. In other words, rape victims attracted to themselves their assailants; and so they as prey, not the predator rapists or defilers, are to be blamed. The question arising from this mindset of blame-the-victim-not-the-predator is: are we also to blame the defilement of toddlers and pre-teens; or the rape of old grannies on the victims? How conceivable could this ever be? A recent rape case that took place in Osun State appears to substantiate the argument that the wrong social attitude is the major challenge. So much has the wrong sociological mindset been a problem that even the regular courts have hitherto been rendered helpless in the circumstances, not being able to subject societal values-matrix to its control or power. The case involved an Osun State traditional ruler, who was accused of raping a 23 year old female member of the Nigerian Youth Service Corp (NYSC) serving in his domain. According to reports, the Alowa of Ilowa in Obokun LGA of the Osun State, Oba Adebukola Alli, was alleged to have raped one Helen Okpara, 23, who was posted on NYSC assignment to his community. The crime is alleged to have taken place on March 25, last year, at the Oba’s residence. Ms. Opara alleged that when the Oba started pressuring and threatening her, prelude to the alleged rape, she sent panic text messages to her the NYSC authorities and her pastor, who also alerted the Police. The police, however, claimed they couldn’t act at the time because the time the call came was late; that no sooner had they moved in response to the young woman’s apprehension than the Oba allegedly forced himself into his hapless victim. In his defense however, the Oba claimed that what happened between him and Opara was consensual coitus, maintaining they were lovers and that the girl enjoyed the session while it lasted. The young woman however maintained that the Oba forcibly had carnal knowledge of her after luring her to his private residence in Osogbo. While proceedings in the matter were going on before Justice Oyejide Falola of an Osun State High Court in Osogbo, members of the Oba’s community mobilized into demonstration parties around the court premises, whereat they demonized Opara, while lionizing the Oba in an apparent plot to intimidate the court into swaying its decision in the Oba’s favour. The defense team, led by one Taofeek Tewogbade, even went so far as to accuse the traumatized Opara of needlessly orchestrating the trial. He even gleefully challenging her to expose (if not before the open court, then before the judge in his private chambers) her private part for inspection in order to prove she sustained bruises as evidence of rape! Given the sheer shame of subjecting herself to medical examination, a gap in the prosecution’s arsenal and an advantage for the defense, Ms Opara’s case could not go as justice could have wished. Thus by July 8, the Court discharged and acquitted the monarch of the rape charge. It ruled that the prosecution failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt that the encounter between the duo was not that of mutual consent. In his judgment, Justice Falola said the chief prosecution witness, Ms. Okpara, failed to tender enough exhibits (like exposing her privates for inspection by the judge) to convince the court beyond reasonable doubt that Oba Alli raped her. He ruled that a case of rape could only be established with exhibits, which include used bed sheets; the victim’s panties and a medical doctor’s report showing forcible penetration, adding that the prosecution failed to tender all these in evidence. Citing the case of CORPORAL NICHOLAS V. THE NIGERIAN ARMY, Justice Falola, in his judgment, contended that there was no proof that the Ms. Opara was attacked by the monarch during the encounter as she had claimed. The trial judge, who said Okpara failed to show to the court via medical examination the bruises on her private part as evidence that she was raped, noted that the prosecution also failed to show to the court the torn clothes of the victim as she had claimed in her submissions before the court. In his response to the development, however, a Lagos-based lawyer, Chief Imoh Nelson, told the DFAILY INDEPENDENT that the reason most rape cases have either not gone to trial or had failed at trial to result in a conviction is due to sociological factors that tend to minimize or trivialize the offense. He said: “The problem with rape is the psychological and societal perception of rape. Victims often find it difficult to come out to tell the world what has happened to them because of stigma. “Because rape victims, out of fear of exposure or stigma, fail to report the matter for it to be properly investigated or brought before a competent court, the jurisprudence of rape has failed develop in Nigeria.” He thus admonished that “the victim should be able to come out, report the case and subject herself to medical examination.” He nonetheless blames the festering malady squarely on society for being in the habit of stigmatizing rape victims. This, according to him, is double jeopardy for rape victims, since having been traumatized by the experience; the victim is further subjected to social stigma. Sections 357 and 358 of the Criminal Code forbid  the offense known as rape, stating: “Any person who has unlawful carnal knowledge of a woman or girl, without her consent, or with her consent, if the consent is obtained by force or by means of threats or intimidation of any kind, or by fear of harm, or by means of false and fraudulent representation as to the nature of the act, or, in the case of a married woman, by personating her husband, is guilty of an offence which is called rape. “Any person who commits the offence of rape is liable to imprisonment for life, with or without caning.” Section 218 of the Criminal Code also forbids the defilement, stating: “Any person who has unlawful carnal knowledge of a girl under the age of thirteen years is guilty of a felony, and is liable to imprisonment for life, with or without caning.” In light of the above, one wonders whether the penalty for these sexual offences is not too academic or unrealistic as to bring Nigerian courts to readily convict rape or defilement offenders and dispatch same to jail for life. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 