Abuja – Dr. Wondimagegnehu Alemu, the World Health Organisation (WHO) Nigeria Country Representative, has said the agency has deployed 39 staff with plans underway to engage additional 15 ad-hoc personnel to rapidly contain a confirmed outbreak of cholera in Mubi North and South Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Adamawa State. Alemu made this known in a press statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT in Abuja by the Communications Specialist, Ms. Charity Warigon. Alemu said, “We have swiftly deployed technical staff to coordinate partners’ response to the current outbreak, support case management, surveillance and contact tracing of suspected cases to guide interventions and ensure that the outbreak does not spread to other locations. “As of 26 May, 2018, 434 suspected cases, among which 13 deaths have been reported in the affected areas. This has necessitated the health authority to activate an Emergency Operations Centre for concerted response and rapid decision-making. “The transmission rate of the ongoing cholera outbreak in Adamawa State is indeed worrisome. Notwithstanding, WHO is leveraging on its past experience and lessons learnt  in controlling major cholera outbreaks in internally displaced persons camps and host communities, especially  in Borno and Yobe states.” The Country Representative further stated that, WHO was coordinating the response activities, including active surveillance within communities and health facilities, case management of reported cases as well as daily review meeting at the Emergency Operations Centre, to ensure timely control of the outbreak. Meanwhile, Dr. Fatima Atiku Abubakar, Adamawa State Commissioner for Health, has  emphasised that the state health authority was collaborating with WHO and other partners to ensure that the outbreak currently reported from 12 wards of Mubi North and South LGAs is controlled. She said, “In response to the ongoing cholera transmission in parts of Mubi North and South, we have activated all the relevant sectors including WASH, designated a cholera treatment centre at General Hospital in Mubi North LGA and activated an Emergency Operations Centre to rapidly interrupt the transmission.” “These efforts are already yielding results indicated by a decline in the trend of case fatality ratio which was 17% as of 12 May 2018 but reduced to 3% in less than two weeks.” Since the onset of the outbreak, WHO has been actively coordinating response activities, including daily review meeting at the Emergency Operations Centre, active surveillance in communities and health facilities and case management to ensure timely control of the outbreak. “Other activities ongoing to bring the outbreak under control include house-to-house sensitisation by mothers in host communities. Traditional and religious leaders have also been sensitised while media announcements are underway to ensure people in the communities are aware of the risk of cholera, how it spreads and how to prevent it. “Cholera is relatively easy to treat, but it can also kill quickly if not treated promptly. This is why it is so important that the populations are aware of its dangers, and the importance of immediate rehydration if infected.” Although, reported cases are still contained in Mubi North and South LGAs with a decline in case fatality ratio, more efforts were needed and urgently too, as the incidence rate soars daily to avoid spread to other parts of the state. Adamawa is one of the most affected states in the ongoing insurgency in Northeast Nigeria. According to WHO Health Resources Availability Mapping System (HeRAMS), only 45 percent of 1,120 health facilities are fully functional and overstretched in a situation where 1.6 million people are in need of various humanitarian support including health 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 