The Ijebu monarch, Alaiyeluwa Oba Sikiru Kayode Adetona represents the totality of the worthy ancestral heritage of a people that have carved a niche for themselves in governance. It was, therefore, not a surprise that the monarch shortly after his 80th birthday in 2014, instituted the Oba (Dr.) Sikiru Kayode Adetona Professorial Chair in Governance in the Department of Political Science, Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye, Ogun State. The monarch embarked on a creative fund generation and so far, over five hundred million naira has been raised to support the professorial chair while a Board of Trustees was constituted to manage the entire process. Dr. Ayodele Olukotun, a professor of Political Communication and a celebrated newspaper columnist was appointed as the first occupant of the chair. To mark the 84th birthday of Oba Adetona, Professor Ayodele Olukotun would be delivering the second Annual Professorial Chair lecture with the title ’Civil society and governance in Nigeria’s evolving democracy: 1999-2018’ on Thursday, May 10, 2018 at the Adeola Odutola Hall, Ijebu Ode. What is the correlation between Awujale Adetona and governance? A lot, one should say. Shortly after he was crowned on April 2, 1960 as the 58th Awujale and Paramount of Ijebuland, he was appointed by Premier Samuel Akintola as a Minister without portfolio. The other monarchs who were ministers in Chief S. L. Akintola’s Action Group government of Western Nigeria along with the Awujale were the late Oba Abimbola, Oliwo of Iwo; the late Osemawe of Ondo; the late Oba Akinyele, Olubadan of Ibadan; and the late Olu of Warri, Ogiame Erejuwa II. Thus began Oba Adetona’s involvement in the governance of the defunct Western Nigeria, apart from being the paramount ruler of Ijebuland. When political imbroglio reared its ugly head in Western region and a State of Emergency was declared by the then Federal Government led by Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa in 1962, Oba Adetona was made a Commissioner during the emergency period. Again, when the country was thrown into political turmoil following the annulment of the June 1993 Presidential election, he was in the forefront of resolving the logjam. He was also a major institution in the evolution of the present democratic dispensation between 1998 and 1999. Ever since, he has been a motivating and stabilising factor in our nascent democracy with his monumental commitment to good governance. To the Awujale, good governance is the key to the emancipation of the society and the development of the country. ‘Good governance is a sine qua non to the march of our socio-economic, political, educational and technological growth and development’ is the oft-repeated declaration of the monarch. He feels good governance has eluded the nation and he is therefore, poised to reverse the trend or stem the tide through the professorial chair he endowed on governance Governance, according to Wikipedia, ‘is the process of decision-making and the process by which decisions are implemented or not implemented.’ Good governance, on the other hand, according to the same source is ‘an indeterminate term used to describe how public institutions (governments) conduct public affairs and manage public resources.’ In a society with good governance, most aspects of any process, if not all aspects of every process are participatory, consensus-oriented, accountable, transparent, cost effective, responsive, effective and efficient, equitable, inclusive and they follow the rule of law. Under good governance, solid institutions are in place and the processes are expected to produce results that meet the needs and expectations of society since resources are creatively and transparently utilised. Those who are familiar with the modus operandi of Oba Adetona are quick to say he is not only an embodiment of good governance; he is an unapologetic advocate transparency, accountability and probity. He has always been advocating for the institutionalisation of the elements of good governance in the management of public affairs. The elements commonly found in good governance, as canvassed by the revered monarch are a responsive government; the observance of transparency, accountability and probity in every government business; egalitarianism; a participatory governance; a free press; an active populace, a strategic vision by the leadership with the involvement of the followership. Indeed, the United Nations Development Programme’s Governance  for Sustainable Human Development in 1997 states participation, rule of law, transparency, responsiveness, consensus orientation, equity, effectiveness and efficiency, accountability and strategic vision  as characteristics of good governance. From the chequered history of the country, good governance has been eluding us a nation. Ineptitude, massive corruption, lack of probity, lack of transparency, lack of accountability, tribalism and lack of patriotism have been the bane of our underdevelopment. While successive leadership share most of the blame, the followership is also culpable. The founding founders of Nigeria would be feeling betrayed in their graves noticing how the country has been ran aground by a system that promotes indolence, incompetence, nepotism, underdevelopment and parasitic leadership. The whole system is collapsing unless drastic actions are taken since an acute disease requires a desperate cure. With the resources at the disposal of this country, we should be among the league of developed nations. Unfortunately, we have a rudderless society that glorifies corruption, unpatriotic indiscretion, indolence and ‘get-rich at all costs’. In short, we worship ill-gotten wealth and we believe only prayers will take us to El Dorado. Without good governance, we believe the Biblical manna can fall from heaven. A nation of religiosity without spiritualty and resourcefulness cannot advance. Granted that most of our past leaders have failed us, the onus is on the present administration to pursue the issue of good governance with zeal and vigour, and to continue to be ruthless with those that have contributed or contributing to the adversity of the nation. As Professor Ayodele Olukotun mounts the podium on Thursday, May 10, 2018 to deliver the second Annual Oba (Dr.) Sikiru Kayode Adetona Professorial Chair lecture ‘Civil society and Governance in Nigeria’s evolving Democracy: 1999-2018’, it is another befitting birthday legacy for the 84 years old monarch who earlier in April 02, was 58 years on the throne as the Awujale and Paramount Ruler of Ijebuland. Awujale Adetona’s commitment to good governance must be supported by every patriotic Nigerian and one can only expect Olukotun, as usual, would do justice to the lecture and that governments at all levels can draw useful lessons there from. Dr. (Chief) Yusuf, lawyer, communication and management consultant, former Ogun State Commissioner for Information and Culture,  the Baagbimo of Ijebu  wrote in via drcfassyaoyusuf@gmail.com. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 