Lagos – Four passengers of Air Peace were on Monday charged to court for destroying the property of the airline at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. The passengers were charged before Magistrate I.A Abina of an Ogba Magistrates’ Court by the police at the Lagos Airport. The passengers were accused of a three count charge of malicious damage. However, two of the four passengers evaded the arraignment and are now at large. The two arraigned passengers were Mrs. Halima Mohammed and one Mr Osagie, who pleaded not guilty to the three count charge brought against them by the police. The Police purported that the defendants had committed the offences on May 26, 2018 at the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) of Lagos Airport. Part of the charges included damaging of a car belonging to Air Peace and assaulting a pilot while demanding compensation from the airline over the delay of their flight from Abuja last Friday. Following an application for bail filed by their counsel, the court granted the accused N100, 000 bail each with two sureties in like sum. The magistrate also fixed May 30, 2018 for perfection of bail and July 2, 2018 for mention of the case. However, a source closed to the airline confided in our correspondent that the carrier had delayed the flight from Abuja due to adverse weather report from the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET) on the said day. The source added: “Given the development, our team sent email and text messages to those whose flights were affected, notifying them that their flights had been rescheduled to different times of the day. “One of the flights affected by the adverse weather condition was our 7.40pm Abuja-Lagos service (Flight P47135). All passengers with reservation on the flight were notified at 12.37pm on Friday, May 25, 2018 (the day of the flight – seven hours ahead of the original flight time) through the email and phone contacts they supplied at the point of booking that the flight had been rescheduled till 9.35pm to avoid a situation where they would go to the airport to wait.” The source said due to the persistent adverse weather, the flight could not operate out of Abuja at 9.35pm. While the wait lasted, all passengers on the flight were duly served refreshment. However, a particular passenger (one Yusuf Abdul) on board the flight allegedly started inciting others to violence in Abuja. The flight could only take off from Abuja for Lagos at about 11pm. The source told our correspondent that upon landing in Lagos, the same passenger, allegedly joined by five others, started inciting violence and refused to disembark after other passengers left the aircraft. It was gathered that the six passengers eventually went to block the exit of the aircraft, insisting that the crew members must compensate them or they (the crew members) would not be allowed to disembark from the aircraft, adding that the intervention of the pilot-in-command did not change the stance of the passengers. The source added: “After holding the crew members on board the flight for over one hour, Air Peace had to call for the intervention of the Aviation Security (AVSEC) operatives of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). Appeals by FAAN AVSEC to the passengers to disembark were also rebuffed. “After a struggle with the passengers, FAAN AVSEC operatives were eventually able to rescue Air Peace crew members from the aircraft.” But, the passengers allegedly attacked the crew members in the crew bus at the ramp of Lagos Airport, dragging them out of the moving vehicle. After this, the suspects also allegedly moved to the arrival area of the airport to ambush and further attack the crew members and tried to prevent the crew members from leaving the airport by smashing the windscreen of the Honda car of one of the crew members and stripped another. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 