LAGOS – Prince Tony Momoh, a former Minister of Information, has said it will be very difficult for former President Olusegun Obasanjo to remove President Muhammadu Buhari from office in 2019, no matter how hard he tries. Momoh, a national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), who spoke with SUNDAYINDEPENDENT, also allayed the fears of Nigerians over the possibility of mistaking APC for ADC, the acronym of African Democratic Congress, the political platform adopted by Obasanjo’s Coalition of Nigerian Movement (CNM). According to him, there would not be any problems during the election as the acronym of both parties were different while their logos were also different from each other. On Obasanjo’s quest to terminate Buhari’s reign by 2019, Momoh said the former President, as a democrat, would never get involved in a coup and in the eventuality of that, such a coup would not succeed as it would be resisted by well-meaning Nigerians. He said: “Obasanjo will not get involved in any coup and no coup in Nigeria that is resisted ever succeeded. So, how will he remove Buhari and put another person there?  Will he call the Yorubas, Northerners, South Easterners and South South to vote against Buhari?” “APC is different from APC and I don’t see them as a threat to our party. Everybody have their crowd. Do you think APC crowd will enter ADC? Both parties have their logo, which is different from each other. “Whatever logo they have, every political party will enlighten their people. They always draw their attention to the logo, acronym and draw their attention to the number of their party in the whole number of political parties. The APC’s logo is the broom and people in Nigeria know it more than other symbols and acronyms that sound like APC. So, I don’t think there will be problems,” he said. 4 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 