The xenophobic killings of Nigerians in South Africa have continued unabated. So far, the death toll of Nigerians killed in that country has continued to rice with two young Nigerians killed last week being the latest victims. According to reports, that killing brought the number of Nigerians killed in the former apartheid enclave since February, 2016 to 118. Unofficial estimates have it that about 800,000 Nigerians, mostly young people, live and do business in South Africa. Habib Miller, the Publicity Secretary of the Nigeria Union in South Africa, said that the two additional Nigerians were killed in South Africa within the past eight days. Miller, who spoke from Pretoria, South Africa, identified the latest victims as Francis Ochuba, a native of Ngodo community in the Umnneochi Local Government Area of Abia State. He also named the other victim as Chidi Ibebuike, native of Uturu in the Isikwuato Local Government Area, also in Abia State. Miller said: “Ochuba, a property owner, was shot dead alongside his estate agent, a female South African, on May 5. They were shot dead as they visited the tenant occupying Ochuba’s house to collect rent. “The incident occurred in Central Johannesburg, while Ibebuike was shot dead at the entrance to his house at Hazyview in Mpumalanga on May 13. “Ibebuike’s car was subsequently, snatched by yet to be identified gunmen. “The chairman of the Nigeria Union in Mpumalanga Province, Mr Amadi in company of other compatriots, have reported the incident to the South African police authorities and investigation is underway.” Miller said the latest killings came on the heels of the cold blooded murder of ThankGod Okoro, a native of Ogbaku in the Agwu Local Government Area of Enugu State on April 9 and that of Clement Nwaogu, a native of Njikoka in Anambra on April 22. He recalled that Okoro was reportedly shot dead by a member of the South African Police Flying Squad at Florida in Johannesburg, while Nwaogu was burnt alive by a mob in Rustenburg in the North West Province. The spokesman said that a violent group in Rustenburg had earlier given Nigerians notice to vacate the area or get killed. According to him, since the order was issued, there had been numerous cases of Nigerians being kidnapped with ransom paid to their abductors. “The incessant looting and killings in the area, prompted 14 Nigerians to protest the injustice and the lack of police protection from the South African Police. “The 14 Nigerians were attested and had been detained since Jan. 21 in Rustenburg. The extra-judicial killing of Nigerians in South Africa is however, a stark contrast to the general goodwill and protection South Africans and their businesses enjoy in Nigeria. “There have been no records of looting of South African businesses in Nigeria. While South African companies transfer billions of dollars in profit made from doing business in Nigeria, Nigerians in South Africa are sending body bags of murdered bread winners back home to Nigeria to dejected families,” Miller said. However, Nigerians are worried that while these killings of their compatriots continue unabated in South Africa, little or nothing is being done by the Federal Government to check the trend. They wonder what why this is so, even as they seem to be at a loss as to what the government could do to stop the killing of its citizens in the horn of Africa, a nation Nigeria helped to secure their freedom from white domination. ‘Buhari’s Administration Has No Defined Foreign Policy’ Roland Okha Izevhigie, a retired civil servant and public commentator said: “My take on this issue is that the entire scenario boiled down to the fact that the present administration has no defined foreign policy to checkmate countries that are not friendly and receptive to Nigeria as a country and Nigerians as a people. “If not, I see no reason why the Federal Government cannot react immediately and appropriately to the serial killing of Nigerians in South Africa which I described as an awful a situation. “Let me quickly say this that South Africans should realise that to whom much is given much is expected that they cannot be killing and humiliating Nigerians in their country while their investments and citizens are having the best reception in Nigeria here, a situation the Federal Government should view critically and act appropriately and with utmost dispatch too.” I Don’t Expect FG To Do Anything – Political Activist Obiorah Obeta, the Publicity Secretary of Wake-Up Enugu Movement (WEM), said honestly, he did not expect the Federal Government to do anything about killing of Nigerians in South-Africa, since Nigerians were being killed at home and nothing was done by the President. Obeta, whose group wants to enthrone good governance and return power to the people in Enugu State, said Nigerians were in dilemma over the killing of their compatriots in South Africa. He said: “That killing of Nigerians is quite appalling. The problem of killing Nigerians did not start today. We are in dilemma. Nigerians are killed in Nigeria and the President did nothing. “It is an irony for us to expect him to take action. He should make a courageous statement so that the killings will stop. “When a child is being beaten by a stranger, it is the duty of father to save children. But in this case, he is not doing it. It makes him inhuman and incompetent as President of Nigeria.” FG Should Call South Africa To Order – YPP Chieftain Chief Vitus Iwegbulam Ikedibia, human rights activist and chieftain of the Young Progressive Party (YPP) said: “When ex-president Jacob Zuma was in office, we had this problem and some of our people in South Africa were mercilessly killed like Christmas goats. Now, the problem has started again. Let the Federal Government wake up from its slumber bed and do something about this. “The Federal Government should bite and not just bark. Let it send the South African Ambassador here away and recall our own in South Africa. “Thereafter it should commence serious bilateral talks with the South African authorities to find lasting solution to the cancer of senseless killing of our people in that country. It is unfortunate that South Africa, which is to Africans what America is to the rest of the world, is doing this kind of thing to us. “President Buhari should get in touch with the African Union and other world leaders to find lasting solution to this. I am not sure that he discussed this problem with President Donald Trump during his recent visit to America.” FG Should Take Stern Measures Against South Africa – SDP Chief Immason Obineme Ihesinachi Igwe-ex-councillor and chieftain of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), stated: “What recently happened to our people in South Africa is quite unfortunate and regrettable. “Let the Federal Government take a stern measures and call South Africa to order because for now there is no guarantee that the incident will not rear its ugly, head again. “President Buhari should report this to notable world bodie, including the UN, because to me, this amounts to genocide.” 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 