There had been a Polish presence at seven FIFA World Cups before the country finally qualified for a first UEFA European Championship final tournament, in 2008. As co-hosts for the 2012 event a second appearance quickly followed but, as on their debut in Austria, they failed to win a game and did not progress beyond the group stage. It was a different story in the 1970s and 1980s when, with world-class forwards Grzegorz Lato and Zbigniew Boniek to the fore, Poland reached four successive World Cups, collecting the bronze medals in West Germany in 1974 and again in Spain eight years later. Now the team possesses another top-grade striker in Robert Lewandowski, who powered Poland to UEFA Euro 2016 with a record-equalling qualifying competition tally of 13 goals. Poland qualified for a UEFA European Championship at the 13th time of asking after topping their 2008 qualifying group featuring Portugal, Serbia and Belgium. Leo Beenhakker’s side made a limited impression in Austria and Switzerland, managing a goal – from Roger Guerreiro – and a point as they finished bottom of their section. How they qualified Poland easily finished top of the relatively comfortable UEFA Group E, winning eight out of 10 fixtures against Denmark, Montenegro, Romania, Armenia and Kazakhstan, even though their 4-0 defeat in Copenhagen was painful. They scored 28 goals, 16 of them coming from star striker Robert Lewandowski. The captain netted hat tricks in key home wins against Romania and Denmark, and their qualification was never really in doubt. Biggest strength Lewandowski finished as European qualifying’s top scorer, and Bayern Munich’s superstar would definitely be the main weapon in Russia. The Poles are much more than just one striker, though. Coach Adam Nawalka is a popular specialist who is building on a major success at Euro 2016, where Poles reached the quarterfinals and exited only on penalties. They have a solid backbone of experienced leaders, including centre-back Kamil Glik, defender Lukasz Piszczek and midfielder Grzegorz Krychowiak, who are ably complemented by rising young stars like Piotr Zielinski and Karol Linetty. It is a very promising blend that could possibly develop into worthy successors to the majestic Poland teams of the 1970s and ‘80s that were considered some of the best in the world. Biggest weakness Some of the key players didn’t have a good club season, which is especially true of Krychowiak who wasn’t even a certain starter at West Brom. Arkadiusz Milik barely featured at Napoli after yet another significant injury setback, Kuba Blaszczykowski was injured for most of the season at Wolfsburg, Kamil Grosicki went astray at Hull City, while Wojciech Szczesny spent the season as a bench-warmer behind Gianluigi Buffon at Juventus. Even Lewand owski came under pressure at Bayern Munich for failing to prove his worth in the Champions League. Nawalka needs all of his stars in top form in a difficult group, and Poland might be in trouble if many of them underperform. Finding the right balance in midfield between Krychowiak and Zielinski is another major issue. Star player Robert Lewandowski probably could be considered the greatest-ever Polish footballer already, but he needs a major achievement with the national team to cement his place in history. He is Poland’s most prolific player of all time, overtaking Wlodzimierz Lubanski with 52 goals in 93 matches. His form for Bayern was magnificent, with 39 goals in all competitions, but his leadership qualities will come under the spotlight in Russia. Lewandowski had a relatively quiet tournament at Euro 2016, scoring just once, and must be much more efficient at the World Cup if Poland are to go far and become the dark horses. Prediction If everything clicks, Poland can be a dark horse and go very far, because they have the right ingredients and a good balance. On the other hand, their rivals in Group H especially Senegal and Colombia are extremely dangerous, and the adventure could easily end after just three fixtures. It really could go either way. If one absolutely must to make a prediction, though, let us settle for a place in the quarterfinals. Captain: Robert Lewandowski Manager: Adam Nawalka Nickname: The Eagles FIFA Rank (as of April 12, 2018): 10 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 