Awka – The first ever Igbo Summit on restructuring of the Nigerian federation has been held in Awka, Anambra State with a call on the Federal Government to restructure the country before the 2019 election. The Igbo summit was held on Monday at Ekwueme Square, Awka, and participants called for a new constitution that would enthrone true federalism and regional government in a presidential system of government.
Organised by Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, the summit focused on generating a collective and definite stand for the Igbo nation and attracted dignitaries from Igbo speaking states of Anambra, Enugu, Ebonyi, Abia, Imo, Rivers, and Delta, as well as other places where Igbo people reside.
Prof Chukwuma Soludo, Chairman of the Organising Committee, who read out the ‘Ekwueme Declaration’ also known as resolution, said Igbos seek a transformed Nigeria where every geopolitical zone is treated equally in the context of fairness and justice.
He said this total restructuring demand would be made possible through a new constitution of Nigeria that would be enacted by the National Assembly after constituting a constituent assembly for a new Nigeria through a referendum.
Prof Soludo maintained that the presidential system of government would continue at the national level with a bicameral legislature which would be replicated at the regional level.
For the office of the president, Ndigbo canvassed for a single term of six years which would rotate among the six regions of the country.
The same six-year single term would apply to state governors and should rotate among the three senatorial zones of each state.
According to them, the Federal Character Commission should be scrapped and replaced with Merit and Equity Commission, among others.
The motion for the adoption of the Ekwueme Declaration was moved by South East Senate leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, while Rita Maduagwu, chairman of South East Speakers of Houses of Assembly, moved for the adoption of the motion.
The summit demanded the creation of one additional state in the South-East geo-political zone, the scrapping of local government system, and resource control for states where natural resources were exploited.
Ohanaeze also demanded the scrapping of state of origin and its replacement with residential rights whereby a Nigerian would have full right in any place he or she resides for 10 years.
Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, challenged the Ohanaeze leadership to convince those yet to support the restructuring of the country to back the idea.
Ekweremadu assured that he would table any bill on the restructuring of the country whenever the Ohanaeze presents it at the National Assembly.
Former Foreign Affairs Minister, Ike Nwachukwu, who also spoke, called on the people of the Middle Belt to support the call for the restructuring of Nigeria, claiming that they stand to gain more.
Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, the Chairman of the summit, called on Igbo people, especially the leaders, to exhibit honesty in their affairs to help move the people forward.
Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra, in his address, thanked the organisers for choosing his state for the summit organised for the Igbo people to articulate what they want as Nigerians.
Earlier in a sermon, which followed the Bible, Ven. Ben Osisioma of the Anglican Communion, called on Ndigbo to rely on God for solutions to their challenges in Nigeria.
Delegates from regional organisations like the Afenifere, the Middle Belt and the Niger Delta represented by Ayo Adebanjo, Dan Suleiman, and Edwin Clark were at the summit to bring solidarity of their people.
Earlier, IPOB agitators were at the entrance of Ekwueme Square, Awka, venue of the Igbo Summit, chanting solidarity songs such as ‘Only Biafra is what We Want’, ‘Nnamdi Kanu is our only Saviour, ‘Buhari Go Kill Us Tire’, and so on.
Later, the police sprayed teargas to disperse them but an organised section of suspected IPOB members, who were already seated at Ekwueme Square, disrupted proceedings when the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nnia Nwodo, mounted the podium, thereby creating tension in the area. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 