IBADAN – Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State has described members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Unity Forum as alarmists, who are trying to cause confusion within the ruling party in the state. Aggrieved leaders and members of Oyo APC, who are claiming to be associates of Lam Adesina, the late leader of the party and former governor of the state, had organised themselves under the umbrella of APC Unity Forum. Members of the forum, who insisted that their mission was to liberate the Oyo APC from alleged impunity of Governor Ajimobi, had organised a parallel state congress at Liberty Stadium, Ibadan, on Saturday. But speaking at a congress held by a faction loyal to the governor at the Lekan Salami Stadium, Ibadan, Governor Ajimobi said that those claiming to be ‘Lamists’ are nothing but alarmists. The governor, however, expressed willingness to accommodate the aggrieved party members, saying that the quality of good leadership is determined by its level of tolerance and ability to accommodate opposing views. “In the spirit of true democracy, aggrieved members would be accommodated but the party won’t tolerate acts of thuggery, brigandage and unnecessary discord,” he said. Meanwhile, a son to Late Adesina and the lawmaker representing Ibadan Southeast/Northeast Federal Constituency at the National Assembly, Adedapo Lam-Adesina, has said that members of the APC Unity Forum are the “real Lamists”. Speaking with newsmen at Liberty Stadium on Saturday, Lam-Adesina, who is also a member of the APC Unity Forum, declared that “these are political associates of my late father. I will be a bastard not to have joined them to rescue our great party from impunity.” The lawmaker also raised the alarm over alleged threat to his life, saying that “those who feel that I should not be part of the struggle to liberate the political party my late father laboured to put in place have been threatening my life. I have reported the case to appropriate authorities.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 