ABUJA – Awual Ibrahim, Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) on Wednesday descended on the National Assembly over what he described a over delays in the passage of the 2018 budget. Ibrahim said the lawmakers were using the power of confirmation of political appointees by the executive arm of government as bargaining chips to settle political scores; a development he said was sabotaging the country’s growth and development. The CISLAC Executive Director, who took a swipe on the lawmakers, during an interactive session with reporters, argued that budget passage falls under statutory functions of the National Assembly. He wondered why the masses should be made to suffer owing to strained relationship between the Executive and Legislature. Recall that the National Assembly took delivery of the N8.6trn budget from President Muhammadu Buhari on November 2017, but almost seven months down the line the appropriation bill is still before a joint session of NASS. While pressures mounted on the NASS to pass the budget, the lawmakers shifted the blames to Ministries, Department and Agencies of government, insisting that the MDAs were feigning ignorance of the need to appear before the legislature to defend their budget. Ibrahim said, “It is sad those five months down the year, the national budget is not yet passed by the National Assembly. This is a statutory function of the National Assembly. Nigeria cannot grow its economy and provide for citizens’ welfare without a national budget passed, assented and fully implemented. “The delay in the passage of the budget or using it for political gains is both unpatriotic and sabotaging the country’s growth and development. We call on the NASS to consider the passage of the budget as a matter of urgent national importance.” On confirmation, the CSOs boss criticised the upper legislative chambers’ refusal to confirm substantive chief executives and boards of critical agencies was stifling them from carrying out their mandate. “We find the delay in the passage of some key anti-corruption legislations worrisome. Such bills are the Proceeds of Crime Bill, Whistle Blowers Protection Bill and other pending bills in the extractive sector,” the CSOs noted. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 