The new Ford Escape has arrived in Nigeria, offering one of the most technologically-advanced, smart sport utility vehicles (SUVs) with five-star safety and improved fuel efficiency. Ford is the second largest SUV brand in the world and every model is backed by Ford’s global SUV expertise and robust 50-year heritage in the segment. Abiona Babarinde, GM Marketing and Communications at Coscharis Motors in a chat with newsmen said: “We are thrilled with the new Ford Escape joining our line up as it introduces refreshed design inside and out for a distinctive look with improved specification and features across the range, building on the Escape’s trend-setting sophistication, safety and comfort “More importantly, our customers will be thrilled too. With stunning new design inside and out, smart technologies, fuel-efficient yet powerful engines, and five-star safety, it’s a vehicle that will be so many things for our customers.” According to Babarinde,  “As preference for SUVs continues to grow around the world, so too does the demand for greater choice. Ford has responded to customer demand with a broad line-up that includes Trend and Titanium models. Depending on market, a front-wheel drive version is available with a six-speed manual gearbox, or the option of an all-wheel drive model with a six-speed automatic transmission. Trend-setting style “The New Escape features Ford’s latest design language for a bold, smart look that is shared with other Ford SUVs. Its large upper trapezoidal grille and a smaller lower grille are flanked by sleek new headlamps incorporating optional daytime running lights complemented by functional, stylish fog lamps. “We know from customer feedback and research that vehicle design and style are key factors in the car buying decision process,” Babarinde added. “In many cases, it’s actually the top consideration which is why we’re particularly excited about the new Escape. In addition to being a very capable, functional SUV with a fantastic suite of smart technologies, it’s also a vehicle that will turn heads wherever it’s driven.” Restyled taillights complete the smart exterior look while a new range of standard 17-inch wheels (steel on the S) or optional 18- and 19-inch alloy wheel designs are available. Steeped in SUV expertise from around the Ford world, the new Escape designers’ objective was to combine stylish form with everyday function for the interior of the SUV. “Our designers went to great lengths to ensure the vehicle and its many different features, large and small, are smart yet provide welcome benefits to even daily routines,” said Babarinde. “The Hands-Free Power Tailgate, for example, is something customers have really grown to appreciate, and is available as an option across the range. No matter what you might find filling your arms, from sports gear to shopping bags or a toddler or two, the Power Tailgate can save the day.” Escape drivers will find an array of new convenience features making the vehicle very user-friendly, including ISOFIX anchorage-points and improved storage in the centre console. An impressive range of additional standard items are included on the top-spec Titanium model, such as rear tray tables and rear air vents for enhanced comfort, and the electronic parking brake (optional on S and SE). The new Escape offers up to 1603 litres of cargo space with the rear stadium seating folded – ideal for weekend escapes. In addition, the Escape steering wheel and air-conditioning controls operate through fewer and more easily distinguishable buttons and switches, making the controls easier to recognise and navigate. The New Ford Escape will allow drivers to control audio, navigation, and climate functions plus connected smartphones using simple, more conversational voice commands, with Ford’s new SYNC®3 connectivity system – available as an option in the new Escape range in selected markets, either with or without embedded navigation depending on model and the relevant in-car entertainment package selected. Ford has drawn on more than 22,000 comments and insights gained from research clinics and surveys to ensure the new version is the most customer-centric system to date. By pushing a button and saying “I need a coffee” for example, owners of the new Escape featuring SYNC®3 with Navigation will guide the driver to the selected destination. Voice search results are also enhanced by a better understanding of how consumers refer to businesses and points of interest. The latest Ford technologies and sophisticated body engineering help drivers see more clearly and enhance safety on the road for new Escape occupants and other road users. Ford’s Adaptive Front Lighting System is available for the Escape (depending on model specification) and monitors ambient light conditions and automatically optimises visibility by adjusting the beam angle of the new optional Bi-Xenon headlights depending on the vehicle’s speed, steering angle and distance to an object in front. It features anti-glare capability, as well as country road, City Street and also manoeuvring beam shaping abilities. The new Escape’s sculpted bonnet features a wider, uninterrupted central dome that not only serves to complement its sporty, smart new look, but also incorporates a structural design that improves pedestrian protection in the event of an accident. The bonnet and rear liftgate also have been re-engineered to help mitigate damage to more expensive-to-replace components. The latest Escape introduces an enhanced version of Ford’s Active City Stop collision avoidance system, which can be specified as an option on all models. Sophisticated technology for safer driving Segment-defining driver and passenger safety remains a highlight of the new Escape, with standard safety features across the range incorporating a total of seven airbags – including a driver’s knee airbag – as well as ABS brakes with Electronic Stability Programme (ESP), Trailer Stability function, Hill Launch Assist (HLA) and Rollover Mitigation (ROM). 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 