Chief Uche Njoku, ex-Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Mayoral Affairs in Governor Rochas Okorocha’s government in Imo State is currently the President General of Imo Zuru Kwuo, an apex coalition of Imo stakeholders. He addressed select journalists during his recent consultative visit to Lagos on Imo politics. EJIKEME OMENAZU brings an excerpt. The Coalition of Imo Stakeholders, Imo Zuru Kwuo, has been making waves since its formation. What is the organisation about? The objective of the coalition, Imo Zuru Kwuo, is simple. From the name, we aim at complete democracy in Imo State. All Imo people will collectively decide who will rule the people. The politicians had been getting it wrong because of their deceitful ways the governors had been emerging. These had been leading to corrupt governance. Out coalition, Imo Zuru Kwuo, wants to change things. We want to emancipate the people so that they do not vote for parties that corrupt delegates during primaries. But, those who allow internal democracy and do not offer money to delegates will be selected. We will interact with the candidates from all the parties and come out with the best. We want to stop people who write lists and bribe delegates and who go through godfathers. We have to check corrupt electoral practices so that Imo will get out of a situation which the people found themselves and begin to decide who will govern them. With the general elections drawing closer, how do you see the ‘Imo 2019’? Imo 2019 will be interesting. We want Imolites to come together and be part of those to decide their ruler. We want to keep it simple. We want the people to be part of the decision on who will rule them, who will serve hem, who will create jobs and build infrastructures. We want to ensure that the election in Imo State will be peaceful. We are all for peaceful elections. Politicians have pushed the people to the wall, but the citizens will not be intimidated as far as Imo 2019 is concerned. You are known to be one of the key people who helped Governor Rochas Okorocha to power. What was your experience in his government? Rochas Okorocha is a long story. It is a text book. He made us to believe that he would do well. But, having been elected governor, he soon changed. He played above everybody. Many people were discarded and some of opted out of his government because he failed to play to the rule of the game. His leadership style is strange. He does whatever comes to his mind. Now, I am not really concerned with what Rochas is doing as he is on his way out, but what Imo people want after him. That is why Imo Zuru Kwuo came up to be the solution provider. It is non partisan body. Everybody has a place in Imo Zuru Kwuo to find a solution to the problems of Imo State. Imo Zuru Kwuo therefore is to Imo people what Ohanaeze Ndigbo is to the entire Igbo people. Where would you say Gov Okorocha got things wrong? As I said, I do not want to talk much about Rochas, but, I want Imo people to come out for us to find a solution to the problems facing Imo State. Through Imo Zuru Kwuo, we will deepen democracy in Imo State, instead of allowing few criminals to have their way. What is your view on the decision of Governor Rochas Okorocha to anoint his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, as his successor? To me, it is very insulting to Imo people. If is grooming him, he should have started from the local government. Imo State has more qualified people that young man. By his action, Okorocha is reducing Imo governance to a family business. He is always about himself. Even in his cabinet, there are many qualified and mature people who have been loyal to him. Because Uche Nwosu is his son in-law, he became his Chief of Staff. Imo people cannot take that from him. But, Imo people will not continue to accept his turning the state administration to a family business. Between Uche Nwosu, Ex-SSG Jude Ejiogu, the Deputy Gov Emeka Madumere and Senator Ifeanyi Ararume, who do you think will carry the day during the APC primary? All of them are vying for the position. But, the campaign proper has not started. I am not in APC. Two of them, Jude Ejiogu and Emeka Madumere, are my good friends. Both of them are capable. I have associated with them over time. Ararume is a former Senator. He understands Nigeria and the problems of Nigeria. He is experienced. With what is happening in APC in Imo State, don’t you foresee the PDP, APGA or UPU taking over the state? Their chances are there. But, in Imo Zuru Kwuo, I as their leader, cannot say. But, the big parties in Imo State may have problems. The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) is seen as an Igbo party and stands a god chance in Imo State. But, I foresee that they may be fighting themselves thereby destroying their chances. I can say that the big parties are made up of the same people who jump from one party to another. The leaders of the parties do not care. The parties have disappointed Imo people. However, I wish to say that if APC gives its ticket to Uche Nwosu, Okorocha’s son-in-law, no single party can defeat Okorocha because I know what he is politically. He has the federal might, the Police and the Army, and they may look the other way while the APC will perpetrate evil against the people. That is why we need to come together to choose who will be our next governor. Okorocha alone will not be allowed to decide who will govern Imo State come 2019. Emeka Ihedioha is a muscle in PDP. But, he cannot do it alone. Besides, Imo people have not forgiven PDP because if they had got it right, APC would not have had a chance in the state. Until our people learn not to be selfish and make sacrifices for themselves, we will never get it right. APGA now has so many aspirants. If they do not take time, they will be fighting themselves, thereby destroying the party. All Imolites must unite under Imo Zuri Kwuo and come against their oppressors. They are very few. If the big parties do not take time, the smaller ones may spring surprises and come tops during the elections. Chieftains of the big parties do not consult their people. You only see them during burial ceremonies. What is your view on power shift in Imo State? The official position of Imo Zuru Kwuo on this is that we believe in fairness and equity. But, we will not undermine expertise. Imo Zuru Kwuo draws its membership from all the senatorial districts. How do you see the direction of South East in 2019? South East politicians should start being their brothers’ keepers. We must start to come together. From what is happening in the country, we need to speak as one. We must unite and speak one voice. If it comes to negotiation, we will negotiate better. The South East governors must start to do better than what they are doing now. They must work with Ohanaeze Ndigbo. They must forget about parties and come together in the interest of the people and the region. The regional interest must be uppermost, rather than political leanings, especially now people are talking about regional integration. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 