The Senator representing Kogi West Senatorial district, Sen. Dino Melaye has been in the news for different reasons lately. Just as he was yet to get off the hook of the whole episode of his recall by his perceived constituents, last week, men of the Nigeria Police finally arrested him after laying siege to his Abuja house for alleged gun running. However, on Saturday, the verification exercise of signatories to the petition for his recall conducted in his constituency by the Independent National Electoral commission, INEC, failed, to the chagrin of many, as it fell short of the required 50% of the signatories. Indeed, mixed reactions have trailed the development. Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), in his reaction, said, “I have no idea on why it failed. I am shocked that it failed. I really don’t know why it failed”. Some others believe that the development is a confirmation of the fact that majority of signatories on the recall petition are either fictitious or they are constituents whose consents were not secured before embarking on the recall process. For the National publicity secretary of the Afenifere, Yinka Odumakin, the recall failed because it was politically motivated and did not follow due process. Meanwhile, political analysts argue that the botched recall of Senator Dino Melaye is a reflection of the beauty of democracy where power belongs to the people. In other words, the people have spoken that the whole affair of Dino’s recall has been a faux. For a lot of them, what is playing out in the Kogi State political space, as it has to do with the recent travail of Dino Melaye, is a script written and directed by the Yahaya Bello -led Kogi State government, who seems to be in some sort of political contest with Sen. Dino. However, keen followers of the whole Melaye’s recall saga have argued that this development has shown that the people of Kogi West senatorial district still hold Melaye in high esteem; hence, they reportedly came out on Saturday and told the INEC officials to leave, as they are not ready to recall their senator. This situation has also confirmed the unprecedented popularity of Sen. Melaye over and above governor Bello, not just in Kogi West, but in Kogi state as a whole. With the recall process of Sen. Melaye dashed, analysts believe it has brought to an end the protracted Melaye’s recall episode and, perhaps, also halt his continuous political harassment. 0 comments