Lagos – Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) has called on the Senate to urgently pass the Financial System Strategy (FSS 2020) bills into law to promote financial inclusion and strengthen electronic payment system in the country. Prof. Segun Ajibola, CIBN president/chairman of council, made the demand during a visit by the CIBN team to Senate President Bukola Saraki. The CIBN boss explained that the quick passage of Nigeria International Financial Centre Bill, Financial Consumer Protection Bill, and the Electronic Transactions Bill are critical to the implementation of FSS 2020. He praised the level of work done by the Senate, including the passage of the collateral securities into law, passage of 15 other major economic bills into law, review of about 50 existing extant laws and also exemplary leadership skills shown by the Senate president. He also praised the legislation establishing the Collateral Registry Bill that has provided an enhanced environment for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to access credit. He also disclosed that the CIBN would be approaching the National Assembly (NASS) to amend its extant law, The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria Act No. 5 of 2007, to further strengthen its capacity to deliver on its statutory mandate. He said the body of banks’ chief executive officers, a committee of the Governing Council of the CIBN, on March 27, 2018 unveiled the Shared Agent Network Expansion Facilities (SANEF) in collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), deposit money banks, licensed mobile money operators and super agents. The Institute, he added, has also worked closely with the CBN in carrying out a national survey on the possible adoption of cryptocurrency (particularly Bitcoin) as a legal medium of exchange in the country. In his response, Saraki said the Senate under his leadership had passed several bills geared towards strengthening the financial sector for the overall growth of the economy. According to him, Nigeria has demographics that highlight more than 70 per cent of the population in the youth bracket, which is an asset to the nation if properly utilised. “The only option is to create enabling environment for the youth to exploit their entrepreneurial talent, especially as the public sector does not have the jobs that could provide gainful employment for the youth,” he said. The Senate president also stressed the need to deepen financial inclusion to reach the unbanked population in hard-to-reach areas of the country. He noted the importance of the FSS 2020 bills and observed that FSS 2020 must be brought to the front burner in view of its strategic work that is important to the financial system and economic growth of Nigeria. The Senate president also indicated that in respect of the pending bills, there would be need to set up a small joint technical committee that will prioritise the bills for quick passage. “The chairman of the committee on banking will be on hand to facilitate a working collaboration on the critical bills with the delegation, particularly FSS 2020 High Level Legal Working Group and the FSS 2020 Secretariat,” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 