Come May 29, 2018, President Muhammadu Buhari administration will clock three years in office. Thus, the anniversary has provided a veritable opportunity to assess his performance as his first term will elapse in a year’s time. Thus, the pertinent questions in the minds of Nigeria as he celebrates his third year in office include: How has the Buhari administration fared in the last three years? Are Nigerians happier? Or, is their condition worse than he met them? In what areas has he and his All Progressives Congress (APC) administration performed? Questions. Questions. Questions. The answers to these questions will enable one know if President Buhari has performed well, or if he has disappointed the electorate, based on how he has fulfilled his electoral promises as contained in his and his party’s manifesto. ‘Buhari battling To Restore Nigeria To How He Met It’ Aniekeme Finbarr, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State-based public affairs commentator, has said that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government is still battling to restore Nigeria to how it met it, three years on the saddle. Justifying his position, Finbarr recalled that few months after inauguration, the economy under President Buhari, suffered a depressing recession, which economists thought that if properly handled, would have turned out better for the nation. This, according to Finbarr, ran in sharp contrast to the mouth-watering electioneering promises which motivated Nigerians to massively vote Buhari into office. His words: “The best I can rate the current government is that they are trying to restore things to how they met it in 2015. A bag of rice was N7,000 and now it is above N17,000. A ‘mudu’ (measure) of beans was N150 and now is N400 to N500. One U.S dollar was trading for N197, but now over N360. A litre of fuel was N87, but now N145. Cost of transportation and other services have skyrocketed. “Every administration’s performance is gauged based on the strength of the promises it made before coming to power. It is a social contract between the government and the people. So, there are terms of engagement. “The current APC came to power riding on very mouth watering promises. Most of those promises have not been met. It is needless to go through them again. “The security situation is very worrisome. Killer herdsmen are on the prowl, maiming farmers and innocent worshippers. The glimmer of hope is in corruption fight. The government appears committed to it, although most cases, on the pages of newspapers.” He maintained that Nigerians are not generally impressed with the performance of the present administration, three years on the saddle. It Has Been Three Years Of Trauma For Nigerians – Don Dr. Peter Imuze Idemudia, a university teacher and human rights activist, said: “President Buhari’s three years in office has been ups and down and traumatic.  While the administration has been shouting war against corruption, the snake was still swallowing millions of naira in some of the Federal Government parastatals when the president was away in the United Kingdom attending to his deteriorating health condition. “However, if you ask me to score Buhari’s administration, I will give him 30 percent on corruption war, 11 percent on security, because, as at last week, more people were still being murdered in some of the northern states by the herdsmen and Boko Haram and solution to the problem by the Federal Government still remains a mirage, 30 percent in education, 30 percent on economy, 28 percent on power, 20 percent works and housing, zero percent on health, because, till now, the President is still going to London for medical check-up, while all the government hospitals are on strike, embarked upon by JOHESU. “In all, let us give glory to the Almighty God for saving the President in view of the tension and anxiety created by his health challenge last year. We are happy that in spite of the atrocities being perpetrated by the herdsmen, the country is still enjoying relative peace, with hunger all over the place, which I see as a pass mark to the administration. “I may not be in a better position to rate the President on his performance in his three years in office, because, he has one year to go and he is already campaigning for a second term and Nigeria voters are waiting to express their opinions with their PVCs, whether he performs to their expectation or not. So, whatever we are saying now is our own individual personal opinion.” Nigerians Experiencing Worst Hardship In History – Politician Malam Salaudeen Abdulaziz, Minna-based politician, said: “Asking me how has the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has fared in the last three years is as good as trying to hear me talk about Nigeria in the years past, because, I haven’t seen anything to celebrate this government, except if I should say Nigerians are celebrating the worst hardship ever in the history of this country. “I am speaking as a grassroots politician and not from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as some people may think that I am joining the party to criticise the Buhari administration. “But, suffice it to say that the government has failed without an iota of contradictions. I really can’t fathom which theory they are using to govern Nigeria. That is why they are fast becoming unpopular. I even heard that one of the people allegedly paid to counter any negative comments against Buhari was claiming that the President has no contender in the next Presidential election. You can understand that what it simply means is that they are ready to use every means to strangulate anybody that would want to challenge him in 2019. “The commonest thing that any responsible government cannot shy away from that must be provided or guaranteed for its citizenry are three basic things; security, health and education. Though there are many others, but these are the basic. But, unfortunately, the three areas are not just in a very sorry state now, but have fallen below the expectations of most Nigerians. Forget about all the media hype. “During the campaigns, Nigerians had very high hopes that President Buhari, being a man of integrity would change things immediately after assumption of office. But, unfortunately, the reverse is the case. The best way to describe what is happening in Nigeria today is that we are moving fast in reverse order. “It is not enough to blame anybody, country or whatever for the present administrations’ shortcomings, because, Nigerians believe in what they see and not what they hear or read on the pages of newspapers, or through any of the electronic mediums. “The Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressive Congress (APC) government promised to end medical tourism in order to end capital flight. But, unfortunately, he was the first to violate this few months after he was sworn-in as President. That is to say that Mr. Buhari didn’t even trust himself and all that his government is claiming to have done to improve the health sector. “It is even more worrisome that till this moment, nobody dare ask how much has been spent on his medical bills abroad alone and tax payers’ monies is still going down the drain, because, the medical trips or check-ups will continue. “Everything in Nigeria almost came to a stand-still when his son, Yusuf, playing with power bike worth millions of Naira, had an accident and was flown abroad for proper medical certification, because, they can afford to spend our money anyhow they like and you dare not question that. “But, they cannot afford to purchase such sophisticated guns or equipment to fight insurgency or check security threats, with the killing of Nigerians, who are becoming fearful on a daily basis in their own country. “Our education system is in sorry state. It would have been better that we have free education than this so-called school feeding programme, whereby some children are being fed with food that is of less quality than what they are used to eating at home. You give children half egg, or let us say N70 worth of food a day and you want us to be clapping for you as if the money is from their personal pockets. It is a pity. “They claimed they are fighting corruption, but corruption is indeed heavily pregnant and over saturated under this government. Fighting corruption, to this government, means silencing any opposing voice to the administration. What are we talking about? “Insecurity has gotten to its highest level. How can a President be telling Nigerians, and indeed the entire world, that the country’s security is being threatened by the former Libyan President who armed his boys then, who now form the bulk of the Boko Haram insurgents threatening the peace of Nigeria today? What has that got to do with us as a people? “We are tired of excuses on why Nigerians cannot go to sleep with their two eyes closed. Today, they will tell us that Boko Haram have been technically defeated. The next day, we will hear that the group has overrun a community in Yobe, Borno State, or any other state. “This government, without human heart, will always come up with one English word or another to continue to deceive Nigerians in their endless lies. We hear about attacks on churches by suspected Fulani herdsmen. This is a sacrilege. I am beginning to be afraid if we will ever hear anything good from this government before they leave us in peace and not in pieces. “What does it take to secure the territorial integrity of this country? For how long do we have to lament or blame another country or their President over what is happening in Nigeria? Have citizens of any other country in the world ever blamed Nigeria or any of our leaders for any negative occurrence in their country? “Why and how did we get to where we are now? How did things degenerated into this point by a government that promised us ‘CHANGE’, but we didn’t know that the ‘Change’ is going to be from good to bad or even worst situation we have ever seen. “You dare not talk, else they will frame you up with one fraudulent allegation or another, just to shut you up, or their paid media team will turn everything you said upside down to suit their pay masters. It is really a pity how the mighty Nigerian has fallen.” ‘Buhari Administration Failed In All Ramifications’ Chief Onyemanze Iwunna Osunkwo, an Owerri, Imo State-based businessman, former member of the Alliance for Democracy (AD), and now a member of United Progressive party (UPP), stated: “The question of how the President Buhari-led Federal Government has fared in the last three years is provoking and painful to answer. “To me, your guess is as good as mine. I am a politician and whatever I say, some people may think that I am biased, because, I am not of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “I will rather advise you to go and confront Artisans, commercial vehicle drivers, Keke NAPEP operators, market women and traders, teachers and civil servants, pensioners, carpenters, bricklayers and masons to obtain the true assessment. These are people who have been terribly impoverished by the Buhari administration, hence life has became completely meaningless to them. “I will personally score the Buhari administration zero, because, it has failed in all ramifications. Insurgency, Boko Haram palaver, hunger, starvation, youth unemployment, epileptic power supply, high cost of living, among other challenges, now walk freely on four legs in this country. “The people who gave him their votes now live below the poverty line and there appears to be no light at the end of the tunnel. Administrative ineptitude occasioned by sheer poverty of visions is the hallmark of this regime. I am surprised that you raised this question as a journalist, because, you should know better; or, are you just coming from abroad? “The president has disappointed Nigerians and should not seek re-election next year. The president has failed woefully in performance. Both the living and the dead are aware of this. So, what else? “Can you tell me any sector of our economy that has moved forward since he came on board? As a military Head of State between December 31, 1983 and August 1985, he did his best at least in the fight against corruption. But, now, the reverse is the case.” ‘Buhari Inflicting Unprecedented Hardship On Nigerians’ Nzeh Desmond Onyedinma Mbaukwu Obi, ex-councillor and now member of the National Conscience Party (NCP), said: “President Buhari should apologise to Nigerians for inflicting unprecedented hardship on them. Assessing his administration reminds me of millions of Nigerians who have been sent to their early graves by the deadly Boko Haram Islamic sect, the Hausa-Fulani herdsmen attack and massacre of innocent Nigerians, crushing poverty, frustration and agony ravaging the people of the much acclaimed grant of Africa. “If you want to know how his administration has performed since 2015, ask yourself: What is he doing to end insurgency, recession, food insecurity, increase in the pump price of petroleum products, the depreciating value of naira, non availability of power and joblessness? “Whatever you get will give you a clear picture of where we are. It is really unfortunate. I am sure that the nationalists who fought for our independence will be shaking in their graves by what is happening to us since Buhari took over power.” Buhari’s Performance Not Good Enough – Rights Activist Adejare Akano, a human rights activist, has said that the Federal Government has performed fairly in the last three years of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, saying that the performances have not been good enough to give the administration any credit. Speaking on how the administration has fared in the last three years, Akano said that security challenges seriously affected the performances of the administration. He appealed to President Buhari to put all security chiefs to task to ensure that they provide adequate protection of lives and property to Nigerians. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 