Enugu – Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State on Tuesday praised himself for his achievements in office, saying he was overwhelmed by what his administration recorded in three years under harsh financial situation. Ugwuanyi said this while addressing the people of Enugu during the 2018 Democracy Day celebration at Okpara Square, Enugu, with the theme ‘Festival of Gratitude and Praise’. The governor confessed that the promises he made during his inauguration on May 29, 2015 had looked vague and unrealistic, due to the huge debt profile of the state then. He, however, said that with aggressive revenue drive and prudent management of available resources, his administration held unto its dreams. “The laudable goals we have achieved appeared impossible at that time, owing to the realities on the ground: huge debt profile of the state pressing down our neck and huge salaries and pension arrears confronting us. “All these were in the midst of economic crunch and depleted revenue from the centre. Our promises then appeared vague, but we held unto our lofty dreams,” he said. Ugwuanyi said the determination to succeed prompted his administration to modernise the revenue collection process of the state as well as plug leakages. “Following these reforms, our internally-generated revenue (IGR) hit N22 billion in 2017, the highest by Enugu in a single year since 1999. “Today, the results we have on the ground and the progress we have made in the last three years bear us out that with God all things are possible,” he said. The governor said that his administration had set out to build a state where security and peace reign. He said apart from partnering with the security agencies to create a peaceful environment, his administration was also getting the youths engaged through job creation. Expressing gratitude for what he called the overwhelming acceptance of his administration by residents of the state, he added: “As we embark on the last lap of this tenure, be assured that we will never let you down. With God ordering our steps, we will continue to make efforts at ensuring that the common good remains our watchword. “Let me, on your behalf, congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari, members of the National Assembly, the judiciary and other state governors on this occasion.” Highlights of the event were parade by the Enugu State Command of the Nigeria Police Force, musical renditions and cultural displays. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 