Budget according to Wikipedia is an annual financial statement presenting the government’s proposed revenues and spending for a financial year that is often passed by the legislature, approved by the chief executive or president and presented by the Finance Minister to the nation. The budget is also known as the Annual Financial Statement of the country. But in Nigeria the budget has become a recurring problem owing to the legislative-executive faceoff, a development that may have reduced the essence of the document. Indeed, recent development has also shown that it has become another tool for politicking, as well as bargaining or weapon for blackmailing each other. The 2016 budget, presented in December 2015, was not passed till March the following year. Similarly, the 2017 budget was not passed untill May 2017. For the 2018 budget, the two chambers of the National Assembly are still being awaited to do the needful on the budget. While the National Assembly continues to dilly-dally on the budget, the economy suffers. This, to many Nigerians, particularly, economists, have been a recurring decimal in the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, with the consequence of failure to meet expectations of Nigerians, since its coming to power in 2015. Not only is the economy suffering with the attendant inability of private sector operatives to plan, but also foreign investors who rely on the budget to take decisions on their investments in the country. Dr. Mike Nwielegha, former chairman of the Congress of Progressives Change, CPC, Rivers state and a chieftain of All Progressives Congress, APC regretted that the impression being created between the Executive and the Legislative arms of government is that there is crisis. “Budget is the basis in every expenditure of government. When there is delay in passing the budget, it will definitely affect the entire economy. Not just that, the gross domestic product, GDP will equally be affected. “The delay is not good for investment. It is not also good for capital expenditure because we are getting close to the rainy season. No government can do good planning when the national budget has not been passed. It hampers the process of smooth implementation of development planning. “The effect of delaying the signing of the budget could be very enormous. This is so because contractors will not be paid and if contractors are not paid the money cannot trickle down to the common man on the streets. By extension therefore, there will be no flow of liquidity in the system,” he said. Dr. Nwielegha who is also a member federal polytechnic governing council in Ile-Oluji, Ondo State, called on the various government organs to close rank and pass the budget for the interest of ordinary Nigerians because they are the ones who suffer most. Reacting to the development, Eze Onyekpere, Lead Director, Centre for Social Justice (CSJ), a Civil Society Organisation (CSO), Professor Ayo Adesopo of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Goddy Uwazurike, a lawyer, Atiku Samuel, Head of Research, BudgIT Nigeria, Dr. Dele Seteolu, Department of Political Science Lagos State University (LASU), decried the continued delay in the passage of the budget, calling on the National Assembly and the executive to work harmoniously in the interest of the people. Onyekpere, who lamented the situation and how it has impacted negatively on the economy, was of the view that the economy would continue to suffer because the budget was needed by both the public and private sector stakeholders to plan and manage their economic activities. According to him, “The delay compounds the already parlous economic situation and shows a country that is afloat and without a focused leadership at both the executive and legislative levels.” Adesopo criticised the National Assembly over the deliberate delay in the passage of the budget saying it is not the best practice for the country’s development and growth. Adesopo of the Department of Public Administration, OAU, Ile-Ife, said that the delay has slow down growth and development and some physical infrastructure that supposed to have taking place in the country. He described as unfortunate, law makers’ attachment of the passage of budget to certain political and personal issues that are not relevant to the nation’s growth. He added that the passage of the budget is a major constitutional role and responsibility of the lawmakers, saying the lawmakers had by their action showed that they do not have the love of the country at heart. “Whether some ministers appear or not, budget must be passed, it is sacrosanct. It is like making government unworkable and there is no way you can talk about budget performance and implementation when they are not passed after six months of its presentation. “The current lawmakers appear to be sabotaging the current government by not passing the budget as at when due since the coming to power of the Buhari’s government. What are the differences between the two arms of government that cannot be resolved if not for selfish and political reason? “Even if it is political issues, the matter can be tabled and resolved amicably rather than jeopardising the interest of the entire country for their selfish ends. “The delay in the passage of federal budget is not the best practice,” he said. Uwazurike, lay the blame at the doorstep of the executive saying President Buhari has not courted the lawmakers to make them see reasons with him on the damages they are doing to the economy by the delay in the passage of the budget. He said: “The process of budget making is a cooperative one. This is because the originator is the President. He must make sure that it is comprehensive and in compliance with the constitution. He must also lay it before the National Assembly early enough for the legislative arm to work on it. The various executive members must defend the different parts of the budget proposal. “The National Assembly is not a rubber stamp. It must follow the procedure of law making when passing the bill because that’s what it is. In a simple expression, the executive presents and defends while the legislative arm peruses and scrutinizes. “The Buhari administration has consistently failed to understand that the legislative arm is independent. Taking the legislators for granted is the undoing of the smooth relationship that is supposed to exist between the various arms of government. Proper consultation is missing. The President needs to understand that he is no longer a military dictator.” To Seteolu, “There is no doubt that the economy will be at standstill and people will suffer for the delay in the passage of the budget. It is a fact that the budget has been with the lawmakers for about six months and the hope of early passage as expected last year has been dashed. “We should also know that it is a recurring issue in Nigeria. We got to the point that it might not really matter, if there is a budget or not because it does appear that there seems to be a practice in Nigeria that the budget is not passed as at when due and the previous budget will still be implemented into the new year and there will be supplementary budget and so on. “The budget process has been politicised and the political class is introducing all sort of vested interests into budget making process, it is terrible and it is a signpost of the continuous crisis in the Nigerian state, crisis of governance, political class is showing irresponsibility and lack of competence to govern. “To me the political class in this country is incompetent and they play politics with people lives, they play politics with the lives of the Nigerian people. They play politics with the economy. Nigerians are disappointed and frustrated with this government and this government has shown incompetence. “There has always been disagreement between the self serving and unpatriotic legislatures and the incompetent executive organ. There has always been a disagreement over one thing or the other, but the question is; are the disagreements based on issues, are there robust debate on the budget? It does appear to me that the legislature differs from the executive on the premise of vested interest. “The issue is bothered on the interest self serving and personal and group interest of members of the executive and the legislative class. It is not about the interest of the Nigerian people. I doubt if this political class is bothered about the poverty level in Nigeria, I really doubt if the political class is bothered that Nigerians are hungry, that Nigerians live on the street and so on, they are so comforted in the corners of Abuja and they continue to play politics with budget, they continue to politicise the future and the lives of the Nigerian people.” Samuel described the delay as responsible for the lack of coordination and lack of planning in the economy, which has been the major draw back of the economy. He pointed out that during the budget formation phase, the executive and legislators and other stakeholders should have been consulted and actions point agreed on to avoid such delay. He blamed the delay on the fact that not much was done by the executive to carry the legislators along in the formation of the budget. “As such, issues on the budget framework, lack of details, frictions between the legislators and executive and how the legislators process information differs from how the executive process information. “In all, the lack of coordination cumulates into a bigger issue that has delayed the passage of the budget among other issues,” he said. Also lamenting, 18 civil societies led by Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), has called on the National Assembly to pass the 2018 Budget without further delay. Chairman, Partners for Electoral Reform, Ezenwa Nwagwu and Executive Director of CISLAC, Auwal Rafsanjani, at a news conference on Wednesday in Abuja, said: “It is sad that five months down the year, the national budget is not yet passed by the National Assembly. This is a statutory function of the National Assembly. “Nigeria cannot grow its economy and provide for citizens’ welfare without a national budget passed, assented and fully implemented.” Nwagwu said that the delay in the passage of the budget or the use of the budget for political gains was unpatriotic and was sabotaging the country’s growth and development. He also condemned the delay in the passage of some key Anti-Corruption Bills, saying it was worrisome. He called on the Senate to re-focus and carry out its legislative and constitutional responsibility with a sense of patriotism towards supporting efforts in fighting corruption. He said: “We are disappointed at the apparent disproportionate refusal by the Senate to confirm the substantive chief executives and Boards of Critical Anti-Corruption Agencies (EFFC, ICPC and CCB). “We frown at the seeming arbitrary use of the power of confirmation constitutionally granted the Senate to withhold the confirmation of the statutory governance structure of these bodies.” Nwagwu said that the delays were undermining the institutions’ capacity to effectively carry out their mandates. He said that the CSOs were bothered that personnel of the Armed Forces, the Police and intelligence agencies wallowed in poor salaries and without insurance. The Cable, an online media last week criticised the National Assembly for the delay in the passage of the budget saying “there is a growing sense of unease over the failure of Nigeria to pass the 2018 national budget. Despite the tremendous amount of effort injected to getting the ‘budget of consolidation’ to the National Assembly last November; it has been embarrassingly delayed on repeated occasions.” It said: “With Nigeria being closely watched by global investors, such developments are likely to slowly erode confidence over the stability of the nation’s political landscape. It must be kept in mind that the Central Bank of Nigeria has already warned the Federal Government that ‘hard work’ will be needed to prevent the country from skidding into another recession.” Meanwhile, there is hope that the budget may be passed and submitted before the end of this month. According to Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi, Senate spokesman, the budget will be passed on May 16, six months after it was presented to the two houses of the National Assembly. Abdullahi said the committee on appropriation is working to ensure that the budget is laid next Tuesday adding that “it was supposed to be laid this week (last), but they are putting finishing touches. They are being careful so as not to make mistakes. The report would be laid Tuesday and by Wednesday, we will approve it,” he said. “The good next thing is that it is the harmonised version (that would be laid). So whatever is laid in the Senate would be laid in the House of Representatives, and it would be considered and passed same time.” The 2018 budget put at N8.612 trillion, was presented to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari on Nov. 7, 2017. It was tagged “Budget of Consolidation.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 