It’s the latest example of the negative effects that Donald Trump’s style of politics is having around the world. By threatening to withdraw aid from countries, which do not support the US-led bid to host the 2026 World Cup, the US President openly defied a warning by FIFA against using politics in the selection process. It was effective, however: The South African Football Association quickly withdrew support it gave to a rival bid from Morocco a month ago, overturning something it had announced on its official Twitter feed. Trump’s tactics are what we’ve come to expect from the author of the 1987 book, ‘Trump: The Art of the Deal’, whose central tenet is: ‘Use your leverage’, or you scratch my back and I’ll scratch yours. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the Middle East, where Saudi Arabia is bending over backwards to please the American leader, at the expense of Arab solidarity. A year ago the US president was signing an $110bn arms deal with Riyadh, which was emboldened enough by this show of support to launch a diplomatic and transport blockade of its Gulf neighbour, Qatar. In December, however, Saudi Arabia’s muted response to the hugely controversial decision by Trump to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, did not go unnoticed on Arab streets. A huge flag was unfurled during a Palestinian protest at a football match in Algiers which showed a face which was half-Trump and half–Salman, the Saudi king. Underneath the caption read; ‘Two sides of the same coin’. In a tweet, @aymanarab78 explained: “Hey King of Saudi, the people who lifted the banner do not only represent themselves, but most of the Algerian people. Yes, you and Trump are indeed two faces of the same coin in regards to Jerusalem and other Muslim countries.” This week the Saudi government was solidifying these pro-Trump credentials by indicating that it will support the US-led bid for the 2026 World Cup instead – as you might expect – of one put forward by its Arab partner, Morocco. The supremely smug sports minister, Turki al-Sheikh, used an interview with CNN to publicise Saudi Arabia’s first WWE event (how much more American can you get than pay-per-view wrestling?) to really stick the knife into his Arab brothers. Describing America as “our biggest and strongest ally” he claimed that none of the bidding countries had sought Riyadh’s support, “but if someone asks, we will look for Saudi Arabia’s interests first”. Nothing to do with supporting a bid based on its merits or who would put on the best tournament, then. There is another reason for Mr Al-Sheikh’s anti-Moroccan position. In June last year, when a Saudi-led alliance launched its blockade of Qatar, Morocco was one a few countries which came to Doha’s aid, sending plane loads of supplies to the tiny Gulf state. Ever since then, as the months have dragged on, the North African country has steadfastly remained neutral in the dispute, refusing to give in to Saudi demands to join the boycott. Recently Mr al-Sheikh took to Twitter to bad-mouth Qatar (called the pseudo-state) and suggest that Morocco (referred to as the ocean because it borders the Atlantic) should be doing more to make friends in Saudi Arabia. He said: “Some people went astray. If you want support, you should seek it in Riyadh. What you are doing is wasting your time. Now ask the pseudo-state to help you. A message from the Gulf to the ocean.” This is the kind of nasty, bully-boy politics of the type Trump would practise and approve; if you don’t support us in our disputes with countries that have done you no harm, we’re going to play hardball with you. After Mr al-Sheikh’s indication that Saudi Arabia would back the US over Morocco at next month’s vote, the Arab world took to Twitter to vent its fury. @aldaghriri said: “Why did you refuse to support Morocco’s bid for the World Cup? It is an Arab country close to Saudi Arabia with which we have historical ties.” 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 