ADO-EKITI – Ganiyu Ayodele Obasoyin, the Olukere of Ikere-Ekiti, has reinforced his quest for recognition as a king in Ikere-Ekiti as he filed a suit against Governor Ayo Fayose and Ekiti State Council of Obas. The litigant is seeking full implementation of the report of Chieftaincy Committee, which validated his authority as a king in Ekiti. The Olukere is also seeking a relief that the autonomy he demanded should be granted and an order directing the state government, Governor and Attorney General to accept findings/recommendations of the Chieftaincy Committee and be gazette in a government White Paper. Other defendants in the suit before an Ikere-Ekiti High Court include Ekiti State government, Attorney General, Ekiti State, Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs and 15 Obas who are members of the council. One of the reliefs sought by Obasoyin is an order directing 5th to 20th defendants to release, publish and make public their findings to the effect that his request has merit and should be given due consideration. At the court’s sitting on Monday, Justice Olusegun Ogunyemi warned parties in the suit to maintain status quo until the end of the case. Justice Ogunyemi stressed, “The integrity of the bench and the bar should be maintained and nobody is above the law.” While noting that due process of the law would be followed in resolving the matter, the judge told the counsel to the defendants, Mr. Sunday Bamise, to tell his clients that the case was already before a court of competent jurisdiction. Bamise told the court that he had filed a preliminary objection that the suit was improperly commenced. According to him, he would need time to respond to the counter-affidavit filed by counsel to the Olukere, Mr. Morakinyo Ogele. Ogele said the suit was filed following alleged moves by the state government to stop the implementation of the panel’s recommendation that the Olukere be granted autonomy. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 