Kaduna – As Christians all over the country embarked on peaceful protests to drive home their grievances over killings in different parts of the country, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has commended them for the peaceful manner the protests were carried out. In a statement signed by Professor Ishaq Akinola, its director, the Muslim group said the bloodletting was not limited to Christians alone, adding that no Nigerian citizen, no matter the religion, deserves to be killed. The statement, which was issued on Monday, suggested that a joint protest by both faiths would have been more appropriate. MURIC acknowledged the rights of groups to express themselves in a democratic setting. “We commend the Christian protesters for conducting themselves in a peaceful manner. “We affirm clearly, categorically and unequivocally that life is sacred and no Nigerian citizen, whether Christian or Muslim, deserves to be killed. “However, we reaffirm our earlier position that Christians have not been the only victims of the killings around the country. Muslims are losing hundreds of faithful on a monthly basis in the North East as Boko Haram unleashes terror on the predominantly Muslim populace. “Thirty-six Muslims were killed in Birane Village in Zurmi Local Council, Zamfara State, on February 16, 2018. Six Muslims were killed in Jidari Polo area of Maiduguri on April 26, 2018. “The point is that we are all victims. Both Christians and Muslims have lost their members to criminals and blood-thirsty elements of our country.” According to him, meaningful impact could have been made if both Christians and Muslims held a joint protest against the failure of government to stem the tide of killings. “That would make it impossible for observers to read meanings into yesterday’s protest. It would stop questions like ‘Why are they demonstrating now? Is it because Buhari is a Muslim? Why didn’t they protest when Jonathan was in power? Were there no killings in Jonathan’s time? Do they want to bring Buhari’s government down?’” MURIC avers that the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration cannot overcome every security challenge in the country with the resources presently at its disposal. “Before we are accused of academic escapism in a season of ‘lazymania’, a little research will reveal that no matter how much this administration tries, it cannot overcome all the security challenges facing the country at the moment, particularly if it continues to rely on the resources presently at its disposal. Any politician promising something else is deceiving Nigerians “The truth of the matter is that Nigeria as at today lacks the wherewithal to fight insecurity of this dimension. The United Nations recommends at least one policeman to every 499 persons. Yet with a population of 193 million people, Nigeria has just 317,000 policemen, about 100,000 soldiers and approximately 33,000 men of the Department of Secret Services (DSS). This is far below expectation. “It explains why the army had to deploy thousands of its men from the troubled North East to the South East when the Biafra debacle erupted about a year ago. Then came crisis in Plateau State, followed by the herdsmen saga in Taraba and the armed militia imbroglio in Benue. Zamfara was on fire. Kaduna was burning and the same military had to draft its men there. It puts the few soldiers we have under pressure and it also explains why Boko Haram insurgents have not been totally wiped out. All these crises have caused expensive distractions,” the group stated MURIC suggested that all patriotic citizens should work with the government in its quest for a peaceful society and urged government to employ more security operatives. “At least an additional 200,000 policemen, 50,000 soldiers and 15,000 men of the secret police must be recruited in the next few months if the Federal Government is serious about overcoming the present security challenges. “In addition, sophisticated weapons and modern communication gadgets must be procured for our security agents, so that they can be better prepared to face the battle ahead,” the group suggested. 0 comments