Sequel to the recent passage of the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB), by the Senate, President Muhammadu Buhari has been urged by the Civil Society Organisations, under the aegis of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), to expedite action by assenting to the bill. The CSOs made the call at a recent media roundtable organised by CISLAC in collaboration with Dr. Michael Uzoigwe and Mr. Anthony Ihianle of the Facility for Oil Sector Transformation, FOSTER II, a project of the UK department for International Development, DfID) in Abuja. This was a follow-up to unanimous adoption of the report on the Bill presented by Chairman, Senate Committee on Petroleum, Upstream, Sen. Tayo Alasoadura, by the lawmakers at plenary. CISLAC, and stakeholders were unanimous in the views that the president’s assent to the bill would engender a lasting legacy, promote transparency and accountability in the oil industry, boost the drive for institutionalisation instead of individualism, and will by that singular act write his name in gold forever in the country’s history. The civil society body added that the Presidential Assent would strengthen governance and promote strong and independent regulation of the sector, as one of the electioneering campaigns of the present administration ahead the 2019 general election. Against the foregoing background, the President was urged to grant speedy assent to the Bill, which has been harmonised by the two houses in the national assembly and transmitted to him. The forum, which drew experts and consultants including former Chairman of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, Dr. Sam Amadi; Technical Advisor to the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, Dr. Dauda Garuba, and keynote presenter and legal practitioner, Mr. Chiagozie Hilary-Nwokonko, agreed that if President Buhari can assent to the vital bill within the tenure of the current administration, he would have written his name in gold and left a lasting legacy for the development of Nigeria, especially in the extractive sector. Rafsanjani Auwal Ibrahim Musa, the Executive Director, CISLAC, in his welcome remarks at the forum, stated that “The Petroleum Industry Bill is an attempt to bring under one law, 16 different legislations to clarify the rules, procedures and institutions that will entrenched good governance, transparency and accountability in the oil and gas sector and ensure favourable fiscal terms that will yield maximum government take and increase revenues from the sector. He lamented the delay by the Presidency in assenting to the bill which has been transmitted to it by the legislature, adding that the current administration has promised during the electioneering campaign in 2015 to pass the bill into law if voted into power, barely one year to go and as a pre-election year with the INEC time-table released and governance could be shut down. In an executive summary, Rafsanjani noted that “The Bill awaiting presidential assent is the culmination of almost two decades of work by various stakeholders in the Nigerian petroleum industry, but especially the Executive and Legislative branches of the Nigerian government. “The Bill seeks to reform the governance of the Nigerian petroleum industry by bringing it up to date with best international practices and thereby enhancing its competitiveness in a global industry. “The Bill embodies inter alia the principles of transparency, accountability, the avoidance of conflicts of interest and undue political interference in the regulation of the Nigerian petroleum industry and the commercial operations of State-owned entities. These are objectives that the federal government espouses.” The Executive Director, CISLAC, represented by Programme Manager (Environment and Conservation of Nature) CISLAC, Mr. Kolawole Banwo, while speaking further, disclosed that the Bill would achieve the highlighted goals by giving the Minister of Petroleum Resources a policy making role. According to him, “Broad regulation of the industry is vested in the Nigerian Petroleum Regulatory Commission which will be led by a Board appointed by the President, subject to Senate approval. NNPC will be transformed into several companies incorporated under the Companies Allied Matters Act.” Banwo, added further that, “the PIGB will unbundle the NNPC, increase investment across the value chain in the sector that will stimulate increase in exploration and production to facilitate fresh discoveries and reserves; proper diversification, job creation and local content and participation in the sector with better environmental management and health and safety practices, and, above all, increase revenues from improved government takes. He added that failure to pass the bill in 2015 as an electoral promise led to the constitution of a federal inter-agency team to review the Bill. “The team’s report was submitted in 2010. The Senate and the House of Representatives submitted different Bills. Since then till date, the passage of the Bill into law has remained elusive”, he added. DAILY INDEPENDENT recalls that Prof. Wumi Iledare of the University of Port Harcourt had recently urged President Muhammadu Buhari to assent to the Bill which is considered to be very crucial to the growth of economy. The professor, who is also the Director of Emerald Energy Institute of the university, made the call during a sensitisation discourse on Nigeria’s Petroleum Industry Reforms in Port Harcourt recently. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 