Lagos – Lagos and Ogun business community including residents were excited in March this year when the Federal Government through the Federal Executive Council (FEC) announced that it has approved N20.8billion for the rehabilitation of Ikorodu – Shagamu road. Most delighted by the announcement is Senator Gbenga Ashafa, lawmaker representing Lagos West senatorial district in the National Assembly. Since he was elected as a first-term senator in 2011, Ashafa inundated by calls from frustrated residents who for years, have continued to experience most unimaginable frustrating gridlock on a daily basis, following the terrible condition of the road.
Speaking shortly after the announcement was made, Ashafa commended President Muhammadu Buhari, Babatunde Raji Fashola, Minister of Works, Power and Housing, on behalf of members of his senatorial zone on the attention by the government to address the deplorable state of the road.
He also commended Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for his interface with the Federal Government in ensuring the approval for the funding of the project, saying that the rate of accidents and deaths along the corridor due to the deplorable would reduce immediately the project is executed.Ashafa also commended all the legislators from Ogun and Lagos East over their inputs in securing the approval.
According to him, “On behalf of the good and hardworking people of Lagos East Senatorial District in general and the good people of Ikorodu in particular, I seize this opportunity to commend His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari and the Honourable Minister for Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola on the recent approval of the sum of N20billion for the rehabilitation of the Ikorodu – Sagamu road. We called and you answered”.
“I also thank His Excellency, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode our dear Governor for the role he has played at the executive level in ensuring the approval of the funding for the construction/rehabilitation of this project.”
“The efforts and the role that the lawmakers of the Eastern district, ably led by myself also helped in speeding up the approval”.
“Having observed the perennial strain and discomfort that the above stated road project has caused our teeming constituents, I led the clamour of other legislators from the Lagos East Senatorial District via my letter dated 24th July, 2017 in urging the Hon. Minister for Power, Works and Housing to prioritize the award of the said project. The Honourable Minister graciously directed the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry to respond vide a letter dated 18th October, 2017 with Reference Number: DDHMS/CR/62/NASS/111/409 confirming that the said project has been prioritized and that the procurement process for the project had indeed commenced. Yesterday’s approval of funding by the Federal Executive Council therefore marks the end of the award process.”
“I am deeply excited because, the completion of this project would greatly improve the quality of life of our constituents, by easing the stress they currently face commuting that route while also easing the stress on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, by serving as a viable alternative to commuters. I am confident that work would commence in earnest towards the speedy completion of this important infrastructural project soonest.”
True to words, Fashola, alongside Ashafa yesterday led a team of officials from the ministry to the flag-off ceremony of the road. In his goodwill message, the senator commended the Buhari administration for keeping to its promise saying despite several pleas, successive governments in the country promised to rehabilitate the roads but failed to honour their promise”
Fashola in his remarks said the rehabilitation of the Ikorodu-Sagamu Road would boost agriculture and the economy of Lagos, adding that the road was strategic to industrialisation and agricultural development which were the priorities of the Buhari administration.
He added that the road was strategic and would promote the growth of agricultural activities, boost business for industries in the axis and create employment opportunities.
He listed the Odogunyan Industrial Estate, the NNPC Mosimi Depot and other firms as some of the beneficiaries of the project.
“The present government is very strong on agric and very strong on industrialisation and, indeed, on energy,” he said.
According to him, the project had a national outlook and urged politicians to shun sentiments and focus on the developmental goals when constructing projects.
“President Muhammadu Buhari has said I should tell you that not only are you getting Ikorodu-Sagamu Road, work has also started on Lagos-Ota Road to Abeokuta. And work would continue on Lagos-Ibadan expressway.
“And if we get approval in the 2018 budget, hopefully, we would be able to start work on the last part of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway,” he said.
He said the contractors’ first priority was to stabilise the road before the rains start.
He urged residents to be patient and cooperate with the contractors as the construction was likely to cause them some inconveniences.
General Manager, Arab Contractors Nigeria Limited, Mr Wael Salem said, “We would try our best to make the road motor able.”
“For quite a long time, Nigerians that commute this route and reside within this axis have requested for the rehabilitation of this road. Successive governments under the previous administrations have promised and failed to heed the cries of the people of Ikorodu”.
In his goodwill message, Ashafa commended the Buhari administration for keeping to its promise saying despite several pleas, successive governments in the country promised to rehabilitate the roads but failed to honour their promise”
“The effect of this road construction would be immense and the benefits immeasurable. Certainly, the effect of the entire process beginning from the construction phase to the completion and use of this critical infrastructure would be of direct benefit to all. I am aware that this project would in addition to the ultimate ease and comfort expected on completion, would also create thousands of direct jobs in the areas of skilled and unskilled labour throughout the period of construction”.
“Further to the above, the reconstruction of this road would create a viable alternative to the Lagos – Ibadan expressway as a means of connecting Ogun State from Lagos. We also expect it to facilitate more trade opportunities in the area of exchange of goods and services between both states and improvement of access for our rural dwellers”.
“As I conclude, I am aware, that this project is estimated to cover about 30.1 Kilometers with the construction period of 36 months. Consequently, I call on the people of Ikorodu and indeed all stakeholders to cooperate with the Federal Government and the Contractors (Messrs Arab Contractors) handling this project in order to expedite its completion. Through these 36 months, we are likely to experience inconveniences in the form of road closures, lane alternation or delays due to presence of equipment on the road. I urge you to consider these inconveniences minor sacrifice for our greater good and comfort”.
“I also call on the Contractors whose track records of quality precede them, to ensure that local participation is paramount throughout the construction of this project. Also, local content must be the watch word in sourcing for materials to be used where such is available within this jurisdiction”.
“Once again, I thank the Federal Government for approving the commencement of this project, the Honourable Minister for ensuring that this project sees the light of day and the good people of Ikorodu for keeping faith with us to deliver on our promises. I am confident that in 36 months, we would all be gathered here by the grace of God, to witness the commissioning of this legacy project” . 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 