Yenagoa – Campaign for Development and Democracy in Bayelsa (CDDB) says it has settled for Reuben Okoya, former coordinator, Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC), as its undisputed choice for the 2019 Bayelsa State governorship race. Ekiyor Welson, the executive director of the group, said the disclosure of Okoya became imperative following the conclusion of its “process of searching, finding and endorsing its preferred candidate for the office of governor”. Okoya, a United States-trained architect and environmental designer, who was Commissioner for Special Projects, hails from Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa Central Senatorial District. “Mr. Okoya was arrived at from a pool of three other people who sent in their curriculum vitae for scrutiny and vetting, a process that took four months to conclude,” the group explained. CDDB is a non-governmental organisation with the pre-occupation of deepening democracy through the mobilisation of the people for active participation in the electoral process. The group, in a statement on Tuesday to felicitate with the Federal Government and Nigerians on the occasion of the 2018 Democracy Day, talked about the countdown towards 2019. “The countdown will take the form of sensitisation, mobilisation and education of the people on the precepts of participatory democracy, freedom and liberty, development and accountability. “Also, town hall meetings, rallies, seminars, conferences in addition to radio, television and outdoor publicity campaigns will all be employed to make the choice of the people count,” CDDB stated. The statement further clarified that the CDDB, in collaboration with The Rawls Centre, came up with 10 criteria upon which the governorship aspirants were assessed. They include, political connection, state and federal experience, origin, visible source of income, philanthropy and knowledge of the problems of Bayelsa and possible solutions and readiness to sign a charter with the people, among others. The CDDB urged all political parties in the state to adopt Okoya as their candidate, “if they wish to win the next governorship election, as it is obvious that he has the complete and unalloyed support of the people of Bayelsa.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 