Three person, Owolabi Kayode Samuel, Esther Olubukola Mate and Abimbola David-Orugun have been arraigned before Justice Hakeem Oshodi of the Lagos State High Court sitting in Ikeja, on a three-count charge bordering on conspiracy and stealing to the tune of N4,576, 000.00 (Four Million, Five Hundred and Seventy-six Thousand Naira) by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Lagos Zonal office. The three defendants, who are staff of Hope Worldwide Foundation, a non-governmental Organisation (NGO), were arraigned alongside Cumulative Ventures Limited and Continental Best Buys Limited. One of the count reads: “That you, Owolabi Kayode Samuel, Esther Olubukola (a.k.a Bukky Mate, Bukola Mate), Abimbola David-Orugun, Cumulative Ventures, Continental Best Buys Limited, Olaoshebikan Candido Clement (at large) and Abosede Fasasi (at large), sometime in January, 2007, at Lagos, within the Ikeja Judicial Division, with intent to defraud, conspired to steal money, property of MTN Nigeria Foundation, a subsidiary of MTN Nigeria Communications Limited, set up to cater for the less privileged people and HIV victims across Nigeria and committed commit felony, to wit, stealing contrary to Section 516 of the Criminal Code Cap C17, Vol.2, Laws of Lagos State, 2003.” Another count reads: “ That you, Owolabi Kayode Samuel, Esther Olubukola (a.k.a Bukky Mate, Bukola mate), Abimbola David-Orugun, Cumulative Ventures, Continental Best Buys Limited, Olaoshebikan Candido Clement (at large) and Abosede Fasasi (at large), sometime in October,2011 at Lagos within the Ikeja Judicial Division, with intent to defraud, dishonestly converted the sum of N3, 556, 000. 00 (Three Million Five Hundred and Fifty- Six Thousand Naira) property of MTN Nigeria Foundation, a subsidiary of MTN Nigeria Communications Limited , set up to cater for the less privileged people and HIV Victims across Nigeria and committed stealing contrary to Section 285(1) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2011.” The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges brought against them by the EFCC. In view of their pleas, the prosecution counsel, K.M.A. Olushesi, asked the court for a short date for the commencement of trial. However, in his response, counsel to the defendants, J.O. Odubela, SAN, informed the court that he had filed bail applications on behalf of his clients and also urged court to grant them bail on liberal terms. Justice Oshodi granted the defendants bail on self-recognisance. The defendants were also ordered to enter a financial bond of N2million each, which should be paid to the Chief Registrar of the Lagos State High Court. comments