Ado-Ekiti – Twenty-seven out of the 33 All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirants in Ekiti State has asked for the disbandment of the Governor Tanko Al-Makura governorship primary committee in the state. They accused him of open bias and incompetence, which he reportedly exhibited in the conduct of the botched congresses. The aspirants posited that the shoddy way the committee handled the primary polls caused the violence that marred the exercise in Ado-Ekiti on Saturday. In a communiqué read by Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, one of the aspirants, after a marathon meeting in Ado-Ekiti on Sunday, the 27 regretted the unfortunate incident that led to the protest and subsequent disruption of the primary. They alleged that members of the congress committee headed by Nasarawa State governor compromised the integrity of the poll, which invalidated its outcome. The aggrieved aspirants said they noticed lopsidedness and bias on the part of a member of the committee, calling on the national leadership to straighten all rough edges for the poll to be successful when rerun. “We want the committee to be disbanded completely and our National Working Committee (NWC) should set up a new committee to conduct another primary that will meet international standard. “Even many of those in the panel were friends to a particular candidate, and this we thought could vitiate the outcome of the election. “We are determined to win Ekiti, but the right thing must be done for a candidate that will command the respect of everybody to emerge,” they added. They suggested that the next election should be conducted in an enclosure to prevent natural occurrences like rain from disrupting the process as witnessed on Saturday. “Apart from that, no aspirant should have more than an agent, because many of those who gained entry under the guise of being agents to some aspirants were used to perpetrate evil,” they insisted. Also, Jide Awe, the state chairman of the party, called for the annulment of the poll. “There is no way you can conduct a primary without allowing the State Executive Council to have a say. “The aspirants were not happy. There are lots of lessons to learn as a party. One of the cardinal principles of a free and fair election is for the electorate not to have a doubt. When a system is doubted in an election, it becomes invalid. “When a system is disrupted, it becomes invalid. An invalid primary can’t produce a valid candidate. We want to have a credible election, so that the electorate will be able to vote for us at the main election. “With what happened, we believe sincerely that the committee is culpable and the security agencies are compromised. So some people allowed the thugs that disrupted the election in.” The party has until May 14 to present its candidate to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 