Concession of the Nigerian ports was meant to end inefficiencies that characterised them. It was to make them more operationally efficient and reduce the number of hours it took to clear goods. However, despite the concessioning of these ports, some challenges have persisted in their operations. In this piece, BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, ANDREW UTULU and IKECHI NZEAKO examine the pre and post ports concession in Nigeria. There was general insecurity in the country and by extension the Nigerian ports prior to the port concession regime as far as port activities were concerned. Everybody was treating government business as if it were not their business. Pre-concession era though had its advantages, but the disadvantages far overwhelmed the advantages. It had some elements of advantages in the sense that charges for clearance of cargos were friendly. The charges were not high, but disadvantage in the sense that there was no security, cargoes were not secured. There was also a very slow attitude on the part of the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA), which oversees the general operations in the ports to position containers for examination.  Sometimes, you needed to bribe them. This, however, brought corruption on a very high side in the ports. There was general inefficiency. It was a completely failed system before the port concession. Some Major Concessionaires Private port operators are many and scattered all over in Port Harcourt, Onne, Calabar and the western ports of Lagos. However, some of the major ones are APMT and Green View which are operated by Dangote Group, Four Mills Nigeria Limited, Grimaldi, Josopdam Nigeria Limited, ENL Consorsium, PTOL. In Port Harcourt, there are very many of them. Concession Era The concession era brought about a higher degree of orderliness.  People began to witness cargo safety in the system.  Every terminal operator is avoiding a situation where they will say his terminal was insecure, or that containers of goods were not safe in their area of jurisdiction. The era of trying to use the port as a storage facility was also fast going away, this is because the private terminal operators are charging highly in terms of demurrage for keeping cargoes in their terminals for a long time. The post-concession era of the ports also brought in healthy competition among the various terminal operators. It brought in a kind of group rivalry to the extent that none would like to be seen as being inefficient. However, the post-concession period has also brought high charges. The terminal operators have devised ways of extorting port users.  They are doing it in such a way that there are some charges that are unfairly arranged to make the port users pay higher. Stakeholders have, therefore, argued that most increment they suffered as charges are not even tied to services rendered. There are not even tied to any additional service. They are regarded as profiteering where port operators make frantic effort to make much profit that are not commensurable with the services rendered. Concession Agreement It may be difficult to give accurate information on the concession agreement in the sense that what the government gave to terminal ‘A’ is not the same thing as what was given to terminal ‘B’. Some are them are mandated to bring in bulk cargo in the agreement, another person has agreed for containers, another person for general goods, another for Roll -On-Roll- Off  (RORO) terminal, like PTML is RORO, APMT is container, so they are not operating the same type of ports all over.  The Flour Mills operates bulk cargo.  Every person has different agreement and areas of specialization. They do not operate on uniform agreement. Even those who process the same kind of cargo do not have a uniform agreement because their process are different. In the agreement, there are those who got 25 years to operate, some got 10 years concession. For those who got 10 years concession, it has elapsed.  However, it was gathered that the Federal Government is making effort to renew the agreement because they elapsed last year. Challenges Like earlier mentioned, the operators of the ports in post concession regime are in competition, this has brought a lot of high cost in their operations and charges. This high cost is doing the country no good, but rather adding to the inflation the country is facing. When you pay vey high for importing electronic materials like GSM handsets, the importer no doubt will transfer the cost to the consumers.  So when you pay high as an importer, the buyer will not get it cheaper. So, high cost is number one major challenge. Another challenge is that the government is failing in its own responsibilities.  Government is supposed to provide common user facilities. First and foremost, the government neglected the port access roads, thereby making entry and exit to the ports very cumbersome. The government has failed to provide electricity for effective port operations. Port services and pilotage are the responsibility of the government but are fragrantly ignored. The government has not been efficient in these areas. In 2018, Nigerian ports have not done something about the poor access roads, which the people have been talking about since the last 30 years. This is a grossly failure on the part of the Federal Government. In 2018, Nigerian ports are still talking about lack of power supply.  As at today, most terminal operators are operating on diesel-powered generators.  Sometimes, they run their terminals 24 hours on diesel. These cannot come cheap to the people because the government has failed to provide electricity, the government has failed to provide roads, the government have failed to provide adequate security. It should be noted that vessels coming to Nigeria are subjected to attacks by sea criminals and kidnappers. Statistics of the Nigerian Maritime Bureau has shown that Nigerian waters are not as safe. The provision of scanners at the ports is the responsibility of the government, not that of the private port operators. This is because the scanning machines are security instruments that are not supposed to be left in the hands of the private individuals. Scanners, therefore, are also expected to be given to private operators to control, because if you allow private operators to handle scanning machines, then they can compromise national security, they can compromise government revenue, as well as compromise social security. It is the responsibility of government agencies like the Nigeria Customs Service to oversee the operations of scanners in the ports, because these scanners are instruments that can detect dangerous imports.  These are not instruments to be left in hands of private institutions. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 