The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) ward congresses nationwide yesterday were marred by violent protests resulting in the loss of lives in Delta and Lagos states and others sustaining injuries. Also, the congress recorded reported hijack of election materials resulting in postponements and delays. The Lagos incident took place at Amukoko, where a man was allegedly shot dead by sus-
pected party thugs. The Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations) DC Mohammed was said to have raced to the scene to ensure the incident was under control. However, the elections were peaceful in some areas like in Daura, President Muhammadu Buhari’s constituency, where he urged the party executives elected in his Sarkin Yara A electoral ward to discharge their responsibilities with fear of God and in accordance with the party constitution. The exercise was also peaceful in Eke, in Udi local government area of Enugu State, where Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, Minister of Foreign Affairs, was said to have suffered humiliation during the Ward Congress at his hometown, Eke, in Udi LGA. One Dead As Violence Erupts In Delta The ward congress was peaceful in major areas in Delta State except the incident that led to the death of one Mr. Jeremiah Oghoveta, over alleged hijack of electoral materials at Okwagbe Community in Jeremi Ward 3, Ughelli South Ward 10. A source, who did not want his name in print told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that late Oghoveta was a Ward Chairmanship aspirant loyal to a Senator and former Labour Party governorship candidate who recently decamped to the APC but was allegedly stabbed to death by Mr. Tete Pippa, a member of an opposing faction. The source explained further that late Oghoveta, after expressing his disappointment over the hijack of the electoral materials by the opposing faction decided to stage a walk out. While on his way home, Mr. Tete stabbed him within his neck region and he died on the spot while the suspected killer, Mr. Tete Pippa fled from the scene. The source stated further that the race for the ward executive became serious because of the fact that all ward executives are delegates in the forthcoming APC primary elections. But at Evwreni, home town of leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State, Olorogun O’tega Emerhor and Agbarha – Otor, home town of Chief Christopher Obiuwevbi in Ughelli North Local Government Area, the election was very peaceful. Rivers Congress In Disarray As Amaechi’s Supporters Defy Court Orders
 * Minister Allegedly Hijacks Election Materials
 * As Abe’s Loyalists Shun Process Against the late court order from the Federal High Court restraining the conduct of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ward congress in Rivers State, party members suspected to be loyalists to the Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, went on with the process despite late arrival of materials in virtually all the wards. This is as some members of the party who are loyal to Magnus Abe, Senator representing Rivers Southeast senatorial district massively abstained from the exercise, saying that Amaechi had hijacked the materials to “install” his candidates to the detriment of other candidates in the state. At about midday, a coalition of APC members converged at the sand-filled ground opposite the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) office along the eastern by-pass, staged a peaceful protest, warning that the “shoddy” exercise could spell doom for the party. Some of the wards where the exercise was monitored in Port Harcourt like wards 12, 13 and 14 among others in Port Harcourt Local Government Area (PHALGA), no members of the party, INEC staff or security operatives were found at
the center. Meanwhile, shooting and violence erupted at the Rivers State secretariat of the APC, along Forces Avenue, GRA Phase 2, on Friday, over the whereabouts of electoral materials to be used in the conduct of the party’s ward congress scheduled yesterday, Saturday, May 5. Eye witnesses who arrived at the secretariat as early as 6am for the purchase and collections of forms alleged that live bullets were fired by some security personnel to disperse aggrieved members of the party who were vexed that forms for elective offices were not available after they had made valid payments. There were widespread allegations that the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, had
diverted the electoral materials to the operational premises of Intel’s, a port servicing company belonging to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. As at 7pm on Friday, no member of the State Executive Council (SEC) of the APC in Rivers State was at the secretariat. Windows, doors, televisions, bags of rice among other items at the secretariat were allegedly carted by irate members of the party who felt short-changed by some leaders of the SEC. Senator Abe, who represents Rivers south east senatorial district in a press briefing yesterday regretted that some leaders of the party were working frantically to truncate the ward congresses for their selfish interest. “The leaders of the South-South met at the residence of the minister of transportation, who is the leader of the party at Abuja, and agreed to address issues concerning the ward congresses. “He (Amaechi) excused himself in the course of the meeting to attend to other matters of state. The Chairman of the South-South congresses, Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, assured us that all issues concerning the congresses will be addressed on Thursday and Friday when all stakeholders are expected to meet in their states.” Expressing the worry, the state Governor, Nyesom Wike said that the illegal use of operatives of SARS and military personnel to cause rancour ahead of the APC Congress in the state has vindicated him. Adamawa Postpones Congress After Protest
 By Ribadu, Babachir Lawal The Adamawa State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has postponed its ward congress by 24 hours. This was as a result of protests by some stakeholders, including Nuhu Ribadu, former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Babachir Lawal, ex-secretary to the government of the federation. Musa Mahmud, chairman of the congress committee, announced the postponement after a meeting with some party chieftains. The party leaders protested that many candidates were yet to obtain the nomination forms to contest the election. Abdulaziz Nyako, a serving senator, Abubakar MoAllayidi, and Marcus Gundiri, some of the party chieftains, also supported the shifting of congress. Mahmud said the congress had been postponed to 1pm on Sunday. The national executive council (NEC) of the party had extended the tenure of the national working committee and state executives by a year. But President Muhammadu Buhari later withdrew his support, calling for congresses and
convention. The local government congress will hold next week and states in two weeks time but no date has been fixed for the convention. NURTW Hijacks Election Materials In Ondo The ward congress of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo state was on Saturday characterised by violence, irregularities and protests. The exercise did not hold in some of the 203 wards, especially in Akure South, Akure North, Ifedore and Akoko area of the state. Those perceived not to belong to a faction of the party were not allowed to participate in the congress in most of the wards visited in the state. The congress was reportedly hijacked by members of the National Union of Road Transport
Workers (NURTW) in Akure South. A lawmaker representing Akure North/South Federal Constituency, Afe Olowookere, accused the state NURTW chairman, Jacob Adebo popularly known as Idajo, of disrupting the exercise. “What happened in most of the supposed congress centers was that members of the National Union Road Transport Workers in Ondo state led by Idajo took over all the centers armed with different kinds of weapons. “They wounded some members and did not allow the congress to hold in all the centers in Akure South. When we discovered that, we appealed to all our members to leave in order to avoid loss of lives. “We have photo evidence of our claims, of our members who were attacked and wounded. I’ve called the deputy governor of the state and reported the development to him. I’ve tried to reach out to Mr. Governor but I couldn’t get him. “There was no congress anywhere today. The Secretary to the State Government, Ifedayo Abegunde, has said he would impose his list on all of us in the local government area. “The next line of action is to let the governor and the leadership of the party know about it. We thank God there is provision for appeal, for members to report cases of this nature. “We are going to approach the committee set up to handle complaints of members about
the conduct of the congress. We are also going to let the leadership of the party aware of what has happened,” Olowookere said. Adebo, who spoke to Sunday INDEPENDENT on telephone, however, denied the allegation that NURTW members hijacked the congress. Also a lawmaker representing Idanre/Ifedore in the House of Representatives, Bamidele Baderinwa, said the exercise did not hold in any ward in Ifedore. Osoba Shuns Congress In Ogun Former governor of Ogun State, Aremo Olusegun Osoba was absent at the Saturday’s ward congress conducted by the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC) across the state. Osoba, whose followers recorded abysmal performance during the year 2015 general elections under the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), had last Thursday held a “peace meeting” with the state governor, Ibikunle Amosun over the ward congress held yesterday in the state. At the gathering, which had in attendance, Osoba’s core loyalists which included Senators Gbenga Kaka, Gbenga Obadara, Akin Odunsi as well as former House of Representatives member, Bukola Buraimoh among others, politician from the Osoba faction of the party had agreed to close ranks and be part of the party’s ward congress. Speaking with journalists on phone over his absence at the ward congress, Osoba explained that it was not necessary for him to be at the ward congress. On his part, Amosun, who addressed party supporters at the Ajura Ward in Obafemi – Owode local government area of the state admonished party faithful to allow peace reign during the congress. Foreign Minister Humiliated At Home Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on Saturday suffered humiliation during the Ward Congress of the All Progressives Con-
gress (APC) at his hometown, Eke, in Udi LGA of Enugu State. The incident occurred at the APC office located at Eke Eke Market before the Director General of Voice of Nigeria, Mr. Osita Okechukwu and hundreds of party faithful from the ward, who turned up for the congress. During the exercise, which held under a very peaceful atmosphere and observed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), all the ward executives and the delegates to the state and local government congresses were elected. Among those elected were Philip Eze (Chairman), Cletus Chikelu (Vice Chairman), Ikemefuna Theophilus (Secretary) and Udeh Ifeanyi Secretary (Financial Secretary). Although the congress commenced by 9am as scheduled, the Minister arrived at the venue around 1pm with a large entourage of heavily armed policemen, as the congress was winding up. The entrance of the Minister, who was rooting for the re-election of the former Party Chairman, Ozo Austin Umeh, led to a faceoff between a few of his supporters and the majority who refused to be cowed by the presence of armed security operatives. Amidst the growing tension at the party office, Mr. Charles Buolu, the Chairman of the Electoral Panel, announced that the election was over. Following the announcement by the Chairman of the Electoral Panel, majority of the party faithful including the VON DG, walked out of the party office, leaving the Minister and a few of his supporters behind. Police, Army Block Commuters In Zamfara Hundreds of travelers were on Saturdays denied passage through Zamfara by armed security personnel following the conduct of the All Progressive Congress (APC) ward congresses in the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that fierce looking police, army and civil defense
personnel had blocked all exits out of Gusau, the state capital, leaving motorists travelling out of the state stranded. Some of the motorists especially commecial vehicles leaving the state capital as early as 7.00 am could not go beyond the outskirts of the town as they were stopped by the security personnel. Many of the vehicle owners and passengers were seen wearing long faces unsure of what
to do. Some of them who spoke to NAN lamented that no announcement was made to the effect,
and that the development had affected their business schedules. Sale Moriki, a commercial driver going to Kano from Gusau, expressed disappointment over the development. “If the government is serious, it would have reached out to our union leaders who would have prepared us before we came out, so, that drivers and passengers would plan ahead, ’’ he said. Confusion Mars Congress In Imo
Anolu Vincent Owerri – Imo State Deputy Governor, Prince Eze Madumere, yesterday, escaped attack by
thugs at the All Progress Congress and state secretariat. This was as Governor Rochas Okorocha’s son-in-law, Mr. Uche Nwosu, said there was a swap of congress committee that suppose to conduct ward congresses in the state. Among those who escaped the attack were Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu, former Secretary to the state government, Mr. Jude Ejiogu and others. According to our correspondent, Madumere and others were at the APC State Secretariat, as part of the preparation for the party’s congress. But with the intervention of the security agencies, a peaceful atmosphere was restored. At the time of filling this report, members of the APC, in the state, were still at the Imo Police Command headquarters, trying to resolve the alleged swap of Congress committee. It was claimed that the congress committee that was suppose to conduct congress in Imo state, were moved to Anambra State. As discussions were still on, our correspondent was told that some groups in Ngor Okpala Local Government Area as well as Ehime Mbano said to be loyal to the present government held their own congresses. Nwosu, who briefly spoke at the Police command said: “We are trying to sort out some issues. There was a swap. The people that supposed to conduct the congress in Imo were moved to Anambra and the Anambra people moved to Imo. And we want them to properly hand over.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 