No one disputes the fact that the legislature has the concomitant authority to summon anybody to its floor to give information that is necessary for the performance of its constitutional duty to legislate and conduct investigations. Parliament even has, in certain cases, the power to commit a contumacious party who fails to honour a legitimate invitation or refuses to testify before it for contempt. It is however important for us to also understand that the power to “investigate” is not necessarily coterminous with the power to “adjudicate” which is strictly outside the scope of legislative powers. Therefore, summoning citizens for reasons other than for the purposes of legislation may easily veer into the realm of adjudication which could then become problematic. It is therefore unfortunate that instead of making laws for the peace, order and good government of Nigeria, our legislators are current dwelling on a constitutionally misconstrued power to issue summons or parliamentary subpoenas to anybody that happens to annoy them. Dissipating valuable time and energy on baseless claims and unproductive procedural entitlements is nothing but a wilful abuse of parliamentary privilege and a veritable clog on our constitutional democracy. There is a myth trending within the Nigerian political environment suggesting that Parliament is supreme. Such may have been true in the distant past, particularly in England but the only thing that is supreme within our juridical cosmos today is the Constitution. Consequently, whatever powers any arm of government exercises are subject to the overriding supremacy of the Constitution – a fact that every political office holder in the country solemnly acceded to during the rituals of their oaths of office. Our government is founded on the principles of Separation of Powers. To that end, the sovereign powers of the State, namely, the power to make laws, the power to execute those laws and the power to adjudicate on them are shared amongst three governing branches, to wits, the Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary with the operational mandate for each to check and balance the others. Deliberately, there is no blanket allocation of power under the Constitution as every arm of government has it operational boundaries. That much the courts have already confirmed in Tony Momoh v The Senate and subsequently elucidated upon in El-Rufia v House of Representatives, to the effect that “the power of investigation conferred on the National Assembly cannot be invoked outside the purview of the legislative competence of the National Assembly”, i.e., it cannot be used to harass or intimidate citizens that they are not happy with. Section 88 which they are relying on when indiscriminately issuing summons to anyone that appears to have annoyed them is very clear about the need to operate within the parameters of the Constitution as we are no longer operating the Westminster model, wherein there was the outlandish proposition that Parliament is sovereign and could indeed “turn a man into a woman”! Section 88 actually begins with the cautionary phrase “Subject to the provisions of this Constitution…” just to alert everyone to the fact that whatever is authorised under that section is ultimately subject to the overriding provisions of the Constitution. When therefore the same document in section 89, dealing with the “power to seek and obtain evidence” in connection with the investigatory role of the Legislature, defines the power to “summon any person in Nigeria to give evidence at any place or produce any document…, subject to ALL just exceptions”, it simply means that the legislature may summon ANYONE but it cannot be over just any subject. Those exceptions are contained in the Constitution, restated in judicial pronouncements while others are parts of parliamentary practices applicable in most democracies. From the foregoing, it shouldn’t be difficult to understand why the Supreme Court in El-Rufai Vs. House Of Reps (2003) concluded that “any invitation by the National Assembly to any person outside the purpose defined in Section 82(2)(1979) Constitution now 88(2) 1999 Constitution is unconstitutional and invalid.” What then is that lawful purpose? Section 88 (2) provides the answer thus: “The powers conferred on the National Assembly under the provisions of this section are exercisable ONLY for purpose of enabling it to: (a) make laws with respect to any matter within its legislative competence and correct any defect in existing laws; (b) expose corruption, inefficiency or waste in the execution or administration of laws within its legislative competence and in the disbursement of funds appropriated by it.” Apart from Ministers who are specifically mandated to attend Parliament to answer questions over issues arising from their respective ministries (Section 67(2), any other person who honours such invitations does so purely out of public policy courtesy and personal convenience but certainly not because of a legal obligation to do so. It is therefore obvious that the furore generated over the case of Dino Melaye, which largely led to the summon that was issued to the IGP was misguided and of no effect whatsoever to the extent that it did not meet the requirements of clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 88 of the Constitution. These summons, to the extent that they are ad hominen (personalised) in form and content, are clearly unconstitutional. While we must all strive to preserve the integrity of Parliament which is one of the basic structures of our constitutional democracy, parliamentarians themselves should not behave in ways that undermine its essence and devalue its aura and esteem before the public through the issuance of frivolous and ineffectual subpoenas. On what authority, for example, can the National Assembly summon the President of the Republic with a view to compel his appearance? It is Constitutional Law 101 that the parliamentary power to summon “any person” does not extend to that of summoning the President or Governor in their official capacities because of the well-established doctrine of Sovereign Immunity. Such audacious abuse of legislative power may be political music to the ears of those who have an axe to grind with the Presidency as, indeed, it was headlined in the Press the following day that “PDP hails N’Assembly for summoning Buhari over killings” (sic), forgetting that such posturing is institutionally debilitating.  It was certainly a vexatious legislative display bordering on stupidity because it is actually the President, the alter ego of Nigeria’s sovereignty, who is constitutionally empowered to summon the National Assembly and never the other way round. While audaciously flaunting their parliamentary immunity, they easily forget the larger immunity that a president enjoys. This misconception probably led to the absurdity that was put on display when one of the lawmakers queried whether “the IGP could have shunned the invitation if it was issued to him by President Buhari?” That the presiding officer of the Senate is also called “president” does not make that office co-equal with that of President of the Republic. One of the lingering ironies of contemporary Nigeria’s democratic practice is that people who know little to nothing about constitutional process are daily polluting the national juristic space with wholly incorrect and misleading pronouncements about what is and what is not constitutional almost the same way that Fake News is undermining facts and scholarly integrity online. Deliberately misconstruing settled legislative principles by falsely re-interpreting them through overtly tainted political prisms for partisan purposes is directly undermining the sanctity of our constitutional democracy in which Parliament is considered a critical palladium. What a shame! 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 