 A Nigerian rights organisation, Muslim Awareness International (MAI) has described as ill thought, hypocritical and mischievous the call by the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on the Federal Government to move the Nigerian embassy to Jerusalem.   The group, which has been at the forefront of justice for the Palestinians, said the call is disloyal to Nigeria’s diplomatic stance and in consonance with the wishes of the “axis of evil”.   The Christian body had earlier this week hailed the US President, Donald Trump’s movement of the American embassy from Tel Aviv to the disputed Jerusalem, while urging other countries including Nigeria to follow suit.   Speaking at a world press conference in Lagos earlier this week, MAI Director, Engr. AbdulWaheed Atoyebi described the statement as an embarrassing proclamation that is laden with crystal ignorance and arid human consciousness.   The press conference was held to condemn the killings of at least 60 Palestinians who died of Israeli-Zionist indiscriminate use of lethal force during a peaceful protest marking the 70th anniversary of the Nakba, the mass exodus of 750,000 Palestinians during the forceful creation of Israel in 1948.   No fewer than 13 journalists covering the protest were also injured, according to the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ), which joined the Federation of Arab Journalists (FAJ) and the Palestinian Journalists Syndicate (PJS) to condemn the Israeli government.   Engr. Atoyebi said the relocation of the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem was “provocative” and proved that Washington was “a biased party that could no longer serve the cause of justice or fairness on the Palestinian issue. The Israeli government as usual continues to be defiant, using deception, lies and false narratives to defend their indefensible crimes against humanity.   “Also, CAN asking the Federal Government to move its embassy to occupied Jerusalem in Palestine where Christian and Muslim Palestinians are being killed by Zionist Israel is like asking the Federal Government to move its capital to Sambisa Forest in solidarity with Boko Haram terrorists when it was diabolically occupied by them. So shameful a thought!”, he explained.   According to him, international law and several resolutions of the United Nations Security Council regard the West Bank, Jerusalem, Gaza and other parts of Palestine as occupied territories, while the occupation remains illegal.   “The settlements built on the occupied territories are illegal. The illegal occupier is Israel and the policy of subjugation of the Palestinian people is apartheid. Nothing describes the government of Benjamin Netanyahu other than tyranny”, he stated.   Also speaking, the spokesman of the group, Mr Yusuf Jimoh Aweda said it is disheartening that many Nigerians have shown little or no concern for the people of Palestine, which he attributed to the religious and cultural biases between Christians and Muslims.  “We understand that some Christians are indifferent while many more support Israel in recognition of the Jews in the scriptures. Unfortunately, the Zionist government of Israel does not identify with Christianity and all Palestinian Christians and Muslims remain victims of persecution by the occupying Israeli forces”, he stressed.   The group commended the South African government for its bold step of recalling its ambassador from Israel, saying that, “This gesture shows the South African government’s deep connections to its history, especially of its fight against apartheid and human rights violations”.   The statement read, in part: “The African nations have always stood for truth, equity and justice. The strength of our resolve and determination led to the liberation of South Africa from an apartheid regime.   “If you remember Soweto in South Africa, know that Gaza is far worse. Gaza is an open prison with more that 2 million people due to the Israeli blockade and continuous bombardment and attacks.”    The group also believes that some African countries might have been threatened by the occupation forces and their allies into supporting Trump’s declaration and also moving their embassies to disputed Jerusalem.   “We admonish them and all other nations that it is worthy to be on the right side of history. It is worthy to support justice, equity and fairness. It is also worthy to stand against oppression and human rights violations.”   MAI also commended the Buhari-led Federal Government’s continuous commitment to the rule of law and respect for human rights, particularly the rights of the Palestinian people for self-identity and determination.   “Nigeria in its history has always supported the cause of the oppressed, as we did in our support for the people of South Africa in their fight against apartheid.   “We have always followed the consensus of the committee of nations. We participated in several peace keeping missions to advance and uphold the rights of the free people of the world. We must continue on this path for the people of Palestine and remain committed to the resolution of the crisis”, Engr. Atoyebi concluded. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 