An Egyptian lawyer has launched a €1 billion (£873m/$1.2bn) lawsuit against Sergio Ramos after Liverpool and Egypt star Mohamed Salah was injured in a challenge with the Real Madrid captain during Saturday’s Champions League final. Salah landed heavily on his left shoulder after grappling with Ramos during the Kiev showpiece and ligament damage around the joint placed his World Cup participation in doubt. The Premier League Golden Boot winner posted on Twitter on Sunday to say he was “confident” he would be able to represent his country at the World Cup, but that has done nothing to quell the apparent anger of lawyer Bassem Wahba. In an appearance on Egyptian television channel Sada El-Balad, Wahba announced he had filed a complaint to FIFA and accused Ramos of a deliberate act and inflicting “physical and psychological harm” upon a nation and its most celebrated footballer. “Ramos intentionally injured Mo Salah and should be punished about his actions,” he claimed. “I’ve filed a lawsuit and a complaint to FIFA. “I’ll ask for compensation, which could exceed €1 billion, for the physical and psychological harm that Ramos gave Salah and the Egyptian people.” In the seemingly unlikely event of winning any compensation, Wahba has pledged to donate to the state’s Long Live Egypt Fund. On Monday, a petition on the Change.org website asking UEFA and FIFA to take action against Ramos for the challenge on Salah passed 300,000 signatories. During the match, referee Milorad Mazic did not award a foul for the incident. However, President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of Egypt has sent a get-well-soon message to the player following his injury. Taking to his twitter handle on Monday, President El-Sisi said that he hoped that the player return to the pitch soon and wished him quick recovery. “My sincerest wishes to the Egyptian hero, Mohamed Salah, to recover soon…I wish he returns to the pitch soon and to be always a shining Egyptian star.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 