The name, Fabio Olanipekun is an household name not only in the journalism industry but also in Nigerian sports faternity.
A former Sports Manager of the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) and also former Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC).
A veteran sports journalist with baritone voice that has traveled nearly all countries in the world for one sporting events or the other.  He was also a one-time Lifetime Achievement winner of the Nigeria Sports Award (NSA).
Pinning him down for this interview was a very tedious task but as a stakeholder and a tink tank person in sports matter, he carved in.
In this interview with our DEPUTY SPORT EDITOR, AYO BADA, he opens up on the Super Eagles World Cup preparations and participation at the 2018 FIFA World Cup billed for Russia from June 14 to July 15. What is your take on the 30-man provisional list for the World Cup selected by the Super Eagles technical crew led by Gernot Rohr? I really don’t want to dwell on the list. I want to believe that the technical crew has done what is best in their capability as handlers of the team and I don’t want to make a comment on that because it would make no difference at this point in time. The handlers have the final say and they’ve selected the players they want to prepare with for the World Cup. With only three players from our league here in Nigeria? Yes.  What is bad in that? The coach knows what he is doing considering the poor showing of our players and the teams in the continent’s competitions in recent time. Moreover, he has seen the players play in some matches and I want to believe that he knows their ability and how far they can go. Mind, we’ve always been clamouring that the coach (Gernot Rohr) be given free hand in the discharge of his duties, so don’t let us judge his decision. From the provisional 30-man list, the final list of 23 players for the World Cup will soon be out, precisely by June 4. What is your advice to Rohr on the selection? The coach knows the players better than those of us outside. I once said we have decided to give him free hand and so we should not been interfering in his team’s selection. All I can say or wish him is to for him to select the best always and should not underrate any team. He is their coach and he knows them more than anyone of us.  He should go for the best legs among the lots in the team. How do you see the preparations of the team for the World Cup? So far so good.  Everything that has to be done has been done.  They’ve played series of friendly matches and they’ve also lined up some friendly matches, about two or three before the commencement of the World Cup. So, one can say that the preparation is good as long as they continue to do the right thing. Can you now say the preparation is perfect? Nothing is perfect in life because we all aspire to a tangible effort of perfection. Perfection is of God. As humans, we can only try and do our best with the hope and prayers that our best is good enough for whatever we want. Whether perfect or not, that is for God to say.  We cannot judge. Nigeria is in Group D alongside former champions, Argentina, Croatia and Iceland. What are our chances of qualifying from the Group? We are not in a bad situation having former champions, Argentina in our group. It is an incentive by itself because our performance or performances against Argentina in the past were not too bad. And we had a fighting chance of surprising them (Argentina) this time around. The unexpected team could be Croatia and even the ‘dark horse’, Iceland and that is where the World Cup is the World Cup. This year’s World Cup will be full of surprises and I mean surprises based on the caliber of players that would be on parade. How far can the Super Eagles go with the array of stars in the team? Did you say array of stars? Who are the stars? We don’t have stars as such in the Super Eagles as of present. What we have are good and average players who should use the platform of playing at the World Cup to gain world prominence and become stars. I think we have some individual talented players among them but it is not for me to mention their names because I don’t want division in the team. So, how far can the team go at the World Cup? Well, as far as the players ability can carry them to. There is an adage that says that ‘as you lay your bed, you will lie on it’.  If they play well, they can and will go far and the reverse is the case if they do not play well. So going far at the World Cup depends on the players themselves that is why I said as far as their ability can carry them. But some are of the view that the team can win the trophy. Can the Super Eagles really win this year’s World Cup trophy? When they do it I will join them in celebration. I have not said they can win the trophy and I have not said they cannot win it but when they win it, I will join them to celebrate the victory. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 