Bauchi – As part of her efforts to abolish street begging, the wife of the Bauchi State Governor, Hajia Hadiza Mohammed Abubakar, has launched Enhancing Child Care, Protection and Accountability Parenting in Nigeria (ECCAP-N) project in the state. Speaking at the event held in Bauchi yesterday, the Advisor, Partnership and Local Development of Action Aid Nigeria, Hajara Adamu, disclosed that the ECCAP-N project cut across six states of Bauchi, Gombe, Kebbi, Alkwa Ibom, Kaduna and Kwara. Adamu said that the objective of the project is to senstitise parents on their religious and constitutional responsibilities in providing care and protection for their children from abuse, neglect and abandonment. According to her, other objectives of the project include the integration of street children and children labelled witchcrafts back to their families, provision of livelihood support to mothers of street beggars, and support children education in their environment. In her address, Hajia Abubakar lamented, “Over 17.5 million children are categorised as orphans and vulnerable children while a quarter of these children between the ages of five to 15 are actively involved in child labour, experiencing abuse, violence, exploitation and neglect.” Abubakar, who is the founder of Bauchi State Women Economic Empowerment Project (BSWEEP), said, stated, “The figure is alarming; this menace not only exposes them to multiple risks but also results in loss of dignity and sometimes death. The plight of children in Nigeria has been a great source of concern to us and we are worried not only because of the high level of vulnerabilities these children are exposed to but because of what the future holds for these children who are future leaders.” She said that despite the many programmes put in place by government to support orphans and vulnerable children, many children were still exposed to various forms of discrimination, neglect and abuse, noting that the ECCAP-N project was timely. “I want to use this forum to express my commitment as a person to support this project. I am also committed to using my position as the chair of the Northern Governors’ Wives Forum to mobilise other first ladies to join hands together in achieving the objectives of this project, she added.. Our correspondent reports that the ECCAP-N project was initiated by ActionAid Nigeria, and launched by the governor’s wife in partnership with a Bauchi-based non-governmental organisation, FAHIMTA Women and Youth Development Initiative. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 