Abuja – Justice Adebukola Banjoko of the High Court, sitting in Gudu, Federal Capital Territory, has sentenced Reverend Jolly Nyame, former governor of Taraba State, to 14 years imprisonment. The jail term was without the option of a fine, the court stated. The verdict was a sequel to the court’s rejection of Nyame’s plea for leniency. Nyame was prosecuted by the Federal Government on a 41-count charge, but he was found guilty of 27. He was, among other allegations, accused of diverting N180 million out of N250 million meant for the purchase of stationery by Taraba State government between January and February 2005, as a reward for the award of the contract to USAB International (Nig.) Ltd, and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 115, 309 and 315 of the Penal Code Act Cap 532 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 1990. Delivering judgment on Wednesday, Justice Banjoko held that Nyame had committed grievous offences that swayed the pendulum of justice against him. “The defendant committed a catalogue of crimes a month before he vacated office while under intense searchlight from security agencies,” the court said, adding that it would fail in its constitutional duty “if it fails to impose the full sanction” against a defendant found guilty as charged. The court noted that Nyame “was still busy committing more crimes” at a period officials who served in his administration were busy returning their loot to the Taraba State government. Having found him guilty on 27 counts, Justice Banjoko jailed the former governor 14 years for criminal breach of trust, 2 years for misappropriation, 7 years for gratification, and 5 years for obtaining valuable public properties without moral consideration. The court held that the sentence would run concurrently. “Citizens of Taraba had elected the defendant, a clergyman, on three separate occasions to govern them, which showed constant level of trust. The expectation must have been so high,” the court noted. As a reverend, the court believed that the defendant must have been seen as an epitome of “morality, piety, and everything good.” “How will Reverend Nyame begin to explain to the people of Taraba State his actions and inactions?” the court queried. Justice Banjoko further asked: “How can the defendant justify causing such a colossal loss to Taraba State?” After carefully examining all the evidence tendered by the prosecuting agency, the EFCC, before the court, Justice Banjoko reasoned that it was “either the defendant entered into office without a corrupt mind and became corrupt, or he was corrupt ab-initio.” The judge continued: “There was such a crazy level of corruption in the air in Taraba State Ministry of Finance. “It is, however, amazing that none of the officials were arraigned,” Justice Banjoko said. “The defendant behaved like a common thief with unbridled greed. “His sentence would serve as a deterrent to other public office holders,” the court stated. Justice Banjoko noted that Nyame had, through the Commissioner of Finance, Alhaji Abubakar Tutare, who served his administration, approved a memo for a contract which was awarded to a firm, Saman Global Ventures, on January 1, 2005, sidelining key officials of the Ministry of Finance in the process. “The defendant gave that memo life by giving his approval,” the court held. The court stated that N180 million was subsequently diverted from the contract sum and handed to the ex-governor. Justice Banjoko noted that the evidence the EFCC tendered against the ex-governor in respect of the transaction was “circumstantial” as no other document had his signature apart from the memo. But the court was convinced that the manner funds were approved and released from the Taraba State treasury, showed that the defendant acted in breach of his oath of office. “It is disheartening to note that between 2004 and 2005, the Ministry of Finance in Taraba State was specially an enclave, it was a den of criminal activities best illustrated with Ali Baba and the 40 thieves. “The court finds the defendant guilty as charged. “The clear purpose of the money was diverted. There was no evidence of purchase of the stationery,” Justice Banjoko said. She said there was no evidence that Nyame, who had within five weeks moved over N345 million from the Taraba State coffers for the purchase of stationery, made any attempt to prosecute the firm or to set up a panel of inquiry when the fraud was brought to his attention. “The progenitor of this impunity was no one else than the defendant himself. The defendant cannot feign ignorance of this colossal fraud. “He who approves must be accountable to what he approved. The defendant had the dominion over the state funds and only he could say open-sesame to the vault of Taraba State. “The defendant cannot escape responsibility or cling to the thin plank of mere approval.” Nyame was prosecuted over allegations that he frittered public funds to the tune of N1.64 billion during his tenure as governor of Taraba State from May 29, 1999, to May 29, 2007. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 