Abuja – The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Wednesday narrowly staved off a major crack in the crisis-ridden party as it managed to inaugurate 12 sub-committees for its forthcoming national convention. The latest twist to the crisis followed complaints by some party-men who alleged that their names in the original list published recently by the convention committee have been substituted. It was gathered that many names earlier published by the convention committee were dropped allegedly at the orders of the presidency, a development that left some of the members stranded. Not a few expressed discontents over the development, as the agitated party faithful felt disappointed. Some, who claimed they are New Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP) members in the party, still feel they are being treated as outsiders. Some of the protesters, who said their names were on the published lists, were seen publicly protesting, as they accused the presidency of replacing about 50 names from the original list. Some of the names removed from the list are said to be those of members of the aggrieved nPDP in APC. One of the protesting APC chieftains, who pleaded anonymity, said, “We were told that the wife of the president sent in about 50 names to be replaced from the original list.” However, Abubakar Badaru, governor of Jigawa State, and APC National Convention Committee Chairman, told newsmen shortly after the inauguration that June 23 has been tentatively fixed for the convention. “It was suggested today that we should have the convention on 23rd of June but we will have to discuss it with the national secretariat to confirm the date,” he said. Badaru also dismissed report that his committee was planning to spend about N6 billion on the exercise, saying the amount would be far less. He explained, however, that the party is not relying on any governor to fund the convention. “We are raising it among the party members and they have started donating. “I’m very sure it is very far less than that. Tomorrow, we are getting all the budgets from all the sub-committees but I can assure you that it is far less. “Knowing me and knowing what I stand for, you will know that it will be the cheapest convention ever.” On possible challenges the committee may face given the spate of parallel APC congresses witnessed recently across the country, the governor said the issues would be resolved before the convention. “I’m sure they will be resolved before the time of the convention. Most of those issues will find way to be resolved in due time,” he said. Ahead of the national convention, there is anxiety in the ruling APC of a likely parallel convention following the crisis that trailed the outcome of its ward, local and state congresses. Some stakeholders, who spoke with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said based on recent developments in the party especially the ultimatum given to President Muhammadu Buhari and Chief John Odigie-Oyegun by an aggrieved faction in the party known as New PDP, there may be a repeat of what played out in the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) five years ago. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 