Abuja / Minna – As Nigeria celebrates nineteen years of democratic governance today, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB), former military president, has called for continued peaceful co-existence among the diverse ethnic nationalities and religious groups in the country. He said this was a cause he stood and fought for throughout his public career, in line with the vision and mission of Nigeria’s founding fathers. He expressed regrets that “Democratic governance has been polarised along divisive ethnic and religious lines.” In a statement personally signed by him to mark the 2018 Democracy Day, Babangida said: “Let me reiterate my resolve as a Nigerian to the unity and indivisibility of our dear nation, which our founding fathers struggled to gain from the British colonial rule.” The former president said it was worrisome that Nigeria’s politics had been enmeshed in divisive tendencies along religious and tribal sentiments, dangerously to a point that the heterogeneity of Nigeria as a country no longer meant nothing to those now in power. He noted that the nation’s political parties since May 29, 1999 have no distinct ideologies, and had been characterised by internal squabbles and cross-carpeting that was not healthy for democracy. He said there was a need for the Federal Government to promote democratic tenets in words and actions. The former leader re-echoed his strong support for a two-party state, maintaining that the present system was causing more harm than good. “It is high time we look once more on the need to build a unique two party structures in the country at this critical period of electioneering year,” he said. Babangida argued that respect for fellow humans and the sanctity of life was very much lacking, adding, however, that “our journey to nationhood and democracy from 1960 to date has been characterised by upheavals and turbulence, yet we must cherish our commitment to remain a united country, in brotherhood and respect for one another.” He added: “We must also appreciate the strength and value of our diversity, with due understanding and recognition of the interests of various ethnic nationalities in our hearts.” Babangida made a call to the government in power to do the needful to save Nigeria from further drifting. He appealed to Nigerians on the need to be tolerant and promote peace in all that they do. “No doubt, Nigeria has had its share of conflicts and political instability, just like many other nations and states, but we have always survived against all odds,” he said. IBB said Nigeria’s indivisibility was non-negotiable. According to him, “It would be in our own interest to look for solutions to the problems confronting us as a nation. “In whatever circumstance we find ourselves, we must continue to exercise democratic tenets which promote freedom and respect of one another as a people.” While saluting the resilience of Nigerians in adopting democratic structures across the three tiers of government for an uninterrupted period of eighteen years, Babangida said: “It is my hope that the general elections next year will further consolidate democratic governance, freedom for all, and security for lives and properties of Nigerians.” Also, the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) did an assessment of Nigeria’s democratic journey and came to the conclusion that nineteen years after the return of democracy, the citizens had been left impoverished. Ayuba Wabba, President of NLC, in his Democracy Day message, said the truth remained that the democratic process had served the political class at the expense of the average Nigerian. According to Wabba, Nigerians elected to serve as democratic leaders had not only turned around to serve themselves but had continued to exploit every given opportunity to turn the rest Nigerians into paupers in their own land. He described the political leaders as lacking conscience, which frequently propelled them to dip hands into public funds, including salaries and pensions. Wabba said: “The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) wishes to congratulate Nigerians, especially workers, on the commemoration of another Democracy Day. May 29 reminds all of us that we are on a democratic journey. “It also affords us the space to review how far and how well this journey has progressed. For Nigerian workers, democracy day reminds us of our commitment to building a just society. “It was Abraham Lincoln that described democracy as the government of the people, by the people, and for the people. “This simple but iconic definition of democracy offers ample insight into the purpose of democracy and provides a basic basis to evaluate the performance of democratic actors in any clime. “There is no doubt that the mention of people thrice in the definition of democracy is not a coincidence. “It is only a statement of fact that the people are the fulcrum of democracy. “So, for us in Nigeria, it is perfectly fitting to ask ourselves, ‘how has democracy served the people of Nigeria?’ “In our view, 19 years is long enough a time to ask ourselves, ‘how much progress have we made as a people in our democratic journey?’ “The truth is that 19 years of democracy has come with very sparse rewards for the Nigerian people. “We celebrate democracy’s irreplaceable gift of freedom, liberty, and popular representation, the truth remains that this democracy has served the political class and not the average Nigerian.” In reaction to the criticisms that have trailed the government, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has admitted that security and economy remained challenges which the administration must address. Regardless, the party said it had kept the tradition in sustaining representative government and democracy in the country. Calling for prayer and support, the party, in a congratulatory message signed by Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, however, maintained that Nigerians had reasons to celebrate despite the difficulties. Part of the statement reads: “Indeed, our journey as a nation since 1999 when we returned to democratic rule has not been an easy one, but our country has soldiered on. “We have built on the gains of those early years fractured by military incursion and now 19 years after, our democracy and polity are stronger. “We have conducted successive elections and have continually improved on the transparency and credibility of our electoral systems. “Remarkably, the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has continued in the country’s proud tradition of being a bastion of democracy in the sub-region and across the world, as seen in the current administration’s lead intervention in ensuring representative governance and peaceful transition of power in the Gambia. “On this momentous occasion, we should congratulate ourselves on the strides we have made in our political journey as a country since independence. “For one, military rule is now distant memory in Nigeria. We must now work collectively to improve our democracy because regardless of its imperfections, democracy remains the best form of government that can best serve the interest of our people.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 