With the entire conflicting crisis that hit most All Progressives Congress, APC, states, Kayode Fayemi, a serving Minister in President Muhammadu Buhari’s government, and a former Ekiti governor has been finally picked to try and win back a state he once ruled. As governor of Ekiti, he was thrashed by Ayodele  Fayose four years back. It is exciting to see a former governor of Ekiti flexing muscles to retake Ekiti for his new Party,- APC. In what looks like a current war of words between the incumbent Fayose and Fayemi, the incoming contender, the politics of the Yorubas is becoming more exciting. It seems every APC member, appointed or elected into any political office, derives pleasure in accusing the past administration of mountains of corrupt practices, to the extent that none of them sings any other song but corruption. With the strong man Governor Fayose, who is also the chairman of the PDP Governors’ forum, it will be dog  eat dog fight to finish in Ekiti. Fayose has promised Fayemi that what he  went through in the past election would be a child’s play as his second defeat would be so humiliating, to the point of fainting. With Governor Fayose’s extraordinary prowess in running Ekiti state it is only God that could save Fayemi from total annihilation. The ethnic Yorubas speak from two sides of their mouths, and they do not seem too reliable. When they say yes to you today, they may turn their mind on you at the most critical of times. With a National leader of the APC, Ashiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, waxing strong by the day and flaunting his avowed wealth all over the place, he thinks he could bank-roll the votes in Ekiti and send Fayose and his anointed candidate packing from the Ekiti government House in July, 2018. Known for the role of ‘Wetie’ in the ‘old Wild Wild West’, under Obafemi Awolowo, in the fifties, Nigerians only hope we should avoid another ‘Wetie’ syndrome in Ekiti. Burning and arson had always been their style when the crunch comes to the main crunch, as we expect burning and arson in EKITI state,- home to many professors and academics in the Yoruba heartland. The Army and the Police are under the control of President Muhammadu Buhari. Therefore, he must not turn a blind eye, like he did in the case of Anambra state when Willie Obiano appealed to him to play the statesman and allow democracy to prevail, just to win the political contest in Ekiti. The incumbent President will not forget Fayose in a hurry for the sustained attacks and diatribes against his person in the past three years and only the milk of human kindness could make President Buhari overlook the insults hurled at him every passing day. Fayose and Kayode will meet at the battle front in July and we don’t expect more human and property casualties at the end of the day. Perhaps, we need some external observers in that election from ECOWAS or AU to check any violence that could occur during that election. Ekiti is the only South West state controlled by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP,  and if the APC steals the state from the PDP it means what could be left for the PDP will be Delta in the South-south. Can the governors of the PDP states mobilise resources to defend Ekiti at all cost?  Will it be an intellectual battle by indigenes of Ekiti state to stem the on- coming onslaught from the APC? It is now time for all the intellectuals to defend what they have. If out of intellectual arrogance they sleep over the activities in their neighbourhood it will be a shame for the highly intellectual brothers of the nation. If Ekiti state is allowed to burn the ripple effects on the neighbouring state of Ondo, it could have the spill over from the cauldron in Fayose’s kingdom. Call it a last ditch battle for the survival of Fayose in Nigerian politics. And if APC wins the presidential election and President Buhari is returned to power, he could make mincemeat of Fayose in more ways than one. Vendetta is the name of the Nigerian politics. May God help Fayose in the coming months. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 