The accusation against the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) by the National Christian Elders’ Forum (NCEF) over alleged corrupt practices and abuse of power last week was the least expected, moreover at a time when it seems the Christian community is struggling on a daily basis for its voice to be heard, particularly on the maiming and killings of members across the land. The accusation and counter accusations did not align with the efforts of the present leadership of CAN in salvaging its image in the eyes of the public, especially the non Christian community after the saga involving its immediate past leader and the former head of government. For an accusation of this nature to have surfaced not a few were disturbed over the development, more so as it is seen as an indication of moral and spiritual bankruptcy, and a deviation from the focus of the association in fighting for members’ common good. The allegation that Rev. Dr. Olasupo Ayokunle-led CAN mismanaged the N25million left by former CAN president, accepted the cash gift of N40m from President Muhammadu Buhari and spent N43m on second cars, was believed by many to be a protest by NCEF for being sidelined in the sharing of the alleged gift or a ploy to sabotage Ayokunle’s effort in steering the ship of the association. This is because President Buhari is not known for such generosity as to give a huge amount of money to any private organisation. NCEF had in a memo signed by its Chairman, Elder Solomon Asemota, on behalf of members accused CAN of collecting N40million from the Presidency during a visit to President Muhammadu Buhari on 10thNovember 2017. The forum called on the National Executive Council (NEC) to convene an emergency meeting for the investigation of CAN president, while demanding that Ayokunle be suspended due to his mismanagement of office. The memo titled ‘Is NEC of CAN Guilty of Negligence?’ reportedly reads: “On the 10th of November, 2017, a delegation of CAN, led by the President of CAN, Rev. Dr. Ayokunle, met with President Muhammadu Buhari and, after the visit, collected ‘transportation’ money. “NCEF insists on proper investigation of how the money was shared and how much each person received. In addition, NCEF insists on proper sanction of every Christian leader that took part in sharing money from President Buhari. “It is unethical and very insensitive for Christian leaders to collect money from the man every Christian is aware has compromised security to the detriment of the Church. “The auditor presented a financial report to CAN that did not include the N43 million spent on vehicles in Cotonou. Where did N43 million disappear to? “Dr. Ayokunle is yet to explain what happened to N6 million. In all, N43 million was spent to purchase four second hand vehicles in Cotonou. This allegation is too big to be swept under the carpet. (These vehicles are parked at the National Christian Centre, Abuja). “NEC was yet to properly investigate how N28 million the former President of CAN provided before he left office, to minister to persecuted Christians, was spent. “Also various alleged infractions on the constitution of CAN, as listed by the Vice President of CAN, had to be investigated, including the Report of the Mediating Committee, headed by Supreme Court Justice, Hon. Justice James Ogebe. “The letter to DSS which Rev. Dr. Ayokunle refused to sign on 28th February, 2017, after he had agreed he would do so on 15th February, 2017, has to be investigated. “Why did he, as the President of CAN and as the Chairman of the CAN Trust Fund, refuse to append his signature to the letter? “Second, who gave the authority to edit the letter and remove substantial sections of it before the Legal Adviser eventually signed and sent a diluted document to the DSS?” CAN’S Reaction Over Accusation Of N40m Cash Gift Rev. Olasupo Ayokunle has reacted to allegations by  NCEF of corruption and mismanagement of office. While informed sources claim it was N40 million, CAN officials insist it was N25 million and it was alleged to have been shared by somebody who is not an official of the National Secretariat of CAN. Reacting, Ayokunle in a statement urged Nigerians to disregard the report describing the charges as a “catalogue of lies.” Ayokunle stated that: “There is no truth in what they are alleging. No truth at all in all the allegations. If they are after sanity in CAN, is it on the pages of newspaper that they intend to settle any dispute? Do Muslims behave like that about their leaders? “You know if these people are allowed to smear my reputation on the pages of the media, they have successfully finished the Church in Nigeria. “They have already written that I should be removed because they did a kangaroo investigation which did not involve me.” Calling for self-control, Ayokunle reportedly added that representatives from both parties to the conflict must allow the NEC of CAN to harmoniously resolve all perceived grievances “because   when you have done the damage it will be difficult to correct. Presidency’s Reaction Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity debunked the claim that the Presidency gave out N25 million as gift to CAN executives during a visit to the Villa. He said, “Which Presidency gave CAN N25 million? If anybody tells you that President Buhari gave CAN N25 million, will you believe it? “Which Presidency are they talking about, is it under APC or under PDP? Let them go and check. “No, no, it cannot be under Buhari. It cannot be. Not under Buhari. Buhari cannot do that kind of thing. It will not happen.” Question Arising Who is speaking the truth over the alleged funds mismanagement, CAN or NCEF? Reactions From Clergies Sunday INDEPENDENT got reactions from clergies on the allegation and suggestions on what can be done to foster unity in Christendom. Deacon Moses Kalu, Coordinator of Christian Welfare Initiative (CWI), said if at all CAN indeed accepted the alleged money, there is nothing wrong with as long as it will not in any way influenced them from deviating from the path of representing the good of the Christian community. “If the leadership visited the president and were given some money for transport fare, it does not have anything to do with the cause they are fighting for. Let us not waste time with whether CAN collected money or not. It makes no difference whether they accepted or rejected the money,” Kalu said. However the proponent of the spiritual, economical and political empowerment of  Christians stated: “If the money was shared amongst the leadership then it is too bad, but if it has been set aside for helping the indigents Christians, especially those who have been victims of Boko Haram insurgents or killer herdsmen.” To him it is also unfortunate that Christians at this time are fighting against one another instead of striving for unity. A reason why they are not taken serious by those outside the faith, he added. Christian unity according to him is a job to be done by all Christians. “It is time to bury the hatchets and be united. More so Christians should be concerned with vying for political positions and getting to vote in the forthcoming election,” he suggested. Rev. Moses Iloh of Soul Winning Chapel lamented the craze for materialism among today’s Christians. He called on Christians to rededicate themselves to preaching the gospel. He said, “The painful thing is that educated Christians have got to the level that they are the ones who deceive the people and exploit them. Who preaches again that put your mind where your treasure is? It is no longer ‘seek you first the kingdom of God’. I am a disciple of Jesus Christ and I am raising followers of Jesus.  I want to do what he does and do my best in copying him. While I am in difficulties he helps me because he knows I am human and that I am trying. “Some educated Christians are wicked; they have turned the whole thing upside down to please themselves. Everything now is business and money, they want to get the best cars and fly planes. How many of the supposed churches or Christians emulate Christ? He said the greatest commandment is to love thy neighbor as thyself and do unto others, as you will have them do unto you. “Show me how many Christians or Churches obey that law? They come and deprive you of your rights. How many of them who call themselves Christians when dealing with others reflect on their actions. Thieves steal monies and bring them into the church and you accept and say you are putting the money into the church. What money?   The Church is supposed to be the temple of our Lord and then you wear your nice suit and beautiful dress with your big Bible then inside you is so much bitterness and acrimony, maybe against the Pastor or someone else. God can kill you one day because of the so much evil, hatred, greed, jealousy etc in your heart that you come into his temple with.” Most Rev. Luke  Odubanjo in his address at the 56th Synod Opening Ceremony Of The Lagos Diocese Held At Igbogila Circuit, stressed the need for harmony within the body of Christ, as well as the pursuit for righteous living in order to please God and expand His Kingdom here on earth. Odubanjo’s words: “The word peace in Aramic stands for Shalom and in Greek; it means total well-being, harmony, serenity, tranquillity and calmness. This is the nature of God, even though he is the God of love and wrath, his nature is to maintain justice, rewarding the righteous graciously and punishing the evil ones in a justified manner. We must as children of God promote peace with all due diligence, that is why the word strive, is emphasised. “In the same way the Lord demands that there must be peace within the body of Christ, the absence of which inhibits sickness as it is with human body. To that, Paul under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit has this to say: ‘Make every effort to keep unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace’ as recorded in Ephesians 4 verse 3. “All Christians are one in spirit. It is our duty to keep or observe that unity, recognise it as real, and act on it, without sectarian spirit, John 17 verses 20 to 26. Unity means oneness, the end product of which is peace. Hence you would recall that Jesus Christ at the dawn of His early ministry devoted a whole prayer session for sanctification – holiness of the disciples and their unity – peace (John 17).” Going further, he said the unity of spirit cannot be created by anyone nor achieved by walking in the flesh, but can be achieved when attention is paid to honesty and fervency in the spirit. Apostle Dele Johnson, a Senior Pastor of JLM and the convener of Pastors’ Leaders Intercessory Network (PLIN) with mandate for the advanced unity of the church, also noted that Christians’ will be a formidable force to reckon with when they lay aside all weight that beset them. “Jesus instructs us to be one even as He and the Father are one. The Bible says ‘we are the salt of the earth and the light of the world.’ If we are united in the church, the world is really going to change and the impact will definitely come from the church. If you are asking for a change from the world, it is the Church that is the salt and also the light. Until the Church gets it right, the world will never get it right. “The intriguing thing about the church is that it is divided in the area of denominationalism, dogmas and the way of doing things. Like it was said, we are Christians not because of the things we do; we are Christians because we follow Christ. So, it is important for us to know that the reason we are Christians is because we follow the lifestyle of Christ. We discovered that the church is divided in those areas of rules and regulations, the doctrines and the dogmas of men. So, we can be different in dogmas, because the Bible has not told us to be united in dogmas – it is not possible; but the Bible tells us to be united in faith because that is possible,” Johnson noted. Continuing he explained that Christians have no choice but to be united in order to make heaven. “…There is no controversy about that. If you are going to heaven, you must run away from hell; Jesus died for the sins of all of mankind and he is cominpg the second time, there is no controversy about that. “Then, we have to be united in areas of common issues. For instance, you know the church is the voice of the common people and if the common people are suffering, the church should be able to speak out and stand for the common people. We can’t be busy talking about our areas of differences while the common people are suffering. Those areas where we can easily be united, there should be no controversy or arguments,” the clergy added. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 