Calabar – Former Vice President and presidential aspirant of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, took his nationwide consultation with critical stakeholders to Cross River State on Monday, in Calabar. Accompanied by his team including former governors of Ogun and Imo states, Otunba Gbenga Daniel and Chief Achike Udenwa respectively, Atiku met with Cross River State Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade as well as the state chairman of PDP, Ntufam Edim Inok. Speaking at the state executive council chambers, in the governor’s office, Atiku who described Governor Ben Ayade as an epitome of good governance stated that if given the opportunity to as the President of the country, he would run a lean government to bring about effective and good governance. He also commended the governor for broad-mindedness in his approach to governance, saying this had ensured peace and tranquillity in the state. According to him, the achievements of Governor Ayade are not only known in Cross River but the whole country. His words, “There are very few states that are actually very regular and prompt in payment of salaries like this state. Honestly, we tend to praise and commend Cross River for paying as at when due. This achievement has resonated all over the country and you are seen as an example of good governance.” He maintained that in spite of the lean resources of the state, the governor, through the application of intellect, is rapidly industrialising the state, thus creating thousands of jobs for the teeming unemployed youths. Atiku listed industries build by the Ayade-led administration to include the Cross River Garment Factory, the Calendar Pharmaceutical Company, the rice seeds and seedlings centre, the banana plantation, rice mill, and cocoa processing plant in Ikom. While describing the governor’s decision to built a superhighway and a deep seaport as remarkable, he assured of the Federal Government’s support in ensuring the state achieves its dreams. “I am not living here but we get news of all these because if you google Cross River and Ben Ayade, you will see all these. This is technology and it is digital. Your achievement like the rice seedling centre, which is undergoing a test run now is a major development in the agricultural sector and will employ a large number of unemployed youths. You are indeed a talk and do governor.” He made a presentation of a book titled, “Restructuring as a Pathway to Unity and Development in Nigeria,” by him to the Governor and assured that “if you give me your support you can expect more than what you have given me”. “I can assure you that because of your impact in my life you will continue to receive my priority in the sense that you will always have federal support to ensure that you continue to achieve whatever you want to achieve in this state.” Responding, Ayade maintained that the state is rich in both mineral and hydrocarbons but lamented a situation where the mineral resources cannot be explored without the approval of the federal government. He, therefore, expressed happiness that restructuring is part Atiku’s agenda, stating that “we will like to see a federal government that will respond to our yearnings and create that platform that will allow us to exploit our wealth and create a new hope for our people.” Ayade who disclosed that the state has found huge oil deposits in its offshore locations without licences to exploit them,  questioned, “to what extent would the federal government continue to hold and sequester everything that belongs to the nation to herself?” On Atiku’s presidential ambition, Ayade said: “As an aspirant of the PDP and somebody who has been a Vice president, I believe that the experiential calculus shows clearly that you are capable, competent and qualified to aspire for the position of president.”  2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 