Perhaps after the Minister of state petroleum, Ibe Kachikwu made a very strong case based on the reality that fuel price could not be sustained at N97 per litre and Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN governor, and Godwin Emefiele also proved to him that Naira exchanging at N1-$1 was utopian, he faced reality by backing down.
Given the scenario above, how can anybody convince close watchers of Aso Rock that Mr. President is stiff and unbendable?
Today, petroleum pump price has increased by nearly N50 from N97 per liter in 2015 to the current price of N142 Naira. Worse still, fuel subsidy is said to have also skyrocketed to about N1.8t.
While the upside is that the commodity is abundantly available, the downside is that it’s highly expensive and wreaking havoc on the masses in the form of high cost of transportation as Mr. President had feared.
Similarly, from roughly N160 to $1 in 2015, Naira has been devalued in about three folds as it currently exchanges for at least N360 in the import and export (l&E) window of the CBN.
Again, the good side is that merchants now have unfettered access to foreign exchange, although at very exorbitant rate.
And in the same manner that the increase in pump price of fuel has a knock-on effect in the cost of transportation, food, housing, health care and education, high naira exchange rate is emasculating the hoi poloi. Evidently, the negative effect of devaluation of the naira is very harsh on the masses as practically everything in Nigeria except organic or unprocessed commodities like yam, millet and cassava have foreign input which can only be acquired with foreign exchange. Food is not fully devoid of foreign input as the fertilizer used to produce food has foreign input.
In the light of the aforementioned change in mindset which clearly attests to some concessions that Mr. President made after superior argument or reasoning was presented to him, what informed his decision not to reward the party faithful that helped him finally clinch power after three futile attempts in 2003, 2007, and 2011?
How about the decision to go against the unwritten principle of appointing heads of the armed forces and other security agencies from across the broad spectrum of all the political zones in Nigeria as practiced even by the military which is autocratic by nature? In a country that regards itself as circular, it’s against natural justice.
With respect to the abnormality or anomaly of having people from a particular region and of a particular faith constituting 99% of the security council of the country, instead of the recent filibustering eternity the executive and legislative arms of government arising from the attempt by legislators to re-order the general election timetable , reviewing the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to formalise the unwritten rule of appointing heads of security agencies from across the geopolitical zones to reflect the practical reality and at the same time give all Nigerians a sense of belonging, would have served the NASS better.
My proposal simply means that the same principle that justifies appointment of at least one cabinet minister each from all the state as enshrined in the 1999 constitution as amended, aimed at giving all Nigerians sense of belonging, should apply to the appointment of security chiefs.
That way, at least one head of any of the security agencies should hail from each of the six geological zones.
Such an initiative would have won accolades for members of the 8th NASS currently reviled by Nigerians for actions and inactions so far undertaken by them and which most members of the electorate consider to be inimical to their interests.
Typically, politicians in the advanced societies are known for being very keen to keeping to their campaign promises.
Take Donald Trump of USA for instance. In the course of his campaign for the presidency, he promised to stem the tide of illegal immigrants in the USA and vowed to build a wall between his country and the neighbour, Mexico. He also promised to repeal the so called OBAMACARE, the medicare system introduced by his predecessor. Similarly, President Trump told his supporters that he would cancel the Transatlantic Trade and the Iran nuclear agreement entered into with Iranian and European allies on one hand, and European and Asians on the other hand by president Obama.
The relocation of the US Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem approved by US Congress since 1995, but which remained unimplemented by previous administrations and which Trump promised to bring to fruition if elected president.
In a little over one year of being in office, president Trump has made good his promises to cancel the deals, albeit at monumental cost, domestically and internationally to the USA. Compared to Trump, President Buhari has been very liberal and magnanimous in not keeping strictly to all his campaign promises which could have been detrimental to society with the associated socioeconomic upheavals.
Imagine if petroleum pump price was not increased by about N50?
The direct consequence of such a huge cost on federal government treasury could have been perhaps the doubling of the current fuel subsidy put at N1.8tn per annum and the inability to pay civil servants salaries regularly. Does anyone remember the days of essential commodities?
Nigerians would have gone back to those terrible days of rationing essential supplies like sugar, vegetable oil, medicines and all other basic items if naira had remained pegged at the 2015 rate of N160-$1.
While the contest between pro devaluation and anti devaluation lasted, Nigeria was rapidly descending into the sort of economic malaise that Venezuela, the oil rich South American country is now experiencing: no money, no jobs, no food, no medicines and the resort to a life of unending civil strife.
Who is advising Mr. President or who is president Buhari listening to?
There is a school of thought that believes ethnic and religious tensions would not be as heightened in Nigeria today and the polity won’t be as polarized as it is currently is, if Mr. president had taken time to ponder over the clamour for the restructuring of our country and reviewed the resolutions passed during the last national conference organised by the immediate past administration.
How can a common ground be found between those agitating for total restructuring and those who would rather have only the economy restructured?
Clearly, fixing Nigeria is not rocket science, but what seems to be lacking is enough patriotism for our leaders to shun ethnic bias and become tribe and religion neutral in order to formulate policies that would be in the best interest of all Nigerians at all times.
Those are the calibre of people who should be advising Mr. President and who our president should be listening to. The nagging question now is: are there such Nigerians around? Onyibe, a development Strategist and former Commissioner in Delta State wrote in from Abuja. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 