Lagos – The Nigerian leasing industry continued its positive growth trend in 2017. Outstanding lease volume during the period stood at N1.44trn as against  N1.26trn in 2016, representing a growth of 14.5 per cent. This growth was facilitated by the relative stability in the macroeconomic environment, increasing demand, new entrants into the leasing industry and increased value of assets due to the depreciation of the naira. Analysis of the volume by sector reveals that the oil and gas, took the lead with N449bn, representing 28 per cent of the total portfolio, while transportation followed with N355bn, representing 20 per cent. Manufacturing moved to N217bn from N180bn in 2016, while agriculture, government, telecommunications and other sectors (education, healthcare, construction and consumer sectors) recorded considerable growth. Finance  lease remained the predominant type of leases accounting for 65 per cent of the transactions while operating lease continued to make strong  showing at 35 per cent. In  recent times there has been increase in the market share of operating  lease  due  to  its  growing popularity among lessors as a risk mitigating mechanism against default and response to current  market  dictates  especially from corporate customers who require service-oriented lease. In terms of transaction value, the banks still takes the lead, particularly financing big ticket leases, and providing funds to lessors for lease transactions. The non-bank lessors however  accounted  for  about  80 per cent of  customer base mainly from the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs). The industry continued to attract investors from the financial and other  sectors  desiring  to  tap  into  the  opportunities  in  leasing  and  as  means  of  hedging against other non-performing product offerings. In  terms  of  assets  categorisation,  vehicles  take  the  lead  with  about  52 per cent  of  the  leased assets  including  trucks  for  haulage  and  buses  for  inter-state  commercial  transportation, which have been major attraction in recent times. Market projections indicated that the leasing industry would blossom, given the wide financing gaps in all sectors of the economy, the increasing relevance of leasing to capital formation with  the  challenge  of  access  to  finance  especially  to  MSMEs  and  the  expected government’s  commitment  to  the  various  initiatives  aimed  at  consolidating  growth  and development in the economy. For instance, the implementation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) 2018–2020,  would create  enormous  market  for  the  leasing  business,  as  a  whole  range  of equipment  would  be  required  across  the  entire value chain of priority sectors including agriculture, mining, manufacturing and others. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 