Tunde Ajibulu, a tax consultant and businessman, is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he spoke on the performance of Muhammadu Buhari in the last three years and his expectations in next year’s presidential election. Excerpts: The Muhammadu Buhari administration will be marking three years on May 29. How will you assess his performance so far? It has been topsy turvy in the last three years. We have seen the good, the bad and the ugly in our country.  Yes, Boko Haram have been degraded, but not completely defeated. There is no doubt they are still a potent force and there could be a resurgence which we must guard against as a country. The herdsmen issue is growing: killings are on the rise and the Government’s slow reaction to this issue has created more division in the country and there doesn’t appear to be a long term plan to nip it in the bud. But we must stop blame game. The Government need to take urgent measures to prevent another Boko Haram-type insurgency disguised as herdsmen. The economy is again contracting after exiting recession, but will no doubt get better in time and agriculture has been given a massive boost. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is still pumping currency into the currency market to stabilise the naira. But this is not sustainable in the long term. The unemployment rate is above 18 per cent. We are still paying subsidy for fuel against the policy of the administration despite fuel being sold N145.00 and rising crude prices. How long shall this continue? So like I said, it’s the good bad and the ugly. When you compare his administration with that of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), can you say there is anything he has done differently? Definitely! We have seen prosecutions of looters, where once they acted with impunity, and the recovery of their looted funds. However, the Government needs to work to show that this anti-corruption drive applies across the board and is not selective, as it has been alleged. We also need to make sure that our effort to tackle corruption at all levels is a long term commitment. The Government has also increased Nigeria’s fiscal prudency by building up financial reserves ($40 Billion) and closing loopholes in the NNPC / Federation account. However, there is a lot more to do. We need to do more on economy as it is not working for too many people. We have made progress on security, notably in the Niger Delta region. However, we need to really address the long term security issues across the country, as the mass killings, kidnappings (such as Dapchi), killings of travellers in Birnin Gwari make too many of our people feel unsafe and too many regions ‘no-go’ areas. The president on his inauguration also said he will be president for everybody and not for nobody. Has he lived up to that promise? This is for the people of Nigeria to decide. No doubt, lots of people will feel he has been a good President for them, however I doubt if the good people of Benue, parts of Kaduna Nassarawa and Taraba will share that sentiment There also seem to be sacred cows around the seat of power so, the truism of the assertion is yet to be validated. It took the president over six months to constitute his cabinet and three years down the line, he has not reshuffled. What do you think is responsible for this? I have no clue on why he hasn’t reshuffled the cabinet. It is obvious some ministers are under performing but again that is his total prerogative. Ministers are his aides. Perhaps the President valued stability and consistency over everything else. Ultimately, he is the one to decide who stays or quits until the tenure ends. On May 29th, Nigerians will not be adverse to a cabinet shake-up. How will you assess his relationship with the National Assembly? The relationship is very tumultuous. He has to fix it as soon as possible because it is the country that bears the brunt of their standoffs. It is imperative to close ranks for the benefit of the country and as the father of the nation; the onus lies with him to initiate that. Having declared for re-election, do you see him winning in 2019 if he becomes the flag bearer of APC based on his performance in the last three years? I am not a soothsayer or a prophet. All I can say is that the good people of Nigeria, most especially the youth with  Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) will decide that. So, I appeal to the youth of Nigeria to get their PVCs and vote their conscience for a leader that means well for Nigeria. Some prominent Nigerians have asked him not to seek re-election, should he heed this counsel? It is not my place to advise the President on this. He will decide if he listens to the advice if he stands for office once more. There were a number times in the last three years when the President’s health was in question for prolonged periods, however he returned from his spells in hospital to take his seat once more. Aside from his doctor, the President is the best person to decide if he is fit enough for another term. In Malaysia they have just voted a 92 year- old President but God forbid that happens in Nigeria any time soon! Having experienced both APC and PDP, is there any difference between the two? Of course there is a lot of difference, but in Nigeria there is no clear or strong political ideology in political parties hence the ease of criss-crossing. My experience has shown me there are good people in both parties and I believe the country would be better off if the main parties adopt more clear ideologies as I have come to learn in the current situation, what happens is that the more things change, the more it remains the same. What are your expectations for the 2019 presidential election? Like i said earlier, I am not a soothsayer. All i can hope and pray for is a free and fair elections where the people most especially the youth vote for the best candidate,  round pegs in round holes for all elective positions in Nigeria. What Nigeria needs is strong, progressive leaders who will work in the interest of their people and fight for a better country for all. I hope we see more of these sorts of leaders emerging next year. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 