John Ikemefuna The rancor between the proprietor of Giwa FC of Jos, Chris Giwa and the incumbent President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Amaju Pinnick is becoming much ado about nothing. It could be recalled that the election which brought in the former Delta State sport boss to the leadership of the Glass house was held in Warri, Delta State in 2014, under a shrouded circumstance if you think, given the outrage that greeted the outcome of the election by Giwa, who also had his version of the election in Abuja for the same NFF presidency! Having gone through all the hurdles both at the court in Jos and the Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS), and with FIFA also coming in heavily at the time to axe Nigeria over this tussle, the then President of the federal Republic of Nigeria, Goodluck Ebele Azikiwe Jonathan swiftly waded into the matter, took a decisive decision to ending the imbroglio before Brazil 2014 FIFA Mundial. Since then, there has been this relative peace within and outside the Glasshouse concerning this issue and the free flow of Nigeria’s football governance. Recently, this tug-of-war erupted again with Giwa still on the matter arguing that Pinnick and his governing board have been given the boot from parading themselves as the authentic representative of the board, especially Pinnick, who should cease to see himself as the president of the federation as obtained from the Supreme Court in the last week of May. This is just another World Cup year, 2018. The country and her teeming football lovers will not ascribe to this ugly development being perpetrated by Giwa concerning the Glass house and the fate of Nigeria’s football, considering the fact that the Super Eagles are just beginning to wear a different look from what Pinnick inherited on his resumption at the football house. The football federation and the Super Eagles are putting everything positive to make their World Cup trip to Russia, come June, a meaningful outing, not just a jamboree. Therefore, the Glasshouse needs the necessary peaceful atmosphere to making sure the set objectives and goals are achieved; hence, no distraction of any form with the pretext of one election that has been won and lost in bringing into contention at this time of the season where all eyes are focused on Nigeria by FIFA, CAF and the entire universe. This period we are in now, especially for those who know football calendar, is such that any country who qualifies for the FIFA World Cup must thread with caution, so as not to bring unnecessary distraction to the buildup of her team towards a great representation at the world fiesta. Any individual who becomes the “hand of the too many cook” in this pursuit will be seen as enemy of the state, no doubt. I am talking football wise, because this is one sport that generally unites the entire country across board. Therefore, any attempt, no matter how highly placed you may be operating, behold you are not patriotic! Having said this, the tenure of president Pinnick at the Glasshouse is almost running out of its first four years in office. Nigerians including Giwa may have divergent perspectives over Pinnick administration since he came on board. No doubt about this, we have read from various quarters across the country reports of divergent opinions about the federation’s boss style of leadership, which most have argued that he ran  “a one man show” with lots of pride and arrogance at the Glasshouse, thereby snow diving the state of our football administratively and otherwise. Some had also argued that Pinnick is the best thing to have happened to Nigeria’s football bringing in the expertise with which he administered the Oil rich Delta State sports affairs to glory. All these arguments put together, whether they suffice to take sides with or not will be made known to Nigerians at the end of Russia 2018.Therefore, whichever side one belongs, and the true position of the Glass house will manifest. So my plea to Giwa is that he should sheath his sword of anger and be patient with this current administration, which is fast running to the tail end. The end they say justifies the means. At this point, get set for another election which could usher you into the Glass house. C’est finis! 0 comments