Lagos – There was a mild drama at the Lagos High Court, Igbosere, on Monday when suspected billionaire kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike, a.k.a Evans, indicated to the judge that he had something to say. Evans, who had earlier refused to come down from the Black Maria that brought him to the court, raised his hands in the courtroom to register his grievance. He broke down in tears claiming maltreatment at the Kirikiri Maximum Security Prison, Apapa, Lagos. A fresh charge bordering on conspiracy to kidnap, kidnapping, and attempted murder was also filed by the Lagos State government against Evans and three others. Evans was charged alongside Joseph Emeka, Ugochukwu Nwachukwu, and Victor Aduba. Evans is also being tried alongside Joseph Emeka, Linus Okpara, and Victor Aduba. When the case was mentioned, Lagos State Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Titilayo Shitta-Bey, told the court that Evans refused to disembark from the Black Maria. The judge, consequently, ordered prison warders to bring him into the court. He was then brought into the court barefooted with his back filled with sand and his green Tee-shirt torn on the right shoulder. He told Justice Adedayo Akintoye that he was not being treated well in prison; that he was not allowed to receive visitors and that he could hardly see far away from him. “I have an explanation to make. Since I have been in the maximum prison, they have been maltreating me, no visit, they don’t feed me well, I have eye problem, and I cannot see far,” he lamented. However, the prison warder from Kirikiri Maximum Prison, told the court that Evans was being taken care of like every other inmate, and that he had been seeing a doctor since he complained about his health. According to the warder, “We have been treating him very well, he is well fed and people have been visiting him. A doctor has been checking him. The doctor came to check him yesterday and even this morning before coming to court.” The warder, however, informed the court that Evans had wanted to boycott the court even after the doctor who checked him in the morning said he was fit to appear in court. Evans interrupted the prison warder, and explained that it was a nurse that came to check him, not a doctor. He said he was only allowed one visit. Similarly, the second defendant’s counsel, Ogedi Ogu, told the court that his client had also complained of the same thing. In her response to the alleged maltreatment of the defendants, the State Director for Public Prosecutions (DPP), Titilayo Shitta-Bey, said Evans was just making it up. She said he was being treated well, and that a doctor had also been attending to him. “That was the same thing he said before an Ikeja High Court and we wrote the prisons and they wrote us back that he was being taken care of like every other inmate,” Shitta-Bey said. Justice Akintoye, however, asked the prisons to ensure that he was well taken care of like the other inmates, adding that the defendants were still presumed innocent until proven guilty. Regardless, Justice Akintoye stood down the matter pending when the first defendant’s counsel, Olukoya Ogungbeje, would be around. After the court rose, Evans broke down in tears and said he was being maltreated. “What have I done to you people; they have been beating me; no good food, I have been locked up in one place since August 30 last. Why are they taking my case personal?” Evans asked in tears. He was arraigned alongside Joseph Emeka, Linus Okpara, and Victor Aduba on a two-count charge of conspiracy and unlawful capture, preferred against them by the Lagos State prosecution. Evans, alongside the three defendants and others who are still at large, allegedly conspired amongst themselves and unlawfully captured one Uche Okorafor, on November 21, 2014, at Festac Town, Lagos, and demanded a ransom of $2 million. According to the prosecutor, the offences committed are punishable under Sections 409 and 269 of the criminal laws of Lagos State 2011. At the last adjourned date, Justice Adedayo Akintoye dismissed the defendants’ application to quash the charge against them. She said the charge presently constituted against the suspected kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike, a.k.a Evans, “are not defective and not an abuse of court processes.” Akintoye said this while ruling on the application brought by the kingpin, asking the court to quash the two separate charges filed against him by the Lagos State government. Justice Akintoye had said, based on the proof of evidence before the court, issue for determination was whether a prima facie case had been established against the defendants. She said a prima facie case is established where the court finds that there are grounds for proceedings, adding that the proof of evidence must sufficiently link the defendant to the offence allegedly committed. “Looking closely to the proof of evidence attached to the information in this case, a prima facie case has clearly been disclosed against the defendant/applicant,” Akintoye said. The judge said the victim in the instant case, Uche Okoroafor’s wife, was the person who paid the ransom, adding that the statement of the first defendant (Evans) itself alleged that the first defendant was the mastermind and gang leader of the group. Other defendants participated in several kidnappings and shared the ransom collected from their victims. The alleged kidnap kingpin was arrested on June 10, 2017 and was in August 2017 arraigned before Justice Hakeem Oshodi at an Ikeja High Court for kidnapping. The matter was adjourned till May 25 for hearing. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 