Lagos – In response to the plight of health-seeking public and to pave way for an amicable resolution of its dispute with the Federal Government, the Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU) on Wednesday agreed to suspend its 44 days old strike tomorrow. This decision followed the intervention of the National Industrial Court (NIC) which offered to take over the mediation process between the striking health workers and the government. Recall that an NGO, the Incorporated Trustees of the Kingdom Human Rights Foundation, had obtained a court order against JOHESU, mandating the health workers to suspend their industrial action on May 21, 2018. But, in pursuit of its constitutional rights to either comply or challenge the court order, JOHESU filed an appeal at the appellate court. However, the leadership of JOHESU decided to call off the strike and direct the members of the union to resume duties since the NIC, as a neutral and impartial organ of the judiciary, has mandated its mediation centre to take over the negotiation and reconciliation processes within the next 24 hours in the interest of the public. Giving highlights of the reports from the National Industrial Court ruling, Biobelemoye Josiah, JOHESU chairman, said, “The NIC has ruled in JOHESU’s favour against the NGO, Kingdom Hearts, saying that “they have no legal standing to demand for our return to work.” “The court ruling is: Court takes over the negotiations between JOHESU and government in its Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) centre. “JOHESU and government side are to nominate their representatives in the ADR process within 24 hours. “The agreement reached at the ADR centre will be registered in the court as judgment binding on both parties. “JOHESU is to initiate the process of allowing normalcy to return to hospitals within three days.” Meanwhile, there is an ongoing meeting between JOHESU and the Senate according to updates from the health workers’ secretariat. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 