Chief Cosmas Okoli is a politician and President, Association for the Comprehensive Empowerment of Nigerians with Disability (ACEND). He is also the President/CEO of Mobility Aid and Appliances Research and Development Centre (MAARDEC). Okoli, in this interview with INNOCENT OKONKWO, speaks on Nigeria’s democracy and cost of governance; his ambition in 2019, and why he is unhappy with the current state of Nigeria. Excerpts: What have you to say about the current state of our nation Nigeria, are you at ease with what is going on? I am not impressed at all. It is like we are moving from frying pan to fire. In fact, one can say that former President Goodluck Jonathan was an angel; his leadership was fantastic when put side by side with what the All Progressives Congress (APC)’s leadership is currently doing. Even the corruption that the present government said it is fighting is worse now than before, impunity is worse now. Nigerians should wakeup now, it is not too late. We don’t wait until we become Somalia before we begin to do something. Now, we still have some modicum of rule of law and orderliness, the masses can do something to rescue the nation. Most of the people that are destroying this country have one leg in other countries. Almost all of them have dual citizenships or properties and solid investment abroad where they could run to if the chips are down but the common man has nowhere to go. Therefore, it is up to the common man to rise now and fight the corrupt governments. I am not talking just about APC, I am talking about leadership, no matter the party one comes from, he must be accountable. The common man should not allow himself to be used anymore, the ruling class creates crisis for their selfish interest and the common people will go and die. So, I am not happy at all and the reason why I am so pained is that it could be the other way round, Nigeria has everything. Now that the oil prices are rising, the country is making a little bit more money but will there be any difference, all that money will go into private pockets. The money will be siphoned and we will still be where we are. I am totally disappointed and I am pained. What should be the way forward, can you proffer the solution to some of these problems that have held this nation down? I will start from the masses of this country, I want to tell Nigerians that the tribal, religious and other sentiments that the politicians are using to divide us are all nonsense, we should unite; we are Nigerians, we should unite and fight corruption ourselves. The corrupt people will not fight corruption for the citizens. It is Nigerians who are at the receiving end that should fight corruption. Nigerians should unite; Igbo, Yoruba, Hausa; Christians and Muslims should unite and fight corruption. Nigerians should make their leaders accountable, no matter whom you are, no matter your religion and tribe. Every leadership in this country must be accountable and that is the only way the common man can have hope in this country. The common people should unite, that is my first advice. And to the government, I tell them, no matter where you think that you are going to run to when this country is destroyed, you will never be a first class citizen wherever you go. No matter how much money you take to that country, you will remain a second class citizen. It will never be like your own country. So if you are trying to destroy this country because you have an option where you can run to, you are not going to be happy there, you will miss Nigeria and you will regret your actions. Therefore, you should do the right things now, Nigeria has no reason being poor, and this country has no reason being where it is today. God has blessed Nigeria with both human and natural resources but the problem is leadership and I want to tell our leaders that they know the right thing to do but it is just that they are too selfish and dim-witted as well to think that when they destroy this country that they have an alternative. The present administration has scored itself high in the fight against corruption; do you agree that the corruption war is achieving the desired result? Nothing is happening; the corruption war is not real. This administration is not fighting corruption. There is impunity everywhere. What is worse than corruption where leaders think they are above the law? The court cannot pass a judgment and they obey it. The Police will not summon them and they obey it. The national assembly will not summon them and they obey it, what corruption is more than impunity? This is a selective judgment where they pick a few people who are not in their camp. It is not fight against corruption. They can’t even do much even with those people that are not in their camp. You are a journalist, go and check, most of the corrupt politicians jumped the ship immediately this corruption issue was being mounted, they jumped into the APC and none of them is being harassed. The corruption war is to force and blackmail people and twist their hands to join the APC so that they can remain in power. It is very sad. What is your next political destination; you have tried to represent the Amuwo Odofin Federal Constituency at different times but failed, are you vying for any political office next year? First of all, there is a lot of confusion in the country and one has to take his time. I have decided that the only really way to take this country in the right direction is to get involved in its leadership by contesting elections and ensure full participation in the democratic process. And that is what I will do during the next dispensation. Except, I don’t see any hope at all because I have got a lot of experience. In my first foray into politics, I won a landslide victory but it was taken away on daylight, clearly stolen mandate. I did everything that I could to recover the mandate; I went to the tribunal and pursued it to the logical end. I went to the court and at the end of the day; they stole the mandate and kept the mandate. Now, I got a lot more experience and that’s why during the last dispensation, Amuwo Odofin went to the party I belonged to. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won every seat in Amuwo Odofin; House of Representatives and the state assembly, and not only Amuwo Odofin even in Ijesha here, the party won. I am bidding my time; I definitely will not sit on the fence. If I don’t contest, I must be up there in the war front fighting for someone that I believe that will make a difference. I have got so much experience now and it will be difficult for anyone to do to me what they did to me the first time I joined politics. Anybody that wants to rig an election that I am involved in will think again because I know what they know now. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 