IBADAN – The University of Ibadan chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has set up a monitoring committee to ensure that work done by contractors engaged to execute some projects in the institution are of required standards. The union expressed worries over the quality of works done by some contractors engaged under the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) projects at the university. This decision was taken at the congress of UI ASUU, where members complained bitterly about the integrity of buildings being constructed in some faculties by contractors in the university. The ASUU members said they had observed that some buildings constructed in Faculties of Education and in the Department of Statistics by same contractors in about a year could be described as having failed integrity test. Dr. Deji Omole, the Chairman,  while speaking further on the resolutions of the congress stated that the union could not fold its arms and watch the contractors busy putting in place substandard projects. Omole added that ASUU would never allow those who did not know how the union went on struggles for the little funds coming to the university system to profit while failing to erect buildings that will endure and stand the test of time. The UI ASUU declared that the spirit of those who died in the course of ASUU struggles for intervention fund, such as late Professor Festus Iyayi, would hunt those engaged in shoddy deal with public funds. He, however, maintained that the job of the committee is to perform an oversight function and not to witch-hunt anybody. Omole specifically said that the committee would ascertain if the projects being delivered are of standard and complied with the specifications. The ASUU boss said that it deserved to know how government money from TETFUND is being administered to fund infrastructure upgrade in the university. His words: “We need to go through the papers and see what model was specified and what has been delivered. We need to begin to firm up our oversight function to ensure that those that are supposed to be in jail for poor performances are not handling projects on our campuses. “This is why we have decided to set up a committee to oversee how government funds are being administered to fund building projects in the university. We deserve to know because no contractor fought with us when we were struggling in getting government to increase funding in universities. “People lost lives while we went on struggles. We noted that some projects in Statistics and Faculty of Education have failed. We shall not allow our labour to be siphoned into private pockets.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 