Lokoja – Kogi High Court sitting in Lokoja has ordered that Senator Dino Melaye be remanded at the National Hospital, Abuja while he remains under custody and supervision of the police force. Justice Nasir Ajanah, the Chief Judge of Kogi State, gave the interim order in his ruling on two motions filed by the prosecution and the defendant on Friday in Lokoja. SATURDAY INDEPENDENT reports that two motions urged the court to vary the May 3, Lokoja Senior Magistrate Court ruling on the seven-count charge leveled against Melaye and two others on gun running. The prosecution, led by Theophilus Oteme, OC legal of Kogi Police Command, in its motion sought that the lower court ruling be varied and the defendant be remanded in prison custody as originally sought. In the motion file by defence led by Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), the defendant applied for bail and as well urged the court to order that he (Melaye) be remanded at the National Hospital, Abuja in view of his health challenges. Arguing the motion Ozekhome prayed the court, to in the interest of justice, abridge the time both questions would be taken because of the critical health condition of the defendant applicant. “He was taken to the lower court yesterday on a stretcher and as we speak, he is still on the stretcher. Ozekhome said that the life of the applicant was in danger since the police in the state had no medical facility to take care of the defendant while in their custody. The chief judge in his ruling on the applications said while both parties were on the same page in their on call for variation of their destinations on the issue of bail were different. Ajanah said he was inclined to grant the prayers of the two parties in which they sought variation of the court order on the custody of the senator. He however conceded that it was only a fit person that could stand trial, saying, “In fact, that is why it is called, Standing Trial. “In the circumstance therefore, I hereby vary the order of remand of the third defendant as made by the lead counsel. “I hereby order that the third defendant be kept at the National Hospital, Abuja under the custody and close watch and supervision of the complaint, the Inspector General of Police. “The application for the bail in this case will be heard on Monday, the 7th of May, 2018”, Ajanah declared. It would be recalled that Melaye was only Thursday remanded by Mr. Sulyman Abdullah of Lokoja Senior Magistrate Court in his ruling on arraignment of the senator along with Kabiru Seidu (aka Osama) and Nuhu Salihu (aka Small). They were charged with criminal conspiracy, illegal possession of firearms and illegal gun dealing contrary to various sections of the appropriate laws. 0 comments