It was said of the ancient Athenians of the First Century that they did not welcome anyone who visited the Greek city-state without novel ideas. They were, presumably, the first to prove that ideas ruled the world. Pursuant to this creed, it was claimed that the citizens of Athens spent all their day propounding new theories about religion, nature and advances in governance, philosophy and science. This seeming obsession with ideas and creativity in tackling the challenges of nature and administration of society paid off. For history records that mankind owes the Greeks a huge debt in the great strides and achievements we have witnessed over the centuries in philosophy, politics, science, governance and administration. In our time, we can discern a similar reign of innovative ideas in Lagos State under Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. He has spent his time feasting on a new thinking in order to make a difference as a politician, administrator and a professional. As he summons his own experience and skills to lead the people, the governor, like the revered Obafemi Awolowo, fishes for kindred spirits to help drive his notion of leadership as sacrificial service guided by novelty. The respected Security Watch Africa noticed the heavy content and sway of ideas and novelty in governance in Lagos and awarded Ambode the prize of ‘’Most Innovative African Leader in West and Central Africa.’’ His government also received the prestigious Golden Star Award in recognition of its Exemplary Service in Africa for ‘’quantum leap in infrastructural renewal and overall service delivery to the people of the state’’. In the wisdom of Security Watch Africa, a state so endured must have been buoying its security apparatus with real state-of-the-art weapons and corresponding motivation as well as morale for crime check and prevention. So the organisation decorated the Lagos State Commissioner of Police Edgal Imohimi with the sash of “Most Outstanding Anti-Crime Police Chief in West Africa ‘’. He is simply applying the strategies that made the ancient Greeks great: innovation, creativity, ideas, thinking outside the box! Ambode first served notice of the erection of these pillars on which his administration would run way back on Day One of his tenure. In his Inaugural Address on May 29, 2015, at Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos, Ambode declared solemnly: ‘’…We must therefore embrace new thinking… Creativity is the most valuable asset in public institution. Progressive governments must reward contributors of good ideas…We shall implement creative ideas and concepts that reduce the cost of running government; ideas that make life simpler and happier for our people. I, therefore, invite you all, to join hands with me, to offer new ideas.’’ Indeed Nigeria needs leaders who must reinvent the wheel for service delivery to a people in a hurry to catch up with the world. It can’t be business as usual for a land which has all it takes to transit us from a third world club to an advanced one. Our country and Africa as a whole must begin to experience a mighty explosion of new ideas to exploit our enormous latent resources that have not lived up to their promises since independence from colonial rule. It is instructive that the awards were presented in Accra, Ghana, where the seed of Independence from oppressive imperial rule was sown by Osagyefo Dr Kwame Nkrumah. He was a great man of ideas who taught us that Ghana’s independence in 1957 was meaningless if it wasn’t linked to the struggle for the total liberation of the whole of Africa. The Accra award to Ambode is symbolic then in the sense that a return to the place that brewed freedom for Black Africa would inspire the recipient to carry on the race for the complete emancipation of the African through more resort to singleness of mind under the influence of new ideas. I am happy to note that Ambode has been consistent in this quest for a new thinking to approach challenges. Recently, he attracted acclaim from all over Yorubaland and beyond with his decision that those seeking admission to tertiary institutions owned by Lagos must have a credit grade, thus making it a compulsory course. In one stroke he has succeeded in expanding the intellectual and cultural base of Yoruba language. He is also exposing the cosmos of the people to more young while creating more jobs for the language teachers. That is a tool for economic and social development. All these springing from an idea. There has been more acknowledgment of Ambode’s giant strides in administrative capacity building as revealed in the media awards he bagged lately. He shoved many aside to clinch Man of the Year prize at The Sun newspaper. With AIT, Daily Independent and Leadership newspapers the governor was picked as Governor of the Year from a large crowd of 36. When The Nation enlarged the field, Ambode wasn’t lost: he emerged Person of the Year! The most recent from the ideas box of Ambode is in the field of sports. As he witnessed the just concluded Lagos Marathon, it struck the governor that although the state had hosted it for some years now; no Lagosian or Nigerian had won it. Only outsiders, notably Kenyans, had been carting off the top prizes. So the idea hit Ambode: “Lagos is tired of foreigners, most especially Kenyans, coming to win the (Lagos) Marathon. So we need to develop our own part of this sport and allow Nigerians to win it and it’s a veritable platform for Nigerians to showcase their talents.” So when, in the years to come, you read of Nigerians making a complete haul of the top medals at the Lagos Marathon, please remember that the feat was made possible from an idea by Lagos Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, the man reminding us of the ideas era of the great Athenians! 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 