OUR CORRESPONDENTS Amidst controversies over his declaration to go for second term, President Muhammadu Buhari is now in United Kingdom for another round of medical treatments. His recent medical trip has once more brought to the fore the issue of his health status, which has always been an issue of public discourse, especially when viewed against the nation’s poor situation and his unfulfilled campaign promises. Many Nigerians have been linking his poor performance in office since three years to his ailing health and his age. President Buhari is 75. President Buhari jolted the nation when he announced few days ago that he would be travelling to UK to see his doctor. Buhari, who recently travelled to the United States of America (USA) announced that he would make a stop-over in UK on his way back. On his return to the country, he took off for UK. President Buhari had spent four months in London last year receiving treatment for an undisclosed illness. Since then, he has faced repeated questions about the real state of his health. Those questions have become louder since he announced last month that he would be standing for re-election early next year, subject to receiving his party’s nomination. Buhari stated on his Twitter handle last Monday: “I will be travelling to the United Kingdom tomorrow, to see my doctor, at his request. Will be away for four days; back in Abuja on Saturday, May 12.” The latest trip would be the fourth time Buhari would seek medical treatment in the UK. His spokesman said Buhari saw his doctor last week in London on his way back from Washington where he had met with the US President Donald Trump at the White House. “In the course of the technical stop-over for aircraft maintenance in London on his way back from Washington last week, the President had a meeting with his doctor,” Garba Shehu, his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, said in a statement. Femi Adesina, the President’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, told CNN that Buhari had gone for a ‘medical review’ and would be back within four days as stated. He said: “No one can guarantee what is going to happen at any moment. But, what we are saying is that the President will be back on Saturday. This visit to the doctor does not mean he will be there for months. “It is a meeting to review his health. It has nothing to do with elections and it does not mean he won’t be able to contest.” Shehu also stated that the President’s trip was at the instance of his doctor, adding that he would be back on Saturday. Shehu’s statement read: “President Muhammadu Buhari will tomorrow (Tuesday) undertake a four-day trip to the United Kingdom. “In the course of the technical stop-over for aircraft maintenance in London on his way back from Washington last week, the President had a meeting with his doctor. “The doctor requested the President to return for a meeting, which he agreed to do. President Buhari will return on Saturday, May 12. “On his return, the President’s two-day state visit to Jigawa State, which was postponed because of the All Progressives Congress’ ward congresses, will now take place on Monday 14 and Tuesday 15 of May.” Buhari’s Numerous Medical Trips Buhari had, between February 5 and 10, 2016, embarked on a six-day vacation to London. On June 6, 2016, he embarked on another 10-day vacation to attend to an ear infection. Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, had explained then that Buhari was battling with what he called “persistent ear infection.” Buhari returned to Nigeria on June 19, 2016, after spending 14 days in London. He again left the country on January 19, 2017, on what the Presidency described then as a medical vacation. When the trip was prolonged, presidential aides announced that the President would be staying back in the British capital to enable him to collect results of some medical tests he did. Buhari returned to the country on March 10, 2017, after a 49-day medical sojourn, saying he had never been that sick in his life. He then gave an indication that he would return to London for further check-up. After missing public events, including three consecutive weekly Federal Executive Council (FEC) meetings, which raised anxiety in the country, Buhari on May 7, 2017, returned to London for medical consultation. He returned to the country on August 19, 2017. Debate On Buhari’s State Of Health Buhari’s medical trips abroad had sparked intense debate among Nigerians on social media. Many argued that funds spent on medical bills abroad could be used to develop the country’s health care system, which is in dire straits. “President Buhari just loves flying around. If he truly wants Nigeria to grow, His doctor should fly down here instead, whatever equipments and knowledge he has should be brought down to a hospital here to improve our health care system,” Nollywood actor and budding politician, Yul Edochie said in a tweet. Only Buhari Can Disclose State Of His Health Faced with the issue of why the Presidency has so far failed to disclose the state of the President’s health and the nature of his ailment, his spokesman, Femi Adesina said President Buhari is the only person who can reveal his ailment or details about his health. Adesina, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, during a phone-in television programme stated this while reacting to a question about the President’s ailment and his latest trip to London. According to him, details about the President’s health are private and personal. Hear him: “That is something private and personal. The fact that a man is a President does not remove his right and privileges to privacy. So, unless Mr. President comes out voluntarily and willingly to tell the country that ‘this is what I have suffered from, this is what I have been treated for…even the medical doctor does not have the right to say it. “It is in the Hippocratic oath that the medical doctors take. They cannot disclose the ailment of the patient without the permission of that patient,” he explained. The recently trip came barely nine months after he returned from a medical vacation on August 19, 2017, spending more than 100 days. Adesina, however, allayed fears, saying there is no cause for alarm. He said: “There is no cause for alarm because he (the President) is up and about and doing his duties. What he is going for is a review. We all need that from time to time. There is nobody that is 100% healthy. He is just going for a review. I want to believe that he will come back on Saturday as planned,” he said. “The President is going to receive some letters of credence from some new ambassadors posted to the country, that will last till about early afternoon. After that, he will get set to go to London just for a medical review. He will be away for four days. He will back in the country on Saturday by the grace of God. On Monday and Tuesday, he will visit Jigawa State.” When questioned of the guaranty if the President would not exceed four days in the UK, Adesina said, “When you talk of guarantee, man cannot guarantee. Nobody can guarantee anything.” PDP Reacts To Buhari’s Latest Medical Trip The main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked President Buhari to stop deceiving Nigerians about his health and other national issues. Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, who spoke on the issue, said it was a pity that the President lied to Nigerians about the stopover he had in London a few days ago. He said: “The President should stop deceiving Nigerians about his health and other issues. “Why did he lie that he merely had a technical stopover in London? He should take Nigerians and Nigeria seriously. “He could be sick, but he should also know that Nigerians are the ones maintaining his health for him. So, he should tell them the truth all the time “We also hope he has transmitted a letter to the National Assembly about this trip. If he didn’t, that is going against the Constitution.” In the light of his perennial health issues and his old age, Nigerians have been wondering if President Buhari should proceed with his re-election plans in 2019 having already made his intention public. ‘Only Buhari And His Doctors Can Say If He Can Contest Again’ Edmond Abule Oche, a Benin-based legal practitioner declared: “The 1999 constitution has given every eligible Nigerian the right to vie for any elective positions in this country. President Buhari being a Nigerian and a sitting President of the country today is ably qualified to contest the 2019 election. “Now, come to your question of whether he can seek re-election in view of his current health challenges, I will say equivocally that it is only Mr. President and his medical doctors that can answer that question satisfactorily. “This is because in the eligibility form being issued by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to any candidate seeking an election, there is a column where the aspiring or nominated candidate declares his or her health status. “This is backed up with a medical certificate from a specified hospital, not any hospital or health institution, designated hospitals specified by INEC that  will examine such candidate before issuing the medical certificate which will be verified by INEC before clearing such candidate for the election. “It is true that the President has experienced some health challenges in recent time. Even as we are talking now, he is in London for medical check-up. But, that does not automatically mean he will not be fit to stand the 2019 election unless there is a doctor’s report to that effect. “This is why I said that only Mr. President and his physician can answer the question of his health status. Anybody can be sick and it does not follow that because the President was sick yesterday he cannot be healthy today after receiving treatment. “There are some people who could be healthy now and in the next one hour, they are ill and some people can even die without being sick. It is only God, our creator, that can determine human being’s health status. “Mr. President has already declared his intention to seek reelection, which has invariably confirmed his conviction that he is fit and ready to face the rigors of presidential campaign to convince the Nigerian electorates his fitness and capability to govern the country for another four years. “On the other hand, the electorates also have the right to accept or reject his preaching and pleadings for a second term and if they believe and convinced that he is fit and has performed well in his first term, they can re-elect him for another four years. He still has some months to prove himself and change things before the next election and I wish Nigerians the best of luck.” Buhari’s Health Not As Serious As It Was Last Year – Analyst Joseph Odinma, an Umuahia-based political analyst stated that the health condition of President Buhari now is not as serious as it was last year. He maintained that taking that into consideration, he should not be denied his constitutional right to seek re-election in 2019. According to him, the President has since moved on to perform his responsibilities, visiting more states than he had done before, an indication that he has fully recovered and in the best state of mind to perform in the highest office. Odinma stressed: “For me,  I would say that Mr.  President should be allowed to seek the office for the second time.  What he has gone for now is a routine check-up, according to his doctor’s prescription. “So, there is nothing to fear again. If the electorate don’t want him to return to the office through their votes, it would not be because of his health, but because of other issues. “Once his party deems it proper to hand him the ticket, it will no longer be in their hands, but those of the electorate to decide his fate. But he should not be denied at this stage unless new facts emerge indicating that the President is going down again health wise.  So, for me, he has the constitution behind him.” Odinma opined that the political configuration of Nigeria is such that if anything is done to the contrary, it may expose the country to further hiccups which the nation cannot afford in an election year, hence Nigerians must make haste slowly. Medically, Buhari Not Fit For Re-election – LP Chief Chief Unamba Donald Ohiamia, an elder statesman and chieftain of Labour Party (LP), stated: “It is obviously clear to Nigerians and even to some foreigners that the President has not been in the best of his health for some time now and has been shuttling between Abuja and London for medical attention. “I want to believe that some world medical experts have been attending to him for speedy recovery. When he declared his ambition to seek re-election, not a few Nigerians believed that the storm was over and that he is now hale and hearty to withstand the demands and challenges of election campaign. “But, I was personally taken aback when the media was again awash with the news that he had jetted out of the country for another medical check-up. Yet, he wants to remain in office beyond 2019. “Can’t his doctors advise him on the implication of this? I would not want to believe that the President loves power more than he loves his life. “He should quickly rescind his decision to seek re-election because, medically he is not fit for this.” Buhari Is Ill, Should Shelve His Second Term Ambition – NCP Stalwart Onuegbu Vitalis Onyekwele Ibe Uzondu, Oerri-based businessman and a chieftain of the National Conscience Party (NCP), stated: “Right from Day One when he was inaugurated as president, he has been running from pillar to post to rescue himself from a yet-to-be disclosed illness. “Till now, Nigerians are yet to be told what his problem is all about. But, his media aides are busy dishing out all sorts of propaganda and creating the false impression that all is well with him. “The President is sick and should shelve his second term ambition in his own interest. The world knows that he is sick. So, angling to retain office beyond 2019 will amount to a disservice to the nation. He has not lived up to our expectation and this might be as a result of his poor health.” Buhari Should Be Allowed To Continue – Lawyer Barrister Adebiyi Adegbenle Osogbo stated that there is no reason to ask President Buhari not seeking re-election come 2019, saying his recent visit to London to see his doctors has not changed anything in the nation’s polity. Adegbenle noted that ordinarily, Buhari needs to see his doctors regularly for check-up and this does not remove the fact that the man is ageing and should change his mind on seeking re-election. According to him, “the current administration has made some impact since assumption of office and some may not realised this fact. The image of this country has received a boost at the international community and virtually all of us are aware of the kind of indiscriminate screening treatment that security operatives give an average Nigerians in their countries and this has not been the best as a country.” Adegbenle noted that not all Nigerians are criminals and not all of us are fraudsters that warranted such treatment, which has reduced all Nigerians to nothing just because of the unconcerned attitude of past administration to check corruption. He stressed: “President Buhari still has a lot to do in the fight against corruption because the security challenges that the country is facing might not be unconnected with his plan to succeed himself in office. “Corruption has created serious dent on the image of an average Nigerians and this is gradually going down. There is still much work to be done by this government in its second term to address the challenges, if they cannot be totally eradicated. “President Buhari should be allowed to continue with his work until he says he can no longer do it, because, the past administration caused serious damage on this nation.” Buhari Should Not Contest Again – Activist Kindness Jonah, a mathematician and human rights activist, said President Buhari should reconsider his decision to contest in 2019. Jonah said the President should honourably bow out of office to take care of his health. He said Nigeria needs a healthy President to tackle insecurity and bad economy and not somebody who would be in and out of hospital all the time. Jonah advised President Buhari to put national interest above his personal interest and honourably go home as former President Olusegun Obasanjo and others advised him. He said the President should take the Mandela option if he wants to redeem his battered image, caused by the abysmal performance of his administration. “He promised us ‘Change’, but the ‘Change’ is nowhere to be seen. Where is the ‘Change’? Corruption is still rife. The economy is worse than he met it. Insurgency is still thriving in the North East and now Fulani herdsmen have joined the killing spree. So, if the President is not healthy enough to address these challenges, he should go home,” Jonah said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 