Lagos – Akinwunmi Ambode, governor of Lagos State, may not face any major hurdle in securing the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to contest next year’s governorship election as his re-election bid has received the blessings of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, DAILY INDEPENDENT has gathered. Tinubu, a former governor of Lagos and one of APC’s national leaders, played a major role in Ambode’s emergence in 2015. Although he has not made any official statement on Ambode’s quest to secure another term, a chieftain of the party who spoke with DAILY INDEPENDENT said Tinubu had already directed leaders of the three senatorial districts in the state to ensure they give the governor the needed support to ensure a seamless re-election bid. The three leaders, Tajudeen Olusi (Lagos Central), Prince Rabiu Oluwa (Lagos West) and Otunba Bushura Alebiosu (Lagos East) have already started underground work in their respective districts as directed by Tinubu, our source said. The three senators representing the state in the National Assembly, Gbenga Ashafa (Lagos East), Oluremi Tinubu (Lagos Central) and Solomon Adeola (Lagos West) had pledged their support for the governor’s re-election bid. Members of the party in the House of Representatives from Lagos, led by Femi Gbajabiamila, the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, have also endorsed the governor for another term, citing the massive infrastructural development and giant strides in all sectors and sections of the state. Gbajabiamila, who presented a letter to the governor at the Lagos House in Alausa, Ikeja, asking him to re-contest in 2019, said the decision to unanimously endorse Governor Ambode for a second term was as a result of his brilliant performance in office in the last two and half years. Speaking to Government House correspondents after a closed-door meeting with the governor, Gbajabiamila said the lawmakers were indeed proud to associate with the achievements of the governor so far and would be supporting him all the way for another term in office. “We are members of the House of Representatives APC caucus from Lagos State. “We all came into Lagos today to perform a very unique and sacred duty; something we did not take very lightly at all; something we deliberated over a couple of days ago and we spoke with one voice,” Gbajabiamila said. Our source said, with the way things are going, Ambode might be given the party’s flag unopposed as no serious candidate would want to slug it out with him having seen the handwriting on the wall. Our source said if any candidate came out from the APC, it would just be a formality so as ensure there was a primary, or such a candidate would want to “make some noise so as to get political patronage if the governor is able to secure another term. “Our leader, Tinubu, has already given instructions to the apex leaders in the three senatorial districts to work for the emergence of Ambode. “He believes that since all the lawmakers from Lagos State in the National Assembly have already endorsed the governor, it will be wrong for him to go against it since the governor has also performed creditably well.” During the last colloquium organised for him to mark his 66th birthday in Lagos, Tinubu particularly lauded the strides of Governor Ambode, assuring him that he would continue to support his administration as it continued to drive Lagos on the right path of economic development. “You (Governor Ambode) have been exceptionally committed to the progress and economic development of Lagos State, and I can only say thank you. “The act of many good jobs is more work and after beautiful challenges is more success. Work hard at it; we are in the booth together,” Tinubu had said. Speaking in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, Otunba Henry Ajomale, state chairman of the party, said the party might adopt Governor Ambode as its sole candidate for the 2019 governorship election in the state if nobody else in the party came forward to challenge him for the ticket. He said so far, he had not seen any politician in the party challenging Ambode for the governorship ticket. Ajomale, who said that the endorsements the governor had been receiving both within and outside the party had been overwhelming, said it would be difficult for any politician who decide to slug it out with the governor to win the ticket. He, however, said if other aspirants came out to challenge the governor, the party would still conduct a primary where delegates would decide who they want to fly the party’s flag in the governorship election. According to Ajomale, “Ambode is shoulder higher than everybody. I haven’t seen anybody that will want to contest against him because of his achievements and what he has done in Lagos in terms of infrastructural developments and economic development. Lagos is getting the best under Ambode. “Anybody is free to contest but I have a feeling that his achievements and reputations have spoken well of him. So, I am not sure anybody will want to come out and challenge him. “Recently, you will find out that a lot of local governments, students, youths, market women and even artisans were endorsing him already for a second term. “All the lawmakers from Lagos, both in the Senate and House of Reps, have also endorsed him. “So, within and outside the party, they have started adopting him as their preferred candidate. “That is why I said that he is shoulder higher than everybody who may want to contest against him. “All those who have adopted him as their candidates are too overwhelming for anybody to come out and want to challenge him. “There will be primary. Anybody who wants to come out will be given the opportunity of doing so. They have a constitutional right to challenge the governor and they will not be denied. “If there is no other aspirant challenging the governor, then we will adopt the governor. “So far, we have not seen anybody coming out to challenge the governor. “But we will do a primary. We are going to accredit the delegates and we are going to vote to ensure that there is transparency and the rule of the game is complied with.” Efforts to get the reaction of Tunde Rahman, Tinubu’s Special Adviser on Media, proved abortive as he declined to respond to DAILY INDEPENDENT’s enquiries on the issue. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 