Ahead of Saturday’s governorship primary of the All Progressives Congess (APC) in Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, a former Governor of Ekiti State and Minister of Mines and Steel Development, spoke with newsmen in Ado- Ekiti on his governorship ambition and other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: You have been governor in Ekiti State before, why do you want to return as governor again? Yes, you are right. I have been governor in Ekiti State before now, but I feel a profound sense of unfinished business. Unfinished business in the sense that all what I did in office had gone pear-shaped in this state. May be some infrastructure have been sustained; at least you can still see the street lights, you can still see the Government House on top of the hill, you can still see some of the physical things, but our efforts in the area of human capital development, entrepreneurship, tourism development and healthcare have actually been severely damaged. I give you a couple of examples to demonstrate what I mean by that. Over 40,000 people benefitting from our various social investment schemes have been put out to hang and dry. The 25, 000 that I was paying N5,000 to in our social security scheme; the 10, 000 benefitting from youth volunteer scheme, being paid N10, 000 monthly and engaged in variety of our initiatives like environmental sanitation, teaching in schools, working in the health sector and all of that were disbanded. The Youth in Agriculture Scheme, which was at the time used by the then Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, no longer exist in this state though some of the beneficiaries have now gone on to better things in the agricultural sector. So, you will understand the pain that I feel about missed opportunities for our people. If it was about me, I really do not need to be governor in order to live a decent life. Frankly, and I am sure you will agree with me that Abuja is an easier setting to operate from. If I were to see politics as business, it is also the better place to do other things, network and gain opportunities, but I would not be fulfilled, if I were to ignore all the damages that had been done in the state. And it is also much because a lot of what I did had been eroded. Just go to Ikogosi; you knew what I made out of Ikogosi. You only need to visit Ikogosi now and see what had become of the place and the damage does not just focus on human capital development, but infrastructural development. You would imagine that somebody who has taken out 40,000 jobs or support schemes, out of the budget of the state, will be in a position and much stronger footing to pay salaries regularly in a known civil service state, but civil servants are being owed six months at the minimum, teachers are being owed 10 months, local government workers are owed 10 months, traditional rulers, who used to take five percent of local government funds that come to the state when I was governor, not only has that been reduced to 2.5 per cent, they don’t even get it. For five to six months now, they have never earned any pay. So, if you ask me, yes, I have been governor, but I am not coming out of a sense of ambition, I am coming out of a sense of duty, out of a profound sense of unfinished business, which I believe only a progressive and ideologically driven government can deliver as far as Ekiti State is concerned. How will the APC handle the fallout of its governorship primaries given the number of aspirants vying for the party’s ticket, and why can’t you as the leader of the part in the state initiate a process that will lead to the emergence of a consensus candidate? First, I am an interested party even if I were to take that cue it may not be wholly acceptable. But I still do not think that is completely written off. I believe that opportunity will abound in which those who are contesting will have the chance to have a stakeholders’ engagement with leaders of the party with the view to, may be, reduce the number of those running or at least ensure that this is a clean race. Frankly, we have to come to terms with the fact that it is a plus that the APC ticket is much sought after. It is a positive for our party. However, it has to be managed carefully. Once the primary takes place and a clear winner emerges, I don’t think the problem we are envisaging will happen actually. Where you may run into a problem is when it is a close race and people imagine that some hanky-panky has given one person or the other an edge in the race. Frankly, I do not think it is going to be a close race, but that is a separate matter. Everyone has the right to run and aspire in a political competition and I don’t think we should debar them from running. You are said to be in this race because you have the support of President Muhammadu Buhari, Also, some people are saying that the party leadership in the state was installed by you; therefore it will deliver to you the governorship ticket at the primaries. What is your reaction to these claims? I cannot detach myself from the government in which I serve. That is going to play up, but I am not going to say to you that I have not secured the approval of my boss to enter the race. I work for a principal, so it is not possible that I would be out running around the way I have been doing without having gone to my principal to say ‘Sir, I am thinking about going back to Ekiti and I need your help for me to pursue my ambition. If you don’t have any objection, I believe I will crave your indulgence to go home and repair the damage that has been done in my state.’ That is not necessarily an endorsement and anyone who knows President Buhari the way he functions would know that he is not the type that would insert himself in a race that is clearly based on clear guidelines and principles and you’ve seen him demonstrating that consistently, including most recently, with the issue of tenure elongation in our party. He is not the type we’ve seen within the PDP government, where the president says yes, this is my man, and no one dares him. President Buhari won’t say that. On the second purported claim that I installed the leadership of the party in the state; there is no doubt that the leadership of the party emerged at the time I was governor, but according to the constitution of our party, the leadership must change in 2018. But again, when you look at the background of this leadership you talked about in our party, you have in the executive of our party, people who came from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or newPDP. Also in the state executive, you have   traditional Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) people from my own side of the party in that same executive. You have people, who also came from other tendencies. So, we are not all sleeping facing the same direction. But, the most import thing for me is that people have a record to sell. If I am running, it is a market place, you need to look at your unique selling point and place that before the delegates. So, anyone who says I have the president backing and the structure of the party in the pocket, I believe is making a mistake on both stands. Some people say your efforts might be fruitless given the 10-year ban the Ekiti State government white paper placed on you… Which government white paper? You mean the toilet paper or what? You are far too knowledgeable to know where this is coming from. Yes it used to be the case in this country that you can use an administrative panel report or a judicial commission report to orchestrate the ban of a political office holder, but that period has since gone because it became very clear that this was a witch-hunting tool. And there is a settled matter by the Supreme Court of Nigeria on this point and that is Atiku Abubakar vs Federal Government of Nigeria that you cannot use the report of a commission of inquiry or an administrative panel to ban anyone from public office. To the best of my knowledge, I have not even been asked to show up in any court over any allegation, and don’t forget that I did not even appear before any panel. Were you not invited? I was invited, but you should also be reminded that I challenged that invitation in court and that case was in court as the panel was sitting. I have a friend called Rabiu Kwankwaso, who went through the same experience. He was governor, he went to become minister and when he was about coming back as governor, the governor of that Kano State then brought out a commission of inquiry report. Of course, it was rubbished and the man became governor. Can you shed more light on the N25 billion loan taken by your government and the specific projects you embarked on with it? Absolutely, because what we did is clear to everybody. We took N25 billion for infrastructure development, not for salaries, not for frivolities and those projects traverse the length and breadth of the state. The bulk of that money was spent on roads. When I was governor, the entire road network in this state changed. We spent about N14 billion out of the N25 billion on roads alone. Besides, we brought back Ikogosi, we built the new Government House, we built a 12,000-seater pavilion and we built the civic centre out of this money. In fact if you calculate what we spent the loan on, we spent more than N25 billion. But, Ekiti now has a governor,  who really cannot be accused of showing fidelity to the truth. Part of what he said I committed as offence, the people you were citing came to his own panel of enquiry. Access Bank came to his panel and told him categorically that there was no missing N835 million from the funds of Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), that we took our money back because the state did not meet the obligation attached to the grant. So, if a bank lends you money and that same bank takes the money back, why go to the public to say that Fayemi stole N825 million. What we did in the state, the record is there for all to see and we can defend that record any day. You are running for governorship on the platform of the APC at a time there is disenchantment against the party by most Nigerians due to its performance at the federal level. Don’t you see that affecting your chances? Frankly, I believe that we have a lot to sell as a party and I am not just running on my performance when I was governor, but also on the performance of the Buhari administration, which I am part of because it is a collective responsibility. So, I am not going to shy away from the perceived inadequacies. I am going to explain what the APC government has done in all spheres and I believe that by the time I link it with we did in office before, it is going to be a strength rather than weakness because it is about framing the narrative properly. I have just placed side by side what we left, when I left office in October 2014 vis-a-vis what is happening in the state today and I provided independently verifiable evidence either on the debt status of the state or on the programmes that we implemented and the ones that are being implemented today. If I were to do that between what we have done in the two and half years of the Buhari administration and what the Goodluck Jonathan administration did in five years, there would be no basis for comparison. We have enough to sell to Nigerians because we have retrieved the country from the precipice. People may not pay enough attention to that because it is not as tangible as money in the pocket, but it is people, who have a safe and secure environment that will talk about money in their pockets, but they are getting money in their pockets. I hate to sound like a broken record, but my boss, the Vice President (Prof. Yemi Osinbajo) did a more brilliant job on this, when he spoke at the Bola Tinubu Colloquium in Lagos recently. I can’t even do better than he did because you just have to look at the records; what we have done in infrastructural development, petroleum sector, health sector and compare that to what happened when oil was selling at over $100 per barrel. And don’t forget that when we came in, oil production went down to about 700,000 barrels per day from 2.2 million. The price was $30; thank God it is now $70. And if I should add that the Federal Government became the babysitter of virtually all the states because 30 of them were not paying salaries. If not for President Buhari’s generosity, I don’t know where many of the states would be now. Even with all the support, take my state for example, I gave you a figure of N56 billion from the first bailout, second bailout, budget support, ecological fund, micro credit funds, Paris club one and two. I cannot imagine where Ekiti would have been today if President Buhari is not as generous as he has been to provide the kind of support he has provided to Ekiti State and to provide it to a man, who daily insults him. When I was governor, I would like to think that I had a very respectful relationship with President Jonathan. But, you know what; President Jonathan had a selective approach to distributing federal funds. Those of us in the opposition never benefitted and these were our entitlements. They will share ecological funds without the ACN and All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) being part of it. They will do road refund but they will not give us our own, but that is not obtains in today’s government. So, on very many grounds, I believe that the track record of my boss is a selling point. I am not saying that this government has been perfect on all grounds; we also suffer from the tyranny of exaggerated expectations A lot of Nigerians expected more from us much more than being realistic, considering the resources available to the country, but I headed the Policy and Strategy Directorate of our campaign and played a central role in the development of policies and strategies that formed our manifesto. I know that we thought through a lot of things. What we are doing today with social investment is the same sort of thing I did when I was governor – social security for the elderly, school feeding programme and youth volunteer scheme, among others. With what we are doing with social investment today, every day in this country, more than seven million children are being fed in schools. In Ekiti alone, we have almost 11,000 people in the NPower Scheme; bigger states have bigger numbers. 1 comments