From my column (Soccer & Soul) of Friday 9, January 2015 of Daily Champion titled “2014: Eagles/NFF Catalogue of Woes!” This piece has become necessary for me to republish given the fact that Ambassador Chris Giwa had always been seen as a distraction to the NFF, in every world Cup year after his fall-out with Amaju Pinnick over their lost and won election of the Glasshouse presidency of 2014. We pray that the year 2015 will usher in new things, ideas, and administrative qualities in the Glasshouse and also usher in professional coaching to the Super Eagles of Nigeria, unlike we witnessed in 2014 that had brought our football to a laughing stock within Nigeria and the comity of soccer nations. It would be recalled that Ambassador Chris Giwa, the Jos court of confusion, the election of Amaju Melvin Pinnick, the mediocrity saga of coach Stephen Okechukwu Keshi, the nightmare of FIFA trying to ban Nigeria, the failure of the Eagles  to qualify for AFCON 2015 in Equatorial Guinea, were enough woes coming out of the Glasshouse in 2014. Nigeria’s football can never move forward again, and again if the power tussles of all manners that bedevilled it are not eschewed come 2015; then, we are yet to learn a single lesson from the past. I have never seen a country like Nigeria, which used to get it right before in terms of strong Eagles, professional coaches (not indigenous) anyway, focused administrators with result oriented policies which sustained our football, pushed and projected the country’s foreign policies in good light to start getting it wrong in spite of all advise given the soccer governing body in Nigeria. The presidency, as at the time when it was NFA (Nigeria Football Association) under some military administrations, used good football management as tool to sustain their regimes when military governments were seen across the world as old fashioned and worst form of governance. So, the military government in Nigeria in all successions used all the nation’s football teams to do exploit across the country nay the world. It was a tool for unity cutting across board; why? Because the Eagles then, had good foreign coaches, the Dream team had one (Bonfrere Jo) who won the first Olympic soccer gold for Nigeria and Africa in 1996! Then our football was good for it! The maiden edition of FIFA’s U-16 held in China in 1985 was won by Captain Nduka Ugbade led team under Coach Sebastine Imasuen! And lots more – all under the juntas –administration said to be dictatorship; but loved football, financed it, got professional hands to run it and got maximum results! Because the juntas fancied football! Since the inception of democracy especially under President Olusegun Obasanjo, sports, particularly football, which used to unite Nigerians, had become a game for the “monkeys and baboons!” Democracy had destroyed Nigeria’s football; I don’t know about the other sports as football is my constituency! Politician brought in their traditional attires, tribalism, nepotism, sentiment, confusion and political affiliations to the game of football, which football politics know nothing about whether tribe, colour, race, traditional wears or the circular political jingoism. All these attributes the Nigerian politicians had used to set apart our unity, which we used to derive from the art of good football, in spite of all our diversity – football was a significant symbol of unity. It was bond that held us as one in times of trials, challenges and economic crisis; but today see where bad football governance had taken Nigeria. I am ashamed of these set of politicians! Can we say they should send our Glasshouse administrators to the Army Barrack for tutorials or do a serious research on IBB former Nigeria’s Military President and Abacha on how their NFA administered football in their time and thrived? Check the stadia score boards at their time; it was always carrying motivating messages, while Nigeria’s team is on duty at the pitch during crucial matches. You will see messages like these in quick succession “Go Eagles, score more goals!”, “Eaglets, win this one, Nigerians are behind you!” – IBB etc. These little messages on the score board were messages of hope, inspiration, energiser, a booster and a sign of appreciation and show of strong penchant for the game – because the government of the junta is committed to this course! How about today’s democratic government and its presidency? The use of Yoruba Buba – Sokoto – Agbada – fila, the Hausa Babanriga, Dashiki and Caftan; the Igbo Isi-Agu top, red caps and trousers, the hats and the flowing Niger-Delta tops and trousers have turned away their passion from the game; instead they preferred the game to be run anyhow; who cares? In as much as football does not affect them (politicians) having been democratically elected, football can go to hell as they don’t need it for any policy projection, unlike their soldiers counterparts who are said to be juntas and wore one type of dress – the green khaki! Here we have arrived! Let’s watch how it goes again with Keshi, Giwa, Jos Court, FIFA and the NFF in 2015! We are still watching their mode of dress whether it will be uniformed this time or not! 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 