The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), recently signed a bilateral currency swap agreement with the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) worth about $2.5billion. The swap is worth 15billion Renminbi (RMB) or N720billion.
The deal which will be in force for three years can be extended by mutual consent. It is expected to bring more flexibility into both markets by easing up the challenges encountered in the search for third currencies and providing adequate local currency liquidity to Nigerian and Chinese industrialists.
Recall that China also has currency swap agreements with Argentina, Belarus, Brazil, Hong Kong, Iceland, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, United Kingdom and Uzbekistan. Nigeria is the third African country (after South Africa and Egypt) to sign such a deal with China.
The agreement is expected to provide RMB liquidity to Nigerian businesses and Naira liquidity to Chinese businesses respectively, thereby improving the speed, convenience and volume of transactions between the two countries. The currency swap arrangement is therefore of great value to both countries as it will also assist both countries in their foreign exchange reserves management, enhance financial stability and promote broader economic cooperation between the two countries.
In addition, the currency swap deal will enable Nigerian manufacturers, particularly Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs), manufacturers and cottage industries, who import raw materials, spare-parts and simple machinery, to have access to the RMB liquidity from Nigerian banks without being exposed to the difficulties of seeking other scarce foreign currencies.
Already, following increased trading activities between Nigeria and China, the CBN had a few years ago diversified about 10 percent of Nigeria’s foreign exchange reserves away from the U.S dollar to Yuan, the Chinese currency. Thus it is expected that the current development will reduce the demand for U.S. Dollar by Nigerians importing goods from China and consequently strengthen the value of the Naira. It will eliminate challenges arising from transactions with the dollar and promote business flexibility between Nigerians and Chinese, just as it will also improve access to cheaper foreign exchange in favour of members of the business community.
However, the currency swap has some downside risks for Nigeria. And for the country to achieve full benefits from it, Nigeria must develop competitive advantage in the production of those exportable goods that China currently imports. The trade relationship between Nigeria and China in the last five years showed that the country has a negative trade balance with China. Between 2013 and 2016 alone, Nigeria recorded a trade deficit of over N6 trillion with China.
The deficit may increase when the currency swap gets underway to the detriment of Nigeria. Also, no matter how potentially beneficial the currency swap deal may seem for the business class in both countries, currency swap usually favours a producing country like China more than a consuming country like Nigeria. This development means that Nigeria must substantially increase its exports to China; otherwise its trade deficit with China will continue to grow with negative implications for Nigeria.
There is also the thinking that the currency swap might trigger Chinese businesses to compete unfavourably with Nigerian businesses, thereby impeding the growth of indigenous firms. It could also lead to the influx of sub-standard goods from China into the Nigerian market because of Nigeria’s weak enforcement of customs and quality control and standard regulations. Consequently, Customs department and the Nigerian Standards Organisation must braze up and be alive to their duties to ensure that Nigerian market is not flooded with cheap and sub-standard goods from China.
The Nigerian government needs to take note of the downside of its new handshake with China and rapidly increase its productive capacity, expand its manufacturing activities and also be able to export processed agro-allied foods, processed wood and other value added products to China so as to close the yawning trade deficit gap.
If currency swap between China and Ethiopia has been able to significantly contribute to the growth of Ethiopia as Chinese investors have a major stake in Ethiopia’s manufacturing sector,, Nigeria must therefore use the opportunity of the currency swap arrangement to further strengthen its trade and economic ties with China and also encourage more Chinese entrepreneurs to establish more manufacturing outfits in Nigeria. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 