Lagos – The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) on Tuesday advocated the need for the Federal Government to evolve a legal framework for allocating a certain percentage of production by international oil companies (IOCs) operating in Nigeria for refining in the country. The oil workers, who echoed the position in a statement to commemorate the 2018 May Day, explained that the development should be done through a policy that would compel them to build refineries in Nigeria. Comrade Olabode Johnson and Lumumba Okugbawa, the president and general secretary of the union, respectively, signed the statement. They commended the National Assembly for passing the first part of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) known as the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB). They admonished the lawmakers to expedite action on the Petroleum Industry Administration Bill, the Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill and the Petroleum Host Community Bill to ensure the delivery of the full benefits of the intended oil and gas reforms in the country. They advocated the need for a collective campaign against the contract and casual employment as well as off-shoring of jobs, “which is tactically and steadily taking over permanent employment and increasing unemployment in Nigeria while most jobs that domicile in Nigeria are done outside the country.” They added that government should step up security of lives as well as oil and gas infrastructures, curb pipeline vandalism and the attendant crude oil and petroleum products theft, ensuring optimal functioning of the refineries to increase local refining, provision of investment friendly environment for private investors in the downstream sector to encourage investment and drive down job losses in oil and gas operations in the country. Part of the statement reads: “We are, therefore, reiterating our call for a stakeholders’ forum for the purpose of holistically examining the challenges confronting the nation’s oil and gas industry and proffering solutions to the problems. “Security of lives and property is paramount for increased productivity. Though we recognise the strong and unequivocal commitment of the security agencies, we observe the inadequacy in the number of security agents, especially the army and police, who are already overstretched in maintaining security and peace in the country. “There should be immediate recruitment from the teeming unemployed youths into these security agencies. “The Inspector General of  Police (IGP) should be committed to ensuring that order on withdrawal of security operatives attached to VIP’s (politicians and powerful Nigerians) in the country be effective to increase the number in operational areas. “The Federal Government should effectively check the influx of small arms and ammunition into the country. “Though we agree that taxation is essential to engender growth in the country, we condemn the excesses of tax authorities in the country on taxes paid by workers, an action which is against the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “We, therefore, state that the law on personal income tax can only be amended by an Act of the National Assembly, and call on all tax authorities to act in accordance with tax laws in the country.” 0 comments