Lagos – The management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) said it has adopted the digital payment solution in a bid to reduce financial leakages in the system. FAAN also said that this would ease payment, create payment options and improve its speed and convenience, adding that it would also reduce the burden of carrying cash around by its clients. Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, General Manager, Corporate Communications,  disclosed this on Wednesday at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos in an interview with aviation correspondents. She hinted that all necessary arrangements had been made for the smooth take off of the exercise, which would be carried out in all the airports across the country. The new initiative is expected to commence in the next few weeks. She expressed that the transactions would be made in different ways such as Point of Sales (POS), money transfers and others. She stressed that Remita Agents have already been positioned strategically at various points across the airports to ensure the fruitful commencement of the new platform. She explained that the initiative was designed under the Presidential Enabling Environment Business Council (PEBEC), which is aimed at ensuring convenience and curbing corruption, adding that identifying car parks, cargo section, chartered and unscheduled flights among others would also be affected by the introduction. Yakubu noted the decision to adopt digital payment was as a result of the success of the Executive Order of the Federal Government, which commenced last June. She explained that it was to ensure that those doing business at the airports were not harassed but furnished accurate information on what and where to pay at every point in time. She said: “It will help FAAN to eliminate leakages and further increase revenue base of the organisation. No government official will handle cash during transactions when the exercise takes off. We are soliciting the cooperation of all airport users, concessionaires and the general public to ensure a hitch free exercise initiative.” According to Yakubu, visa on arrival, which has commenced at the airport, was part of the Ease of Doing Business adding that the digital payment was another feat to be achieved. 0 comments