A growing trend of political office holders in the federal government, who are aspiring to contest elective positions in their states, and who have nonetheless remained in offices is unwholesome for governance. An end should be put to it as a mark of restoring public morality and dignity into government. Specifically, where the officers concerned refuse or do not consider it necessary to resign their positions, it will be incumbent on the president to ask them to step down. No fewer than three such public office holders in the cabinet of President Muhammadu Buhari are currently sitting tight in their offices while at the same time preparing heavily to contest elections in their respective states. Although one of them, Babafemi Ojudu, an adviser to President Buhari, has pulled out of the Ekiti state governorship race, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Minister of Solid Minerals, is still in the race for the same position, election for which is only a couple of months away. One of the issues thrown up by the development is that firstly, the officers are perceived to be using the resources and paraphernalia of their offices to prepare for their election. If this turns out to be true, it will amount to diverting public resources to private use, thus encouraging corruption and a waste of scarce resources. This should not be tolerated in any form. Secondly, when an official deploys public resources and paraphernalia of office on elections, governance, and by extension the country suffers. The officer’s attention, loyalty and dedication to duty would become divided and no longer be guaranteed to pursue the goals of government. Again, governance, and Nigerians who are supposed to benefit from the Minister’s works are the eventual losers. Thirdly, using state resources to mobilise for elective offices immediately creates an uneven platform for contest, with the public officers enjoying an advantage over their opponents who are not public officers and who are thus not opportune to enjoy the same advantage. This aspect becomes more grave where, as in these cases, the officers are under the presidency, as it gives an impression that the president clearly favours the public officers above their fellow contestants. This is an impression the president cannot afford to sustain. Incidentally, the current trend is a clear negation of the norm since 1999 when democracy was re-introduced into the country’s political climate. Under previous governments of former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan, public officers in government resigned their positions to vie for elective offices either in their states or at the federal level. Those decisions were publicly adjudged to be fair and morally positive. There is no reason why the standard should be varied or compromised now. If some states’ governors have already issued directives to aspirants to elective posts in their states to resign, where such aspirants are occupying pubic posts, the need for such actions should be even more imperative for the federal government. Moreover, the president’s high point before and after the election that brought him to power is that of integrity. Where then is the integrity when the president keeps mute over an issue that has to do with fairness and impartiality? Apart from the staggered elections such as those of Ekiti and Osun states scheduled for the next few months, primaries for the 2019 general elections are expected to begin in August this year. Many of the contestants for those elections are still in government. No time is perhaps more appropriate than now, before the primaries, to demand the resignation of all aspirants holding public offices. For the presidency in particular, which has received public opprobrium for perceived and manifest poor performance of some members of the cabinet, President Buhari should seize the opportunity at hand to rejig his cabinet by inviting competent personnel to replace those seeking elections; and to also remove the deadwoods in his operational and administrative machinery. It might not be far-fetched that the poor performance of some cabinet members is connected to their divided loyalty. As representatives of the people charged also with oversight functions, the National Assembly should equally be concerned about this seeming moral lacuna. The lawmakers should therefore enact a law to compel those seeking elective posts to resign their appointments as public officers within a reasonable and specified timeline. It should be an offence for anyone who breeches that law; and such persons should be sanctioned accordingly. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 