Abuja / Asaba / Owerri / Ilorin – President Muhammadu Buhari; Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta; Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo; Abdulfatah Ahmed, Kwara State governor, and Yakubu Dogara, Speaker of the House of Representatives, have challenged security agencies, families, traditional and religious leaders to rise up and take decisive actions to stem the unacceptable rising cases of violence against children. President Buhari made the call in a message to mark this year’s Children’s Day on Sunday in Abuja. He noted that the theme for this year’s celebration ‘Creating Safe Spaces for Children: Our Collective Responsibility’ was an opportunity to promote the safety and security of the children. He said that all stakeholders, including the civil society organisations, human rights activists, and the society at large, must ensure safety of the children in homes, schools, markets, worship centres, on the streets and everywhere at all times. According to him, this year’s event affords him another opportunity to re-affirm his administration’s commitment to the protection of children. “This is a day to reflect on our roles and responsibilities as parents and leaders towards our children, and also assessing how far we have fared in this regard. “As you may recall, one of the cardinal objectives of this administration is the provision of quality education to our children as a fundamental foundation of economic and social development. “In this regard, I am pleased to inform you that this administration has recorded measurable success in the home grown school feeding programme as it has continued to expand,” he added. The president maintained that children were the future of the nation, and “the initiatives that come from them give confidence that Nigeria has a bright future.” He said: “I am very impressed by what our children have been able to do, and what the future holds for them. “That is one reason why we are committed to the school feeding programme, to prepare a future generation of physically and intellectually robust children.” He said that at the last count, over 8.2 million children in 24 states were being given free meals daily, adding that this happened in 45,000 schools round the country. The president, therefore, called on all stakeholders to support the programme to ensure that all the 36 states and FCT were covered. He said this would promote substantially higher enrolment levels in schools across the country. He also appealed to parents not to relent in their efforts to send their wards to school, especially the girl-child “as her education reduces infant and maternal mortality as well as prevents child marriages. “It also increases literacy and reduces poverty. The saying that to educate a woman is to educate the nation is very apt in this regard.” Okowa Decries Level Of Abuses Against Children Meanwhile, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has decried the level of abuses against children, calling on parents to devote greater time to them. Okowa, at the celebration of Children’s Day on Sunday in Asaba, lauded the theme for this year’s celebration, ‘Creating Safe Spaces for Children: Our Collective Responsibility’. He identified rape, defilement, sexual exploitation, cultism, child trafficking, child labour and others as the crimes against children. Asserting that the situation calls for more concerted efforts of all and sundry to increase the consciousness of providing very secure spaces for the children to grow amid genuine and selfless love, care and attention. “I wish to appeal to all duty-bearers to actively promote the ideals of the Childs Rights Law, bearing in mind that we are accountable to God on how we discharge our obligations to our children, knowing very well that our future as a state and nation will be defined by the quality of today’s children.” Governor Okowa stated that his administration placed high premium on the total development and protection of children on which the continuous existence and progress of the state and nation depends. According to the governor, “parents and care-givers should devote greater time and attention to the children. We must not leave the upbringing and character formation of our children to teachers alone; we should take greater responsibility for the sake of their protection, well-being and the orderliness of society at large.” Our Children Will Do Better Than Us, Says Okorocha Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State has expressed optimism that the future generation shall do better than the current generation. Governor Okorocha spoke while addressing children who worshipped with him at the Victory Chapel, Government House, Owerri, on Sunday, as part of activities marking the 2018 Children’s Day, praying that the ugly stories of drug addiction including the stories of Indian hemp, tramadol and so on, shall not come near them. “My message to the children, to all children of Imo State is to remind you that we’re proud of you. The essence of our living as parents, the essence of our existence is to see you do well. My prayer and wishes today being the 27th May, 2018 is that your generation shall be better than our generation and that Imo children shall not be found wanting”. According to him, “A good child is a pride to the parents. I want to see you grow from strength to strength. So, do us one favour, just make sure, you live a good life. It’s our duty to hand over this leadership baton to you. You’re the only reason why we’re struggling. You’re the only reason for this government. If there’s no you, there’ll be no continuation of life. So, today I want all of you to be good ambassadors of Imo State.” Ahmed Expresses Dismay Over Cases Of Abuses Meted Out To Children Abdulfatah Ahmed, Kwara State governor, expressed dismay over the growing cases of abuses meted out to children by unscrupulous parents, guardians and caregivers. Ahmed, in a message to commemorate this year’s Children’s Day, noted that numerous cases of abuse of children by their parents or guardians are frequently reported and called for an end to the ill-practice. He warned that the government would not hesitate to prosecute erring individuals to serve as deterrent to others. The governor urged parents to spend more time with their children and wards in order to ensure a better society and an assured future for the children. He urged parents and guardians to bequeath quality education, moral and spiritual upbringing to their children and wards to make them useful citizens, saying that education remains free and compulsory for children in the state. Ahmed said celebration of the Children’s Day reminds not only leaders at all levels of the need to prioritise the welfare of every Nigerian child but parents the need to spend more valuable time with children. “No nation can grow beyond the quality of its children who are potential leaders and experts in various fields of human endeavours,” he said. Dogara Seeks End To Child Labour Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has said that deliberate efforts must be made to put an end to the exploitation of children across the country. In a statement to commemorate the 2018 Children’s Day, signed by his Special Adviser, Media and Public Affairs, Turaki Hassan, Dogara also expressed concern that many Nigerian children were deprived access to education. He, therefore, called for all hands to be on deck to correct this and also ensure enough security in schools across the nation. “We at the House of Representatives are deeply concerned about the challenges which plague Nigerian children. “Child labour, molestation and other acts of exploitation should have no place in our society and we all must work towards creating an enabling environment which allows all our children to thrive.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 