ENUGU – Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the Association of Former Elected Local Government Chairmen in Enugu State has described the re-election of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi as a foregone conclusion. The association made the declaration at a ceremony in the ALGON office in Enugu, for the endorsement of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s second term bid. Speaking at the ceremony, Hon. Mathias Ekweremadu, the Chairman, Association of Former Local Government Chairmen of Nigeria, Enugu State, said they resolved to support the governor because of his sterling performance in office. Ekweremadu who was chairman of Aninri LGA, said Ugwuanyi has made his mark in the past four years and built legacies across all the 17 local governments and 260 wards in the state. “Democracy is working in Enugu State. Gburu (Ugwuanyi) is our man for 2019. We want to let our people to know that government is what you can do for your people and not what your people can do for you. “We celebrated the payment of 13 month’s salary in Enugu State. We have also celebrated infrastructure development. There is peace and security in the State,” Ekweremadu said. Announcing the endorsement, Ogbonna Idike, the secretary of the association, noted that Governor Ugwuanyi had within a short period in office transformed the state by the provision of infrastructure in the three senatorial districts of Enugu State. Idike who was chairman of Igbo-etiti LGA, said Ugwuanyi has since the inception of his administration, ran an all inclusive administration, which manifests itself in key appointments and other political zones of Enugu State. The former council boss equally lauded other giant strides of the governor, such as encouraging investment through tax holidays, as a catalyst for job creation and N100 million endowments for the neighbouurhod watch, resulting in the procurement of patrol vehicles in the various communities in Enugu State in line with international standards on community policing. Idike praised the governor for reaching out to other political parties, apart from his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the firm belief that governance is about the people and not based on only political leanings. He described as unprecedented, the construction of five ultra-modern fire stations across the state, employment of 2000 primary school teachers and another 2000 post primary school teachers in Enugu State. He applauded the governor for the revitalisation of Enugu State Star Printing and Publishing Company, publishers of Daily Star, which had gone moribund for over 20 years and immediate release of N5 million to each of the 450 communities in Enugu State as part of the N10 million grant for the execution of projects that are dear to the hearts of the people. He added that the empowerment of market women with the sum of N50,000 to each of them and the recent directive for the reconstruction of market stalls gutted by fire at Timbre Shed Uwani Enugu showed that Governor Ugwuanyi’s democracy dividends know no boundaries. Responding, Governor Ugwuanyi said he was humbled by the endorsement he received from the former council chairmen, pointing out that the foundation of the peace enjoyed in Enugu State today emanated from the local governments. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 