Ogenyi Onazi, Super Eagles midfielder, has discountenanced the idea that the team will be over-confident at the summer World Cup in Russia because of the victories over Argentina and Poland in their pre-World Cup friendly games. Rather, he said that the victories have not in anyway generated feeling of over-confidence in camp, but focused and ambitious, dismissing feelings that the team would be over-confident going into the World Cup following the victories. “There is nothing like over-confidence. What I can say is that we are a very ambitious team and we will always be ready to play any team. Yes, we defeated Argentina and Poland, but that has not in any way generated feelings of over-confidence in the camp. We are focused and have our heads on our shoulders. “For us, humility and hard work will be the winning words going ahead. Our preparation is going on well and we are happy with that. At the World Cup, we will come up against different teams with different styles and approaches of play. It is important that we are adequately prepared and we appreciate the games that the NFF has lined up for us,” he said. He assured that the team would be ready for their remaining World Cup friendly matches against the DR Congo, England and the Czech Republic. Nigeria host the Leopards of the DR Congo in Port Harcourt on 28th May, before playing England at Wembley on 2nd June and Czech Republic in Vienna on 6th June. “We are not focusing on any particular game; we are getting ready to face all the teams that we have to play before the World Cup. It is the right mentality to approach the games. “I have been asked several questions about the match against England, but I tell people that the England match is very important, just like the other matches that we have to play. What is key for us is to get into the right psychological state to confront every opposition that lie ahead, including those that will be waiting at the World Cup,” Onazi told thenff.com on phone from his base in Turkey. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 