Osogbo – The traditional ruler of Ikirun, Oba Abdul-Rauf Olayiwola Adedeji, has said that Governor Aregbesola of Osun has set  an enviable  standard and legacy for the state through his numerous laudable achievements and successes in the state. The monarch stated that the governor has fulfilled the hopes of the founding fathers of Osun with the development he has brought. Oba Adedeji gave the commendation in his palace when he  hosted the Governor and his team who were on a goodwill visit to Ifelodun Federal Constituency in continuation of the All Progressives Congress  (APC) membership sensitization tour across Ifelodun, Boripe and Odo-Otin local governments. He described Governor Rauf Aregbesola as a game-changer whose impact in the last seven and a half years has taken Osun to an enviable height. The monarch urged the electorate to vote for continuity as the only way to sustain the good legacies, which the Aregbesola’s administration has accomplished in the last seven years. The monarch affirmed that the Aregbesola’s administration has touched lives in the execution of all its pro-people programmes, saying it has become imperative for the people of the state to support the continuity bid for the good works to continue. According to the monarch: “There are certain places where the truth must be told without sentiments and the palace is one of them, the truth is that the Aregbesola government has taken Osun out of the wilderness. “Aregbesola has made us see the light in Osun. This state used to be like a gloried local government, but the state is wearing a new look and now has all the facilities a state should have, as we can now see. “It’s as if Aregbesola should continue as governor, we know that’s not possible but we trust God that He will provide a worthy successor that will continue from where Aregbesola will stop. “We don’t want Osun to witness stagnation and retrogression again and so we want the ruling APC to continue in government for the growth and development to continue as well. “Aregbesola has come to Osun and has conquered,” the monarch stressed. Addressing the APC supporters, Governor Rauf Aregbesola explained that his government has impacted every household in the state through various social protection programmes. Assuring that the road that passes through the boundary town of Ila-Odo will soon be completed as a dual carriageway, the governor reminded the gathering that the present administration has constructed roads in places that nobody thought was ever possible. Aregbesola implored the people of the state to continue to have faith in the ruling APC as it is the only party that means well for the state and Nigeria at large. He said, “We must be reminded that the only party that has good plans for our people is the APC and we must work towards the continuity of the party in government. “The relative peace being enjoyed in the state is made possible through God and the fact that the APC is a peace-loving party and we have spent a lot of money to ensure the security of the state. “Our party has touched every household in Osun in one way or the other because we believe in social protection programmes for the people”, he assured. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 