Olorogun Taleb Tebite is former member of the Delta State House of Assembly who represented Ughelli South Constituency. In this interview with SUNDAY APAH, he spoke on  Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s achievements in the last three years and his intention to vie for the state’s Assembly seat again. Excerpts: How do you see the several awards given to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa by different organisations in recent time? The series of award being awarded to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa were rightly deserved. These awards will spur him to do more because governance is all about development of the people. Just walk around the state and you will see that Governor Okowa really wants to better the lots of Deltans. As a politician, I took time to drive round the Big Heart State and found out that almost all the riverine communities are with standard roads, major streets and towns are tarred. What Roadwell Contracting Nigeria Limited is doing in the riverine area is something else. Look at Oporoza township roads and Okerenkoko roads projects. They are wonderful. Is it what Obakpor Engineering Nigeria Limited is doing on the land? All I have to do is to thank the governor for a job well done. You need to go round and see for yourself what the governor is doing. It is not just by talking, I saw them with my eyes, and I am saying it the way it is. Kudos must be given to the Commissioner for Works and other commissioners who are doing everything possible for their boss to succeed. Do you think Governor Okowa deserved all the awards he bagged from the different organisations? He actually deserved the awards based on the performances on ground, which you can see everywhere in the state. I will never align myself to those that specialise in tarnishing people’s names. I can boldly say that Governor Okowa has performed above 90 percent. I can tell you from a vantage position that the governor has done well. Why are you always commending Governor Okowa in the media? Whatever it takes me to say things the way it supposed to be on pages of newspapers and electronic media, I will do it because this governor is a performer. If he is not a performer, I stand to be challenged. A man that has done all that and is still doing, and you are asking me why I am singing his praise. I can go to any length to sing praises of him. There is nothing wrong if I sing praises of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s developmental strides in Delta State. I do not want to join issues with people that are anti-development. This governor means well for his people, and I and the good people of Ughelli South Local Government Area that I represent, will forever remain grateful to the administration of Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa. So, I am singing his praises based on the performances on ground, which you can see everywhere in the state. I will never align myself to those that specialise in tarnishing people’s names. Would you say the governor has done well in the area of human capital development, especially youth empowerment and employment? If there is any government that has employed the youths more in Nigeria, I will say it is the Delta State government. When Governor Okowa came in, he initiated the YAGEP and STEP which have engaged over 10,000 youths in various skills. I can attest to that in my own local government area, where several persons were engaged. Are we talking about the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC) and the civil service? These reports are there and he is doing more. Could you mention some the things Governor OKowa has done for the people of Ughelli South Local Government Area? He has done a lot for my people, especially in the areas of infrastructure, education and other areas. They are there for you to see. What is your response to the clamour by majority of your constituents that you should go for third term? It gives me joy when people are saying, ‘Olorogun Taleb Tebite, we want you again’. What else do you want me to say rather than to thank God for my modest way of living. I stand for my people and if these same people are saying that they want me, what else will I say than ‘yes’ to their clarion call for me to run for a third term. I seek development and progress for my people because we are in a democratic era. For you to enjoy democracy, you must have to do things on ground for your people. That is why I say ‘yes’! Despite the fact that they said I have performed creditably well, I felt there is need to do more for them. As a former member of the Delta State House of Assembly, what would you say you have done for the people? There are a lot of them. Don’t forget that it was during my tenure that former Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan completed the Olomu Bridge that is so strategic and economic driven. It links two kingdoms and other neighbouring communities. So, you can see that in Ughelli South Local Government Area, we have one of the best bridges you can ever think of, which is the Olomu Bridge. If you look at other areas of the council, solar powered street lights and water projects for people to have access to portable water and the upgrade of 2.5KVA electricity project at Ovwor, which was awarded to Obakpor Engineering Company and the company completed it. They are all projects meant to improve the lives of the people of Ughelli South. In the area of education, the Model School at Ososu-Urhie community was completed. The renovation of classroom blocks at Etako Primary School, Okpare and other communities were all completed. There are other uncountable projects that I cannot mention here now. What do you think could be done to curb the current state of insecurity in the country? The herdsmen and Boko Haram issues are being handled by the Military and all the security agents. I want to leave that for them. But, I have to stress that if one must kill to live, such a one has death waiting for him or her at the doorsteps. What is your message to the people of Ughelli South Local Government Area as we approach the 2019 elections? They should expect more things from me, if I am elected. Remember that dividends of democracy have no end. They should expect more. Better things will surely come to them. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 