Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday gave Super Eagles players taking part in the summer World Cup that will kick off in Russia on June 14 a tall order, return with the trophy. But he wants the players to win the trophy by being fair to their opponents and play clean football. The president, who said this at an event to formally bid the team farewell at the Council Chambers of the State House, Abuja, urged the players to make the country proud, noting that as the youngest team going to the World Cup, the Super Eagles might be seen as inexperienced by their opponents, but they should take advantage of the age and leave lasting impression. He reminded the players that over 180 million Nigerians were anxiously waiting to see how they would perform in Russia. “You are going to represent us in Russia, you must bear in mind that you are not just going for a tournament, with each game you must remember that you are carrying the passions, emotions and feelings of over 180 million people. Play fair and clean but demonstrate the gallant spirit which Nigerians are known for. “Nothing unites Nigerians more than football and nothing will gladden the people of Nigeria more than for you to acquit yourself honourably by winning in Russia. “You are the youngest team in the tournament which means you are likely the most inexperienced team, a fact that will not be lost on your opponents. But it is also something that you can use to your advantage. “You have the full support and the blessings of all Nigerians who will look up to you for as long as the tournament lasts. “I commend the Nigerian Football Federation for drawing up the right programme that is helping to refine the team to the powerful force which it’s meant to be. “This is our time, we look up to you to make us proud. All Nigerians join me in saying to you, best of luck. Thank you and God be with you all.” Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Solomon Dalung, assured that the team would not fall short of expectations. He thanked the president for his intervention through the release of funds that ensured that the players’ welfare was not toyed with. “You will recall that when the Super Eagles were drawn in the so-called group of death in the African qualifiers, not many gave them chance from the group that had African football giants like Cameroon, Algeria and Zambia. “However, they shocked all doubting Thomases by not only qualifying but did so remarkably well with a match to spare.” President of the Nigeria Foosball Federation, Amaju Pinnick, attributed the successes recorded by the team to massive support of President Buhari. According to him, the enabling environment provided by the current administration has for the first time ensured the federation did not face the usual challenge of lack of funds. This, he said, has led to them not owing allowances and bonuses of the players and the technical crew. Captain Mikel Obi, on his part, corroborated they have all been paid their allowances and it was now their turn to do their best at their Mundial. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 