Following the successes recorded in executing major infrastructure and social development projects in Edo State, especially the Edo-Azura Power Project, the World Bank says the state has become a model for development financing at the sub-national level in developing countries. Ms. Bongi Kunene, World Bank Executive Director, Angola, Nigeria and South Africa sub-group, gave the verdict during a lunch for 10 visiting World Bank executive directors, at the Government House, Benin City, the state capital. She said the Bretton Woods institution was impressed with the level of work done through its various projects as well as the partnership that birthed the Edo-Azura Power Project. Noting that the state is one of the two sub-national governments that accessed its budget support instruments, she said the projects executed in the state were not just impressive but met the expectations of the visitors. She added that the World Bank was willing to “partner with the state on future projects, as long as the projects are in line with the bank’s focus.” On the Edo-Azura Power Project, she said: “The project is transformational. It gives us a scope of what we can do together. We are delighted to see solutions. We would want to commit ourselves to projects that make sense and are in line with our focus.” She said more of such projects could be executed if governments were willing to cooperate with the bank in granting necessary approvals, allowing for thorough impact assessment and are open to multilateral financing arrangements. Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo, on his part, said with the 450MW Edo-Azura Power Project now on stream, “the state wants more investors” for the Benin Industrial Park and technology innovation hubs. According to him, the enabling environment to host diverse investors is now available, especially with the provision of power by companies like Edo-Azura Power. “Power is the key to industrialisation and development. We need to extend the benefits of this investment. Now that we have power, what are we going to do with it? The next set of projects has to rely on this key infrastructure we have just created. “So, we would be looking at the Benin Industrial Park, building infrastructure to encourage and support manufacturers to come in. We are looking at innovation hubs; we want to use the factor and advantage of 24/7 electricity to encourage technology groups and companies to be located in Edo State,” he said. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 