Honourable Segun Olulade, popularly called Eleniyan, represents Epe Constituency II in the Lagos State House of Assembly on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). He is the Acting Chairman, House Committee on Health Services. In this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, he spoke on the aftermath of last Saturday’s Ward Congresses and his ambition. Excerpts: Given the fallout of some irregularities and violence that trailed last Saturday’s ward congresses of your party, some advocates of tenure extension who had earlier said conducting election now will polarise the party said they have been vindicated. Do you also share that view? Absolutely not!  I believe that for our democracy to continue to develop, this is one of the best things to have happened to our party and the people which is the freedom to elect who will be their leaders in the party, beginning from ward levels.  This is the beginning of the process that will lead to electing candidates for the party and also those who are going to run the affairs of the party in the next four years.  For those who are clamouring for tenure extension, it shows they are not democrats. This congress has vindicated those of us who believe that there is a need for change in the party from the national to the ward level in order to inject fresh ideas in the party.  On the crisis that transpired in few places, I don’t see anything unusual about that. For a party that is considered to be the largest political party in Africa today, we cannot expect that there won’t be pocket of crisis in some places.   I am happy that the national leadership admitted there were challenges in some states and called on members to be law abiding and seek redress through the appeal committees set up in their respective states where there are issues. We should be congratulated for upholding the constitution and doing what is legally right instead of supporting tenure extension which is illegal and according to President Buhari,  may constitute problems for us in the future. This congress shows that we believe in internal democracy and the new leadership that will emerge from the ward to national level will inject new life and reposition the party ahead of the 2019 general election. What is your assessment of the congress in Lagos? It was a huge success.  There were skirmishes in few places but like I said earlier, it is nothing unusual. When you consider the fact that we are the ruling party in Lagos with a large membership, it is normal that there will be disagreements in some places.  This is democracy and people are legally allowed to have divergent views or interests.  If you listen to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode after participating in the exercise at Ward A6 in Papa Epe, he commended the party members for displaying high level of maturity and orderliness during the exercise.  Let me also quote what one of our leaders, Chief Lanre Razak, the Balogun of Epe said.  I quote “Some people expect that we would have crisis riddled congress but you can see for yourself that the whole process is peaceful. The APC has showed that it is the party to emulate. Again there is no party that is devoid of crisis. We have a good crisis management mechanism in place. Our national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has been given an assignment to reconcile the party. I have every confidence that he will achieve the task given to him by President Muhammadu Buhari.” So, all in all, I think the exercise in Lagos is a huge success. We are 97 percent okay. As a ranking member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, we understand you are aspiring for a seat in the House of Representatives in 2019. What has been the response of the people of Epe so far? I have received overwhelming support from everybody, both the young and old, men and women, traders, artisans, party leaders and members.  The decision to contest for the House of Reps seat is not my wish in the first place. It is my people who said having served them creditably well for two terms in Lagos state, they want me to take a step  higher to the national level. They affirmed that I have given my best to them in the last 7 years of my representation in the Lagos State House of Assembly. They gave me the platform first in 2011 and then in 2015 to showcase who I am and what I could offer to the public.   I can tell you that since I made my intention known, a lot of people are excited about. A lot of youths who believe in the Eleniyan ideology have volunteered their time and money to kickstart the campaign while the elderly ones are supporting through prayers and words of advice.  Wherever we go, all you hear is ‘Eleniyan for House of Reps because what we stand for is the people. I am optimistic that by God’s grace, we are going to triumph at the end of the day. Your party will soon elect a new national chairman, what qualities are you expecting from whoever emerges at the end of the exercise? We want a God- fearing leader who will see himself as a servant of all. A chairman who will see himself as the leader of every member of the party and treat everybody with respect irrespective of their status. APC needs as a chairman who will be firm and will not condone any illegality from anyone.  We need a national chairman who will be result –driven and will even win more states for us in 2019.  Above all, we need a chairman who will not be bias in his dealings breathe new life into our party. Governor  Akinwunmi Ambode faced a lot of criticism when he first assumed office, how will you assess him now almost three years  after? I am happy today that people are now saying that Governor Ambode’s performance is impressive and that explains why he has been receiving endorsements for second term everywhere.  Just look at the pages of newspapers and on social media and see the vast commendations that the governor is receiving globally. Just like I said with President Buhari that Nigerians should be patient with him, I also canvassed same when Governor Ambode first came on board. I told Lagosians then the challenge the governor is facing is not unusual. When you come into office after election, you always meet this kind of situation on ground.  So, when Governor Ambode came on board, there is a need for him to do a lot of planning and the result of that planning is what we are witnessing now.  Everybody now have confidence in his administration.  You can see what he has done in the area of security, health, education and infrastructure.  Everywhere you go in Lagos, you see transformation taking place. Just look at the Light up Lagos project, transformation of Oshodi, inner roads and so on  . There is no community or local government in Lagos that has not felt the impact of the government.  You can see the synergy between the governor and the Lagos state House of Assembly.  That also extends to the state’s civil service.  There is efficiency in the public service because the civil servants know they have a leader who is efficient and committed to duty. That to me, is leadership by example. And the governor also appreciates them by paying their salary as at when due and also prioritising their welfare.  I believe that is what the governance is all about. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 