Allied Trust and Systems Nigeria Limited (ATSL), has inaugurated a newly completed resort centre in Lagos. The complex, known as Funplex Resort Centre, was developed on a Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) agreement between the company and the National Planning Commission (NPC) to develop and manage the facility for the Centre for Management Development (CMD), Lagos. Under the terms of the agreement, 5.02 hectares of land belonging to CMD was demised to ATSL, who was also expected to renovate an existing 30-room facility, which serve as the Guest House for CMD; construct a 102-room guest house with a four-star facility; build and operate a 1, 000 seat conference facility and pay a graduated annual rent to the CMD management in three tranches over the lease period. At the inauguration, Mr. Emeka Nwasike, the Managing Director of ATSL, said, the concession agreement ATSL has with the CMD, is to develop the latter’s Guest House, a property owned by the institution, sitting on a mass expanse of land in Magodo, Lagos. According to him, not only has ATSL succeeded in transforming the guest house, but the company has gone beyond to develop the property, turning it into a five-star relaxation centre through the establishment of several other businesses within the property. “the event centre which is part of a mix called Funplex Resort is a one-stop-shop for fun and entertainment. “Our goal is to provide Nigerians with an event centre that can cater for all their corporate and social needs,” he said. Features in the facility include a gym, spa, beauty salon, cinema, a bush bar, an underground club house and event halls that have the capacity to sit over 2, 000 guests comfortably. “It has modern facilities like air conditioning systems, well-furnished VIP suites/changing rooms, a standard performance stage and entertainment technology systems” he said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 