“All the world’s a stage, And all the men and women merely players; They have their exits and their entrances; And one man in his time plays many parts, His acts being seven ages.” “All the world’s a stage” is the phrase that begins a monologue from William Shakespeare’s As You Like It, spoken by the melancholy Jaques in Act II Scene VII. The speech compares the world to a stage and life to a play, and catalogues the seven stages of a man’s life, sometimes referred to as the seven ages of man: infant, schoolboy, lover, soldier, justice, Pantalone and old age, facing imminent death. It is one of Shakespeare’s most frequently quoted passages. The above also describes the vicissitudes of life as epitomized by Arsene Wenger, who will stand down as manager of Arsenal Football Club of England in the next 24 hours. The longest serving and most successful manager of this English side will be addressed as former Arsenal manager as from Monday, what a life. His last match as Arsenal boss is against Bournemouth away on Sunday. His exit has long been awaited, but when it came, it caught the world football community unaware, though; the football world heaved a sigh of relief. At last, many said, it is over. He has blown the final whistle on his coaching career at Arsenal. However, all the hues and cries about Wenger should go has ended. All the insults, abuses, placards targeted deriding him, despite all that he has achieved for the club will cease. While announcing his exit, Wenger stated: “After careful consideration and following discussions with the club, I feel it is the right time for me to step down at the end of the season. I am grateful for having had the privilege to serve the club for so many memorable years. I managed the club with full commitment and integrity. I want to thank the staff, the players, the directors and the fans that make this club so special.” The truth is Wenger was shoved aside after it became clear that supporters of the club were ready to boycott the club in the new season. They were no longer ready to buy next season tickets. Several of the fans have started staying away from the club. With the supporters refusing to buy next season tickets, Wenger’s stay at the club have come, the owners of the club were, therefore, constrained to sacrifice him. How will this Frenchman be remembered? Wenger, who joined the club in October 1996, is no doubt, the most successful manager in the club’s Whistory. He won three Premier League titles and seven FA Cups. The highlight of his coaching career at Arsenal was going unbeaten in the league in 2003-2004 with the team nicknamed invincible. For 20 consecutive seasons, Arsenal under Wenger finished in the top four bracket of the Premier League table. In the 2005/2006 season, Arsenal lost the UEFA Champions League final 2-1 to FC Barcelona. Perhaps, his most enduring legacy was the construction of the team’s new playing ground, the £390m Emirates Stadium which they moved into in 2006. But, he never won any European title or the League Cup in England. He revolutionized football in England through the introduction of a playing style that relegated the boring and highly physical English ‘kick and follow’ approach into oblivion. Tayo Ogunbiyi, writing in PM News said of Wenger, “He introduced new ideas about nutrition, training and tactics and established a track record for signing players who became global stars, notably Dennis Bergkamp, Patrick Vieira, Thierry Henry, Cesc Fabregas, Nwankwo Kanu, Marc Overmars and Robin van Persie. For his innovative approach to the game, Wenger was nicknamed the “Professor”. With a degree in Economics, the French born tactician was not only interested in bringing laurels to the team; he was equally keenly concerned about bringing financial stability to the club.” Will he be missed? If no one will, I will. My interest in Premier League was gingered by no other person but Wenger. His special preference for players of African origin endeared him to me. How he transformed Nwakwo Kanu game made to see him in a different light. I could be accused of never seeing anything wrong in Wenger, as far as football is concerned. Honestly my interest in the English Premier League with special preference for Arsenal was aroused the day Kanu scored his hat-trick in 15 minutes against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge to turn a 2-0 deficit to a 3-2 victory. I was a proud Nigerian on that day. But of late Arsenal was no longer the team of old. The fear factor has long evaporated. And it was no surprise that for the first time in 22 years, the club failed to qualify for the UEFA Champions League having placed fifth in the league last season. In Europe, Arsenal became the team every one prefers at the round of 16 stage failing to cross the second round hurdle in the last seven seasons. In fact, their 10-2 aggregate loss to Bayern Munich two seasons back was the last straw that broke the Carmel’s back. This season, Arsenal is out of the Champions League for next season. The club can only end up in sixth position, a position that will not qualify them for the Champions League. Only last week, the club crashed out of the Europa League at the semi-final. So for him to call it quit seems the best option for the club as he has lost touch with the reality. The truth is, time is up for Wenger, he has to live one day and tomorrow Sunday is the day. So Au Revoir Monsieur Wenger. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 