Lagos / Abuja – Lawyers, economists, political activists and other Nigerians have unanimously given thumbs down to the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government, saying three years since its inauguration has been a record of failed promises and mounting hardship for the general citizenry. Speaking in reaction to Tuesday, May 29 Democracy Day speech of the president, they stated in exclusive chats with DAILY INDEPENDENT that facts on the ground in Nigeria today totally belie the high marks the president scored himself in terms of the economy, security and the anti-corruption campaign. According to lawyer and President of the Pan-Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Aka Ikenja, Chief Goddy Uwaruike, the president’s speech was very disappointing. He added that there was nothing to celebrate about Nigeria since Buhari’s inauguration. He said, “I listened to the Democracy Day speech of the president, and I must say it was disappointing, to state the least. “I score the president very low in respect of all the parameters that can be used to assess him or indeed any government for that matter; but particularly in terms of security, the anti-corruption fight and the economy.” He added, “It is interesting that the more he beats his chest in self-approval over the security situation in Nigeria, the more the tide of insecurity in the country is rising. “For example, barely 24 hours to his third Democracy Day speech, the Fulani herdsmen yet again inflicted carnage when they attacked a Catholic seminary and left two Catholic priests and other parishioners dead. “The herdsmen have done incredible damage and noting is being done to bring about abatement in their activities. “The talk that Boko Haram insurgency has been tamed is also a lie. As we speak Boko Haram is fully in charge in Yobe State. “If you are travelling from Lagos to Benin and you get to the road that branches off to Ogbemudia Farms you will see the herdsmen fully in charge. “Do you know that the Kaduna-Abuja and the Lokoja-Abuja roads have been taken over by the herdsmen? You are on your own if you decide to fuel your car and pass that road. Yet the president says he has a handle over the security situation in the country. “On the anti-corruption fight of this government, what I see is a half-hearted commitment. Are you not amazed how he has swept the corruption allegation against his men under the carpet, while the EFCC is only after the PDP people? “On the economy, the failure of this government even cries the loudest. “Hope you know that minimum wage is still N18, 000. Wages have not increased. But food prices have hit the roof since Buhari took office, and have not come down. “Buhari met a bag of rice at N7,000. Today it is N14, 000. If you take N14, 000 to buy a bag of rice for your family, can the balance of N4, 000 take care of the family for the rest of the month? “The point is that under Buhari cost of living has spiked and standard of living has tanked. “The value of one dollar is now N360. That means it is costlier to import goods into Nigeria. Yet Nigeria is basically an import-dependent nation, since the manufacturing sector in Nigeria is practically dead. “What about the recession that kicked in under Buhari? The tales of woes under this government are too manifold to recount.” For Barrister Olusina Fasugba, the sentiments are not dissimilar. He lambasts Buhari, saying enough of his knack for propaganda, which he used his Democracy Day speech to push. According to him, “I totally disagree with Buhari’s positive self-assessment. For saying that he has steered the Nigerian economy creditably well, he’s simply on the propaganda mode. And that is unfortunate. “If he has done well in terms of the economy, the question to ask is how that has translated in terms of the standard of living of the average Nigerian; in terms of quality of life in the country? “Truth is that Nigeria is very far from the Eldorado that Buhari has tried to paint. “On security, the menace of Boko Haram and the Fulani herdsmen are still there. “Under this government no serious discussion is going on as per how to rein in the carnage being inflicted on Nigerians by the killer herdsmen. “It is as though for Buhari the situation hasn’t reached a bad-enough proportion to merit the emergency intervention of this government despite the fact that the slaughter by the herdsmen has grown to be more brazen and of a genocidal proportion. “If the government were serious, heads of the security chief would have started rolling. “The fact that the security organisations have failed to stop the killing should have resulted in the total overhaul of the nation’s security architecture. “The president is free to praise himself to high heavens; but the facts on ground prove to the contrary. “On his fight against corruption, of course you and I know it is not being fought holistically. “What has happened to members of his kitchen cabinet that have been accused or even indicted for corruption? Nothing. “Simply put: the anti-corruption war of this government is not being fought wholeheartedly.” For National Welfare Secretary of the Nigerian Bar Association, Barrister Adesina Adegbite, “It is not for the president to score himself. That is the job of Nigerians to do.” According to him, “Three years since Buhari’s inauguration, Nigerians now know better. “Nigerians were fooled three years ago into voting for Buhari; but they cannot be fooled forever despite all the propaganda. “Look at what is on ground in Nigeria today. That is what matters. The failure of this government is all-round and complete.” On his part, Chief Emeka Obegolu, lawyer and President, Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), says the president’s Democracy Day self-adulation is meaningless. He explains: “Every candidate will score himself high if given the chance to mark his or her answer script in an exam. “But for the sake of objective assessment of the president three years since being in the saddle, the score the president gave himself should be read as meaningless. “His anti-corruption campaign is politically biased. What has happened to his former SGF who was officially indicted for corruption? Has the EFCC cleared him? “Nigerians will want to know what has happened to that case before the election. “On the security situation in the country, I recall that the Chief of Army Staff went to Birnin Gwari and assured them that with his deployment of his men to the community, the activities of criminal bandits would be a thing of the past in that community. “But just barely a week ago, 100 persons were kidnapped on the Birnin Gwari Road, despite the so-called intervention of the army. “As we speak can you drive your car and say you are travelling to Kaduna? That would be one of the riskiest adventure any Nigerian can undertake today. “That is how bad the security situation in Nigeria is today.” In his assessment of President Buhari’s three years in office, Comrade Jamaine Amen Imhontuniye, a presidential aspirant under the National Conscience Party (NCP) for the 2019 election, said nothing much has changed. He said, “President Buhari has not delivered any of his campaign promises. Nigerians are still where they were in 2015. “In fact, they are now poorer than the president met them. Nothing much has changed in areas of education, road infrastructure and redundant economy, among others. “Unemployment is higher than President Buhari met it. Security is not improving. It is even worse.” On the president’s claim of an economy that is rebounding, he stated that the naira has no value just as inflation is high, saying that the country’s dependence on oil has not changed. He observes: “Nigeria has gone into deficit. We owe the World Bank and several countries. The debt profile is rising on a daily basis. Nigeria owes China and other countries. “Nigeria is drifting towards a failed nation under President Buhari. “There is a high level of insecurity as the Boko Haram and the herdsmen have continued to kill Nigerians on daily basis, while corruption, which he promised to fight, thrives unabated. “The administration also used its security apparatus to intimidate opponents and critics.” On his part, Venerable Funso Awe, a Lagos-based Anglican priest and activist, who said he campaigned against the PDP with the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, using the Civil Consciousness Initiative (ICCI) platform, said the ruling party has not satisfied the yearnings of the people. There are other personalities like Rev Wilson Badejo, the immediate-past General Overseer of Foursquare Gospel Church. He said, “We had high hopes for the government of this country. “In 2015, I was not partisan. But, we saw the drift. The nation was going down under the Peoples Democratic Party administration. We campaigned for the All Progressives Congress. “The mantra was ‘Change’. But, nothing has changed in terms of the economy and infrastructure. “The Lagos-Ibadan Expressway is the same way former President Goodluck Jonathan left it. This government has not changed anything. “In terms of insecurity, when Jonathan was there, the Boko Haram was killing. They are still killing. The government cannot even protect itself. “A few days ago, hoodlums attacked the National Assembly. It is said that they wanted to abduct two senators. If they are not safe, how safe are the common man? “On anti-corruption, I do not want to go into detail. But, in a parade, before you say ‘Forward March’, you ‘mark time’. “So far, the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has been marking time. He has not called for ‘Forward March’. That is the unfortunate situation. “We have not made any progress. Even in a year, there should be some progress, even if you do not make a change. Where we are three years ago, that is where we still are.” Speaking on the anti-corruption crusade, he stated that the same thing ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo and Nuhu Ribadu were accused of are what the country is still experiencing. He said, “I have a friend, Musiliu Obanikoro, who was indicted by this administration. He left PDP and joined APC. When they released names of looters, his name was omitted. It means that if you join APC, you obtain an absolution and your sins are forgiven.” Another respondent, Chris Maduka, a political activist and the National President of the New Tone In Leadership Foundation, said the president has succeeded in disappointing people that celebrated his victory, which he said at that time was irrational. “Three years into President Buhari’s government? The answer is blowing in the wind. It is like the Americans will say, ‘It is glaring that even Steve Wonder will see it.’” President Buhari has vindicated his critics and everyone who had doubts about his ability to govern, he said. According to him, “We have always had the problem of tribalism, nepotism. But, we have seen a new level of nepotism on appointments by the leadership across the board. “We have failed to put down our best 11 in government. We have not really paid attention to the most important asset in the society, which is the human asset. It is the human asset that drives intellectual and financial assets.” Worried about the wanton waste of human lives across the country, he said the spate of killings and violence across the land seem also to have put even the most advent sympathisers of the administration at the edge. He stated: “If an opinion poll is conducted today, I doubt if the job approval rating for this administration will make it get 30 percent pass. That is to be conservative. In the past three years, what is obvious is that hunger knows no tribe or religion.” On the performance of the government in respect of the economy, experts and economist who spoke with DAILY INDEPENDENT said despite the accretion in the country’s external reserves, the economy in the last three years has not been good. Dr. Ogho Okiti, an Abuja-based economist and CEO of Times Economics consulting firm, said things are worse than they were in 2015 when the Buhari government took over the mantle of leadership. His words: “If you look at growth, what was the growth in 2015? It was about 4 percent and now we are struggling with about 2 percent. Aside growth, if you look at unemployment, I will say that has doubled in the last three years. “On the national debt, we have added about $12 billion in the last three years. So, whichever indices that you look, we are worse than what we were in 2015.” In his contribution, another economist, Dr. Boniface Chizea, said the country in the last three years experienced its first economic recession in 25 years; and since exit from recession, the country has failed to capitalise on the success recorded. According to him, “For the first time in 25 years we allowed ourselves to go into recession because we did not take action when we were supposed to. “At some point in time people said we were facing a depression. “We just barely came out of recession and in 2017, while we were doing that, there was a dip in GDP in the fourth quarter of 2017. “Now we are talking about growth of about 2 percent. Naturally, if your growth is about 2 percent it is not good enough.” Speaking on the way out of the muddle, Chizea said, “We have to find new urgency to be able to do things in a way that will show we are serious. “We have to now start a new consciousness that indicates that we are in a hurry to reclaim what has been lost, otherwise, the predictions are not very good.” For Cyril Ampka, another Abuja-based economist, the economy in the last three years is nothing to write home about. He observes: “It is noteworthy that we exited recession in 2017, but the government has refused to grow the economy. “It is so sad that a country that is daily recording improvement in external reserves is also deep into debt.” President’s Claims Empty, Speech Hollow — PDP The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the Democracy Day address by President Muhammadu Buhari as the possible last. The PDP said President Buhari would be defeated in the 2019 election and would not have the opportunity to deliver another Democracy Day speech. The party noted in a statement by Kola Ologbodiyan, Publicity Secretary, on Tuesday, that the speech was hollow, uninspiring, and full of self-praise and false performance claims. It said the speech did not address the issues agitating the minds of Nigerians. According to the PDP, “The address, which is the worst since President Buhari took office in 2015, was garnished with a list of phantom projects and executive regurgitations, inherently designed by his handlers to sway Nigerians and divert attention from the many failures of this administration. “The few Nigerians who bordered to listen to the address were miffed that, in the most insensitive manner, Mr. President failed to show the littlest empathy to millions of citizens groaning under the worst form of poverty, starvation, and economic hardship occasioned by his misrule.” The opposition party argued that the president was aloof to the plight of Nigerians. Part of the statement reads, “In fact, no line in the supposed Democracy Day address had any inclination towards justice for victims of abuse of human rights, reported executive high-handedness, illegal arrests and detentions, extra-judicial executions as well as victims of killings and daily bloodletting in Benue, Taraba, Zamfara, Kaduna, Plateau, Borno, Kogi, Yobe and other parts of the country, by insurgents and marauders. “Mr. President, on Democracy Day, had no words of assurance on the unrelenting violation of our constitution; assault on the National Assembly, and erosion of personal freedom of citizens. “The president said nothing on the humongous corruption going on under his administration, where APC leaders and cabal at the presidency have stolen over N10 trillion, mainly from a sector under his direct supervision.” PDP further stated that the fact that the president had no words committing him towards the conduct of free, fair, and credible 2019 general elections, apparently showed that he was overwhelmed by the avalanche of public rejection ahead of the polls. Saraki Warns Against Persecution Of Perceived Enemies, Stifling Of Free Speech Senate President Bukola Saraki has cautioned against actions that are capable of undermining the country’s democracy. Yusuf Olaniyonu, Special Adviser to the Senate President on Media, quoted Saraki as warning against such acts in a statement on Tuesday. Saraki said Democracy Day could not be celebrated without canvassing for caution against recent negative developments in the country’s polity. “As we celebrate democracy today, I congratulate our people and express my conviction that this system of government is the best so far invented. However, it goes beyond the conduct of elections to put leaders in office,” the statement reads. “Democracy involves strict adherence to rule of law as against the rule of men. It is about respect for due process and following laid down procedures. It is about respect for and building of institutions. That is why we cannot be celebrating Democracy Day without canvassing for caution on some recent negative developments in our polity, particularly as we prepare for next year’s general elections. “These include abuse of office in a manner that suggests persecution and oppression of perceived enemies, stifling of free expression, undermining of democratic institutions, and impunity on the part of certain persons who behave as though they are above the laws of the land. “These developments should be of concern to all democrats. Other political and opinion leaders who decided to veil their sight as if they are not seeing these infractions on democracy and choose to keep quiet, should know that they equally pose danger to the survival of our country. History will not be fair to us if we allow our complacency to jeopardise democracy.” The Senate president said Nigerians must be able to speak up against such acts that have the capability of jeopardising the country’s democracy. “It is important for us to quickly tackle all issues that can undermine our democracy, particularly insecurity and lack of good governance. We must immediately find solution to the security issues and ensure that we return the regime of peace, safety of lives and property in all parts of our country,” Saraki said. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 