Lagos – Hon. Kehinde Bamigbetan, the Lagos State Commissioner of Information and some of his senior officials, on Thursday May 10, 2018 met a select group of senior journalists. During the meeting, which lasted about two hours, rather than being the one to speak, the commissioner allowed the media men to talk to him as he said he wanted to feel the pulse of Lagosians on what the state had been doing and the areas of pitfalls. He stressed that with Governor Akinwunmi Ambode having spent three years, there was need to review not only his successes, but also the grey areas, which should be given the state government’s attention. Bamigbetan stressed that with the possibility of Abode going for second term, his campaign, unlike a first timer, would be based on his achievements. He therefore maintained that there was the need to ensure that the governor stands out from the crowd during his campaigns. The commissioner therefore urged the journalists to point out any area they felt had not been well addressed by the government, be it infrastructure, healthcare, water, among others. Bamigbetan took time to listen as the media practitioners pointed out several grey areas that needed to be well addressed by the administration. The issues touched included dilapidated roads in several parts of the state, absence of LASTMA officials in some vital areas, traffic congestion in places like Ikorodu, Mile 12 axis and Anifowoshe area and garbage encroachment in the metropolis, among others. The commissioner responded to all the issues pointed out as much as possible, even as he indicated what action was being taken by the government and what would be done without delay. He even made calls on the spot or sent text messages to some of his colleagues to report to them of his interaction with the media men. One of the areas pointed out was the state of Okota roads in the Isolo area of the state. While he commended efforts of the Community Development Association (CDA) in the area, Bamigbetan explained that the state government had started work on the inner roads. He disclosed: “We have acquired machines that produce interlocking blocks at the rate of 1,000 per hour. This will help us to work on the roads. Okota will have its taste of this development. It will reach Ago Palace Way and then to Festac.” On absence of LASTMA officials at some crucial areas to check traffic congestion, the commissioner lamented that law enforcement officials hardly enjoy good relationship with Nigerians. He stated that several LASTMA officials had been injured due to what he termed “lackadaisical attitude of Okada riders.” He lamented that several LASTMA officials had been beaten up by Okada riders in the course of their duties and that “instead of helping to rescue the officials, people would be watching and using their telephones to video the scenes. “We continually appeal to the conscience of people. People should be assisting law enforcers. They have the responsibility to assist the law enforcers.” However, on the absence of LASTMA at the Satelline Town area, the commissioner noted that the area was meant to be what he termed “a big men area”, adding that he would notify the agency of the situation to see if there was need to draft some officials to the area. On water transportation, he said the state government was thinking of putting in place a policy on it, to check the avalanche of rickety boats being run by jetty operators. Bamigbetan also spoke on the nagging issue of mountains of garbage in Lagos streets. He said: “It is a story that is constantly being told. It is a journey. We want to make tourism revenue generating.” He stressed that that the government was aware that it was not good for the image of the state for a tourist to come out of his or hotel only to be greeted with eaps of refuse. He explained the controversy over the streamlining of the areas the PSP operators ply and the engagement of Visionscape. But, he assured that the issue was being resolved and that very soon, the issue of garbage heaps would be a thing of the past. On the traffic gridlock at Jakande Gate in Isolo area, Bamigbetan described the place as major traffic exchange. But, he assured that the state’s Ministry of Transportation was looking into ways to manage the situation. Also, he added that the traffic gridlock at Mile 12 axis was being addressed. Bamigbetan was also taken to task over the water situation in the state, which he agreed was a major issue. He stated that there were 27 water projects going on in the state. But, he stressed that the Lagos State Water Corporation had been spending huge amount of money to generate water, but could not reticulate. He said the government had been inviting companies that could go into water reticulation. He said: “If we can fix water generation well, we will go to reticulation. We have refused to enforce the laws on boreholes until we fix the problem with reticulation.” The issue of littering the city with plastic bottles was also touched. Bamigbetan described it as an environmental issue, disclosing that the Ministry of the Environment had started to work with several Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) to find a solution to it. The commissioner also spoke on the situation of the roads on the Badagry axis, which he said had been advertised with foreign companies which could take them up. According to him, “We have taken our executive retreats to the area for everyone to feel the situation.” He however maintained that due diligence was being strictly followed in the award of contracts, disclosing that the government preferred to engage contractors who would start work before collecting the initial cheques. He stressed that the state government had been careful over those to be given its road projects. Bamigbetan informed that the state had been operating zero-deduction from local governments, “but, when there is a project, it is 70:30%. The state takes 70% and the local government takes 30%. We want the local governments to meet their needs. The Lagos State government will continue to assist local governments.” In conclusion, the commissioner commended the media for being a veritable partner in progress with the Lagos State government in its effort to provide democracy dividends to the people. He said the administration had been cherishing objective criticisms, especially those that point out the areas which the government should attend to in its service to the people. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 