Chief Nnaemeka Lawrence Nwankwo is a governorship aspirant under the United Progressive Party (UPP) in Imo State come 2019 election. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on his plans for the people of the state. Excerpt. What is the state of your party, UPP, as an electoral platform? I am running through the United Progressive Party (UPP) platform. UPP is headed at the national level by Chief Chekwas Okorie (Ojeozi Ndi Igbo). He is one man I have so much respect for because of his passion and commitment in fighting for the rights of Ndigbo without prejudice. UPP is another fast growing Igbo political party that was given birth to in 2002. In UPP things are done orderly according to the party’s constitution and manifesto.  UPP has a very good, reliable and strong structure both at the state and at the national level. A lot of people know about UPP as a party that represents transparency and orderliness.  That is the party that will produce about 80% of the elective seats in Imo State in 2019. How is your party preparing for the 2019 elections? UPP is not known for flamboyance or unnecessary noise making.  As a party that follows stipulated rules and regulations, it will carry out all its activities in line with the INEC rules for the operation of political parties and in line with the party’s constitution and manifesto as I had earlier stated. The party is also going to have their reaffirmation congress prior to party primaries. How would you describe your mission in Government House, Owerri? My mission is to develop, revive and create sustainable basic social amenities for the people in the first two years of my administration. What are these basic social amenities?  They are pipe borne water. Basically every home now has own borehole water. But, we have not considered the long term effect of that on our environment and safety, especially in the area of natural disaster.  I also have in my agenda electricity through sustainable and renewable energy, which will involve foreign and local experts. Steady and reliable power supply will encourage new companies to spring up and existing ones to thrive. The dependency ratio on the government for job will drastically reduce and the living conditions of the people improved to a very great extent there by reducing crime rate to about 10 % after 4 years in office.  Good and well constructed road channels at all levels of the state to enhance rural-urban development and cut down on rural-urban migration while decongesting the city. During my administration, poverty level will be reduced to 35% in the first four years.  The living conditions of the people shall improve up to 70% What difference would your administration make in the life of Imo people? A lot. If elected, my government will provide quality education with exchange programmes outside the country. We will introduce leadership training for our youths in overseas. We shall encourage small-scale and large scale farming by providing small grants for agriculture as well as land for families that want to go into agriculture, but does not have the land to do so. Acquisition of skills will be a priority. The youths shall be engaged in massive skill acquisition programmes that after four years in office. Every Imo youth will boast of two or more skills that will keep him or her engaged and resourceful for the rest of his or her life. My manifesto is all-encompassing. It touches the agricultural sector, industry, infrastructure, education, health, social amenities, among others with each having a time bound for completion.  It is important to note that all these initiatives are long term projects. But, I will ensure that provisions are made for continuity after my tenure. What approaches would you use to achieve your mission? My approaches will be unique, realisable and reachable.  There would be very particular approaches to every approved project. But, the rule of law will be greatly upheld. The UPP is relatively small party. How would you gather enough public support to match candidates of parties like the APC, PDP, APGA, which are bigger in the state? If you have been following events and the masses opinion, you will agree with me that who becomes the next governor of Imo State will, to a very large extent, depend on the individual not on the party as most parties have lost credibility. We have also noticed that most of the challenges we face in leadership here in this part of world is being party dependent. That is why most party leaders keep moving from one political party to the other looking for greener pasture. We have to understand that a party is only a platform for the election of any candidate. Political parties in Nigeria do not fund their candidates instead, the aspirants and/or candidates fund the party, which makes the party lose its relevance in what obtains in government, that is the reason, a candidate will win an election with a particular party and move to another party after a short period in office.  But, I believe that UPP will gather that momentum and support in due course. As an aspirant, are you not worried that Gov Okorocha plans to hand over to his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu and would do everything to ensure his victory? Frankly speaking, I don’t consider this an issue in any way. Uche Nwosu is a bonafide citizen of Imo State. He has the right to contest, vote and be voted for just like every other citizen of the state. The onus now lies on the masses to give him their mandate or not. How do you see the intervention of Imo Zuru Kwuo in given the people a political direction for the 2019 elections? Imo Zuru Kwo came across to me as a social, cultural group of Imo stakeholders who have distinguished themselves in ensuring that the needs of the people of Imo to get the right person to represent them in all facets of leadership positions in Imo is met. Every well-meaning citizen of Imo State, who has been following the events at the state and national level recently, would no doubt be part of such a decent group. I wish to register my support for this group. It is important to me as much as other Imolites that 2019 elections will usher in a change of government. Imo Zuru Kwuo wants to support those patriotic leaders to win at all levels regardless of political platforms. Every well-meaning aspirant needs the support of a body like Imo Zuru Kwuo if we are to expect a better Imo State come 2019, hence I want it to be part of my aspiration. What role would you expect Imo Zuru Kwuo to play in 2019 elections? Well, I think, Imo Zuru Kwo will be expected to commit to protecting the votes of the masses. We know that people are going to come out in their numbers to vote, but the issues among clusters of citizens in discussion has been the fear of rigging of the election. We would want Imo Zuru Kwo to be the voice of the masses indeed and not to sale out when the chips are down. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 