ADO-EKITI – A political group, Ekiti Coalition for Dynamic Change (ECDC), has alleged that the gubernatorial ambition of ex-governor Segun Oni under the All Progressives Congress (APC) ticket is being bankrolled by some leaders of the rival Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Specifically, the group alleged that no fewer than N250 million has being mobilised for the former governor of Ekiti State by some chieftains of PDP ahead of Saturday primaries At a press conference addressed by its Publicity Secretary, Chief Felix Ajayi in Ado Ekiti on Friday, it alleged that the former Ogun PDP governor Gbenga Daniel routed the money to Oni through the Lagos domiciliary account belonging to a former House of Representatives member in Ekiti, Oyetunde Ojo. He said Daniel decided to transfer the money through Ojo, an inlaw to APC national Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, having been anointed as deputy governor if Oni gets the ticket. However, dispelling the allegation via his media director, Mr. Steve Alabi, Oni said: “We are not disappointed in any way. At a time, they said I will defect to SDP it is now the turn of PDP. “I will not do anything that will compromise my integrity. I did not collect money from anybody, including Chiefs Daniel and Anisulowo. “I am on the field canvassing for votes. Let them go and do same. I am a strong contender in this race and nothing can distract me from my focus.” But the group warned the delegates against misplacing their votes in the primary, alleging that the former Ekiti Chief Executive had agreed to return to PDP after winning the election. Buttressing his allegation that Oni had been hobnobbing with PDP chieftains, the group said: “In the last 48 hours, the ousted governor, Segun Oni has been having alliance with the PDP. “He met with former colleagues in the PDP, who were former governors in the Southwest and solicited financial assistance with a promise that he will return to his former party if he eventually gets the ticket and the general election. “The former governors’ group, led by Otunba Daniel, on Wednesday, My 2, 2018 at about 11.55 am transferred a sum of N127 million to Oni through one Hon Ojo’s bank account domiciled in Lagos. Ojo is the proposed anointed deputy governor of Chief Segun Oni. 0 comments