Abuja  – The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday challenged the presidency and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to account for the over N10 trillion public fund allegedly stolen by the cabal in the presidency and other leaders of the ruling party. This is coming in response to a query issued by the presidency on former President Olusegun Obasanjo in respect to an alleged $16 billion said to have been squandered in the National Integrated Power Project (NIPP) by the former leader, who ruled the country for eight years under the PDP ticket. The PDP response was contained in statement issued on Monday by Kola Ologbodiyan, the party’s publicity secretary, and made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT. According to the PDP spokesperson, the ruling party has been playing the sanctimonious card and pointing accusing fingers at others while their party-men are having a field-day frittering trillions of naira to finance their opulent lifestyles and political adventures. The party regretted that the squander-mania is even taking place right under the watch of President Muhammadu Buhari, the African Union (AU) Anti-Corruption laureate. The PDP asked the presidency to address Nigerians on the leaked memo detailing corrupt oil contracts to the tune of $25 billion at the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the Ministry of Petroleum Resources. The irony in the foregoing is that the said government parastatals, which are being bled dry by corruption, are under the president’s direct supervision as Minister of Petroleum Resources, the PDP observed. The party also challenged the APC and the presidency to come clean on the alleged stealing of $3.5 billion worth of crude oil by APC partisan interests operating as seven ghost companies. “This is in addition to the looting from the Treasury Single Account (TSA) evidenced in the reported stealing of N10 billion National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS)’s account in the TSA, as well as revelation of the frittering of fresh N25 billion under questionable deals,” the PDP added. According to the leading opposition, “The PDP demands that the APC and the presidency address Nigerians on the widely reported stealing of N18 billion Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) intervention fund as well as the source of the N671 million allegedly stolen from the APC account by some of its national officers. “Furthermore, the PDP has also asked the presidency and the APC to explain to Nigerians why no serious panel of enquiry has been set up to address the issues of abuse of rights, extra-judicial executions, killings and bloodletting in various parts as catalogued by various international bodies. “The PDP notes that the APC has become synonymous with violence, deceit, hardship, hunger and starvation and can no longer be trusted as a vehicle of national cohesion, economic prosperity and the unity of Nigerians.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 