The immediate past Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Professor Julius Okojie, has emphasised the need to ensure good quality University education for the citizenry as the only guarantee to achieve success in the deployment of education as a social-change instrument. He stated this while delivering the maiden Distinguished Lecture Series of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNNAB), titled: “A Robust Regulatory System: An Imperative For Quality Assurance in Nigerian Universities” to commemorate the 30th-anniversary celebrations of the University. According to him, Universities are pivotal to research, innovation and enterprise which underlie the progress and development of any nation as well as its global competitiveness, hence the need for a more efficient and effective monitoring system to guarantee an acceptable balance between quality and access to University education. The former Vice-Chancellor  acknowledged the roles of regulators such as the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), professional bodies, civil society  organisations and other relevant stakeholders assist in Quality Assurance issues in Nigeria alongside external quality agencies like International Quality Assurance Agencies in Higher Education(INQAAHE); Nordic Network of Quality Assurance Agencies; African Quality Assurance Network among others as monitors of access and quality of programmes. Professor Okojie noted that the existence of these bodies confirms that quality of programmes and graduates is a worldwide concern because of staff and students mobility, advocating that the education sector takes advantage of these organisations and domesticates global best practices to improve its quality assurance architecture. The former Vice-Chancellor of the University acknowledged that Nigeria’s Quality Assurance index has improved the quality of programmes in the Nigeria University System, saying the number of programmes with full accreditation status has continued to improve. Urging the nation’s universities to take advantage of the Nigerian Research and Education Network (NgREN) platform to share resources with other Universities as it provides cheaper bandwidth, telephony, video conferencing and improves the prospect of teaching larger class sizes. The former Executive Secretary who disclosed that contrary to the belief that the quality of Nigerian graduates is poor, said that the Presidential Special Scholarship Scheme for Innovation and Development (PRESSID) confirmed that graduates from Nigerian Universities are globally competitive with over 200 of the First Class Honours graduates in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) who benefitted from it coming top in their programmes in the top 25 per cent Universities in the World. He stressed that some of the best graduates from the Nigerian Universities are world acclaimed professionals in developed countries. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 