Santi Cazorla, Arsenal midfielder, who has been out since October 2016 plans to return to the club on Thursday. Carzola, who hopes to play again before the end of the season has been out with an Achilles problem that has force him to undergo nine operations. At one point, due to an infection in his ankle, there were fears the Spain international could even lose his foot. But in recent months he appears to have finally overcome the problem and has stepped up his recovery process, so much so that last week he underwent a fitness work-out on the Emirates pitch ahead of Arsenal’s Europa League semi-final with Atletico Madrid. He has since returned to Spain and taken part in a training session with Real Oviedo, his first club, but he is due back at Arsenal’s London Colney training complex to continue his rehabilitation on Thursday. And, speaking to AS, Cazorla has set his sights on playing again for Arsenal before Arsene Wenger steps down at the end of the season. “I’ve still got some way to go,” said the midfielder. “Because after being sidelined for 18 months, everything has to be done in its own time. “But the sensations I have keep getting better and I’m feeling optimistic about the future. “The objective is to play some part with the team before the season ends, but we have to take things carefully.” He added: “After being out for so long it will take a while to get back into form, it’s a real struggle, but when you have been out like I have, you also notice pains elsewhere – apart from what I’ve had with my tendon.” “But all of that must mean that I am doing things right, and I hope to be back as soon as possible.” Meanwhile, Cazorla has urged Arsenal to give Wenger the send off he deserves over the next few weeks. The Arsenal boss will leave the club at the end of the season after 22 years in charge and will take charge of his final home game next weekend when Burnley visits the Emirates. And Cazorla wants to see the manager that brought him to England go off on a high. “I hope the club gives him a good send-off,” said the 33-year-old. “He has given his life to Arsenal. He has made his decision and I hope whoever comes in has all the luck in the world. “England is second to none when it comes to valuing the work of people who have dedicated their lives to a football club, you could see that in the reception he got at Old Trafford.” 0 comments