Lagos / Abuja – The Federal Government has directed the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) to prohibit, with immediate effect, the further issuance of permits for the importation of codeine as an active pharmaceutical ingredient for cough preparations. Professor Isaac Adewole, Minister of Health, gave this directive in Abuja on Tuesday. Professor Adewole said the order became necessary as a result of the gross abuse of codeine in the country. He restated the commitment of the Federal Government to ensuring the full implementation of the National Drug Distribution Guideline (NDDG) by January 1, 2019, and closure of all open drug markets before the said date on December 31, 2018. The minister noted that easy access to codeine, tramadol, and other substances of abuse was promoted by the chaotic drug distribution system. He further directed that codeine in cough syrups should be replaced with dextromethorphan, which is less addictive. The minister also ordered the Pharmaceutical Council of Nigeria (PCN) and NAFDAC to supervise the recall for labelling and audit trailing of all cough syrups containing codeine in the country, while he banned the sale of cough syrups containing codeine without prescription across the country. He said: “NAFDAC had an emergency meeting with the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Group (PMGMAN) to inform them that there was an embargo on all new applications for registration of codeine-containing cough syrups and application for renewal has been abolished.” The Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) has been directed to continue enforcement activities at Pharmacies, Patent and Proprietary Medicine Vendors’ shops and outlets throughout the country. According to him, NAFDAC was also directed to fully carry out its functions, among others, to regulate and control the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of drugs, including inspection at points of entry of drugs, drug products and food for compliance with the new directive. The minister stated that the FMOH shall ensure collaboration among regulatory agencies namely, NAFDAC, PCN, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Nursing and Midwifery Council of Nigeria (NMCN), for effective implementation of extant Acts, regulations, policies and guidelines on codeine control and usage. “Furthermore, these agencies shall work together to increase pharmacovigilance around codeine, tramadol and other related substances of abuse,” Adewole stated. Already, NAFDAC has developed IEC materials that would be used in an already planned national campaign against drug abuse, an awareness programme that includes Young Pharmacists Group of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria. This will soon be flagged off in Kano and Lagos. As a way of encouraging youths to shun the drugs, the Federal Government, through Federal Ministry of Health, shall partner with National Orientation Agency (NOA), Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), football celebrities, members of the Actors Guild of Nigeria, Performing Musicians of Nigeria and other celebrities to drive national campaign against drug abuse. “The FMOH shall ensure that drug treatment intervention for victims of substances abuse shall be undertaken across the spectrum of healthcare delivery system in the country,” Adewole stated. He further stated that civil society organisations (CSOs) shall be strengthened to deliver effective sensitisation, prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation services. He, however, recalled that in view of the serious public health concerns drug abuse poses to Nigerians, a working group comprising experts from various ministries and agencies of government (including regulatory agencies), development partners, and associations was constituted in January. Tagged, Codeine Control and other Related Matters Working Group (CCRWG), the group was formally inaugurated on January 23, 2018, with clear terms of reference of developing key recommendations and strategies to address the menace of codeine, tramadol, and other related substances in Nigeria. The CCRWG submitted its interim report on April 12, 2018, and recommended short-, medium-, and long-term measures for implementation in a memorandum submitted to the minister on May 1, 2018. comments