The House of Representatives yesterday says the planned sale of the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) by the Federal government will not be in the interest of the nation’s economy. The lower House is canvassing the need for the   Federal Government to suspend the exercise with a view to guaranteeing the sanctity of the national asset The development was sequel to the adoption of a motion by Randolph Brown (PDP, Rivers), who expressed reservation that there had been proposals by some prominent Nigerians for the Federal Government to sell the multi-billion dollar NLNG to raise funds to reflate the Nigerian economy. He explained that the proposal was due to the recommendation sometime in 2016 after a ministerial retreat for an ambitious fiscal stimulus plan involving the generation and injection of massive foreign capital. According to him, the massive foreign capital estimated at between 10 dollars and 15 billion dollars about N 4.72 trillion into the economy to help the recession recovery process. Udoma Udo Udoma, the Minister of Budget and National Planning,  stated that: “ one of the ways to fund the plan would be through the sale of some national assets and the proceeds reinvested in the economy to raise the needed capital for infrastructural development “The NLNG is one of the most successful ventures that Nigeria has embarked upon when it’s started from train one through to the sixth train and now the seventh train in the offing.”,he added The lawmaker expressed apprehension that the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) and the Nigerian Labour union, among other organizations, have seriously frowned at this move. To him, resuscitating the Nigerian economy from the recession is the actual reason for the proposed sale of the NLNG even though there are other options the government may adopt to resuscitate the economy. Besides, he said the Government has the option of borrowing on long-term against the dividends in the NLNG, convert its Joint Venture Holdings in some multinational oil corporations into incorporated Joint Venture Companies. He added that another option is to encourage wealthy Nigerians who can afford to buy and therefore rooting for the sale of national assets, to invest in the economy, or to set up their own LNG projects, considering the huge reserves of natural gas in the country. According to him, “It should be of concern that Nigerian workers will be at the receiving end if the sale was allowed to go unchallenged. Besides, it is not in any conventional economic reality for any nation to resort to selling off its assets during challenging times, as this exhibits leadership laxity and policy myopia”. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 