ABUJA – As it is with every human endeavor, there comes a time for stock taking, in the corporate word for instance,stock taking usually precedes annual general meetings where profits and losses are collated and analysed to guage how an organisation fared within a given year, this same scenario applies to President Muhammadu Buhari who marked three years in office on May 29, 2018. It will not be out of place therefore to state that so much water have passed under the bridge, looking at events that has trailed Buhari’s government these past three years. No doubt one can outline a number of successes and foibles that has characterized the administration given the three tripods of revamping the nation’s economy, taming corruption which had become endemic in the land and addressing challenges posed by insecurity which the administration is being driven on. It is from these perspectives that the Buhari’s administration would be examined and evaluated by me. Truly, some economic analyst would argue that the economic management team appointed by Buhari after almost six months of dilly-dallying did some onerous task in re-positioning the nation’s economy. Indeed, the government which was took over the realms of leadership in 2015 was heralded into office by economic recession, occasioned by misfortunes in the oil and gas industry, how it wangled its way and exited recession still remains amazing to many Nigerians and the international community till date. Still on the economy, one major song that has stuck to Buhari’s lips had been the need for diversification of the economy. To this day, the Nigerian President may hold the opinion that discovery of oil was more of a curse than blessings to the country, considering how the country derailed from its core objectives of development. One sector which Buhari believes he deserves commendation is the agricultural and solid minerals sectors, which hither to had been neglected owing to oil boom. The bug of grow-what-you-eat rather than relying on imported food as was the case under previous administration somehow caught up with many discerning minds so much so that states that were once docile had to start competing among themselves. Although a lot still needs to be done, it is believed that Nigeria is currently self sustaining in the production of some staple food items, especially rice. With the agribusiness economy which has helped in meeting domestic food security goals, generate exports, support sustainable income and job creation, the nation can at least boasts of self-sufficiency in rice production contributing to the pruning down of rice importation by about 80%. The agricultural value chain equally saw a boost with over N300 billion injected into the sector through the Anchor Borrowers Programme of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Many are witnesses to the fact that rice production increased astronomically from 2.5 metric tonnes to about 4 metric tonnes making Thailand, which used to be a major supplier of rice to Nigeria to lose billions of dollars as revenues. Moreover, 14 fertilizer blending plants were revitalized resulting in annual savings of US$200 million in foreign exchange, and 60 billion annually in budgetary provisions for fertilizer subsidies. Similar feats were also replicated in the solid minerals sector which grew from mere N700 million in 2015, to N2 billion in 2016 and rising to N3.5 billion in 2017. There are high expectations that the sector would even contribute more in 2018. It is however pertinent to state that Buhari’s administration inherited backlog of salary debts, a development that was exacerbated by the sharp drop in earnings from sale of crude at the international market, the administration went to work pumping billions as bailout funds to reflate the economy. Aside his credibility record, Buhari is no doubt known to be frugal, his frugality has so far seen to the prudent management of resources of the country, even though several Nigerians believes that the monies are not well circulated to have the desired impact in the lives of Nigerians. As a means of reflating the economy by increasing government spending on infrastructure, government first doled out about N1.219 trillion for capital expenditures in 2016. In 2017, a total sum of N1.476 trillion was released for capital projects, while spending was going on, Nigeria steadily shored up her External Reserves from $26 billion to $48 billion. Recent statistics equally showed that the Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF) had seen inflow of $500 million in 2016 and 2017. Even though the Buhari administration rates itself high in economic rejuvenation, same cannot be said regarding the security sector. While there has been an impressive effort to checkmate the excesses of the dreaded Boko Haram sect in the North-East, the resurgence of killings especially by herdsmen in the North-Central region, has become of great concern to all and sundry. No day passes without reports of killing by suspected herdsmen. Statisticians have lost count of the number of lives that have been taken in Benue and Taraba states, a development that even drew the attention of the American President, Donald Trump, when Buhari paid a visit to the country recently. Besides the farmers-herders crisis, kidnapping hold sway in the South-south and some volatile states in the northern part of Nigeria. Recently about 30 persons were kidnapped in one fell swoop in Birnin Gwari area of Kaduna state. Nevertheless, the Buhari’s administration has listed as part of its achievements the return of more than a million displaced persons to their homes in the north east since 2015. Despite the fact that Leah Sharibu still remains in Boko Haram’s captivity, the government gives itself thumbs up for having rescued more than 13,000 Boko Haram hostages. Not only that, about 106 girls abducted from Chibok community in April 2014, and 105 Dapchi school girls abducted in February 2018 have been rescued. The Nigerian Army also boasts of the capture of Boko Haram’s operational and spiritual headquarters, “Camp Zero”, in Sambisa Forest, in December 2016. This came with the transfer in 2016, of two AW 101 Helicopters from the Presidential Air Fleet to the Nigerian Air Force, for deployment in support of Operation Lafiya Dole in the North East. In the north central, the government said it deployed security agencies to enforce the peace. Already, notorious cultists, robbers, insurgents and kidnappers operating in this area have been apprehended. On corruption, many have divergent views about Buhari’s achievements, for the opposition camp where the Peoples Democratic Party falls at the moment, they believe the President have been selective in this fight, owing to the fact that some key players who promoted corruption during the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan were still active players in the current government. Yet some pundits notes that Buhari holds the unflinching record of being the firstpolitical leade r to muster the will to confront the menace of corruption headlong. Till date, some of the gladiators who squandered the nation’s resources on frivolities are still facing trial in the law courts, even as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) continues to beam its searchlight on more culprits. Nonetheless, the President has succeeded in bringing some of the corrupt persons to book, in some cases looters have been made to return their ill gotten wealth and a lot more having their properties confiscated. This is notwithstanding the fact that suspected corrupt persons are using all avenues to fight back. It would be inappropriate to end this analysis without mentioning the Whistleblowing Policy of the federal government which to a large extent has helped in blocking loopholes for financial hemorrhage. As at the last count about N13.8bn was recovered from tax evaders and N7.8bn, $378million, £27,800 retrieved from public officials. Records have it that between 2010 and 2015, an audit initiated by the National Economic Council chaired by the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo uncovered how thesum of N526bn and US$21 billion (over N8 trillion) was unremitted into the Federation Accounts. The audit also listed a number of Ministries Department and Agencies(MDAs) behind the illicit act to which a directive was given that the funds be remitted with immediate effect. Worthy of note is the Treasury Single Account (TSA) policy, spearheaded by the Buhari administration. The policy first started with a directive to all MDAs to pool their funds into a single account, a development that exposed some of the sharp practices that characterized the civil service prior to now. Through the TSA, and the Bank Verification Number (BVN) policy, it made it possible for the government to weed out ghost workers who were feeding fat from government’spay-roll. Till date, Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed seizes any available opportunity to brag about how the implementation of the TSA, has saved the country over N200 billion and an average of N4 billion monthly as bank charges associated with indiscriminate government borrowing from commercial banks. If one is to weigh the pros and cons of the Buhari administration,especially in the last three years, it would not be out of place to state that the administration has had its own fare of challenges and may use the remaining days and months ahead to consolidate on its achievements. As Nigeria marks 19 years of uninterrupted democracy with divergent views on how the administration has fared, it would not be surprising that President Buhari who has already declared intentions to seek re-election in 2019 may rely on his personalscorecard to woo Nigerians back to the polls. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 