President Muhammadu Buhari last week Tuesday threw a jibe at former President Olusegun Obasanjo for spending $16billion on power projects during his tenure without corresponding power supply to Nigerians. Buhari said the former leader was bragging at a time that his administration spent the amount on power sector, yet there was nothing to show for the expenditure. Buhari spoke at the Presidential Villa, Abuja while receiving members of the Buhari Support Organisation led by Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs Service. Obasanjo’s Response In his response Obasanjo said that Buhari’s allegation was rooted in ignorance. He referred Buhari to his autobiography, ‘My Watch’, saying he had cleared allegations about the power project in the book. The statement released by Kehinde Akinyemi, his spokesman, Obasanjo stated: “It has come to the attention of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo that a statement credited to President Muhammadu Buhari, apparently without correct information and based on ignorance, suggested that $16bn was wasted on power projects by ‘a former President.’ “We believe that the President was re-echoing the unsubstantiated allegation against Chief Obasanjo by his own predecessor, but one. “While it is doubtful that a President with proper understanding of the issue would utter such, it should be pointed out that records from the National Assembly have exculpated President Obasanjo of any wrongdoing concerning the power sector and have proved the allegations as false. Since Buhari’s statement, many Nigerians have been calling on him to probe the $16bn power project, which indirectly means his probing Obasanjo. Would he be right to do so? Buhari’s Probe Should Include Military Regime – PDP The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Akwa Ibom State chapter, advocated for a comprehensive probe of all past leaders. The party, through Comrade Ini Ememobong, its Publicity Secretary, said everyone who has occupied the seat of the president should be probed. The PDP said corruption in Nigeria dates back to its creation, as there were times the international community dreaded Nigerians over corruption, even before the PDP came to power on 1999. It therefore challenged Buhari to probe even himself and his time as military Head of State, adding that the military rulers plundered this country. AFRICMIL Wants Full-Scale Probe A civil society organisation (CSO), the African Centre for Media and Information Literacy (AFRICMIL), has called for a “full scale and wide-ranging investigations” into the administrations of former Nigerian leaders and bring all those who breached public trust to account. The organisation said the Federal Government has a duty to probe “all grey areas in every administration, beyond the alleged $16 billion power sector expenditure.” Chido Onumah, AFRICMIL Coordinator, said: “This challenge the former President throws at the Federal Government presents a unique opportunity for us as a country to revisit our past and bring all our past leaders to account “Reopening the power sector expenditure probe would be a step in the right direction for the country, but that should just be the beginning.” According to Onumah, “It is high time the unwritten amnesty given to former Heads of State and Presidents was jettisoned and those individuals scrutinised to get them to fully account for their stewardship and explain the hemorrhage Nigeria suffered overtime. “Apart from Sani Abacha, who died in office, there is no Nigerian leader whose personal misconduct was subjected to criminal investigation. “This is both an anomaly and an irony. It is ironic that those who are alive are left to enjoy the fruits of their misdeeds,” he said. He stressed: “Nigerian money is our common patrimony. No one can wave off stealing on behalf of all citizens, and ignoring the conduct of former leaders is doing exactly that.” Onumah stated that it was unfair for law enforcement agents to go after subordinates “while the big masquerades on whose table the buck stops, are deliberately let off the hook.” AFRICMIL called for a strong independent inter-agency panel to investigate major scandals since the administration of former military ruler, Ibrahim Babangida. Buhari, Obasanjo Should Tread Softly – Don Dr. Peter Imuze Idemudia, a university lecturer and human rights activist, said: “I have been opportune to read President Buhari’s allegation against former President Obasanjo over the $16b power project and I also read Obasanjo’s reply, submitting himself for probe. So the question of whether Buhari should probe Obasanjo is no longer necessary. What we should be talking about and look up to is when will the probe be? Who are those to constitute the probe panel, especially when Obasanjo was lamenting his refusal or abstention from probing Buhari’s PTF activities when the opportunities were abound? “Let me use this opportunity to appeal to the retired Generals and politicians to tread with caution because Nigerians will not want to witness any unpleasant situation during the next year general election. “Nigeria belongs to all Nigerians and I see a situation where President Buhari and his supporters will want to win the election at all costs, whether Nigerians want him for a second term or not, and Former President Obasanjo and his followers will want to stop him at all costs, thereby creating anarchy. At the end of the day, the innocent blood will be shed.” Probe Should Not Focus On Obasanjo Alone – Economist Gabriel Ibe Minna-based economist, said: “If the President Buhari-led government has any evidence that former President Olusegun Obasanjo is found wanting or unable to explain how he spent the over the $16 billion power project, then he should be made to account for that, simple. “He (Buhari) doesn’t need to be reminded to do that. But, I hope it is not one of those things, chasing shadows in the name of trying to use his power as a sitting President to get at anybody that is not supporting the government in power. “I am in support that former President Obasanjo should be probed. But, I would also ask: Why only Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan? Why not probe all the past Presidents, including President Buhari himself?” ‘Probing Obasanjo Will Be Fruitless Effort’ Chief Onyemanze Iwunna Osunkwo former member of Alliance for Democracy (AD), Imo State chapter and now a member of United Progressive party (UPP): “If Buhari wants to probe ex-President Obasanjo, let him go ahead. I wish him the best of luck. But, I am afraid that this will amount to an exercise in futility. “If he probes Obasanjo over the $16bn power project, of what use will it be to the nation and to the man in the street? Will the money recovered be used in such a way as to make a strong impact on the lives of the Nigerians that are now living from hand to mouth? Will the job be there for the youths, or will there be industries, factories or regular power supply? “Again, if the probe finds the former President guilty, will he be jailed? Have you heard of any former Head of State of this country who was jailed as a result of corruption? What happened to past probes? Let the President not waste our lean resources by way of probe, because, it will not serve any purpose.” ‘Buhari Should Probe Obasanjo if He has verifiable facts’ Nzeh Desmond Onyedinma Mbaukwu Obi, ex-councillor and member of the National Conscience Party (NCP), said: “If he has cogent verifiable facts about the 16billion power project, let him go ahead with the probe. The fact that past probes never yielded any tangible results should not be an excuse for us to continue the way things are going on. Let the results of the probe be made public at the end of the day and recommendation implemented to the letter.” ‘The Probe Is Unnecessary, Meaningless’ Adejare Akano Osogbo-based human right activist, said: “It is unnecessary to embark on such probe said it is meaningless and result in witch-hunting because two administrations, Yar’Adua and Jonathan, had passed without doing it.” Akano maintained that such probe would amount to waste of time and resources, adding that nothing can come out of it. He advised Buhari to concentrate on how to improve on the well being of Nigerians and ensure that the nation’s security is improved. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 