Uyo – Rural-Urban migration has, over the years, continuously been on the increase as inadequate or non-existent basic social amenities constantly push the youths out of their communities as soon as they are done with secondary education. Even youths from communities richly endowed with natural resources, who would have made a comfortable living from merely harnessing the resources around them, have found moving out as most suitable option, as the quest for city comfort usually becloud their sense of reality. Determined to make a difference, however, the present government in the state under the charge of Governor Udom Emmanuel, on assumption of office, vowed to make every rural community in Akwa Ibom State attractive, not just for indigenes of such areas, but for investors coming into the state. To achieve this, the administration, on assumption of office, took steps to open up the rural areas with good road network, while also focusing on some major areas with dualised roads. These were done despite the 2016 harsh economic realities induced by recession. Explaining the rationale behind the drive, Akparawa Ephraim Inyangeyen, the state commissioner for works, said that the intention was to also make the rural communities economically viable. He identified poor access as one of the factors promoting poverty in rural communities, and expressed optimism that with good road network, the rural dwellers would be more comfortable transporting their farm produce to the city in order to make huge gain. Presenting an account on this regard, an online program of the Directorate of Brand Management of the Akwa Ibom State Government quoted the commissioner of works as saying that three years later, the state government had not only achieved its dream of urbanising every rural community in the state, but had also constructed more roads than the Federal Government. Inyangeyen challenged anybody with a contrary view to subject such claim to thorough scrutiny and calculation of kilometers of roads constructed by the Federal Government across the country, against that of the state. The commissioner, who maintained that the present administration, in its determined effort to saturate the state with dualised roads and quality road networks in every local government area, has succeeded in constructing well over 1,700 kilometers of roads within the last three years. He said that 27 out of the 31 local government areas of the state have been covered, even as the state has set out modalities to touch the remaining four before the end of its first tenure in office. “There are too many of them to count. There is massive reordering in terms of infrastructure. If we sit down and painstakingly add up the roads, it would be more than 1,700kms. “I want to say emphatically to the entire world, that I believe and convinced in my spirit that His Excellency, Governor Udom Emmanuel, has done more roads than the Federal Government of Nigeria in the last three years. And I challenge anyone to come with a data contrary to what I have and we would be able to sit with him in public and add up the figure. “I believe and would be able to say that every road in this state belongs to Akwa Ibom State Government, even those previously constructed by the government of former Governor Godswill Akpabio. Federal Government has not paid a dime, and the ones we are currently trying to complete, the Uyo-Ikot Ekpene Road, which we took over from the previous administration, is solely funded by the state government.” Taking on the Federal Government on its refusal to refund the state N140 billion owed on federal roads undertaken by the state, Inyangeyen further declared that there was no federal road in Akwa Ibom State, as the Federal Government could not lay claim to roads it either constructed or made refunds for whatever the state expended on them. “You can’t own a property like this! It’s like you giving birth to children, you say they are my sons, and the mother struggles to train the children singlehandedly; when they come out, they will not call you father. So in Akwa Ibom State, virtually all our roads are constructed and maintained by the state. Even NDDC is our right, not a priviledge,” he said. Enumerating some of the road projects undertaken by the present administration he said; “Let’s look at the dualised roads because the road structures that we have are in three segments. We have the dualised roads that we called the trunk roads that open up the state; then we have what we call opening up of the rural areas, going to every local government areas to do a 10km, 15km, 20km  roads in virtually all the local governments. “At least as at today, 27 local governments are covered, remaining just four, which I am working on currently. And then we have what we call ‘the intervention’. If you go all over Uyo, you will see them, for example, at this Willington Bassey that we are now, if you go to the left hand side, the entire Asutan area has been turned around. They used to be a forgotten area; such are all over the place. But let’s start with the dualised roads; if you go to the airport, we used to have a single kind of road leading to Oron, but today we are having a dualised road, that when completed, the entire stretch cover airport to Okopedi, to Uya Oron; they are all together 28 kilometers. “They make it 56 kilometers. So you put that in your note. If you come to the center of Uyo, Ikot Oku Ikono precisely going to Etinan, there is a 20-kilometre dualised road by Julius Berger, making it 40 kilometers. At Etinan Roundabout going to Uyo, you have another 28-kilometre dualised bringing it to 56 kilometers. If you go to Etinan- Eket Road, there is also another dualised road, 22 kilometers in length, giving you 44 kilometers. “From Atabong, what we call the internal remodeling of Eket road; when we finish the phase one that will get to the post office, all that would have been dualised is 8.4 kilometers giving you 16.8 kilometers. Eket-Ibeno Road was 20 kilometers and was completed by this government; off Eket – Ibeno Road, the almighty super- highway. Three to four days ago, I was able to drive through two kilometers of that super highway. “The super highway that we are bringing is 12 lanes, so we are multiplying it by 4, so if you multiply 55.1 by four, it gives you 220.4 kilometers. So these things are happening. If you come back to Uyo –Ikot Ekpene Road, we are finishing a 25 kilometers stretch. We have the Abak- Ekparakwa-Eteh and it is 47 kilometers but it is yet to be awarded. We were told that some people awarded it but we have not seen it some three years after, so the government has decided to re-award it,” he said. The commissioner, who took time to cover the entire state with his enumeration, proved beyond doubt with evidences and verifiable figures that every part of the state, said to have been touched, were actually touched. Commenting on Ikot Abasi Local Government Areas, he said that the state deliberately refused to carry out indiscriminate road construction as the area had been marked and preserved as an industrial city. He said roads in Ikot Abasi were components of the Industrial City design. “We need to design roads in Ikot Abasi as a package to fit into the industrial city that we are planning for Ikot Abasi. But for now, we cannot completely concentrate there because we need to touch every local government areas of the state,” he said. 0 comments