Lagos – In a bid to provide adequate local currency liquidity to Nigerian and Chinese industrialists and businesses, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Thursday announced the execution of a bilatveral currency swap agreement with the Peoples Bank of China (PBoC). The initiative is meant to reduce the difficulties encountered in the search for third currencies for payment of goods and services. A currency swap deal allows two institutions to exchange payments in one currency for equivalent amounts in order to facilitate bilateral trade settlements and provide liquidity support to financial markets. In 2014, CBN’s former Deputy Governor, Kingsley Moghalu, said the bank was looking to increase the percentage of Yuan foreign reserves in its possession from two percent to seven percent. According to him, 85 percent of its foreign reserves were in dollars and it needed to have more in Chinese Yuan, as the country was taking a more important place in global trade. Since 2014, the world market has recognised the Yuan as a likely global reserve currency, a replacement for the dollar, which has led countries like Ghana, South Africa, and Zimbabwe to integrate the renminbi (Yuan) into their financial markets. As a result of this, trade (however imbalanced) has increased between certain countries on the continent and China, and has provided a fertile ground for the demand for the currency on the continent. Godwin Emefiele, the CBN governor, led the apex bank officials at the signing ceremony in Beijing Friday, April 27, 2018, with Yi Gang, PBoC governor, leading the Chinese team. The signing of the agreement, according to a statement from CBN, was a culmination of over two years of painstaking negotiations by both central banks. The agreement is expected to provide naira liquidity to Chinese businesses and provide RMB liquidity to Nigerian businesses, respectively, thereby improving the speed, convenience, and volume of transactions between the two countries. It will also assist both countries in their foreign exchange reserves management, enhance financial stability and promote broader economic cooperation between the two countries. “With the operationalisation of this agreement, it will be easier for most Nigerian manufacturers, especially small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and cottage industries in manufacturing and export businesses, to import raw materials, spare-parts and simple machinery to undertake their businesses by taking advantage of available RMB liquidity from Nigerian banks without being exposed to the difficulties of seeking other scarce foreign currencies,” the CBN statement reads. The deal, which is purely an exchange of currencies, will also make it easier for Chinese manufacturers seeking to buy raw materials from Nigeria to obtain enough naira from banks in China to pay for their imports from Nigeria. Indeed, the deal will protect Nigerian business people from the harsh effects of third currency fluctuations. Nigeria is the third African country to have such an agreement in place with the PBoC. Both the Nigerian and Chinese officials expressed delight at the conclusion and signing of the agreement and expressed the hope that it would boost mutually beneficial business transactions between Nigeria and the Peoples Republic of China. comments