It is difficult to exonerate any media in Nigeria from sensational headlining and irresponsible journalism. They, in one way or the other, fuel ethnic cum religious violence among members of different tribes and religions with their misleading and biased coverage/reportage. On Monday, April 30, 2018, The Punch, Nigerian Tribune, The Guardian, New Telegraph, among other media, blew out of proportion in their online versions the ‘Stop killing Christians’ statement attributed to President Trump while hosting the visiting President Buhari in the White House. For instance, The Punch wrote, in a screaming banner headline, ‘Killings of Christians in Nigeria must stop – Trump’; The Guardian and Nigerian Tribune wrote similar headlines, ‘Killing of Christians is unacceptable, says Trump’. While these three media retained the headlines on the covers of their Tuesday print versions, the New Telegraph, which had earlier written, ‘Stop the killing of Christians in Nigeria, Trump tells Buhari’ on its online version made a U-turn and used another headline, ‘Trump to Buhari: Stop killings in Nigeria’, with the exclusion of ‘Christians’. However, on Wednesday, May 1, virtually all the print media (The Punch, The Nation, Tribune, ThisDay, New Telegraph, etc.) that reported Tuesday’s Mubi, Adamawa twin explosions that claimed the lives of no fewer than 60 people failed to indicate in their headlines that the first bombing attack took place in a mosque and of course, all the victims were Muslims, even if there were non-Muslims among the victims of the second blast, which happened in the market. Why did these newspapers hide the ‘killings of Muslims in the mosque’ in their headlines, barely a day after they dedicated their headlines to the ‘killings of Christians’ as claimed by President Trump? In actual fact, President Trump also talked about the killings of Muslims, and he encouraged that “all levels of governments in Nigeria, local, district, national must work together to stop the killings of Muslims and Christians.” President Trump’s remark and the biased media reports have been faulted by Islamic organisations, who strongly believe that both Muslims and Christians are victims of terrorist attacks in Nigeria. The Amir (President) of the Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria (B Zone), Barr Qaasim Odedeji, said it is unfortunate that the Nigerian media twisted President Trump’s statement with headlines and captions indicating that Christians are the only victims of the killings and destructions. He said: “For example, The Punch Newspaper, in its usual bias against Islam and the Muslims, removed the word ‘Muslims’ from Trump’s statement and captioned its story thus: “Killings of Christians in Nigeria Must Stop”. The Vanguard and The Guardian followed the same trend with the caption “Killing of Christians in Nigeria is unacceptable”. To them, it is only the lives of Christians that are sacred, that of others are not. What a hatred! What a level of religious sentiment! “While we have reservations for Mr. Trump’s statement which suggested that only Muslims and Christians were affected by the killings, when in actual fact the perpetrators of the dastardly acts know no religion as they kill anybody, whether Christian, Muslim or animist, our serious concern is that the media reports, apart from being contrary to the ethics of professional journalism, more importantly are capable of inciting religious crisis between the adherents of the two major religions, Islam and Christianity, and set the country on the path of religious war.” Barrister Odedeji reminded the purveyors of hate speech and those media practitioners who beat the drums of war and their supporters that should they succeed (and Allah forbids!), even if they have the capacity of escaping from the country, not every member of their families have the same capacity. In the same vein, the Amir (President) of the Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria (MSSN), Lagos State Area Unit, Dr. Saheed Ashafa, decried Trump’s comments, stressing that one would wonder if Trump is not aware of or deliberately ignored the murder of several Muslims in a mosque at the University of Maiduguri, or those killed in mosques in Yobe, Zamfara, Adamawa and many other states of the country. Dr. Ashafa also faulted the media report, which, according to him, can further divide Nigerians, and called on the media practitioners to be free of stereotypes and uphold the highest ethical standards of professionalism. “Irrespective of ownership influence, the media should always prioritise the interests of the nation and desist from publications that tend to tear the nation apart on tribal and religious lines”, he concluded. 0 comments