Lagos – The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Thursday told a Lagos Federal High Court that Chief Rashidi Ladoja, a former governor of Oyo State, personally gave instructions in 2007 for the sale of the state’s shares worth N6.6 billion devoid of executive resolution. The anti-graft agency also claimed that about N1.9 billion out of the proceeds of the shares was not remitted to the state coffers, but ended up partly in the pocket of Ladoja, his family members, allies and some stockbrokers. Abubakar Madaki, an investigator with the EFCC disclosed these at the resumed trial of the former governor for an alleged fraud of N4.7 billion. He is answering eight charges along with Waheed Akanbi, who served as Oyo State Commissioner for Finance under him, before the Federal High Court in Lagos. Madaki, who was led in evidence by the prosecutor, Olufemi Olabisi, tendered before the court the letter allegedly written by Ladoja to singly approve the sale of the shares. Madaki told the court that Fountain Securities was the portfolio manager engaged by Ladoja to sell the shares at a discounted rate, adding that McLace Securities, was one of the stockbrokerage firms which acquired shares from Fountain Securities. He added, “In the course of our investigation, about N500 million was recovered from McLace Security, Fountain Securities and other stockbrokers, while the balance could not be recovered because some of those who purchased the shares were not even stockbrokers as highlighted by the report of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. “Part of the proceeds was used to offset the four cars given to the first accused (Ladoja), which he confirmed. That too, the first accused has not refunded the value of the cars neither did his family members and associates refund what was given to them; all these were part of the proceeds. “I can name the cars for clarity. There is a jeep; there is a bus and two cars out of the cars supplied to members of the House of Assembly loyal to the first accused when he was governor. “All these were paid for with the proceeds of the shares. The first accused confirmed this in his statement; he promised to make a refund then but as at today, he has not done so.” Further mention on the matter was for May 30 and 31, 2018. Ladoja and Akanbi were accused of converting a sum of N1,932,940,032.48 belonging to Oyo State to their personal own, using a Guaranty Trust Bank account of a company, Heritage Apartments Limited. The EFCC claimed that they retained the money sometime in 2007, despite their knowledge that it was proceeds of a criminal conduct. He was further accused of removing a sum of £600,000 from the state coffers in 2007 and sent it to Bimpe Ladoja, who was at the time in London. The ex-governor was also accused of converting a sum of N42m belonging to the state to his own and subsequently used it to purchase an armoured Land Cruiser jeep. The EFCC further accused him of converting a sum of N728,600,000 and another N77,850,000 at separate times in 2007 to his own. The EFCC claimed that Ladoja transferred the N77, 850,000 to one Bistrum Investments, which he nominated to help him purchase a property named Quarter 361, Ibadan, Oyo State. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 