Nissan announced its best sales year in nearly two decades, hiking 10 per cent market share in the fiscal year 2017, with passenger vehicles growing 44 per cent against the previous year and bakkies (pick-ups) mustering a share of 19.5 per cent up by nearly a fifth. Datsun, the brand’s highest market share in South Africa since 1981 similarly rose to 1.3%, just as the Sub-Saharan Africa sales also grew, rising to 13.9%. Nissan Sub-Sahara said the sales success came on the back of product launches including the Patrol, X-Trail and Micra Active. Nissan had in the year under review, also focused on customer service, winning eight awards. “Nissan is now poised to build on our success with further growth in Africa,” said Mike Whitfield, Managing Director of Nissan South Africa. He said: “We have invested almost R1 billion to increase the efficiency of our plant at Rosslyn increasing automation without reducing jobs, and in training and skills development for our people.” Nissan has developed its supplier base with initiatives to encourage young black entrepreneurs to become suppliers and the company continues to produce a high number of engineers at Rosslyn through its graduate development programme, which has been supporting South Africa employees to become master trainers by sending them to Nissan manufacturing plants across the world. To drive future growth Nissan will focus on further developing its dealership network in South Africa with the improved customer experience and enhanced facilities, while it continues to work to increase its share of the passenger vehicle market and maintaining its strong position in bakkies. Nissan was the first manufacturer to introduce the electric vehicle to South Africa, with the Nissan LEAF launched locally in 2013. Globally, more than 300,000 units of the LEAF have been sold, more than any other electric vehicle. “The global automotive industry is going through revolutionary technological change, with electric vehicles, autonomous driving and connectivity,” said Mike Whitfield. “South Africa has the potential to lead Africa in embracing this change, and the automotive industry here and the economy stand to benefit. He added: “To do that we need to ensure that the infrastructure and support are in place in South Africa to help build demand for these products.” Rosslyn is Nissan’s manufacturing hub for the rest of the continent where demand is growing rapidly. And in April 2014, Nissan became the first mover to assemble cars in Nigeria and is now exploring new manufacturing opportunities in the continent. “Africa has huge potential but not every country can have a plant and manufacturing hubs needed to be developed,” said Mike Whitfield. “The automotive industry has been a driver of economic growth around the world for a century, and Africa will be next. What we need now is a conducive environment, including the development of free trade areas, for the continent to flourish. Africa’s middle class is forecast to grow from 137 million people in 2009 to 341 million by 2030.” 0 comments