Lagos – In one of the days in December of 1994, Nigerians woke up to a shocking news from FIFA that the 1995 World Youth Championship (now FIFA U20 World Cup), which was due to start in the country barely four months away had been taking out of the Nigeria. That was after the Federal Government had provided the necessary facilities for the championship. In Nigeria’s place, Qatar was called upon to stage the biannual competition. The world football governing body cited an alleged outbreak of meningitis to back up the decision. Whether there was actually such outbreak remained a contesting fact among Nigerian sporting public for a long time. Incidentally, when the competition returned to Nigeria in 1999, some countries were skeptical to bring in their promising youngsters. It will be recalled that England was reportedly one of such countries, which then still lived in FIFA’s initial fears and threatened to boycott the championship. But fearing a possible ban from the world football governing body, England presented a makeshift team with only Peter Crouch and Ashley Cole eventually making it to the top among the weak squad. No wonder they lost all their three group matches in Kano and exited the championship. In a related case, after accepting to host the Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) when CAF stripped Kenya of the right to stage the event due to the latter’s unpreparedness, Morocco threatened and succeeded in withdrawing from hosting it citing Eboa scare as its reason. Recall that some of the Ebola hard-hit countries qualified to participate in the event and the North African country was not ready to risk the lives of its citizens. Morocco made a bold statement then, which suggested that they put the lives of their citizens above any mundane considerations. After CAF rejected their withdrawal, a source from the FA reportedly told journalists that, “Since CAF rejected all our requests and suggestions then we would be forced to withdraw from hosting AFCON 2015 to preserve the safety of our citizens and for that we are prepared to take any consequences that come with our actions. “All that means we are facing a historic responsibility. We understand CAF’s difficulty, but that said, never in history has there been such an Ebola epidemic.” The above illustrations are not mere rhetoric but they became imperative in the light of Monday’s international friendly match between the Super Eagles and their DR Congolese counterparts at Yakubu Gowon Stadium in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The match will be serving as the final home assessment of the World Cup bound Super Eagles before they leave the shores of Nigeria for further preparations, including tune-up matches ahead of their opener against Croatia. Earlier this month, Ebola broke out in the Congo DR, with the country’s health ministry confirming as at the second week of May that at least 17 people have died of the dreaded disease. The health ministry said: “Our country is facing another epidemic of the Ebola virus, which constitutes an international public health emergency. “We still dispose of the well-trained human resources that were able to rapidly control previous epidemics.” It is the ninth time Ebola has been recorded in the DRC, whose eastern Ebola river gave the deadly virus its name when it was discovered there in the 1970s. The worst Ebola epidemic ended in West Africa two years ago after killing more than 11,300 people and infecting about 28,600 across Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. It is said that once bitten twice shy. Consequently, Nigeria cannot afford another round of Ebola calamity after what happened in 2014. Recall that a Liberian, late Patrick Sawyer, was infamous for bringing the virus into Nigeria. Sawyer’s emergence and the attendant Ebola spread in Nigeria claimed the life of one of the country’s best medical consultant in Dr Stella Ameyo Adadevoh of First Consultant Hospital in Obalende on Lagos Island. Sawyer flew into Nigeria from Liberia and was immediately admitted to the hospital where the late medical doctor swung on him in order to save his life. Sawyer later died and the doctor, alongside others, who were infected, died. The virus spread even to Port Harcourt, but the Federal Government later put measures in place to finally check the spread. Nigerian Immigration and health officials may not be entirely blamed for that calamity given that it was a pilot case and the country, though was aware of the ravaging nature of Ebola, had never before then witnessed it. Now, given the fact that most of DR Congo players for the friendly match are coming from their domestic league, it may not be out of place to state that the encounter is a high risk one with Nigeria’s past experience in the hands of Liberian Sawyer. Consequently, opinions have been divided on the necessity or otherwise of going ahead with the match. The National Association of Nigerian Footballers (NANF), earlier in the week, called for the immediate cancellation of the match. Harrison Jala, the NANF president, was quoted by a medium as saying that, “Going ahead with the match with DR Congo is a serious risk for the country, which spent billions of naira not too long ago to contain the Ebola pandemic when a Liberian, one Mr. Sawyer, sneaked into Lagos with the virus. So, nobody should expose our players, coaches and the fans to such a risk at this point in time. “So, in view of the prevailing circumstances, we demand that the match with DR Congo be called off. I want to add that it is unacceptable for the NFF to risk the lives of our players, and that NANF will challenge any attempt to proceed with match,” Jala stated. Speaking in the same vein, popular entertainer, Charles Oputa, popularly called Charley Boy, want President Muhammadu Buhari to call off the match in the interest of the nation. Charley Boy, who aired his opinion through the social media, asked the president to prevail upon the sports minister and the NFF to cancel the match in order to save Nigerians from another Ebola crisis. “If you know Amaju Pinnick , NFF President make una warn am. Why we wan carry Congo players come inside our country play friendly match where Ebola don kill many of dem people. If Ebola enter we country under Buhari, we don die finish 0!!!! Our Mumu suppose do.“ Dousing the tension on Monday, Solomon Dalung, Nigeria’s sports minister, while speaking to State House Correspondents, said that the match against the southern African side must go on despite the Ebola scare. The minister listed measures that have been taken to ensure that the match goes on and at the same time avoid the contagious disease being brought into Nigeria. “Nigeria is going to play the friendly with DRC, I have discussed with the Federal Ministry of Health with the World Health Organization in participation, and we have reviewed the situation and received adequate information about it. “So we have agreed on major approaches. One, the DRC team is coming through a chartered flight and those coming for the match will be using that chartered flight and they would have been screened from the DRC and they will be screened here in Nigeria. “There is going to be no other person that is going to be admitted using any other means of transportation for the match. “We also discovered that the Ebola outbreak is limited to a particular place and it has not escalated. So, we wouldn’t want to run the risk of setting a precedent of which we will later be a victim.” As encouraging as the words of the minister may be, it is necessary to point out that Nigeria has, on several occasions, shown non-challance in things like this. Even as the match is a mere friendly affair, the fans of The Leopards may take a different Nigerian-bound aircraft for the match. On landing in Lagos, they may make their way to Port Harcourt and eventually find their ways into the stadium. According to Henry Nwosu, who spoke to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT on the issue, the Ministry of Health and other relevant agencies should make sure that all passengers from that side of the country are thoroughly screened before they make their ways to the tarmac at the airports. Nwosu, former Super Eagles captain, noted that despite the measures put in place, the screening should not be limited to the players and officials on the chartered flight. “There is nothing anybody can do about it since the minister has approved of it and I am sure they have done the right thing to make sure that we will not go back to those years of Ebola. But the situation now will task the immigration and anybody concerned to make sure that anybody not permitted to be at that match, especially from that country, is not even allowed to enter the country. They should screen all passengers from that side,” he said. On his own, Mutiu Adepoju, former Super Eagles and Real Sociedad of Spain midfielder, said that despite the reassuring word from the minister, relevant agencies should not relax. He also spoke to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT. “We should not just relax over this. Relevant agencies like Immigration must ensure that passengers coming into the country for the match are thoroughly screened,” he said. Meanwhile, a report stumbled by SUNDAY INDEPENDENT urged the Federal Government to ensure that proper checks are carried out on the facilities to be eventually used by the Congolese after they might have left Nigeria. The report, written by an anonymous writer, noted that after their stay in Nigeria, there was every need to thoroughly screen the hotel to make sure that they remain what they were before the visitors’ arrival. It was imperative that this call is heeded in order to avoid any eventuality. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 