Lagos – Pastor Enoch Adeboye, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), has warned that Nigeria may not continue to exist as it is if the spate of killings across the country is not quickly brought to an end. He spoke on Friday night at the May edition of the Holy Ghost Service, warning that Nigerians would find it difficult to go out to vote next year if they had fear that they could be killed when they go out of their houses to vote. The service, which had the theme, “Stronger Than Your Enemies 5” with the sub title, ‘Habitation of the Almighty,’ took place at the church’s Redemption Camp, near Lagos. Noting his distress at the killing of Christian worshippers in Benue State recently and how it provoked his wife to nudge him, he said: “I said there is no father who would lose 19 children in a day that will not be quiet. “She said, ‘What do you mean?’ because she hadn’t heard the news that in a church, somebody went in and shot 19 people. “It doesn’t matter the denomination…by the special grace of God, all Christians in Nigeria call me ‘Daddy’. So, when any of them dies, it’s my son or daughter that is dead,” Pastor Adeboye said. Urging the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to immediately stop the killings, he said: “I am going to ask you to join me in prayer, because unless these killings stop, and stop immediately, even Nigeria may not live. “I am not talking about individuals now, I am talking about Nigeria itself…A bishop asked me not too long ago, ‘Daddy, has God told you who will win the next election?’ “I said, ‘Sir, I am not even sure yet there will be an election. Because, unless these killings stop, there may be no elections next year’. ‘Are you prophesying, Daddy?’ ‘No, no! I am not prophesying. I am just reasoning. Because nobody will want to go out to vote if they are not sure they will be able to return home safely,” he said Noting that he had seen war before and would not want to see another war, Pastor Adeboye said: “It’s a terrible thing. A nation may survive a civil war, but no nation can survive a religious war and remain the same. That Nigeria may live these killings must stop. “So all of you who love Nigeria, I want you to rise on your feet, and cry to God with all your heart, and say: ‘Father, let the killings stop…that Nigeria may live. Please God, let the killings stop.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 