Mrs. Glads has been married for 27 years but could not race an issue. She was living in absolute rejection and sorrow daily because ideally, she has reached an age when she was supposed to be nursing her grandchildren. For her, in vitro fertilisation (IVF) and adoption her explorable options only if her husband Pastor Gerald permits as he frowns at artificial insemination or taking up the custody of a child. For him, waiting is the only option though he has been counseled severally by fertility doctors to have a rethink. Some friends however believe he has a family elsewhere which to them is the only reason he is unruffled. Ven. Fred and his wife, Anita have been married for 10 years and decided to give IVF a trial, after two attempts, Anita was confirmed pregnant and gave birth to twins afterwards.  The inquisitive gynecologist asked if he would tell his congregation that his wife conceived via IVF but he said he can never say such. That he would rather say they waited and God answered their prayers at the right time. Surprised, the gynecologist shook his head and wondered the level of deceit and why the cleric will not mention God gave him children through IVF. Last year, 63-year-old mother gave birth to a baby girl after 38 years of marriage. Margaret Davou gave birth through reproductive technology. She delivered her baby through Cesarean section at the GynaeVille Specialist Hospital, Jos. Doctors at the GynaeVille Specialist Hospital in Jos, said she is the oldest woman to give birth in Africa. She expressed that she has undergone many surgeries and many treatment in different hospitals outside Plateau State. Davou, who gave birth after four attempts, urged women seeking children to depend on God and not to patronise herbalists but seek medical treatment to help the process. She also advised family members to support women who are unable to bear children. Kenneth Egwuda, the director of the hospital where Davou delivered her child, said the baby was a miracle. Egwuda said: “God decided to favour this woman because based on her age, 62 at her first visit in this facility in 2016, many would have doubted the success of the treatment. “But because she looks strong and healthy for her age, we decided to take her as our patient. “I never worried about her age, but IVF is a game of chance and not 100 percent certain that you will get pregnant.” The success of IVF itself depends on God since there is no 100 percent guarantee that it will work the first time or when repeated, as in the case of Ibidunni Ighodalo who marked 11 years wedding anniversary in February this year with her husband, Pastor Ituah, Senior Pastor of Trinity House. Ibidunni, who runs Ibidunni Ighodalo Foundation (IIF), in order to help childless couples who may not ordinarily be able to afford fertility treatment, during a television interview hosted by Adesuwa Onyenokwe, revealed how she went through IVF 11 times before she finally decided to adopt a female child ‘Keke’. On her journey leading to the birth of her foundation, she said that: “It was born out of pain. When you’ve waited… when you get married you expect to just have children and everything just works out fine for you. But, when you start to wait… First year you’re not pregnant. I honestly thought, first six months I would be pregnant. I just thought, ‘ok, ok, it will come it will come’. I waited a year, two years and then I started getting worried.” Though she mentioned that her husband was never worried as he keeps saying, ‘God is going to do it and whatever God is going to do, let it be left undone’, which she held on to. Feeling the pressure to take action, Ibidunni said as a woman you never want to sit down and not do anything. “So I started… I got worried, I’d go to the hospital, and I’ve been on this journey for 11 years now. It’s been tough. Especially because, in our society, they don’t spare you. I mean, in-laws, friends. “Sometimes it’s not intentional. It’s not on purpose. But when you are waiting on God for a child, you’re so sensitive that the little things that people do gets to you. They might not even know that it’s getting to you. And everybody is running around, doing school runs… your friends that you got married together, you guys are together, their kids are coming to yours and you get back home at night and it’s just you alone. “It gets to a point where you just really want children. You want company. I mean your husband is your friend, he’s your best friend, but you guys go to work together, you guys come back… After a while you want to plan a family. You just want people. You want kids around you.” Despite IVF and adoption bringing succour to many couples, some still have a negative perception about them and see such as an expression of lack of faith in God. Pastor Ighodalo, during a briefing to herald the programme, “The power of adoption”, which was put together by a non-governmental organisation, The Heritage Adoption Support and Advocacy Group (HASAAG), stressed that adoption is far away from the perception of ungodliness. He said: “The stigma and shame associated with adoption must stop. It is not a sin for someone to engage in adoption. Adoption could be used to settle thousands of homeless children into loving homes. Through adoption, we can depopulate our streets of children who can easily fall prey to all kinds of vices and become a threat to society. “The adults who commit crimes in our society today and make it unsafe in most cases happened to have been children who were not properly catered for. All Nigerians have a responsibility to work at getting all children off our streets and ensure that they have an opportunity to become what God intends for them to be. “As we are advocating for people to adopt children and be allowed to do so without the negativity from society, we are also using this forum to appeal to all the governing authorities to help make it easier for people to adopt children without compromising on the stringent checks and balances to prevent child traffickers.” Pastor Gbenga Oso, General Overseer of Laughter Foundation Church International, fondly referred to as Daddy of One Million Babies, whose ministry centers on helping couples bear children,  believes in as much as God answers prayers, IVF and adoption does not contradict God’s word. In an interview with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, he gave 100percent support to IVF, as a scientific way of bearing children. “I support it 100%. IVF is legal and I support everything that is legal to bear children. Some people tell me they want to do IVF and I pray for them to be helped by God so that it can be successful. But I tell you that the rate of having children through IVF is very low here in this foundation. I’m sure you can ask if I support adoption, yes I do because adoption is legal. “The only thing is that when a person adopts a baby we do not allow such person to come to the altar to testify. When someone says he or she is tired and wants to adopt a baby we do not say ‘no it is a sin’ we encourage such person to go through the legal channel. But we also tell them that despite adopting that God would give such couples their own biological children. For those who go through IVF, the children are still their biological children though through some assisted forms.” On whether choosing adoption or IVF to have a child express any form of unbelief, he explained further that IVF is about getting the help that medical science can provide and it is like going to the hospital to get treated for one ailment or the other.  To him those who feel they would not get help this way but wait until God does it naturally for them it is okay and not a sign of unbelief. He however stressed that it is only God that determines whether a not a couple stays long before bearing children. Sheikh Abdul-Rahman Ahmad, Chief Missioner of Ansar-ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, says Islam supports IVF and at the same time does not supports it. Buttressing his point, he said yes in the sense that Islam supports IVF to the extent that, it is the husband’s sperm and the wife’s egg that will be used but if they are going to use a donor’s sperm or egg, Islam does not support this. Explaining why it is so, he said it is in order to preserve the purity of the lineage because using donor’s sperms or donor’s eggs confuses lineage (paternity and maternity). Sheikh Ahmad continued that: “These are real issues, very real. In terms of adoption, Islam encourages it whether the couples have children of their own or not. The adopted children remain the children of their biological parents.  You are not adopting them to make them forget their lineage or parents. “You are doing it to raise them and show them love as your own biological children in which case they can go anytime they want.  They can inherit from their biological parents but cannot inherit from you but Islam requires you to make statutory arrangement for them. This is also to reserve the purity of lineage in terms of knowing who one’s biological parents are.” Dr. Sharon Osaide Arigbe-Osula, Reproductive Endocrinologist, a member of American Society for Reproductive Medicine and European Society for Human Reproduction and Embryology in an interview with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, said her objective is to contribute her quota to humanity and alleviate as much pain as possible of childless couples. For her, God has made it possible for couples to bear children through scientific means such as children through IVF, surrogacy etc and as such means are not evil in God’s sight or an expression of faithlessness. According to her: “The worst pain in life is the pain of seeing the dream of a loving couple suffer because of the delay of having children and it is worst when families and friends add their own pressure in their attempt to help or harm. “As Africans, children in marriage is still very important and delays can happen for a variety of reason and many times such reasons when medical can be changed or treated or use science and technology to assist a couple have their own children through IVF, surrogacy etc. Sometimes you hear a marriage that broke down because there are no children or teenagers selling children or baby factory stories. “And or concussion that are dangerous or people being manipulated by spiritualist to have children – these can all be better done through science or better still provide information to guard people particularly the young before it becomes a problem.” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 