Makurdi – The military in ‘Operation Whirl Stroke’ said it engaged herdsmen militia in a shoot-out in Benue State and killed thirty-five, wounded many, while scores fled the area.
It carried out the operation in what it described as a “clearance operation across four fronts of Gwer West, Logo, and Guma LGAs of Benue” as well as Nasarawa, Taraba, and Zamfara states.”
During the operation, the military said it recovered weapons and ammunition from the herdsmen and also handed some of the suspects to the relevant security agencies.
In a statement issued in Makurdi on Monday, the Acting Director of Defence Information, Brig. Gen. John Agim, said: “Troops of Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) in Benue, Nasarawa, Taraba, and Zamfara states conducted a four-prong clearance operation during the weekend.
“Troops made contact with heavily armed herdsmen around Lower Benue and a militia camp at Chetarer village.
“The troops engaged the militia and followed the pursuit with an M135 helicopter of their air component. This led to a large member of them being neutralised.
“In all, 35 herdsmen were neutralised and a large number of them escaped with gunshot injuries.
“However, one personnel was killed in action (KIA), two sustained slight injuries but have been treated and discharged. Also, a personnel is still missing in action.”
In Nasarawa State, Gen. Agim stated that the military set an ambush against the militia at Umaisha and Toto following a tip-off on a planned attack on the two villages.
The Operation’s Spokesman also explained that “in the ensuing melee, 1 x G3 rifle, 193 x 17.62 mm NATO, 81xG3 rifle ammunition, a locally made pistol and 1FN magazine, filled with rounds, were recovered and one militia was killed.”
He added: “One Abdullahi Adamu, suspected herdsman at Rukubi in Doma LGA of Nasarawa State was arrested (for being) in possession of an identity card of the vigilante group of Nigeria, Nasarawa State command, and a photograph in which he posed with an AK47 rifle.”
The suspect who is still under interrogation would be handed over to the police for prosecution after a preliminary investigation, he stated.
In a related development, Agim said men of OPWS also arrested a suspect, Musa Habu, aged 32 years, at Kolo, near Umiasha, Toto LGA and recovered from him a locally made pistol, 2 x cartridges, 1 Techno phone and one hundred and thirty naira only.
According to him, preliminary investigation reveals that the suspect is linked with some militia in the locality, just as he has been handed over to the DSS for further necessary action.
Furthermore, he observed that in Taraba, troops on patrol through Kwesati, Manya- Garagun axis encountered eight bandits who were arrested, armed with 2 AK47 rifles, 1x K2 rifle and 2x locally made gun.
He said: “Ammunitions recovered from them include 56 rounds of 7.6mm, 25 rounds of k2, three cartridges, charms, phones, amongst other items.”
Still in the troubled Middle Belt, about five persons are reported to have lost their lives in another attack on farmers by suspected Fulani herdsmen in Logo Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State.
This time the attack which took place in Mchia community of the LGA happened at about 9p.m on Sunday.
The attack on Mchia took place less than 24 hours after the herdsmen ambushed and killed five soldiers in a border community between Benue and Taraba states on Sunday morning.
Richard Nyajo, Logo LGA Chairman, who told DAILY INDEPENDENT that five farmers lost their lives during the attack, also said one of the soldiers, a female (names withheld) was still in a critical condition.
“We further gathered that an undisclosed number of soldiers were abducted by the herdsmen,” he said.
He added: “Yes, I can confirm to you that the herdsmen attacked my village, Mchia, killing five persons and injuring many others.
“After the attack, they withdrew through Arugu, a village close to Anyiin.
“The villagers traced their footsteps and discovered some bank ATM cards which will be given as evidence to security personnel for investigation. They (ATM cards) were ten in number.”
Nyajo said soldiers also went after the herdsmen, adding, “We do not know what happened afterwards.”
The chairman said the corpses had been deposited at the General Hospital in Anyiin.
Meanwhile, the Catholic Church will today (Tuesday) bury two Catholic priests that were killed alongside seventeen other parishioners at Ayati, Ikpayongo, Gwer LGA of the state.
The burial is expected to be attended by a representative of Pope Francis who is to lead about fifty Catholic Bishops to the burial.
An undisclosed number of Catholic priests are also expected to attend the burial. Fresh Attack Claims Two In Kaduna Community
Meanwhile, no fewer than two persons have been reported killed following an attack by unidentified gunmen at Pasakori village in Jema’a Local Government area of Kaduna State
Police Public Relations Officer in the state, ASP Mukhtar Aliyu, who confirmed the incident said the assailants stormed the village about 10p.m Sunday night.
The Police Spokesperson said the attackers shot sporadically, killing two persons while three others sustained injuries, adding that security agents had since been mobilised to the area while investigation was ongoing.
Silas Maza, a student of Kaduna State College of Education Gidan Waya, about one kilometre away from Pasakori village said that they heard gun shots fired miles away and panicked before the noise subsided few minutes later.
“Soldiers were deployed to the area and as we speak, there are a number of check points on the road,” he said.
It would be recalled that Pasakori village had suffered incessant attacks in late 2016 into 2017 by unknown gunmen that led to loss of lives and property. 2 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 