Last week, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) received the report of its Investigative Committee charged with the task of unravelling the circumstances surrounding incidents of underage voting, which elicited wide-spread concerns during the local government polls held in Kano state on February 10, 2018. It is instructive that in spite of protests from stakeholders, the Kano State Independent Electoral Commission (KANSIEC) denied knowledge of underage voting; thereby compelling investigation into the incidents by INEC. While reviewing the report in Abuja, INEC categorically said its voters’ register was not substantially used for the controversial local government election in Kano State. According to the Chairman of INEC, Professor Mahmood Yaqub, “it is logical to conclude that if under-aged voting occurred in the election, it was not due to any presence of under-aged registrants on the register of voters”. The INEC Chairman added that the Committee found out “images in circulation have been available long before the Kano local government elections”; noting specifically that “the few images and video clips from Kano State show no accreditation of voters or any relationship with the register of voters’’. It is pertinent to recall that images depicting underage voting became rife following the conduct of 2015 general elections. However, no effort was made to authenticate the veracity or otherwise of such incidents. Therefore, by investigating the incidents in Kano, INEC merely did what it ought to have done even without the uproar from stakeholders. The dilemma of underage voting has long feature as part of the dynamics of electoral malpractices in Nigeria. The fact that the peculiar malfeasance reared its ugly head during the last local government polls in Kano is indicative of prevailing flaws in the electoral system in spite of the far-reaching measures which have imbued the electoral process with appreciable credibility in recent time. Indeed, it is regrettable that underage registration and voting appear to have defied the efficiency of electronic data capturing which was aimed at curtailing abuse of voters’ registration process and by extension the manipulation of voting process. Notwithstanding the findings of the Committee, it must be emphasised that the prevailing concerns regarding underage voting like any other form of electoral malpractices substantially diminishes the credibility of elections, which consequently casts the democratic process in bad light, at a time the limitless opportunities availed by technologies are being deployed globally to refine and invest electoral process with transparency. It therefore behoves on INEC to urgently ensure that voters’ register is devoid of unsettling suspicions and controversies ahead of the 2019 general election. More so, the country can ill afford to toy with the credibility of the electoral process at a time impeccable voters’ register has become vital in determining the sanctity of the process as well as the outcome of elections. It is therefore expected that INEC would deploy decisive and urgent remedies to foreclose reoccurrence of underage voting in subsequent elections to be conducted either by INEC or State Independent Electoral Commissions (SIECs). While we share the position of INEC that existing voters’ register is far more credible than those preceding it, we however wish to emphasise that there is the need to thoroughly clean up the register in the light of discrepancies that have become obvious. Beyond the reality of underage voters which INEC has acknowledged even if not in substantial degree, it is expected that the electoral body would deploy additional measures at the polling units with the view to tracking and preventing the abuse of the electoral process through ineligible voters or illicit voting as the case may be. In view of the fact that INEC’s voters’ register are deployed for the conduct of local government elections as prescribed by the electoral law, stakeholders within the political and civil society platform must remain vigilant, with commitment to engaging SIECs towards ensuring that only credible voters’registers are deployed for the conduct of local government elections. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 