Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on the three years of the Muhammadu Buhari administration and other issues of national importance. Excerpts: President Buhari will be marking three years in office tomorrow as president. He was elected on a four-year mandate which will elapse in 2019. Do you think three years is enough to assess his performance? No, I don’t think three years are enough to assess his performance but I think in these three years, sufficient achievements have been recorded by this government by which it can be judged. Three years won’t be a complete picture but there is substantial evidence for one to make an assessment. So, if you are to assess him on the three cardinal programmes of his administration namely war against corruption, revamping the economy and tackling insecurity, how will you rate him in these areas? I think he has been largely successful under very difficult circumstances. Let us take the issue of corruption in which I think he has scored an excellent grade.  In other words, given the circumstances of the country and the hostility plus resistance of the elites who are behind the looting of the nation’s treasury, I will rate his achievement as excellent.  If you look at recovery of assets by this administration, it is unprecedented anywhere in the world; assets recovery from every angle such as Abacha loot, loot under the Goodluck Jonathan government and so on.  It amazes me that Nigerians pretend that they are not aware of these things. If you ask them , what has Buhari achieved in the fight against corruption?. The response you will get is ‘he has achieved very little in the area of corruption’. In fact, that is a blatant lie. He has achieved a tremendous lot.  We have had activities on the part of EFCC and ICPC which is totally unprecedented because of the political commitment of this government in the anti-corruption war.  What people fail to appreciate is the level of resistance, the fighting back by these very powerful oligarchs who are using our resources which they stole to fight us back. It is these resources they use in paying their lawyers, bribing judges and creating all sorts of obstacles. Look at the case of Olisa Metuh. Look at the resistance with all the drama to having the trial concluded.  Someone was told sit where he was but he said no, he must go to the dock and halfway to the dock, he suddenly dropped pretending to have collapsed.  As a result of that, his counsel insists at any cost that the case should be adjourned again. So, this government is going through fearful obstruction in the fight against corruption. That is why it has decided to concentrate on recovery of assets because we have discovered that if you deny these looters of their assets, it is even worse than sentencing to imprisonment because it robs them of all the gains of their looting. If you recover these loots from them, all they have planned to do with the loot will be lost and you see them developing high blood pressure and all sorts of things which could be worse than imprisonment.  If they could go to prison for a time and retain the loot, they will choose that because they will come and enjoy the loot once they are released.  Also, what people seem to forget is the difficulty of conviction because of the lapses of the Nigerian constitution which places the burden of proof not only on the prosecution but also proof beyond reasonable doubt. It is extremely difficult particularly when you have lawyers who are determined to frustrate and stall cases. We forget too that the names of these people have been published. The loot that they have stolen have been stated, the whole country is aware of who they are and they have lost their reputation and respect in the society.  That is a punishment that could be worse than imprisonment.  So, on this issue of anti-corruption war, this government has passed it in flying colours.  We have been engaged in training of judges, prosecutors, training in drafting of charges, interacting with professionals to see how they in their own spheres can cut corruption short especially those in the fields of Accountancy, Law etc.  So, I will class the achievement in this area as first class. When we come to the area of security, we have a major problem. If it was limited to Boko Haram alone, I will also have given this administration an A.  But these herdsmen attack has been so horrendous; totally devastating that it has affected the image of the government. There is no question about that. Even those of us who are in total support of this administration are disturbed by the way these herdsmen appear to have gotten away with their terrorism. However, I am relieved and encouraged by the fact that the government has now made it the priority in their security activity.  They have deployed forces to the affected areas massively and these people are now being fished out, arrested and killed. They now know that they cannot continue with their impunity. One can say the government reaction has been slow but  to me it is not. What has happened is that they did not put in enough action against the herdsmen. They actually put in effort but it was inadequate and there was an incremental level from stage to stage. Now we have a very anti-herdsmen force dealing with them in all the places they are operating  such as Benue, Nassarawa, Taraba, Kaduna and others.  The herdsmen now know that they can no longer act with impunity, get away with it and come back the next day as if Nigeria is a killing field. I am also happy that the federal government has provided a substantial sum of money for those communities to be rehabilitated and brought back to the standard they were living before so they can continue with their lifestyles and farming without fear of attack. Nobel laureate, Wole Soyinka said the federal government should seek foreign assistance in addressing the herdsmen challenge. Do you think this advice should be taken? It is for the government to assess their strength and see if they will need foreign help. I think of recent, these herdsmen attacks have died down. I won’t say they have been eliminated because they still carry out one or two attacks. It may very well be the judgement of the professionals in the fields there like the soldiers, DSS, police and so on that they can handle the situation without foreign help. But if in reality they are going to find it difficult to suppress this murderous rampage, there is nothing wrong in seeking foreign help. So, it is an issue I am going to leave to them to assess. If they feel they are comfortable going on, let them continue. On the economy, I think this government has done excellently well based on where we are coming from.  We were in a hole, deep in the ground. First, the government has dug us out and now it is raising us up above that level.  We should remember that by the time this government came in, in the Niger Delta, oil production has been cut down to less than 50 percent of what it used to be and price of oil has gone down to as low as $30 per barrel. Given that background, I think this government has done well. You have to tie the issue of economy to corruption.  The assets that have been recovered are being put to economic use.  The government has invested massively in social development. In the 2017 budget, they reserved N500b for social investment, for example, engaging young men in all sorts of skills such as mechanics, carpentry, tailoring and so on whilst also paying them.  In other words, these young men are learning from various workshops and artisans and the government has been paying them N30,000 each so that if they have any  fees to pay as apprentice, there is money for it. And remember,  it is not a loan but a grant so that as soon as they secure their freedom, they can now start their own business independently and also be in a position to now employ others thereby reducing unemployment and improving the quality of lives of Nigerians. Also, the Buhari administration is also feeding over 8 million school children everyday. It used to be 7 million but now the figure has risen to 8.5 million with 800,000 cooks now in employment.  Farmers who supply the crops, eggs and so on are now being raised financially. Some people pretend they don’t know all these things because of what I will call bad belle politics.  There is also the case of young men and women who are engaged in various businesses but lack the capital. They are being given loan between N200,000 to N500,000 without interest. They will take the loan, invest it in their businesses and start paying back when they make profits without any interest whatsoever. A lot of people are taking advantage of that. Finally, we have families that have no income being given N5,000 stipend per month to sustain them whilst they are trying to raise themselves up.  So, you can see the consciousness of this government directed at the most vulnerable Nigerians who are being raised up. When you raise them up and they in turn start raising others up, the whole of the country will be raised up. So, we are doing well economically. People are complaining that they are not feeling it yet. Yes, they are not going to feel it immediately. The whole economy itself has to be raised up. There will be lots of economic activities then those activities will spin off a lot of financial trickling down and then we will begin to feel it. I am sure in the next 2 to 3 years, Nigerians will begin to have a spirit of economic well-being and optimism. Do you think the coup in the National Assembly which led to the emergence of Bukola Saraki and Yakubu Dogara as Senate President and Speaker negatively affected the Buhari administration? That coup disorganised this government. The result of that is the fact that the opposition party is not PDP. The opposition was Saraki’s senate which became the strongest, vicious, distracting and destructive opposition that this government has. The senate became Saraki’s party because the APC senators there joined that party, the PDP also joined and they became the most vicious opposition of this government.  In a sense, I blame the president for not taking enough active interest in the emergence of the leadership. Primaries had taken place. The persons who were going to hold offices under the party have emerged and these people went behind and sabotaged it at great cost because what they did was that they now sold the party’s position in the national assembly to the PDP bringing PDP into powerful position in the senate so that they can emerge at the expense of their own party under whose flag they came into the national assembly. In a way, I am less angry with Dogara because after what he did wrong was pointed out to him; he now appointed Femi Gbajabiamila as Majority Leader of the House but Saraki on his part was adamant.  I think the president made a mistake in assuming that the whole system will operate itself naturally without interventions. He should have intervened vigorously and there are many things he could have done at that time but we need not go into it.  The president has to put his foot down in 2019. Once the elections are over, he will determine who are going to head the national assembly, both the senate and House of Reps and ensure that they installed those people and not allow anybody to go and hide at 5:30 am in a car and then changed his clothes and entered into the national assembly.  That will never happen again. It must be strictly controlled because the greatest drawback this government has suffered has been in  the area of the national assembly, particularly the senate. They are the worst enemies of this government. President Buhari and former president Olusegun Obasanjo last week engaged in war of words over the $16bn Power project. Will your body advise the president on whether it should be probed or not? Yes, when the time comes certainly we will do that. It is an issue that we didn’t really think about in my committee. The anti-corruption agencies are the ones who have all the facts, names and figures. So, we will leave them to use their initiative but if this issue becomes political issue as it is being turn into, it may be necessary to get the facts and take the necessary action. If anybody wants to make capital of politics by running down this government which in my view is the most upright government we have had since a part of the Murtala Mohammed government, then this government may have to show that it is a government of principle and one which has the will to suppress corruption and those who challenge it may face the music. Former South African president, Jacob Zuma is currently trial for his actions in office. Do you think Obasanjo is sacred cow that cannot be prosecuted? Heavens will not fall if Obasanjo is prosecuted and jailed if found guilty. In my opinion, this government has a very kind disposition towards former presidents out of respect.  The government doesn’t want to create the impression whereby a former president who is the image of the country is being brought to trial. It will look a sorry sight. But no one should challenge this government and then compel it too establish that those who are talking are not the best and they allowed a lot of dirt under them for which they are not being prosecuted. Why do you think Obasanjo is too critical of those who succeeded him in office unlike what obtains in the United States where you hardly see former presidents criticising the incumbents despite political differences? Why even go to the United States? Let’s look into Nigeria. How many times has Yakubu Gowon under whom Obasanjo served as a military officer criticise anybody?  I am sure when he has anything to say he will go quietly. How many times has Abdulsalami Abubakar criticised anybody? Even Ibrahim Babangida was quiet before, respecting himself until Obasanjo started pushing and egging him to speak. You could see it wasn’t natural with Babangida coming out to attack a successor.  So, this is an Obasanjo ego trip. He has to be the President-General forever. He is always envious of anyone who came in after him. He has to interfere to be relevant and you must allow him preside over the presidency otherwise there will be no  peace.  He didn’t allow Yar’Adua to rest; he didn’t allow Jonathan to rest now it is the turn of Buhari.  I think this tendency of putting your hands in the eyes of those who succeeded you really has to be stopped.  His shenanigans has to be stopped.  He went  to Afenifere, a group he has had nothing to do with for  years for support. He has to formed some artificial party ADC and all sorts of ridiculous associations thinking he can destabilise this government when he was allowed a free reign as president.  He got two terms and then wanted a Third Term. Nobody killed him for it even though that attempt failed woefully. So, I think Obasanjo should allow Nigeria to rest. He should give Nigeria peace. He should just go to his house and leave us alone. We have had enough of him. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 