Dr Chuks Theophillus Onuegbu is the President South East Concerned Coalition. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on May 30 sit-at-home declared by pro-Biafra groups, the recent arrest of Jewish worshippers in Umuahia and the direction of South East come 2019 general election. How do you see the recent arrest of Jewish worshippers during service at the compound of Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the IPOB? The 1999 Nigerian Constitution recognises freedom of worship and freedom of assembly as well as self expression. Religion is a thing of choice and is free. Anybody has the right to embrace anyone he or she is satisfied with. The Jewish religion is a accepted worldwide. It is therefore wrong for the Police or Military to go to the place of worship to arrest the Jewish worshippers just because the place is located at Nnamdi Kanu’s compound. I see this as an affront and intimidation. That is why we say that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration see the Igbos as animals. How can they go and arrest people that are in service? It is an affront that ought not to be done. I am calling on the Police or the Federal Government agencies concerned to release those that were arrested with immediate effect. It is a breach of their fundamental rights. What is your take on the sit-at-home declared by the Pro-Biafra groups on May 30, 2018? The May 30 sit-at-home order as announced by all pro-Biafra groups, 10of them, is a day set aside to mourn Igbos that were killed in the 1967 pogrom that led to the 30-month civil war which consumed 30 million Igbos. That day was mapped out by Ndigbo to mourn these heroes. It is not the pro-Biafra groups that owns or created the day. It is the whole Igbos. It is a justified course. That day, most Igbos will stay at home. I want all Igbo, working or not, to reverence that day, even if it is for only 10 minutes. It is like when the Germans remember the Hiroshima bomb victims. Last year’s sit-at-home and its compliance led northern youths to give Igbos quit notice and the Military’s Python Dance 11, and the FG’s declaration of IPOB as a terrorist group. Don’t you think that this year’s declaration could lead to more punitive measures against the South East? Well, the Igbos did not ask any other ethnic group to sit at home. I do not see how it will affect other ethnic groups. They did not tell Aso Rock to sit at home. If anybody feels disturbed by the Igbos mourning their dead, they are on their own. During the war, people who were worshipping in a Catholic Church were bombed and over 5,000 refugees, mostly women and children, were killed. In USA for instance, a boy set himself ablaze. A student, Bruce Mayrock, held a one-man protest against the killing of the Igbos. Arthur Elvis Pereria and Count Von Rosu, all French nationals, protested the killing of the Igbos. Our own Professor Wole Soyinka protested against the killing of the Igbos. He was arrested and imprisoned, it was while he was in jail that he wore his classical book, ‘The Man Died’. The sit-at-home by the Igbos should therefore not lead to counter reactions by any other ethnic group. In a normal society, the other ethnic groups should mourn with Ndigbo because those people who died during the war were human beings, especially women and children. So, security agencies should allow the Ibos to mourn their dead in peace. Don’t you think that restructuring instead of Biafra agitation would solve the problem of South East marginalisation? Restructuring is very good. I am not only calling for restructuring of Nigeria, I am calling for fairness and equity. What is good for Hausa, should be good for Yoruba, and should also be good for Ndigbo and the Niger Deltans. I want a country which is devoid of marginalisation. If the Federal Government gives South East infrastructural development, site federal institutions there and appoint South Easterner to sensitive positions, Biafra agitation will stop. Today, there is no one from South East in the National Security Council. It is only Hausas and a few Yoruba. There is no South Easterner in President Buhari’s kitchen cabinet. Government policies are targeted against South East. No South Easterner is happy over the way the Igbos are being treated. Restructuring is good. If it is achieved, every segment of the country will develop at its pace. If government accepts it, it is god. I am calling on the Federal Government and the National Assembly to begin to restructure the nation to end agitations. As Nigerians are marching towards the 2019 general election, what is your advice to the South Easterners? In 2019, as an Igbo stakeholder and President of the South East Concerned Coalition, I want out people to have a new direction. They should come together under one umbrella, which is the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). I want APGA to win all South East states, just as Alliance for Democracy (AD) did in South West in 1999 and 2003 elections. AD swept all the states in South West during these elections. ANPP and PDP got nothing in South West. The APC and PDP o today do not have Igbo roots. So, in 2019, South East should come together under one umbrella, which is APGA. It is the only major national party today that has South East identity. After winning South East the 2019 elections, APGA can spread its tentacles to other states and regions as APC and PDP are doing now. How do you see the recent bombing of the house of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo President General, Chief Okwesilieze Nwodo? The bombing of our Igbo leaders began with the bombing of the house of Kalu Idika Kalu, former Minister of Finance under Gen. Ibrahim Babangida administration. His house was bombed supposedly by hoodlums. Now that Chief Nwodo is championing restructuring with Southern and Middle Belt leaders, his house is being bombed. I see it as the handiwork of mischief makers and security challenge in the South East. I lament the bombing and all the killings by armed herdsmen, who President Buhari has refused to declare as terrorists for obvious reasons. They are his cronies. I am calling on the National Assembly to pass a bill that will recognise armed herdsmen as terrorists, whether they come from Libya or Chad. They are terrorists. The Nigerian security agencies should go after them. Now farmers are killed on daily basis and farms destroyed. There is a heavy migration from Middle Belt to the South. This will lead to food shortage and severe hunger next year, as farmers have deserted their farmlands due to the activities of the killer herdsmen. The National Assembly should act now. if the executive refuses to act, the legislature has the power to do it to save the nation from imminent disaster. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 