Chief Ikechukwu Joseph Ukaegbu is the 2007 governorship candidate of the National Democratic Party (NDP) in Imo State. He is the leader of the Labour Party (LP) in the State and in the South East and is desirous to install a Labour Party government in the state and possibly, at the Federal Level too. In this interview with Anolu Vincent, he spoke on his plans if elected as the governor of the state. Excerpts: Could we please have a brief background about you? I am Chief Ikechukwu Joseph Ukaegbu. I am the last of 10 children of same parentage. I hail from Amaeke, Inyishi in Ikeduru Local Government Area, Imo State. I grew up and schooled at different locations depending where my parents and the circumstance of the time permitted. All through my adolescent age a calm voice inside me will always whisper to me that “you are a destiny child”. It never made any meaning to me until I went through school age, worked in several places and found myself in politics. In 2007 I earned the governorship ticket of the National Democratic Party yet the inner calm voice kept reminding me that I was a destiny child and my time was yet to come. In 2016 I withdrew into solitude in a thick bush outside Imo State to seek the face of the Lord and as well get the proper interpretation of the message of the inner calm voice of being a destiny child. The Lion of Judah in an unmistaken voice told me clearly in that spiritual sojourn that my time has come as Governor of Imo State in 2019. He my Maker, made promises on how his will on this vision will come to pass as well as gave warnings on the challenges that will spring up against the vision.  I cried that I had no rich CV of ex this; ex that since I have not held any prominent public position in the past. He consoled me and promised to avail me, men, women, and youths along with materials necessary for His words on joy life to come to pass. This was how I found myself in this race choosing Labour Party as the constitutional platform to fulfill the promise of God. I am literate enough to ascertain the yearnings and aspirations of the people as well as assimilate the promptings of the Holy Spirit in my aspiration of being Governor of Imo State in 2019. In the course of my growth, I developed a habit of empowerment early in life as a result of my experience and the poverty that dotted almost every home. So why do you want to rule Imo? The answer is simple: to rescue the state from its current state of abyss and economic doldrums perpetrated by the poverty of vision of the present administration in the state. My ambition has a spiritual undertone because power belongs to God and I always derive pleasure from putting smiles on the faces of the poor and the needy. I want to reform Imo and take democracy dividends to the people at the grassroots. The 2019 election should be seen by the electorate as a direct battle between God and Satan. Since Chief Sam Mbakwe left office in 1983, Imo has not witnessed any improvement and I want to move the state from where he stopped. Considering the symbol of our party, we should be taking for human beings. I am prepared to industrialize Imo, make agricultural revolution a paramount business in governance, empower the youths not just giving them money because money is earned, but by putting up such structures as skill acquisition programmes. I have been privileged to be involved, to some extent, in the -emergence of some present and past political leaders in Imo State and even in Nigeria. I belong to some networks that are peopled by all strata of persons- the low, middle and high class. My experience constitutes the major plank of my vision for Imo State if I emerge as Governor in 2019. I am not inclined to an elitist government neither a pedestrian one. My vision is for a wholistic movement that will encompass all classes for all sectors to feel the impact of the dividends of democracy. The middle class no longer exists due to bad governance. I am bound to re-establish the middle class as -it is the only nexus linking the low class and high class and this I believe is the only way forward for the people and the economy. It is the most practical way to demonstrate the true meaning of democracy- government of the people; by the people and for the people. As a governor I would pump AIR into Imo. I will not deceive anybody to claim that I will solve all the problems but I will ensure that generations yet unborn will be proud of our state. You may begin to wonder what kind of AIR I intend to give Imo people considering the level of devastation and pollution the state has undergone over the years as a result of bad and mindless governance. My kind of AIR is: Agriculture, infrastructure and Re-orientation. My campaign shall be wholly dependent on the outlines of LABOUR PARTY general manifesto. As cultures differ; so do individuals. My team shall be made up with good Labour Party -men and women who will be willing and prepared to: believe while others are doubting, Plan while others are playing Decide while others are delaying,prepare while others are day-dreaming, Act while others are procrastinating, work while others are wishing, invest while others are wasting, Listen while others are talking, smile while others are frowning, Commend, while others are criticizing, Persist while others are quitting, Praying & fasting while others are snoring. It is my thinking that a generation that cannot feed itself is close to extinction and a failed generation. Food in every home and every table is my target. Every Local Government shall be-encouraged to specialize in the production of a particular food crop and it shall be of an export standard. The Labour party appears not to be as strong as the APC and the PDP in the state. How do you intend to take the party to the grassroots so as to realise your ambition? Our party enjoys enviable peace and unity and we do not have intra-party squabbles or factions.  We have had our congresses and very soon, we will have our primaries   as stipulate by INEC. We have since commenced aggressive grassroots sensitization and awareness programmes among the people and this is yielding the desired result. Many people are coming to us daily for registration, and   we have continued to welcome people from other parties. We are on ground but we do not want to make noise about this so that our rivals will not hijack our goodwill. We intend to run a government that is people oriented with accountability as our watchwords. Do you have confidence in the ability of INEC to conduct a free and fair election next year? Free and fair election will be determined by the masses and it the result of the polls is overwhelming, I can assure you, INEC will be handicapped and cannot alter it. Rigging can only be checkmated by the messes.  Let me use this opportunity to appeal to your people who have not obtained their PVCs to go and do so without further delay. As a governor, I will not support same sex marriage and will do everything to resist the temptation to do this by the state House of Assembly. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 