Onitsha – A sizable number of the suspected members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and other members of Biafra agitators on Tuesday booed the National Chairman of the Ohaneze Ndi Igbo, Chief Nnai Nwodo, when he took over the podium to address Ndi Igbo and other Nigerians who were in Awka to grace the South-East summit. Although, there was huge turnout at the Summit that dealt with restructuring of the entity called Nigeria, the suspected members of IPOB who had threatened fire and brimstone should the Summit hold, beat the security network and made their way into the Dr. Alex Ekwueme Square where the Summit took place. Newsmen who covered the event report that that there was cheerfulness among the attendants but the Alex Ekwueme Square wore an ugly look when the youths started protesting when the National President of Ohaneze Ndi Igbo called for the adoption of a communiqué favouring restructuring of Nigeria as a nation. While the Summit was a role call of who-is-who in Igboland and other geo-political zones in Nigeria, foremost industrialist, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, was the Chairman of the occasion. However, the Summit adopted restructuring of Nigeria as the only thing that can keep the nation united while Middle Belt, Afenifere, South-South geo-political zones said they are solidly behind the South-East in their quest to restructure Nigeria before the next general election. Among other dignitaries that graced the occasion includes Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo, who served as the Communiqué Drafting Chairman. Others include the Host, Governor Willie Obiano, some former governors of the South East, Prof. Jerry Gana, the Deputy Senator President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, Senator Enyinnia Abaribe, Senator Victor Umeh and other lawmakers from the South East geo-political zone. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 