Some football enthusiasts on Tuesday rated the Super Eagles’ performance as above average following their 1-1 draw in a friendly game against Democratic Republic of Congo in Port Harcourt on Monday. visiting Leopards of DR Congo cancelled out William Ekong’s 17th minute opener from the penalty spot through Ben Malanga in the 78th minute. A cross section of enthusiasts who spoke to independent said the team’s performance was a bit lacklustre, adding however that the two performances of the two debutants Simeone Nwankwo and Junior Lokosa stood out. Tunde Popoola, the Secretary General of the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC), said that the team did not perform too badly, adding that their were flashes of individual brilliance by some players in the team. “The Eagles were cautious in their approach to the game as it was evident that the players were careful so as not to pick up injuries ahead of the World Cup, which is understandable. “It was a tune up game and I am happy that at least the Eagles didn’t get beaten. “They dominated most part of the game and could have scored more goals if they had taken their scoring chances but the attackers fluffed their lines on so many occasions. “I was, however, particularly happy with some of the new faces introduced into the team. At least Nigerians got to see what the likes of Nwankwo and Lokosa can offer the team going forward. “The two debutants gave a good account of themselves, especially Nwankwo who went close on several occasions and hit the post but was unlucky not to score. “I think overall, it was an average performance from the boys and they can only get better,” he said. Emmanuel Babayaro, an ex-international said the friendly game was a good test against a physical and energetic DR Congo side as it helped toughen the boys ahead of the World Cup. “I am always particularly concerned about the defensive department of the team and I think the centre-back pairing of Ekong and Leon Balogun looked a bit shaky for majority of the game. “It was however good to see Ekong scoring his first goal in the green and white colours. The Bursaspor of Turkey centre-back was impressive and coped well with the Congolese forwards. “But Balogun had a difficult time stopping the dangerous Benik Afobe until he was substituted with Kenneth Omeruo who did his best to help stabilize the defence. “Half-time substitute, Ola Aina made forays upfront unlike the man he replaced, Elderson Echiejile but was unlucky to concede the penalty that led to the Congolese equalising goal. “Also, right-back Tyronne Ebuehi was lively early in the game but fizzled out later, but I think he did enough to prove he can give regular right-back Shehu Abdullahi proper competition,” he said. The former Nigerian international goalkeeper who was part of Nigeria’s 1996 Olympics gold medal winning team also singled out Francis Uzoho for praise, adding that the young goalkeeper looked solid in goal. “Uzoho made three brilliant saves in the game and if not for that dubious penalty awarded to DR Congo, he easily could have kept a clean sheet. “I think with that very good performance in between the sticks, he has put himself in strong contention for the number one position.” Godwin Bamigboye, the Chairman, FCT Football Coaches Association, on his part singled-out some regular players in the squad who he noted failed to impress. “It was an average performance by team and I was particularly disappointed in some of the regular players like Kelechi Iheanacho, Ogenyi Onazi and Elderson Echiejile. “Iheanacho even though he started the game brightly and set up the goal scored by Ekong, he somehow struggled afterwards and it was no surprise that he was substituted by Coach Gernot Rohr after the break. “It was also an average performance from the stand-in captain Onazi and left-back Echiejile who both failed to replicate their impressive past showings for the Super Eagles. “However, the likes of Joel Obi, Ahmed Musa and Oghenekaro Etebo, Nwankwo, Etebo and Uzoho showed flashes of brilliance and gave us reasons to believe in the team’s ability of putting up a good showing in Russia,” he said. Fidelis Ilechukwu, Head Coach of Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) club side MFM FC of Lagos also highlited the performance of NPFL striker, Lokosa and Crotone of Italy forward Nwankwo. “Lokosa played in an unfamiliar right-wing position and showed some promise. He did his chances no harm. “Nwankwo on his part, came close to scoring twice in the game and showed good skills on the ball. He lacked good service but imposed himself on the game,” he said. Ilechukwu posited that Nwankwo would be a very good option to have in attack alongside Odion Ighalo, adding that both he and Lokosa had a very good chance of making the final 23-man list. “Simeone (Nwankwo) keeps the ball, attacks the ball and shows a lot of qualities. Odion Ighalo cannot do it all alone,” he said. “I know a good striker when I see one. So for me, Simeon should be in Russia. “For Junior, he can also make the squad to Russia although he is still growing. He is young and may not have the experience but with his performance against Congo, he can be considered. The Super Eagles next take on 2018 World Cup-bound England in a high-profile friendly at Wembley Stadium on Saturday. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 