Lagos – To prepare ground for the take-off of its Open Distance Learning (ODL) mode, the management of Yaba College of Technology (Yabatech), in collaboration with the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), has organised an Open Distance/Flexible Learning (ODFL) training, titled: “Train the Trainer Workshop” for lecturers. Drawn from the 12 departments approved for the take-off of ODFL by NBTE, the authority of the institution explained that the vision was for all Polytechnics in Nigeria to adopt ODL and make good use of it to the maximum. NBTE had trained lecturers from various Polytechnics and has mandated them to go into their respective schools to train others in order to spread the knowledge of distance learning in all departments so that ODFL will kick off in Nigerian Polytechnics. Speaking at the workshop, Dr. I.A. Abdul, the Director of Flexible Skill Development (FSD) welcomed the participants and advised them to pay rapt attention to the facilitators and ask a necessary question. The representative of NBTE, Elder Ayo Aroge commended the workshop and encouraged the participants to go back to their departments after the training to train other staff on the uses of the platform and expresses happiness, saying ODFL is not new in Yabatech because FSD has been planted in the College and had germinated. “Tertiary Institution E-resource is a project to capture the formal sector. NBTE is saying that student can stay at home to receive lecture; it is practicable all over the world and we are finding it difficult to plant it here, how can we capture the heart of a student in this aspect? They are familiar with social media; let us transform it to learning because students are technology compliance. NBTE is initially planning for 70% to 30% i.e 70% for online learning while 30% is for face-to-face revision, practical and examination, it will move next to 90% to 10% and will eventually transform to 100% online. I, therefore, encourage the partakers to be active and at the end of the day they will be better for it”. Earlier, the Rector Engr. Obafemi Omokungbe said: “For over 70 years our education system has relied on face-to-face methods of classroom teaching, however, to be able to maintain our leading position in the future, Yabatech must develop and perfect her ODFL system to meet the demand of time. ODFL is one of the most rapidly growing fields of education and it will be an important element of future education and training systems. “On May 24, 2017, the NBTE approved the implementation of ODFL in 12 programmes for Yabatech and 29 for other Polytechnics. Prior to this approval, the College established the FSD centre in April 2016 with three departments, one of which is ODFL department. The ODFL department of the FSD centre came up with a draft ODL policy for the College in January 2017 but its implementation was suspended pending the launching of the NBTE/M8 FSD/TIER project. Yabatech has been an active participant in the FSD/TIER project since inception mainly because of our belief in the potential of ODFL to increase access to quality Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) in the formal and nonformal sector”. “The promise of ODFL remains unfulfilled in many educational institutions in spite of their good initiatives due to their failure to recognise key planning and implementing steps. At Yabatech we ensured a great deal of planning with careful and systematic implementation strategy to avoid pitfalls and unnecessary failures. Extensive capacity development is one of such strategies and that is the focus of this staff training.” He added. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 