The escalating killings and sacking of villages in Benue state by suspected herdsmen  portend grave consequences for the nation, if not tackled with needed urgency. We, of course, note  widespread killings in many states in the three northern zones, but that of Benue state has become the poster for the singular, barbaric  horror that the state has endured since January this year. Particularly foreboding was the chilling murder of two Catholic priests and 14 worshippers in St Ignatius Quasi Parish, Ukpor Mbalon, in Gwer local government area of Benue state during morning mass on Tuesday, 24th April, 2018. The attackers were reported to have sacked the village and burnt down about 35 houses. Sadly, this fiendish brutality has become the trademark of the marauding herdsmen, with seeming impunity. That same week, suspected herdsmen, who the locals describe as Fulani militia, were on killing rampage in other areas of the state including Logo, Guma, Naka and parts of the state capital, Makurdi. Earlier, the Agatu area of the state had been over run with hundreds massacred. Reacting to the killing of the Catholic priests and other worshippers, President Muhammadu Buhari had in a statement noted: ‘’This latest assault on innocent persons is particularly despicable’’. In the statement, issued on his behalf by his special adviser on media and publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, the president had added:  ‘’Violating a place of worship, killing priests and worshippers is not only vile, evil and satanic, it is clearly calculated to stoke up religious conflict and plunge communities into endless bloodletting”. We say these are mere platitudes, what is required is action to  end the mindless killings.Indeed,not a few Nigerians believe there is an unnerving equanimity, a sense of unperturbed aloofness in the reaction of the President to all these killings in the land.   Several states have been turned into killing fields, including Adamawa, Taraba, Plateau, Zamfara, Kogi,  Nasarawa, Kaduna with skirmishes in Delta, Enugu, Ebonyi, and Oyo. There are emergent communal dimensions to the killings, the most recent being the April 24 clash between Bassa and Ebira ethnic groups in Ugya, Toto local government of Nasarawa where about 20 people were feared dead. The Presidency must change its approach concerning the recurring killings in the country. The recent call to self defense by traumatised people coming from Gen. T.Y. Danjuma cannot be dismissed with a wave of the hand. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) appears to be losing faith in preachment and now seems predisposed to victims of herdsmen killings defending themselves. Protests are being organised by Christian churches across the land. These are ominous signs of an impending implosion which the President has an obligation to prevent as demanded of him by the constitution he swore to uphold. The militant cattle breeders association that has brazenly owned up to so-called revenge killings seem to recognise that the clashes and accompanying killings may spin out of control and is now calling for urgent resolution. In a statement on May 1, 2018, the national president of the Gan Allah Fulani Development Association of Nigeria (GAFDAN), Sale Bayeri,  noted : ‘’GAFDAN is worried that the Benue crisis , from our findings, is responsible for the clashes in neighbouring Nasarawa, Taraba and Kogi states due to mass influx of displaced animals and persons from Benue to the neighbouring states”. Bayeri then warned : ‘It is our view that if the conflict is not quelled now, it has the capacity to engulf the entire country and ignite ethno-religious conflicts’’. We believe that it should be obvious to President Buhari that issues about the killings are heading for a showdown. President Buhari cannot continue to live in denial. He must, as President of Nigeria, shun counter productive  considerations and rouse the security agencies to action to rout the killers and restore peace to the land. The Benue killings and other killings across the land must be brought to an end, NOW. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 