Nigeria’s problem is neither ethnicity nor religion, but egotistical politicians who exploit those to acquire power to control the Federal Government in which the Constitution vests exclusive ownership and control of the nation’s mineral wealth. This was the view canvassed by Prof. Anthony Akinwale, Vice Chancellor, the Dominican University, Ibadan, at the recently held colloquium of Catholic Lawyers in Lagos. STEPHEN UBIMAGO, who was at the event, reports… Sovereign ownership of all mineral resources in the country, including oil and gas, constitutes the foundation of the myriad problems plaguing Nigeria. In other words, the fact that Nigeria’s extant laws, primarily the 1999 Constitution, having dispossessed the people of their land, exclusively vest ownership and control of mineral resources in the Federal Government, forms the fountainhead of the problems confronting the beleaguered nation. This position, which somewhat stands distinct from that canvassed by late legendary author, Professor Chinua Achebe, to the effect that “The trouble with Nigeria is simply and squarely a failure of leadership,” was recently pushed by Prof. Anthony Akinwale, Vice Chancellor, Dominican University, Ibadan. In a paper he delivered in Lagos as guest lecturer at a colloquium organised by the National Association of Catholic Lawyers (NACL), Lagos Archdiocese, on Saturday, April 30, Prof. Akinwale stated: “The people have been dispossessed, impoverished and disabled by a constitution that places the land and its resources in the hands of government.” Speaking on the theme, “Egotism, Power Addiction and the Instrumentalization of Religious and Ethnic Affiliation in Nigeria,” he explained how sovereign ownership of Nigeria’s mineral wealth became its undoing. “In such a system, whoever controls the government possesses the land and its wealth,” the professor, who doubles as a Catholic priest, said, adding, “By virtue of the current constitution, confiscation of the land and its resources by the state is legitimized.” According to him, “Wherever and whenever the state controls the land and its wealth, there will be individuals who will seek to gain exclusive possession of the land and of its wealth by grabbing power.” It is in the desperate bid by some politicians to grab power to be able to control the land and its wealth that they deploy the foul means of exploiting ethnicity and religion in order to achieve their end. “The means of accomplishing these proximate and ultimate objectives is the exploitation of religious and ethnic diversity in the land,” he said. “Religious and ethnic sentiments are whipped up to win votes, to grab power and to remain in power.” He stressed therefore that neither religion nor ethnicity is Nigeria’s problem. On the contrary, the exploitation of these by egotistical power-mongering politicians is the issue. “The problem with Nigeria is neither religion nor ethnicity but egotism and power addiction,” he said. “It is the exploitation of our religious and ethnic diversity in the scramble for Nigeria’s enormous agricultural and mineral wealth, particularly her oil wealth.” He added, “It is not a vice but a virtue to belong to a religious community. Neither is it a vice but a virtue to belong to an ethnic community. “The human being has a nature that is characterized by religiosity and relationality. One belongs to a religious community by virtue of one’s religiosity, and one belongs to an ethnic community by virtue of one’s relationality. “The problem then is not religiosity but the abuse of religion. Neither is it ethnicity but ethnocentrism. “Ethnocentrism is entry into a malicious solidarity that makes one gather with members of his or her community so as to work against the interests of those of other communities.” That many Nigerian politicians have a proclivity to exploit religion and ethnicity just to push their private accumulative agenda does not therefore necessarily mean that politics is bad, the professor stressed. He maintained that politicians who exploit these natural identity markers for private ends belong to the Machiavellian school of political thought, as distinct from those who get into politics because it is a noble platform for service to humanity. The latter are rather mentored by great philosophers like Aristotle, Plato, Thomas Aquinas, and Augustine of Hippo, he said. According to him, “Politics, in the true sense of the term, is the intelligent regulation of common life for the sake of the common good. “Politics, rightly conceived, is not a vice but a virtue found within and among human beings who are desirous of a common life intelligently regulated for the sake of the common good. “What I have just described are two schools of politics—the school represented by Greek philosophers like Plato and Aristotle, to which Christian philosophers like Augustine of Hippo and Thomas Aquinas subscribed; and the school represented by Niccolo Machiavelli, to which an overwhelming majority of political actors belong within and outside Nigeria. “The intention of the first school is the common good. And that explains the title of Plato’s political writing—The Republic, the good of the res publica, and Aristotle’s Politics, the good of the polis, the city. “The intention of the second school, on the other hand, is not the common good, but the fortunes of the politician sought and obtained at the expense of the common good.” He however warned that if the unchecked accumulative and exploitative instincts of Nigerian politicians are not reined in early enough, Nigeria’s survival as a corporate entity cannot be guaranteed beyond 2020. Other distinguished lecturers at the occasion were eminent Professor of Jurisprudence and International Law, Akin Oyebode; and Political Economist and Professor of Entrepreneurship at the Lagos Business School of the Pan-Atlantic University, Pat Utomi. Still other paper presenters were Prof. Charles Ukeje, Dr. Chichi Aniagolu-Okoye and Ms. Idayat Hassan. Speaking on the topic, “Problems and Prospects for a People’s Constitution,” Prof. Oyebode said the path to the people’s constitution in Nigeria is only through a people’s revolution. Commenting against the backdrop of the fact that the 1999 Constitution, in its preamble, which ought to speak to its legitimacy, told a lie against itself in stating, “We the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria…do hereby make, enact and give to ourselves the following Constitution,” Oyebode said, “Anyone who is not ready to pay the ultimate price is not ready to institute a people’s constitution.” Utomi, who was the lead speaker on the theme, “The Nigeria its People Desire, Deserve and Demand,” said part of the challenge of governance in the country stems from the failure of the political party process. According to him, politics in Nigeria, being “Machine Politics,” is hardly driven by ideology, ideas or policy objectives. It is rather driven by what he termed, “The Iron Law of Oligarchy and the cults of personality godfathers.” Noting that Nigeria does not deserve this state of affairs, he said that being the most populous Customs Union in Africa, Nigeria rather deserves the prosperity of large markets; as the hope of Negroid peoples in the world, Nigeria should learn from the experience of the State of Israel. He admonished that organised as members of civil society groups, Nigerians should work toward curbing the growth of professional politicians as social parasites. They should also work to build a country that would be “a land of equal opportunity in which merit thrives; but where however the challenged are not abandoned,” he said. For Dr. Aniagolu-Okoye, who spoke on the topic, “Effective Leadership in Nigeria,” the bane of effective leadership in Nigeria is simply the lack of empathy for the led among members of the political leadership. “Empathy is what we need in Nigeria to make the difference in Nigeria,” she said. She stressed that if the leadership has empathy, they will be careful to know if the people they’re trying to reach are actually being reached. According to her, empathy allows the leader to predict the effect of his or her decisions and actions on core audiences, and strategize accordingly. Referencing and commending the ability of Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, to pay civil servants’ salaries as and when due, unlike many of his colleagues in other states, she alluded to the man’s capacity for empathy. She said if other governors and persons in leadership positions in the country have such empathy, there will be far less suffering in the country. “The Nigerian Youth, Restructuring and the Future of Nigeria,” was the topic of the paper delivered by Prof. Ukeje, who lamented that instead of being at the vanguard, Nigerian youths are still at the fringes in the discourse about the future of their country. He further regretted that the critical voices and agency of young people is “missing, muffled, maligned or muzzled in the ongoing debate on restructuring Nigeria.” Regardless of other extraneous factors, however, the youths themselves are worth of blame in their current lot, he said. “I worry that Nigerian youths, distracted by or fixated with existential issues have virtually purged themselves from politics and the political space; and this includes even those who have had the opportunity of higher education whether or not they are gainfully employed afterwards,” he maintained. Proposing, however, how the voices of the youths could be made more influential in determining the future of the country, he said, “In the task of reclaiming Nigeria, and pulling it away from the brinks, my sense is that there are many areas that Nigerian youths can become more active, I would prioritise the primacy of politics. “I would like to draw attention to the primacy of entering the political space if the voice and agency of young people is to become amplified in the debate on the future of Nigeria. “Nigerian youths can no longer afford to distance themselves from the political space; whether they are demanding accountability or seeking representational offices. “For as long as they distance themselves from politics at every level for so long will the concerns, yearnings and aspirations of young people be met with contempt and forlorn hope.” He stressed that where the voices and agency of the youths could be made more impactful, meaningful and decisive are in the new Social Media. Others are in grassroots mobilization; Diaspora engagement; intra-generational convergence, alongside inter-generational conversations. The colloquium, which held at the Colonades Hotel in Ikoyi, Lagos was well attended by lawyers, law students and the general public. It was however preceded by an earlier professional development seminar for lawyers with the theme, “Exploring Emerging Areas of Law Practice.” 0 comments