The Lagos State Government and the environmental utility group contracted to implement the new waste management policy of the state government encapsulated in the Cleaner Lagos Initiative (CLI), Visionscape Sanitation Solutions, have commenced discussions to build more Transfer Loading Stations (TLS) as part of efforts to align the state with global best practices. While clarifying the new direction for the CLI, Special Adviser to the Governor on the initiative, Engr Adebola Shabi, highlighted the collaboration and partnership between the Waste Collection Operators (WCOs) and Visionscape, as well as the heightened focus on infrastructural development. He said under the new arrangement, the Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) would still retain its role of enforcement of the relevant environmental laws, while the WCOs otherwise known as PSP operators would manage the residential waste collection. He added that the Ministry of the Environment would now manage the street sweepers, while mechanized street sweeping remains under the purview of Wastecare, Avatar, and Corporate Solutions. Noting that the state currently has three Transfer Loading Stations being refurbished and managed by Visionscape, Shabi said the government was well aware of the need to build more facilities to ensure that the process of disposal runs smoothly. “There are discussions with Visionscape to have as many Transfer Loading Stations as we can, to ease the disposal of waste in the state,” Shabi said. In an earlier statement by Visionscape a few weeks ago, the company had analyzed the need for more facilities to manage the waste generated by 24 million residents in the state. Using New York City as an example, Visionscape noted the presence of over a hundred and fifty transfer loading stations to manage the waste generated by 19 million residents. To meet the needs of the 24 million Lagos residents and counting, there is an urgent need to accelerate the development of more transfer loading facilities, a development which was already being considered. According to John Irvine, CEO of Visionscape, the improvement of waste infrastructure has always been the core part of the company’s operations in Lagos State. “Infrastructural development has always been the core of our agreement with the Lagos State government. It is a good move to concentrate our effort on developing the requisite capacity for proper waste management,” he said. 0 comments