Barr Eugene Uzum is the Executive Assistant to Delta State Governor on Directorate of Orientation. In this interview with FELIX IGBEKOYI, he  speaks on the achievements of his boss, Delta politics vis a vis 2019, opposition parties and others. Excerpts: Often time, Dr Cairo Ojougboh has accused this administration of mismanaging state resources. Do you have any defense for this? Well, to an extent I want to start with a parable that “ If you are taking your bath and a mad man runs into the bathroom to take your clothes, if you run after the mad man, most times the people would not be able to differentiate between the mad man and the sane man”. That brings us to the question you asked. In taking seriously issues, we need to look at the persons. For example in western countries before taking a loan they look at your credit history to know if you are qualified to take a loan and given a loan. In terms of quality representation, in terms of having a voice, permit me to say that Dr Cairo Ojougboh lacks the mental capacity to understand governance.  To a large extent we sympathise with the situation. Talking about Dr. Cairo,  we recall that he was in the House of Representatives to represent the Ika constituency and one of the issues the Ika people would remember is his fighting in the house which as at that time the government of the day apologised to the people of Nigeria and that is not true representation of their people. In his quest for power and his quest to sustain himself in terms of relevance you saw what happened during the Sheriff crisis that the PDP, which to a very large extent the biggest party in Africa, somebody just came up to say we are the leadership of the party. People that were not elected and were not voted in any capacity just came up and headed the party. We saw the position of Dr Cairo when he became the mouthpiece of the defunct Sheriff faction. Immediately after that he hurriedly joined the APC, as a party we have a great respect for him but to an extent when you have dirty water mixing with a good wine there is a challenge. What I am trying to say by that is that Dr. Cairo took his mentality of desperation into the APC which is what he is trying to sustain. We expect so much in terms of people suffering from mouth diarrhea because it is their genetic composition to actually run. For example someone coming to tell Nigerians and Deltans that Governor Okowa has not done anything for the past three years, I am sure the person needs beyond a binocular to be able to understand what governance is all about. Talking about governance and service delivery to the people, the people would give Okowa 95 per cent, but if you are talking of the usual brigade were people tasted fund and do what they want with it, if you are talking of people coming out to take the people for a ride, if you are talking of the lack of mental capacity of people where people join political parties without even understanding the ideology of the political parties, I score Cairo very high but when we are talking of governance, we narrow it down to personalities like the Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa. In summary, Senator Okowa has done very well in terms of prudent management of our resources in the state. He has done very well in terms of balancing the fiscal attributes of Delta State and managing our collective patrimony vis a vis what we earn as people, what we earn from Federal allocations, our IGR and the projects are on ground for the people to see, I score him very high. As it is, it seems APC has narrowed down its Governorship aspirants to Delta North, What if Ojougboh comes up as a candidate of APC, being from Ika  who do you think the people would support between Ojougboh and Senator Ifeanyi Okowa? Well, first of all I want to believe that APC as a party still has their ideology intact and I want to believe it is service to the people. First of all, it would be unimaginable for a party at that pedestal to come up with Cairo as a candidate. If I may take the questions back to you, what are the antecedents of Cairo? I don’t think or see him emerging but even if he does, Deltans to a large extent already know what to do. Ika people already have a mind-set like the parable I said earlier. In Delta state we have pockets of opposition and not major opposition as I think that for him to be thrown up at all would be unimaginable because I think the party has got the sanity to partially decide and say this is the person we are presenting as our candidate in Delta State. As elections comes by, it is on record that the projects of Senator Okowa and his administration is already speaking for him and we believe that service to the people is all about governance and because he has done very well, we are not worried about elections but presenting Cairo is a walk over. Are you underrating some forces behind Cairo aspirations, will that not be dangerous? I want to be clear on Cairo Ojougboh, we cannot totally write him off, remember the story of Saul in the Bible while prosecuting Christians, Saul was the man that was looking at the clothes of those that were stoning Stephen but when God touched him he became Paul. So writing off somebody totally would be a disservice to humanity, Cairo is not written off but we pray that he gets a reconnection with what governance is about maybe tomorrow he can be a better person, but for now he is in another palace. To an extent, biblically devil has not worked alone, the devil doesn’t move alone he has his angels and friends, so we are in a system where we are mortals. We also have the Cairo’s of Edo, Borno, Rivers, Lagos States as everybody has got their fair portion of challenges of people that do not understand what governance is all about. Cairo and his band wagons within the state, outside the state are normal, the bible has told us that challenges would come but at when the challenges come God would give us the grace to always survive because God stands with his people. If you ask any Nigerians who is a friend of Cairo they may not have someone to point to because he is not a personality that you would be proud of. You can see what is happening in Delta State, people running into the print and electronic media because they want to exercise their right of freedom. How can a rational mind be telling you that a budget that was passed for 2018, say Governor Okowa is running a draft budget?  it was signed and approved and has been legitimately appropriated. How can somebody storm Asaba and look at the airport runway,  the on-going storm project, the Stephen Keshi Stadium that is ready to host Nigeria, state secretariat, connection of internal roads across the state and you come to tell us that Governor Okowa has not done anything. That means the person needs to be given an orientation of what governance is all about, if governance is to the extent of shouting and making noise causing confusion I think in that direction Cairo may be right but when it is service to the people, Senator Okowa is delivering which Cairo is disconnected from because he doesn’t know. Cairo needs to be re-examined for sanity. You must have written off Cairo because you know much about him, let us look at the former Speaker of the State, Victor Ochei who is also seeking to unseat the Governor. He has rubbished the Governor in some instances that he is not a performer. What do you see from the threat? Hon Victor Ochei, is a man sometimes ago the Delta youth love so much because he had the opportunity of being in governance early enough. He had the strength, he showed capacity but somewhere along the line there were missteps not resulting from any banana peel but resulting from one act of ignorance and arrogance. Governance is a gradual process but today, we have the same Ochei who few years ago was been enrolled into the college of leadership to understand service and his misadventure in the House of Assembly was the beginning of his woes. You will recall that the predecessor to this administration, in the time of Emmanuel Uduaghan had issues with Victor Ochei, members of the house and he was removed as Speaker. He hurriedly ran into the Governorship race and suffered massive defeat. The issue of his resignation and not being the speaker is not a contentious issue because we are sure that he did not voluntarily resign. If he did then that is for another day the reason why a young man healthy enough with a vision and a mission should voluntarily resign, not out of health or other issue. But talking about Ochei as a person I particularly need you in due respect to look at the gradual heating up of the polity of some personalities especially from Delta north and those in desperate race for power. Dr Cairo  and Ochei and why Ochei is so restive is that he believes that the structure and apparatus of the APC is going to be handed over to Cairo.  Ochei should come up to tell Deltans  about his aspirations to run for the Presidency of the country. We don’t have a problem with that, he has the right to be ambitious but such ambition should be guided. He should be able to tell Nigerians if I become the President I would do A B C D and if he narrows down to Delta State he should tell Deltans that these are my manifestoes. What we have in this administration is Governor Okowa’s SMART Agenda  and we are guiding jealously at that agenda to get the needed result which is already transmitting in the life of people but for an Ochei who stays between Delta State and Abuja that is as well seeing the developmental structure of the administration of Senator Okowa, for an Ochei who could not tare a road by the virtue of policy implementation to his house at the House of Assembly quarters to see that same road been done by Dr. Okowa, an Ochei who is from Oshimili North LGA who could not influence in terms of tarring Iselle-Uku road which has been done by the Governor, for an Ochei who people are still pointing fingers at on how he mismanaged the IPP project which he has not been able to explain to be people to come and tell them he wants to be Governor. I think Deltans know better. The fact is that we would refuse to join issues with Ochei or be distracted from the good work taking place in Delta State. We would not run into the franticness of these two persons who in the last local government elections have been rejected by their own people and are causing problems for the APC were they have just found their strange bird fellows. APC with all the bucket of resistance that they have across the state, with the emergence of these two persons who were the problem of  PDP, the Cairo antecedents and the Ochei desperate antecedents have been the problem of the PDP. They have gone somewhere and people are already seeing the problems, they are already on radio stations and the print and electronic media, causing problems because of the desperate race for power. You must understand the difference between a desperate quest for power and someone legitimately seeking for power through a people oriented manifesto; that is where we are as people. Some Deltans perceive the administration of Governor Okowa is stingy, as a Deltan what is your take on this? The Government of Senator Okowa is not a stingy government rather for those who have no direction in terms of fund management and administration, people who are seeking money that has taken Nigeria nowhere, this government would continue to be stingy because there is no money to waste but for persons with ideas, for persons who are productive, for person who are humane to add value in terms of governance they will have the needed resources to take Delta to a more enviable level now. If it is to the extent of throwing money on projects that are not well defined, that would not add value to the people that the government of Senator Okowa is stingy, it is a welcome development. If to the extent of making sure that projects are executed timely and are being paid for and you call that stinginess, to the extent that some old brigade and some people just want to sit and they have collective patrimony as money been thrown to them without doing nothing this government would continue to be stingy. There would be no “ego” for people to waste in Delta State, for people who believe that they sit down and waste the collective patrimony of the people, for people who believe that project would be given to them like the IPP and after so many years Delta State would not have anything to show for it, the government would remain stingy. Let us define stinginess, if you have resources and you are using it for the betterment of yourself and your people you will micro-manage to get results and that is what Senator Okowa is doing. I think for once, it is a welcome development for people to feel and know that money cannot just be dropped rather it would be directed at the people because those are the persons that actually gave their mandate. 0 comments