Lokoja / Abuja – A Chief Magistrate Court in Lokoja on Thursday remanded Dino Melaye, senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, and two others in police custody until June 11 over alleged gun running. The accused are standing trial on a seven-count charge bordering on criminal conspiracy and unlawful possession of firearms. This is contrary to Section 97 (1) of the Penal Code and Section 27 (1) (a) (1) of the Firearms Act CAP P28, Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 2004. Earlier, Alex Izinyon (SAN), lead counsel to the prosecution, had urged the court to remand the other defendants Kabiru Seidu, 31 and Nuhu Salihu, 25, in police custody. Izinyon said this was to assist the police in furtherance of their investigations. He, however, pleaded that Melaye be remanded in prison custody because he is influential and could jeopardise investigation. He pointed out that the minimum sentence upon conviction was 10 years imprisonment under the Firearms Act. But Mike Ozekhome (SAN), leading six other lawyers for the defendants, in his oral application, prayed the court to grant bail to the senator. He said the senator should be granted bail because he was asthmatic and sick and needed more medical attention. He cited section 97, sub-section 2 of the penal code and section 56 of the Kogi State Administration of Criminal Justice law, noting that the offences were bailable. He also presented two medical reports from the National Hospital, Abuja, which signified that Melaye was bedridden owing to a spinal cord injury he sustained, and said he could not jump bail. Ozekhome said that Melaye was only on Wednesday granted bail by a court in Abuja in liberal terms and had been in police custody. He said it was discriminatory for the prosecution to ask the court to keep other defendants in police custody and ask that the senator be remanded in prison custody. “We can apply for bail for this traumatised senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria lying here before your worship on a stretcher. “Melaye here is not charged with murder in this case; the senator who is seen every day on the floor of the Senate making laws for the country, will stand his trial. “To send him to prison is to encourage him to breach the bail condition granted him yesterday. “I humbly urge my lord to grant bail in self recognisance to the fourth defendant because he will not jump bail; he will stand his trial and meet the bail conditions,” he said. In his ruling, the Senior Magistrate, Sulyman Abdullah, said the essence of bail was to secure the attendance of the defendant before a court of competent jurisdiction. “However, this application is not granted as a matter of course. It is anchored upon certain well timed, honoured principles of the law that would guarantee the production and appearance of the defendant. “The court, however, has a grave responsibility to exercise such discretion with utmost caution and to act within the accepted principles of administration of justice. “Having gone through all the submissions of counsels in respect of this oral application, I decline to exercise my discretion in favour of the fourth defendant; the oral application is accordingly refused,” he said. Abdullah further ordered the Inspector-General of Police to furnish the senator with all medical needs he required and adjourned the case until June 11, for further mention. Before the police took the senator to court, he was taken to the SARS headquarters near the NTA office in Lokoja. About 9.17am, Melaye arrived the court in a Toyota Hiace police ambulance with registration number NPF2214D. Before his arrival, heavily armed policemen took positions within and outside the court premises. The arrival of the senator in court attracted the attention of workers and others who came for transactions. Other courts within the premises were also not sitting as at the time of this report. Journalists and other persons that had been seated in court for hours were all asked to go out for security checks. In the end, only a few were allowed inside. The Nigerian police had on Wednesday arraigned Dino Melaye before a Magistrate Court sitting in Wuse 2, Abuja. Dino was arraigned before Magistrate Mabel Segun-Bello based on a police First Information Report. The police stated that Melaye had committed an offence punishable under sections 148, 153, 172, 173, 231 and 326 of the Penal Code Act. After listening to the charge, Dino pleaded not guilty. Consequently, Magistrate Segun-Bello upheld the argument of Dino’s lawyer and granted the defendant bail to the tune of N90 million with two sureties in like sum. But shortly after the senator was granted bail, he was rearrested by the police. In a statement later on Wednesday, the police explained that Melaye was re-arrested for his pending offences of criminal conspiracy and unlawful possession of prohibited firearms. The statement which was signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood, explained that Melaye would be arraigned without further delay. Reps Warn Police Over Melaye’s Health Meanwhile, the House of Representatives has issued a strong warning to the Nigeria police to ensure that nothing happens to Dino Malaye. The House, presided over by Speaker Yakubu Dogara, gave the warning on Thursday, at the plenary, following a personal explanation raised by Sunday Karimi, from Kogi State, over Melaye’s ordeal in the hands of the police. Dogara said the police would be liable if anything untoward happens to Melaye. The speaker said if anyone committed an offence, the proper thing was to take the person to court. He, however, noted that such a person must be in a good state of health to stand trial. According to him, “Nothing must happen to the senator. My admonition to the security agencies is to ensure that his life is protected. The emphasis should be on his health. “If anything happens to him, the responsibility will be on the security agencies. I have not seen a society where somebody would be arraigned on a stretcher, where he is not in a state of health to plead guilty or not guilty.” Earlier, Karimi, speaking under personal explanation, said Melaye was being persecuted by the state because of his political belief. The lawmaker called on the House to intervene so as to ensure that the rule of law prevailed. 0 comments