Abeokuta – The army on Wednesday intercepted three container-loads of arms in Balogun village, near Egua in Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun State. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the three trucks were intercepted by army officials at a check point along Owode-Ilaro Road. It was further gathered that the drivers of the three vehicles and other occupants, upon sighting the soldiers, abandoned the vehicles and escaped through the nearby bush. Details of the vehicles and the owners could not be ascertained as at time of filing in this report as no suspect, it was gathered, had been arrested in connection with the incident. The army officials at the check point, according to eyewitness account, immediately called for a backup from the nearby barrack in Owode, along Idi-Iroko road area of the state. Led by a brigadier general, whose name couldn’t be ascertained, the military reinforced security at the area with eight Hilux Jeeps loaded with armed officers. Officials of the Ogun State Nigeria Customs Service were also sighted on the entourage while the vehicles were led en route Owode road. When contacted, Major Jingina Yake, Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, 35 Artillery Brigade in Alamala in Abeokuta, declined comments, saying he would only speak with the media whenever he had any news. “I would be the one to contact you when there’s any news, not you contacting me,” he said. But a senior police officer in the Ogun State command of the Nigeria police, who spoke to our correspondent on conditions of anonymity, confirmed the report. According to the source, the three trucks were still in the custody of the army and that the state police authority had not been contacted officially. While defending the position of the army, the police source said that a preliminary investigation is required to unravel further information on the seizure before the case is transferred to the police. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 