Enugu – Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi on Monday granted scholarship to 340 indigent students of the Enugu State Polytechnic, Iwollo, Ezeagu Local Government area of the state. The gesture is in line with the Enugu State government’s policy on education, the need to discover and assist intellectuals in the rural areas, Gov. Ugwuanyi explained that 20 indigent students in each of the 17 LGAs will benefit from the scholarship scheme, which will cover their tuition fees for four years of study at a total cost of N41.6 million. The governor spoke during the maiden engineering day commemoration at the institution, where he inaugurated the newly constructed School of Engineering Complex sponsored by Prince Arthur Eze and laid a foundation for the construction of Prof. Julius Onah School of Management Technology. The event also witnessed the foundation laying ceremony of School of General Studies by the Deputy Governor, Hon. Mrs Cecilia Ezeilo and conferment of Merit Awards to notable engineers and other dignitaries, such as the Deputy President of the Senate, Prof. Ike Ekweremadu; former President of the Senate, Senator Ken Nnamani, member representing Udi/Ezeagu Federal Constituency, Hon. Dennis Oguerinwa Amadi, Prof. Barth Nnaji; Sir Chief Emeka Offor; HRH Igwe Augustine Otiji and  Vita Abba, among others. Speaking further, Gov. Ugwuanyi disclosed that the cardinal principle of the educational policy of his administration was “the provision of access to qualitative education at all levels to all classes and strata of the society.” He stated that the event afforded his administration the opportunity to take a major step forward in the advancement of technology in the state “especially at this time when technology has not only turned the world into a global village but has become the major income earner for many nations.” The governor said that his administration in the light of the above, implemented “firm measures towards repositioning and revamping this institution” to make it a prominent centre for engineering and agricultural studies and innovations in the country. “These measures included the revalidation of old programmes and accreditation of new ones by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) as well as the provision of critical infrastructure and necessary equipment,” the governor said. Gov. Ugwuanyi, therefore, expressed delight that the efforts of the government towards the institution have been manifesting “as the institution has developed at an amazing pace and has been attracting positive attention and reviews from regulatory authorities in the country as well as stakeholders in the nation’s education sector.” Describing the School of Engineering Complex as “a watershed in the history of the institution” that would enhance its growth as a citadel of qualitative engineering and technological education, the governor commended Engr. Arthur Eze for “his kind sponsorship of the project. He also appreciated the commitment and diligence of the Governing Council, the management and the staff of the institution towards the actualization of government’s vision for the school, and congratulated the award winners for the well-deserved honours. “I use this opportunity also to reiterate the unflinching commitment of the State Government towards the realization of our collective aspirations for the institution and for tertiary education in Enugu State,” the governor reassured. Hon. Chinedu Onu, the Chairman of the institution’s Governing Council, expressed gratitude to Gov. Ugwuanyi for effective funding of the school and increment of its monthly subventions, which he said: “saw us achieving this feat in a very short while.” He added that the Enugu State Polytechnic, Iwollo desires “to become an institution of choice for Engineering and Technology development” and “to use the commemoration of Engineering Day to attract the attention of students as well as would-be students to this great field of study and practice.” Prof C.J.C Akubuilo, the Rector of the Institution, in his address, announced that the school in keeping with the repositioning agenda of the governor, in 2017/2018 academic year, has joined other Tertiary Institutions in Nigeria to key into the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) Central Admissions Processing System (CAPS). According to him, “We are now recognized by other national regulatory bodies and agencies such as the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) and the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). The Polytechnic has between September 2017 and March 2018, mobilized the first two sets of students for their one year National Youth Service.” Other Award recipients include Ebele Ofunneamaka Okeke; Air Vice Marshal Cletus (AVM) Nwannebuike Udeagulu; Dr. Masa’udu Adamu Kazaure;  Obiukwu Chukwuma Okeke; Engr. Anayo Onwuegbu; Prof. Emmanuel Ezugwu; Mr. Silas Ifeanyi (Baba Edem); Prof. Moses Madueze Okonkwo; Kingsley Eze and Dr. Agu Collins Agu. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 