Acka – The arrest of Aliyu Teshaku, a Boko Haram suspect and head of the Benue State Livestock Guards, forth-night ago by the Nigeria Army may have set the state government and the Army at edge over the interpretation given to the arrest. While on one hand the Army said Teshaku is connected to the recent killings in the state, there are allegations and insinuations in some quarters that the self-confessed Boko Haram suspect is being used by the Benue government to raise a militia to defend the state from the incessant attacks by suspected Fulani herdsmen. Until his arrest, Aliyu Teshaku, who the Army described as Aminu Yaminu was the head of the Benue State Livestock Guards. Samuel Ortom, Benue State governor, who has distanced himself from anything connected to the arrest, has insisted that anyone found wanting should face the wrath of the law. He has however reiterated that the Myetti Allah Kautal Hore were responsible for the killings in the state, saying as a law abiding Governor and someone who believes in the rule of law, security agencies have the right to investigate any person of any wrong doing. He said, “Security agencies are at liberty to arrest, detain and investigate anyone, who they may suspect to be involved in security breach or perpetuating insecurity and the arrest of Teshaku is one of such. “I (earlier) made a statement through my assistant after his arrest that due process should be followed; he should not be victimized but security men should be fair to him. He should be investigated and if at the end he is found culpable, he should be prosecuted. “So I don’t want to talk about the arrest other than to say: let the needful be done; let there be no victimisation. If at the end aninvestigation is carried out and he is culpable, let that be.” The governor who has consistently stated that Myetti Allah was behind the killings was however worried that despite proofs against Myetti Allah that they were responsible for the killings in the state, none of them have been arrested. Ortom said “I’ve said it repeatedly; I’ve written and will continue to write and continue to raise alarm that the leadership of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore are responsible for the killings; for the mercenary work that is going on in Benue State. “I still want to repeat that they are responsible. There are evidences; they are on tape, they have done press conferences and none of them have come out to refute what was credited to them in the media. They’ve said it is about Jihad; it’s not about grazing. They said it is about occupation; about taking over the land. “The Army said they carried out the operation that led to the arrest of the suspect, jointly with the Police and the Department of State Service (DSS).” But a top ranking police officer in the state told Sunday INDEPENDENT that the police was not involved in the operation that led to the arrest of Teshaku. On the other hand, we reliably gathered from military sources in the state that the suspect was immediately moved to Abuja from the point of arrest. The source further explained that “You know the man (Teshaku) is a high profile suspect, so immediately, he was arrested, he was moved to Abuja from the point of arrest. “He is not a herder; it’s a very serious case; it’s a Boko Haram case. And Boko Haram cases are not handled here.” But, when Sunday INDEPENDENT sought to confirm why the Army did not parade Teshaku among other suspects connected to the killings in the state, the Spokesman, 707 Special Forces Brigade, Makurdi, Major Olabisi Ayeni argued that the most important thing is that the case is under investigation. According to him, “The major thing is that the case is under investigation and we don’t want to comment on that; anything (we can say) on that would be after the investigation so let’s wait for the outcome of the investigation.” Ayeni further explained, “But we made it (arrest) known and I sent the pictures (of Teshaku in handcuffs with arms before him). There is no need of parading the suspect now. “The picture we sent, is it not that of the suspect?” he asked rethorically, adding “Then there is no need of parading him.” But throughout the unfolding event, the police have refused to comment on the report. 1 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 