Hon. Adejare Bello is the immediate past Speaker, Osun State House of Assembly and governorship aspirant on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview with GBENGA FATUROTI, he spoke on the delay in the passage of 2018 Appropriation Bill, the rot in the National Assembly and other crucial issues. Excerpts: Why do you want to govern Osun State? The question came in the recent past by some people asking that if I was in the state House of Assembly for 12 years, why not furthering the parliamentary experience in the National Assembly. My answer to that was that since 1999 when the civil rule started, I never liked the operations in the National Assembly. I have discovered that even many people with sterling qualities, especially former Speakers with good qualities as to how to improve the lots of this country, when they got to the National Assembly, they were unable to make any difference. There are lots of rots in the National Assembly and if I cannot make a change as to how to make this country great for everybody, what is my business there? It is only when you are lucky to be a Principal Officer like Presiding Officer, that you can make a lot of difference. But, how many of us can be Principal Officers at that level? So, I came to the conclusion that let me try my very best in my state. Let me hold on to what operates in Osun State. The mark I was able to make in Osun State House of Assembly, first as a Minority Leader in the first four years, between 1999 and 2003, then as Presiding Officer between 2003 and 2011. The records are there and I think my record in the Osun State House of Assembly is a record to beat. It is an outstanding feat and I came to the conclusion that I was in the legislative arm, let me this time around try my hands in the executive arm, to see if  possibly I can make a change because of the situation currently in Osun State. I detest it. I think I can make some difference. You claim that there are a lot of rots in the National Assembly. Could you expatiate? I have expressed myself severally on the activities of the National Assembly. At a point, I acted as Chairman, Conference of Speakers in Nigeria for 11 months immediately Rotimi Amaechi left. I can tell you that the first amendment to the Constitution of Nigeria that came up in 1999, I know my efforts that time because I was visiting the National Assembly and Principal Officers that time, the Senate President and Speaker of House of Representatives. David Mark was the Senate President then. Before we could effect the first amendment to the constitution, many of us were aware and agreed that a lot of lacuna were there in the constitution that needed amendment. But, what is the difficulty in it to make amendment? For instance, look at the impeachment procedures at the national and state levels. At the state, Section 188 says it does not matter whether the allegation is that the governor did not sleep with his wife overnight or not, it says in the opinion of members of parliament, whatever they called an offence that is impeachable, is an offence. That kind of thing and a lot of them like that needed to be amended. See also the bottleneck as to the creation of local governments. Definitely, we know that some states deserve more local governments. For instance, there are two local government councils in Osun, Odo-Otin and Ejigbo.  Since the time of colonial era when the councils were created, nothing had been done to them. Look at Oriade Local Government in Osun, the whole of Ijebu-Jesa is just two wards. That is an aberration. Look at what caused crisis in the Ife area of Modakeke in particular. So, all these put together, you will discover that there should be something done to Sections 8 and 9 of the constitution concerning creation states and creation of more local government councils in this country. I think the National Assembly should wake up to its responsibilities and look at what they think that should not operate in Nigeria and make an amendment to liberate Nigerians. You will hear them fighting only if it has to do with their pockets. Now, are they representing you and I? Are they not representing themselves? These are the pertinent questions we need to ask ourselves. So, I discover that for now, the National Assembly is not a place I can be because I would be there collecting money and I would be a sad man. This is because if you see things that are not good and you are helpless, you cannot change it. That was why I decided that I want to remain in Osun for now. Don’t you think that your being there to contribute your ideas based on your vision something could be done at the end of the day? That is only when you are a Principal Officer in the National Assembly. God can only use me there only if I am one of the Principal Officers, or precisely if I am Speaker of House of Representatives. If you are a Majority Leader or other position, I may not effect any change, except I am a presiding officer. For instance, eight years of Adejare Bello as a Speaker, Osun State House of Assembly, there was never a single day that the House did not form a quorum. It did not happen. But, go to the National Assembly. Their seats are vacant all the time. In the House of Representatives, out of 366, you hardly see 100 sitting. It is empty seats all over. It is the same thing in the Senate. I used to tell my people in the Osun State House of Assembly that the salaries and allowance that we are getting were calculated on hourly basis. If you are getting your money on hourly basis and the constitution says you must sit for 181 days. The National Assembly would want to adjust that. When they cannot sit for 181 days, they will say the committee sittings are also part of the plenary. How can that be and how do you conceive that kind of idea that committee assignments are part of plenary? What the constitution stipulates is plenary. If you cannot make up 181 days, that means you are not doing your job. That was why I said that if you cannot be principal officer in the National Assembly, you cannot make a serious change. In 2011, on my way out of Osun State House of Assembly, a form was obtained for me to go to House of Representatives. It was because of these reasons that I voluntarily opted to go back home to rest a while. With what you have said, do you think democracy can thrive in this country? That is the problem I was trying to buttress and stress. For instance, the President presented the 2018 budget in November last year. Six months after, the National Assembly just passed the bill into law. What kind of excuse can they give for the delay? When the passage of the budget was reported in the papers, I refused to read it. I did not bother to read the breakdown. I did not even bother to think how it would affect my state, because, I am not happy about it. Why the delay for such a long time? What kind of excuse would Saraki and Dogara give as the heads? When you ask them, they will give you flimsy excuses. We can talk of that of 2017 when it was claimed that the budget was padded. But on this one, nobody complained about the presentation. But, they were just passing it. So, where is the future in this country if for almost half of the year, the budget is just being passed? What do we make of that? During 2014 governorship election, you were Iyiola Omisore’s running mate. Now, Omisore is out of PDP. Don’t you think his exit would affect your chances if you emerge as your party’s candidate considering Omisore’s influence and support? Let me assure you that if on July 14, 2018, Adejare Bello is picked as the candidate of PDP, Omisore would come back to the party. Again, if Adejare Bello is the candidate of PDP, Olagunsoye Oyinlola would also come back to the party. Some APC members in the current House of Assembly would also join PDP. I can assure you of that. The reason is very simple. Omisore knows who Adejare Bello is. He knows the inherent qualities in me. So also Olagunsoye Oyinlola; so also many members of State House of Assembly now, right from the current Speaker, , Nojeem Salaam. They all know that Adejare Bello is for good governance. They know I am not selfish. They all know that Adejare Bello has the interest of this state at heart and he is very passionate about it. The claim that supporters of Omisore would not support Adejare Bello has no root. Adejare Bello, to govern this state, only has problem with members of the PDP and the leadership on how to pick the ticket. Once the ticket gets to me, you will see the huge crowd supporting the ambition. The state’s workers would also say that the policies of Olagunsoye Oyinlola that forced them not to go for strike for just one day, came from Adejare Bello’s advice as the presiding officer at that time. Everybody in the state, artisans, farmers, civil servants, are waiting for Adejare Bello to pick the ticket of PDP. I will beat anybody from other parties. So, Omisore’s supporters will support me if he joins me. Is it true that PDP is using high nomination fees to screen out aspirants? It is not true that PDP is coming up with high nomination fees to scare away some of the aspirants. At the last count, 23 of us wrote to the party. But, the feelers I am getting are that some voluntarily opted out. I say this because the party has not even come up with how much to pay. You can only talk of Ekiti, which I don’t believe is not on the high side. If you are a serious aspirant something raging from N5million to N10million will not be too much for a governorship aspirant. If it is not more than that, I don’t think it is outrageous. They have not told us the amount to pay yet. Is it true that PDP had already picked a particular candidate ahead of the primary? It is not true. On about three or four occasions, we met with Uche Secondus, the PDP National Chairman. He told us categorically that he has no friends in Ekiti and Osun to lord over anybody. He said, ‘Go back home if you are an aspirant, talk to your delegates, talk to your people, don’t bring money to the national headquarters of the party. If you want to give any money, go and give them to your delegates, that is, if they are prepared to take money from anybody. So, it is going to be transparent, free and fair primary. He told those of us aspirants from Osun that we should watch out what would happen in Ekiti and truth to his promise, the most transparent primary was conducted in Ekiti. The Abuja office of PDP cannot hand pick anybody because they are interested in winning the election. They are not ready to fail because an attempt to handpick anybody is an attempt to fail. Is it true that APC has opened up negotiation with you in case you do not get PDP ticket? What would necessitate that in the first instance? Have I been disqualified by PDP? If I have not obtained form in PDP, they asked me to talk to electorate and I have been doing that. I have covered 13 local governments now. So, what is the ground for me to now want to open negotiation with APC? It is a blatant lie. It is rumour, may be, to blackmail me. But, I cannot rule it out. They may be thinking at the APC camp that Adejare Bello is likely to be cheated because some people are saying he does not have money and may feel cheated. He can make a change. That has not happened and I don’t plan to leave my party, PDP. I believe in God that on July 14, Adejare Bello would be declared the flag bearer of PDP in Osun State. Going by the state’s huge debt profile, do you think it is wise to think of succeeding Governor Rauf Aregbesola? How would you address the problem of finance and the debt if you become governor? I must not tell you lie. The huge debt that Aregbesola would leave behind calls for concern. Before last week that the governor came up with actual figure of debt, I thought it was a rumour that we have huge debt profile. But, when the governor admitted openly that there was this N143billion, there was another N11.4billion Sukuk bond, there is another N30billion bond that we are owing contractors, all of that ranging between N200billion and N250billion, I was scared because it was a direct admission from the governor himself. Though, he added that by 2019, we must have finished paying N143billion, I cannot see the magic wand to defray N143billion between now and 2019. He said the Sukuk of N11.4billion will be defrayed by 2020. In the first instance, would the governor be in office in 2019 and 2020? I am seriously bothered, but because I have the interest of my state at heart, if you leave the madman with his dead parents, he will mess it up, according to a popular Yoruba adage. I cannot leave because there is huge debt and everybody is running away. I cannot be part of that, more so I was in this same government for about 12 years. It was not like this when we were there. So, the way we manage efficiently and effectiveness that time and I was directly involved through the parliament, I will want to introduce some of the tactics of that time to improve the lots of the residents. It is a serious concern but we cannot run away. This is our state. We cannot call any other state our own. We must all stay inside and salvage the situation together. comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 