A group of shareholders yesterday called on the management of Oando Plc, to settle its lingering rift with its foreign investor, Ansbury Investments Incorporated. It would be recalled that on September 2017, Ansbury petitioned the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) over alleged corporate governance abuse by the management of Oando Plc. Ansbury, which is a majority shareholder in Ocean and Oil Development (BVI), holds 99 per cent of OODP Nigeria and 56 per cent equity stake in Oando Plc, an entity with dual listing on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE). Ansbury’s petition led to the suspension of Oando on both the NSE and the JSE. SEC also ordered a forensic audit of the oil firm. However, the group of shareholders, who called themselves Concerned Oando Shareholders, yesterday asked the management of the company to open talks with Ansbury Investments with a view to resolving the dispute. Atobatele Musibau, spokesman of the group, said the prolonged media war, protests and unnecessary bickering between the management of Oando and Ansbury is not serving the best interest of shareholders and that of the company. According to Musibau, “These days, Oando is always in the news for the wrong reasons. The negative exposure the company has experienced for almost one year running has a telling effect not just on the shares, but the entire fortune of the company. “The earlier this matter is resolved the better for the company and its shareholders. Whether the management of Oando likes it or not, this unending war of attrition has impacted and will continue to impact the company negatively. “The best option open to both parties therefore is dialogue and I believe both sides are matured enough to seat together and resolve areas of conflict and ambiguity in the interest of the company and its shareholders.” The Concerned Oando Shareholders’ spokesman said the recovery in oil prices is a sign that the company’s fortunes can improve “under the right atmosphere”. He said: “If the company continues with this undue muscle flexing and grandstanding, it runs the risk of being constantly distracted. It should therefore resolve this matter with Ansbury, which I believe is also a reasonable and responsible company and will be interested in a resolution of the matter. “One must state that Oando has not recorded any meaningful capital gains, nor has it paid dividend to investors in more than four years. We are therefore the grass that suffers as these two elephants slug it out. “We therefore, call on the management of Oando not to miss out on the golden opportunity provided by the turnaround of the oil industry to improve on the fortunes of shareholders. “We want to see better returns, capital appreciation of our shares and payment of dividends in the not too distant future. This can only happen, however, if the management resolves all pending rifts to enable it concentrate on running the company.” Meanwhile, a senior staff of Oando Plc, who craves anonymity, in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said “the management will not leave any stone unturned to settle all grievances of the shareholders” 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 