Makurdi – Mutual Union of the Tiv in the United Kingdom (MUTUK) says it is time for the Federal Government to take decisive action to stop the attacks on communities in Benue State by suspected Fulani herdsmen. Insisting that the government should talk less and do more, the organisation said it would in a short time from now make a pronouncement on the matter. MUTUK explained that it was working with some concerned persons to identify concrete measures it would take in the days ahead to check the unwarranted attacks. In a statement signed by Kuram Gwakyaa (president), the organisation said it was also mindful of the “horrific and grotesque killing” of innocent persons in the state. He said, “We understand the frustration of those who have been living in the nightmare of the Fulani herdsmen terror in Benue. “We have heard your plea that there has been enough talking, and that decisive action is desperately needed. We acknowledge the need to act in any way we can. We, the Tivs in the UK, are working to identify further measures we can take in the coming days and will communicate these in due course. “We are mindful that the horrific killings in 2018 are the culmination of years of unchecked violence. This is a hugely complicated issue that has been made even worse through religious hatred. “It is beyond our powers as a non-governmental body to deliver a solution to this dire situation, but we are committed to doing anything within our powers to ensure a swift resolution is made by the relevant bodies. “President Buhari’s failure to act thus far is reprehensible and it is high time the government stepped in to resolve the wretched situation in Benue.” The organisation however said it would “continue to campaign and tell the world about this issue”. It again condemned “the grotesque killings” in Benue and especially the most recent incident at St. Ignatius Catholic Church, Ukpor-Mbalom in Gwer East Local Government Area, where 19 Tiv people lost their lives in an attack in a church, including two priests. Meanwhile, Salome Biam (publicity secretary), has condemned the inaction of the Federal Government which has led to increased number of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) occasioned by herdsmen. She lamented the condition that the IDPs were currently living in, describing it as “very deplorable”. 0 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 