UYO – The Nigerian Labour Congress, (NLC) Akwa Ibom State chapter, has called on Governor Udom Emmanuel to ensure the harmonisation of pension of retired civil servants in the state. Addressing the 2018 Workers Day at Uyo Township Stadium on Tuesday, the state Chairman of NLC, Comrade Etim Ukpong also requested that payment of gratuities be extended to teachers and local government workers. Ukpong, however, commended the state government for the prompt payment of workers’ salaries and regular pensions. The workers also called on Governor Emmanuel to facilitate the refund of the 7.5 percent contributory pension scheme to workers in the state. He said, “It is always on a day like this that children recall the good things that parents have done for them. In our state as workers, we want to appreciate the governor for prompt payment of salaries, prompt and regular payment of pensions, promotions as already announced by the head of civil service and for the actualisation of other financial obligations of promotions. Addressing Akwa Ibom workers, Governor Emmanuel applauded the NLC and TUC for acknowledging his government’s effort to meet almost 80 percent of the request they reeled out. Emmanuel noted that that his administration has paid all pension arrears to date, assuring that efforts were being made to clear outstanding gratuities. “Let me also say that I have put mechanism in place, so we are already working on affordable housing for workers. I have enjoyed a very cordial work and harmonious labour movement in this state. I must thank all of you for making that possible. “When we took over, we first of all had to sort out 10 years of gratuity for local government employees. I want to assure everybody that as far as there is enablement, the little remaining would be sorted out. I needed to start with the older one to the most recent ones. Because somebody who retired in 2002 needed to have been settled first. Earlier, Mrs. Ekereobong Akpan, the Head of Civil Service, informed workers that in addition to prompt payment of worker’s salaries, the current administration has released promotion of over 20,000 workers in the state within the last three years. 2 comments