The Governor of Khartoum in the Republic of Sudan Lieutenant General Abdulrahim M. Hussein has hosted Yobe State Governor Ibrahim Gaidam in his office recently, with the two discussing areas of mutual cooperation and benefit to the two states. Following the discussions, Governor Gaidam and Governor Hussein, who signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), agreed to have their two states cooperate in the “exchange of experiences and expertise in the field of governance, legislation and provision of services”. The MoU also provided for Yobe State in Nigeria and Khartoum State in Sudan to cooperate in the area of training and capacity building, especially the training of teachers. The two states will also cooperate in the fields of education and improved health and hospital services. Yobe and Khartoum States will also exchange experiences in the field of livestock and agricultural productions, particularly gum Arabic. The MoU also provides, amongst others, for Yobe to benefit from Khartoum state’s experiences in the “field of strategic planning and local governance”. During his visit, Gov. Gaidam and his host also discussed the historical and cultural ties between Nigeria and Sudan, and especially the numerous people of Yobe and Borno origin who now live in the country. The Governor of Khartoum told Governor Gaidam that there is even a town in Sudan called Damaturu in Sennar State where people who originated from Damaturu in Yobe State now live. As a mark of honour for Gov. Gaidam and his entourage, the governor of Khartoum also took him on a boat cruise tour and lunch along the Nile River to the point where the Blue Nile and White Nile Rivers converged. The Governor was accompanied during his interaction with the Khartoum governor by the Nigerian ambassador to Sudan, Musa Saban Mamman and other senior Nigerian diplomatic staff. Also on the governor’s entourage were education commissioner Muhammad Lamin, Head of Service Saleh Abubakar, Chief of Staff Muhammad Nur Alkali and Ustaz Babagana M. Kyari. Also present at the meeting were the commissioners of education for Khartoum State, Dr Frah Mustapha and that of industry and investment, Engr. Abdallah Ahmed Hamad. 1 comments