Lagos – Nigeria, after missing the last two editions of the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), now have a brighter chance of qualifying for the finals of the 2019 edition in Cameroun – courtesy of the two legged victory over Libya. Nigeria’s next qualifier match, however, will be away against South Africa in November 17; a familiar foe of Nigeria in recent times. South Africa stopped Nigeria from the 2015 edition under late coach, Steven Keshi. And football followers are asking, if South Africa will stop Nigeria again? Ahead of the 2019 edition, South Africa were in Nigeria for the first leg played in Uyo and defeated Nigeria 2-0, thus recording their first competitive win. Second half goals from Tokelo Rantie and Percy Tau gave the South Africans the three points. The encounter was Bafana Bafana first match under new coach Stuart Baxter, who put an end to Nigeria coach, Gernot Rohr’s unbeaten streak from when he took charge of the Super Eagles in 2016. Similarly, it is the second time Baxter will defeat Super Eagles with Bafana Bafana. His first win was a 2-1 victory in a friendly encounter in 2004. All that is now history and the way forward ahead the November 17 date is the matter at the moment as Nigeria must put every logistic in place to avoid the mistake of the past and building on the Sfax, Tunisia success. South Africa and Seychelles are the remaining countries for Nigeria to play in the group – but, South Africa is the biggest hurdle. Lots of football pundits invariably are still not convinced and satisfied with the performance of the Super Eagles even as results tend to make them the better team against their opponents in recent times. Solace Chukwu, goal.com sport analyst thus agreed there may well be a lesson from the Libya/Nigeria match going forward, in rising from adversity, in eking it out in a fashion that had not been done previously under Rohr. Chukwu took an overview of the Libya game to preview the come encounter against South Africa; he was very concerned about the Super Eagles’ midfield as the consequence of injury to Ogenyi Onazi was the use of Oghenekaro Etebo in a deep-lying midfield role. But, he feels there were, of course, many strings to the Stoke City player’s bow, but believes he was simply not the type of player to feel the void. According to him, “Etebo is in his element when carrying the ball into the final third and lacks the vision and discipline required to play a holding role. Invariably and unsurprisingly, the Super Eagles gave up a ton of chances, and were slowly pegged back. “Often in the second half, Libya had space in behind the Nigeria midfield to run at the backline, and both Leon Balogun and William Troost-Ekong had their most uncertain showings in a long time with little cover in front of them. “Even more remarkably, there was a specialist holding midfielder, in the form of John Ogu, on the bench, but he would only be introduced after Libya’s comeback was complete.” On Rohr, it was a question of he was able to stem the tide in Libya? For all that Rohr’s reign as Super Eagles boss has been productive results-wise, his ability to influence the game as it goes on has been consistently the weakest aspect of his work. Time and again, he has found himself out-managed by his opposite number and at a loss as to what to do to stem the tide. The debacle against Argentina, where he failed to address the Albiceleste’s rising menace through the second half, still rankles. In Sfax again, he was caught out. As Nigeria lost control of the game toward the end of the first half and into the second, it was obvious that there needed to be reinforcement in the midfield to act as a breakwater. With Samuel Kalu struggling to fulfil any sort of responsibility, either defensively or offensively, he ought to have been sacrificed earlier for Ogu to come on. Instead, it was only after Libya had found a leveler that Rohr shook himself out of his daze to make a sub. By this point, the Super Eagles had been under the pressure for over 20 minutes in the second period. This implied Rohr has enough work to do in the midfield. Chukwu also made a review of the attack singling out Odion Ighalo who was precise on targets – a review of Ighalo’s best performances and goals during his time at Watford would have revealed the many trademark feints and stopovers he performed before scoring or going close. “Prior to the games against Libya, he’d struggled to replicate this impact with the Super Eagles, with a larger percentage of his strikes coming from the penalty spot.” The much maligned striker dropped the complex movements for the simplest, clinical touches during this international break and it yielded five goals in as many days. However, he saved the best for the last in Sfax. With nine minutes left on the clock and Nigeria’s two-goal lead cancelled, the in-form Changchun Yatai striker shimmied past two Libyan defenders and slotted in the winner – his fifth goal in two games. The striker will bring confidence back to the former Premier League predator and should remind him of how simplicity is often key when converting chances – the attack is therefore in shape with Ighalo and Ahmed Musa. Chukwu, however, pointed out players as Samuel Kalu who did not give a good account of themselves in Libya and cautioned that Rohr must know when a player is not in the game and timely intervention – substitution. He noted that Libya did most of the playing in Sfax, with Ahmad Benali (an ersatz David Silva) running the show, but Nigeria won and that is the most important thing. This is where the former Eagles handler, Christian Chukwu, took it from – getting the desired result irrespective of the style was most important as Nigeria visit South Africa in November. “Gernot Rohr is the coach of the team; he has his game plan which has been working for him; he should not be put under pressure. At the end of the day, he will take the credit and blame from any outcome of a game. “Right now, there is no doubt that Rohr has not got his boys that he can always use at every given time; yes, there are always one or two areas that must be strengthened and I’m sure he will work on such areas as we prepare ahead of South Africa in November,” Chukwu said. Chukwu added that it was important for Nigeria to maintain the winning squad at all times by taking every game serious as there was no minnow country in football anymore. Some analysts have also corroborated the stance of Chukwu in taking every game serious. “Rohr has distinguished himself by retaining the same crop of players that featured in the first leg of the game against Libya; this is good team-building and good for the development of football. “The team should realise that Nigeria’s loss to South Africa in June 2017 in Uyo must be avenged for national pride,” a fan from Ebonyi said. Other analysts admonished that it was high time Rohr should give opportunity to the home-based goalkeeper, Ikechukwu Ezenwa of Enyimba of Aba, noting that Francis Ozoho was beginning to fade out – it was obvious Ozoho lost his confidence before the end of the Libya/Nigeria clash. “The goalkeeping department remains shaky with Francis Uzoho not performing to the expectations of football-loving Nigerians. “He was fidgeting and was culpable in both goals scored by the Libyans in Sfax; it was a repeat of his under- performance at the 2018 World Cup in Russia. “Ezenwa saved the country’s goalkeeping crisis when Carl Ikeme was incapacitated with leukemia during the Russia 2018 qualifiers; and the man performed creditably in the matches against Algeria, Cameroon and Zambia. “Rohr will improve the team’s overall performances if Ezenwa is given a chance to man the Super Eagles goal post,” another school of thought asserted. In all of these, Nigeria must pick a victory in one of their remaining two matches to pick the ticket and close the business for other countries in the group – after South Africa it will be the turn of Seychelles. Rohr, up your game! SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 