LAGOS – Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has continued to receive congratulatory messages from across the country since his overwhelming victory during the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primary election in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, last Sunday. Atiku scored 1,532 votes to come tops during the exercise to defeat his closest rival, Rt. Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, the Mutawallen Sokoto, who got 693 votes. There were 12 aspirants in the race. Tambuwal himself, the incumbent Sokoto State governor and former Speaker of the House of Representatives, was among those who were excited by Atiku’s victory. In his message, which he personally signed, Tambuwal said: “On behalf of my humble self, my family, and millions of my supporters from across the length and breadth of the country, I heartily rejoice with and congratulate Your Excellency on your emergence as the standard flag bearer of our great political party, the PDP.” He described Atiku’s emergence in the election which he testified as being transparent, as a testament  to the fact that the PDP had become a reformed  party and a strong signal about its resolve to bring about  the desired national transformation needed to turn around the fortunes of Nigeria. Tambuwal maintained that the task at hand, “is to ensure victory at the polls in order to save our fatherland from the current regime of annihilation bestriding it.” He canvassed for unity of purpose, avoidance of division, distractions and internal wrangling, even as he pledged to commit himself to the task and urged members of the PDP to roll up their sleeves and set to work as members of one united family. Dr Emeka C. Kalu, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain and former governorship candidate of Abia State under the All Progressives Congress (APGA), in his message, made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT, described Atiku’s victory as a clear indication of the overwhelming support he enjoys among Nigerians. Kalu, the Director General of Articulated Agenda 2019, one of the groups that promote the Atiku candidacy, said the victory was a demonstration of Atiku’s popularity and the trust Nigerians have in him. He said that Atiku’s pro-masses programmes, his restructuring agenda, his concerns for the people’s welfare, his economic agenda, were what Nigerians need most after the years of suffering and uncertainties, which he said the All Progressives Congress (APC) inflicted on the country, including wanton killings across the land. Kalu maintained that with Atiku’s wide experience in the public and private sectors, no one else among the candidates that had emerged so far was better placed and more qualified to administer the country and take it to the Promised Land. Kalu stressed: “We urge Nigerians to key into this vision and see this victory as the beginning of the turnaround for this nation. God bless Nigeria.” He urged Nigerians to listen to Atiku’s campaign messages, programmes and agenda, which he said would restore hope to the impoverished Nigerians and bring back the nation’s lost glory if he eventually emerged the country’s president. Also, Dr Joseph Erico Ameh, a governorship aspirant in Kogi State under the PDP platform, in his message urged Atiku to focus his campaigns on how he would solve the myriads of problems facing the country. Ameh, who spoke in Lagos on Monday, said that Atiku should shun not worry about negative criticisms by the opposition, but should endear himself more to the Nigerian people by coming out with plans that would turn the nation around. The PDP chieftain, while congratulating Atiku, said the people of Middle Belt and Nigerians would like to know how he intended to tackle the problems of herdsmen’s killings, which he stressed, had sent farmers out of their farms, there raising fears of imminent famine in the country. Ameh also said that Atiku should come up with plans on how he would tackle unemployment, which he maintained, was behind youth restiveness, advising him to immediately set up a team of experts from different parts of the country to come out with a master plan on the counytry’s economic development under him. Ameh said: “Atiku should carry people from the six geo-political zones along, de-emphasise ethnicity and religion to ensure that Nigeria remains one united nation. “For him to be victorious in the 2019 election, he should ensure that people from South West, South South, South East and Middle Belt play prominent roles in his campaign to neutralise the All Progressives Congress (APC) across the country. “He should also try to convince every part of the country and other leaders on his seriousness to carry out the restructuring the federation as Nigerians are seriously looking unto him to do it as he has promised.” Meanwhile, the Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign Organisation, has responded to a media attack by the Buhari Campaign Organisation, which it said cast aspersions on Atiku’s emergence as the PDP presidential candidate. The Buhari’s camp had in its statement in reaction to Atiku’s victory, suggested that it was a result of money politics. The Atiku’s group, in its response, said: “We are not surprised that there is confusion in the President’s camp. We expected that they would be thrown into a catatonic state knowing that HE Atiku Abubabakr’s emergence automatically means the coming end of their ignominious reign. “That much was admitted by the President’s former running mate, Pastor Tunde Bakare, when he praised the emergence of HE Atiku as an ‘Eagle’ and ‘a cosmopolitan wazobia’ politician. Obviously, Pastor Tunde Bakare has foreseen that the era of 97% versus 5% has come to an end with the emergence of the pan-Nigerian, Atiku Abubakar. The Atiku’s campaigners wondered how the Buhari’s camp would disparage the PDP primary that produced their principal, “when even the President’s own wife, Aisha Buhari, has condemned the APC’s primary? Not only did Mrs. Buhari condemn APC’s primaries, she described them as ‘unfair’ and lacking in integrity. Who can know President Buhari better than his wife?” It recalled that 11 aspirants contested against Atiku during the PDP presidential primary and that every single one of them accepted his victory. It noted that in the APC presidential primary, President Muhammadu Buhari was the only candidate cleared by the APC to contest its primary, while a coalition of five aspirants had challenged his victory. “That alone,” it explained, “tells Nigerians his Buhari’s emergence is fraudulent.” The Atiku’s camp continued: “Nigerians know that Atiku Abubakar is the most investigated politician in Nigeria and any smear by the Buhari administration remains just that. With the vindictiveness of President Buhari, he would have arrested HE Abubakar if he had been found wanting. “However, to set the record straight, we want to remind Nigerians that PDP’s primaries were genuine, free and fair. Atiku Abubakar  got 1,532 votes in a contest televised live to millions of Nigerians. The All Progressives Congress’ primary, on the other hand, was a study in dictatorship and corruption. The sole candidate, Muhammadu Buhari, scored almost 15 million votes. How could that occur without rigging or manufacturing of faceless voters? “No wonder Transparency International rated Nigeria as more corrupt today under Buhari, than just three years ago when the PDP was in power. The scandals are too numerous, including the $25 billion NNPC contracts awarded without due process, the several padded budgets, the $41 million Ikoyi apartment scandal, the recall, reinstatement and double promotion of pension thief and Buhari financier, Abdulrasheed Maina, the N200 million grass cutter scandal, and many others too numerous to mention.” It described the choice before Nigerians in 2019 as a simple one. It said: “Nigerians have a choice of electing a lively candidate with a record of providing 50,000 jobs to Nigerians in his private capacity, versus the lifelessness (apologies to President Donald Trump) of a candidate under whom Nigeria lost 11 million jobs and became the world headquarters for extreme poverty. “Nigerians have a choice of a man who will provide an efficient and business-friendly solution to the herdsmen crisis and a man whose government said ‘giving land for cattle ranching is better than death’. “It is very obvious that faced with such a choice that Nigerians would definitely vote for the man who will ‘Get Nigeria Working Again’, hence we are not surprised by this desperate statement from the Buhari administration that is so shameless that they made a man implicated in framing a man of God on spurious charges as their spokesman. If he can lie against a man of God, should Nigerians believe anything he says about the PDP and its candidate?” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 