Nigeria barely has 15 million passengers annually, but the rate of flight delays and cancellations has been on steady rise lately. The airlines and government agencies in the sector are trading blame over the avoidable issue, but passengers bear the brunt more. OLUSEGUN KOIKI, APATA OYENIRAN and CHRIS EBONG write. The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) at a media parley recently at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, declared that at least a whooping 19,323 flights were delayed within the country’s airspace in the first half of 2018. Within the same period, the industry regulator said another 348 flights were cancelled among local and international airlines operating within and into the country. However, a report obtained from the Consumer Protection Department (CPD) of NCAA indicated that in 2017 alone, the country recorded 30, 214 cases of delayed flights, an indication that the entire 2018 report may be higher than that of the previous year. Capt. Muhtar Usman, the Director-General of NCAA in its breakdown of the delays and cancellations, said that out of the 19,323 flights delayed, domestic airlines had 16,880 while the remaining 2,443 were among the 33 foreign airlines operating into the country. Usman emphasised further that within the same period, domestic airline operators cancelled 253 flights while their foreign counterparts had 95 flights cancelled. According to him, within the first half of the year, 17,893 delayed and missing baggage was recorded among the international airlines while the domestic operators had 25 delayed and missing luggage. However, available statistics indicated that Middle East, Qatar Air, Royal Air Maroc, Rwandair, Saudi Airline, Sudan Air, South African Airways, Turkish Airlines, British Airways and Virgin Atlantic Airways were guilty of flight delays among the international carriers while Delta Air Lines too cancelled some flights within the period. Usman, however, informed that the authority had warned airlines against unwarranted flight delays and cancellations, stressing that NCAA would not tolerate infringement on air travellers’ rights. On the contrary, rather than turn a new leaf, the warnings and threat of sanctions by the regulatory agency, flight delays and cancellations still continu unabated in the aviation industry in the country, unlike its counterparts even on the continent. Passengers’ complaints Just a few weeks back, Mrs. Christiana Okon, a passenger with one of the domestic airlines in Lagos, decried the abrupt cancellation of her flight by the management of the airline. According to her, she had booked a one-way ticket flight to Enugu, but to her surprise, the flight was cancelled without prior notice. Okon, however, demanded a refund from the airline in order to purchase another ticket to the city, but the management of the airline was reluctant to assent to her demand, rather, preferred to re-schedule her and other passengers affected by the cancellation. She said: “It is sad that this is still happening in our flight environment after several attempts to stop this. Why on earth will an airline cancel a flight without informing the passengers? Most of us were already on the ground, hoping to board the plane to Enugu, but were shocked at the turn of event. “The passengers even requested for refund, but the airline is reluctant to do so. I don’t think we should continue with this practice in our country in this age and time.” Also, some passengers of another indigenous airline in 2017 threw caution in the wind as they went bonkers on an airline staff at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos. It was reported that trouble started after the airline had delayed flights for about 10 hours, an occurrence, which they claimed was synonymous with the said carrier. The visibly angry passengers asked to be refunded, but one of the airline managers, who was said to have handled the situation carelessly, aggravated the tension and a fight broke out as the manager took a rain of punches and kicks from the passengers. Stakeholders Reactions While a section of players in the industry blamed the operators for flight delays and cancellations, the airline operators on the other hand attributed these to poor infrastructure provided by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) at several of the airports and inefficient navigational aids installed by the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), among others. Mr. Allen Onyema, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Air Peace, said that infrastructure and poor navigational aids were responsible for many of the flight delays and cancellations at the airport, but the travelling public was misled by the organisation to impose such on the airlines. Onyema emphasised that in order to reduce delays and cancellations at the airport, the government through its agencies in the sector should improve airport infrastructure. He decried that at the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) of the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos for instance; early morning flights are delayed forcing about 2,000 passengers scrambling to use the only screening point at the terminal. He noted that with this, there was no way flights won’t be delayed at the airport, which spiral to other ports in the country. Observing that once the weather is bad, most airlines either delay flights or are compelled to cancel flights out rightly, stated that several of the navigational equipment are in bad shapes and non-functional. He said: “A lot of Nigerians are demonising the airlines including some of the government agencies, they attack the airlines when delay of flights occurs without telling the flying public the reasons for the delays. So, the Nigerian airlines have been battered and condemned by the same people who are supposed to protect them. You cannot continue to demonise the investments that are driving the economy of this country; we are doing ourselves a great disservice. “Government agencies should support Nigerian airlines domestically by helping us to develop the infrastructure. At times, you get to the airport in the morning for early flights, but you will discover that about 2,000 passengers are passing through only one screening point. It takes over two to three hours for all of them to get through to the airside. “Your passengers have been sitting down as early as 5:00 am for their 6:30 am or 6:45 am flight, those flights would end up departing at 8:00 am, losing over an hour that would have been used for landing at the other airport. Then, when they get to the other airport, the facilities there are nothing to write home about. Then, at the end of the day, the airlines must announce delays. The fact is that people are not being told why we have delays. “When it rains, there must be delays. How equipped are our navigational equipment? So, at the end of the day, you will discover that flight are either delayed or cancelled because we don’t have corresponding aids at our airports and you are being told that the problem is from the airlines. They are hurting the businesses when they say a thing like that. The first ambition of any government is to improve airport infrastructure.” He urged the government to take a cue from the infrastructure at the Murtala Muhammed Airport II (MMA2), Lagos, which he said remains the best in the country at the moment. Also, Capt. Dapo Olumide, the former Managing Director of Virgin Nigeria observed that most of the flight delays experienced in the Nigerian aviation industry were due to poor infrastructure at the airport and stations. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 