The Chief Executive Officer, Fly Busy Travels, Mrs. Justina Okpara, argued that local airlines, in a bid to make profits, sometimes deliberately delay flights. She noted that a lot of the time aircraft were empty except during peak periods, stressing that an average Nigerian traveller goes by road. “Let’s say an airline has a 2 pm flight and 4 pm flight to the same destination. It may delay the 2 pm take-off and merge it with the 4 pm flight. In doing so, the airline saves money on fuel and ensures seats are filled,” she said. Meanwhile, NCAA has directed operating airline; local and foreign to henceforth stop unnecessary flight delays and cancellations, which it said had characterised the country’s aviation industry in recent time. The regulatory agency observed that operating airlines, especially indigenous carriers had in the past few weeks cancelled or delayed flights without any cogent reasons and warned them to desist from this of face appropriate sanctions. A statement by Mr. Sam Adurogboye, the General Manager, Public Affairs, NCAA, said that the declaration was made at the just concluded stakeholder’s forum organised by the authority at the NCAA annexe at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. The statement hinted that the forum was attended by 13 International airlines, eight domestic carriers and airport operators; the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and Bi-Courtney Aviation Services. He, however, said that the airlines at the meeting equally gave reasons for flight delays and cancellations in recent time. According to him, the airlines identified poor fuel supply, bad infrastructure at airports, unruly passengers and traffic along airport road as some of the challenges, which prevented them from taking to the sky as advertised. He, however, said that the management of NCAA and FAAN in their responses assured the operators that all these challenges would be tackled soon. He added that at the end of the meeting, parties involved agreed that airlines should be realistic in their flight planning, schedules, they should always disseminate on time information to passengers on flight status and the carriers should ensure they provide right to care for passengers in times of delays or cancellations in line with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations NCARs) 2015 Part 19. The statement added: “NCAA and FAAN to liaise with Ministry of Transport, Aviation Unit to replace fuel hydrants if the old ones will cost a lot of money to be fixed and the supply points should be connected to the airports. “FAAN, airport operators or owners to ensure facilities like lightings, carousels and cooling systems are functional. Ministry should liaise with Pipelines and Products Marketing Company (PPMC) on fixing the underground pipeline layout from Apapa to Lagos airport to minimise surface transportation of fuel. “FAAN should beef up security at the airports to prevent unlawful interference, airlines’ representatives should be available to testify whenever cases of unruly passengers are referred to the Nigeria Police Force and the representative of FAAN Management to ensure that action is expedited on the upgrade of lighting on Runway 18L/36R (MMIA).” NCAA also directed airlines and airport operators to regularly maintain constant communication and should also always request for reimbursement of expenses incurred from third parties or service providers with whom they signed Service Level Agreements (SLAs) as stipulated by the Nig. CARs Part 19. Besides, NCAA directed FAAN to ensure that the Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras should always be operational while airlines’ inputs should be considered in the design and construction of airports to avoid a repeat of the mistakes of the past. Also, the parties agreed that airlines should develop responsive crisis management systems and file their Operation Disruption Manuals with NCAA as required by law and equally encouraged domestic airlines to enter into interlining arrangements with one and others. Agitation for Compensation Besides, an investigation by our correspondent revealed that soon, the country’s passengers would receive compensation from airlines when their flights are delayed or cancelled without cogent reasons. The compensation ranges from providing refreshments to serving meals and refunding the passenger when the flight is cancelled. It was learnt that while some airlines abided by the Passenger Bill of Rights as enunciated by NCAA, most of the airlines renege, especially when such delays happen at airports outside Lagos and Abuja where the regulatory authority does not effectively monitor passenger movement. According to the Passenger Bill of Rights, if a flight would be re-routed or delayed, the passenger must be notified at least two hours in advance. “If you have a ticket or print-out that shows a confirmed reservation for a specific flight and date, an agent cannot deny you boarding because you have no reservation in the computer. If you need to cancel a ticket purchased under a non-refundable fare, you must be able to apply the fare you paid toward a future flight, minus any applicable charge or cancellation fees. “You have a duty to arrive before the time on your ticket. Even if you have already checked in for your flight, an airline can cancel your reservation if you are not at the departure gate on time and you must be compensated if a flight departs before the ticketed time,” explained Alhaji Adamu Abdullahi, the Director of Consumer Protection Directorate (CPD), NCAA. Abdullahi noted that if a passenger didn’t check his baggage in sufficient time for it to be loaded on the flight, the airline would not be responsible for any delay in the delivery of your baggage to the passenger’s destination; however, if the passenger baggage was delayed or lost, he must be compensated within five business days. “If your flight is delayed for over one hour, cancelled or you are denied boarding, you have a right to compensation. You have a duty to be courteous to staff and agents of airline operators,” he added. Abdullahi said that now passengers know their rights, but they didn’t know their own responsibilities to the airlines and that was why they violently obstruct airlines’ operations when there was an infraction. Also, Adurogboye said that the number of complaints the agency gets from passengers with the needed documents to back their claims indicated that Nigerian passengers knew their rights. But, Mr. Kingsley Ezenwa, spokesman of Dana Air declared that the airline abides by the Passenger Bill of Rights, but beyond that, it goes further to ensure that its passengers are satisfied. “For us, it is customer first. We give refreshments when there is a delay and we assist passengers to reschedule their flights at no extra cost and refund them in full if they do not wish to continue with the flight,” Ezenwa said. Flight delay as a Global Phenomenon There are certain events entirely beyond your control, which could impact your flight. When flight delays and cancellations occur at airports, they are usually due to one of the nine following reasons. Security When standing at the back of a serpentine line weaving all over the security area, most travellers have one thought on their minds: Will this cause me to miss my flight? Certain events such as holidays can increase the number of people in the security line, but other times these backups can happen for seemingly no reason. While security staff often directs people over to shorter lines when their flights are about to depart, sometimes the airport is simply overwhelmed. It is a coin toss as to whether or not the airline will hold the flight for passengers stuck in security, which affects not only the travellers in line but also the ones on the plane waiting to taxi to the runway. Weather Adverse weather conditions like storms, lightning and strong winds will keep planes on the ground for the safety of everyone involved. It is always recommended that passengers check the status of their flights before heading to the airport, especially if you know that there is a storm on the way. Airlines can’t be held responsible for delays or cancellations due to inclement weather, but once the storms clear out they will often reschedule passengers into the next available flight at no extra charge. In the case of extreme delays or mass cancellations, most airlines will typically offer refunds to their customers. National Aviation System The National Aviation System (NAS) is a broad term which encompasses many different factors that might impact flight times. This might include non-severe weather events, heavy air traffic, air traffic control delays, and airport operations. These reasons may sound vague, but they account for nearly 25 per cent of all airport delays or cancellations. If your flight is affected due to general airport conditions, and therefore through no fault of your own,  you may have some recourse. Late Arriving Aircraft Planes are put into heavy rotation. If a flight is significantly delayed, it can end up affecting passengers at other airports who were scheduled to take the same aircraft to their destination. Passengers who missed their connections should be compensated by the airline and switched to new flights. It can take up to two hours to refuel a jet, especially the large aircraft meant for long-haul or trans-oceanic flights. If there are issues getting your plane properly fuelled in a timely manner, this could cause a significant delay. The issue with this type of delay is that you often don’t know about it until you get to the airport. If something like this happens, it is important to know your rights as a traveller. Congestion in Air Traffic Over two million flights crisscross the world’s airspace every day. That may seem like a huge number, but air traffic control towers are equipped to handle it all. Issues begin to arise when air traffic is particularly heavy due to a holiday or other event, and flights may be delayed. If you know you are travelling on a particularly busy day, be sure to check your flight status several times leading up to your departure to the airport. Maintenance Issues If it is discovered that there is a maintenance issue with your aircraft, the flight will not embark until the issue has been fully addressed. Sometimes, these issues are being worked on even as passengers board the plane, meaning the delay you experience might take place entirely on the tarmac. Other times, in the case of larger issues, your airline might make the call to switch planes entirely for the safety of everyone involved. Baggage Loading Long lines at check-in might mean that there is baggage being loaded onto your plane right up until the last possible minute. These delays are aggravating, but ideally, they are meant to ensure that everyone’s luggage makes it to their destination with them. If you’ve ever made it to your destination with your carry on and nothing else, then you already know this isn’t always the case. Computer Glitches Even a relatively small computer hiccup can cause massive delays and cancellations all across the globe. You may have read about the recent outages with companies like Delta or United Continental, each of which affected thousands of passengers in all different locations. No matter where you are travelling to or from, if your flight is affected by a computer issue on the airline’s end, you should be compensated. Travellers should have the option of getting a refund or changing flights. Many passengers feel a lot of anxiety about their flights, and that’s completely understandable. Thousands of people are trying to make connecting flights, reach family and friends, or attend important meetings every single day. A cancellation or delay could have a huge negative impact on their travel. The good news is that there is often something you can do about it. To find out more about European flight delay and cancellation compensation, read here. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 