Temidayo Akinsuyi, Mohammed Shosanya, Tony Ezimakor, Samuel Ogidan and Innocent Oweh Lagos / Abuja – Condemnation on Sunday trailed Federal Government’s travel ban on no fewer than 50 high profile persons directly affected by Executive Order 6 (EO6). Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, had on Saturday said President Muhammadu Buhari had mandated the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice to implement the order in full force. “To this end, a number of enforcement procedures are currently in place by which the Nigeria Immigration Service and other security agencies have placed no fewer than 50 high profile persons directly affected by EO6 on watch-list and restricted them from leaving the country pending the determination of their cases”, he said. Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former vice president, has condemned the travel ban by Buhari, describing the Executive Order 6 as a throwback to his draconian Decree 2 of 1984 promulgated when he was head of a military junta. Buhari’s Decree No 2 of 1984 gave the State Security Service and the Chief of Staff the power to detain, without charges, individuals deemed to be security risk to the state for up to three months. “It is a throwback to Buhari’s evil Decree No 2 of 1984 which criminalised truth telling if it did not please Buhari, proving that dictators can grow old, but they can’t grow into democrats,” Abubakar said. The PDP presidential candidate expressed the opinion on Sunday in a statement by his campaign organisation. Abubakar pointed out that the Executive Order 6 would lead to another recession. “We must be unequivocal in saying that we abhor any act of criminality, financially or otherwise, but the rule of law must be our guide at all times or society will descend to anarchy. Thus, we find it most undemocratic that in a nation governed by the rule of law, a president who swore an oath to abide by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, does this”, he said. Describing the ban as intimidation ahead of 2019 elections, Atiku noted that the 50 persons affected may likely be critics and opponents of the Buhari administration. “If past events are to be the judge, these 50 individuals will conveniently be critics and opponents of the Buhari administration. This is nothing short of intimidation ahead of the 2019 elections. “This is what the Buhari administration did in Osun where they froze the accounts of the Adeleke family and then illegally and clandestinely paid N16.7 billion to the Osun State government to facilitate daylight electoral robbery,” he said. Lambasting Buhari’s administration for its inability to distinguish between the living and the dead, Atiku said, “To show how clueless this administration is, it included the late former Chief Judge of Enugu State, Justice Innocent Umezulike as number 30 on its travel ban list. “The question Nigerians should ask is this: can an administration that is unable to distinguish between the living and the dead bring life to Nigeria’s economy?” The former vice president explained that the Nigerian constitution guarantees every Nigerian citizen freedom of movement and freedom of association, adding that the constitutional right could not be taken away except by a court order. Abubakar noted that under the Buhari administration, Nigeria has witnessed an unprecedented capital flight to the extent that “we are not even listed amongst the top ten recipients of foreign direct investments in Africa in the latest ranking by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.” Falana Asks FG To Withdraw Travel Ban Femi Falana, Human Rights Lawyer, says the travel ban placed on 50 high profile Nigerians should be withdrawn “without any delay”. In a statement on Sunday, Falana said the directive which is backed by an Executive Order signed by the president is an “ingenious design to expose the Buhari administration to ridicule”. He said the executive arm of government is not empowered under the law to restrict the movement of criminal suspects. Falana said only the anti-corruption agencies and courts have the right to restrict movement of individuals under investigation. He cited various instances in the past where top government officials and other prominent individuals, including himself, were placed on watch lists by the ruling government. He said an application for interim release of passports by some individuals under trial is usually granted for medical reasons, with the exception of “indigent accused persons standing trial for stealing, fraud or other economic crimes in Nigerian courts”. “Sadly, the travel ban is a sad reminder of the reckless placement of political opponents on security watch list and seizure of their passports by the defunct military junta,” he said. Travel Ban Illegal, Repressive— SERAP Timothy Adewale, Deputy Director, Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), has said that the order banning 50 Nigerians from travelling abroad without any legal basis and a judicial authorisation is clearly arbitrary, repressive and illegal as it breaches constitutional rights and the country’s international obligations, which protect the rights to freedom of movement, to leave one’s country, to privacy, and to due process of law. Adewale said, “A travel ban by its nature is an interference with the right to leave one’s country. It is neither necessary nor proportionate to prevent dissipation of stolen assets or stop politically exposed persons (PEPs) from tampering with any such assets. The ban should be immediately lifted and the order rescinded.” SERAP in a statement said, “Rather than performing its declared objective of preventing dissipation of stolen assets, the travel ban would seriously undermine the government’s expressed commitment to combat grand corruption and violate the country’s international human rights obligations. The travel ban will play right into the hands of high-profile corrupt officials by feeding into the narrative that the fight against corruption is targeted only at political opponents.” Buhari Lacks Power To Restrict Nigerians’ Movement— ANN Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) has faulted Buhari over the travel ban. ANN in a statement by its spokesman, Akinloye Oyeniyi, said the constitution already has given every Nigerian citizen the right to go everywhere on earth and no executive order without a valid order by a court of competent jurisdiction premised upon case laws or legislations enacted by the National Assembly or state parliaments can undo that. “It is unfortunate that the outgoing President Buhari is yet to change from his trademark dictatorial ways of doing things but more worrisome this is coming from a president presiding over Nigeria, the nation which is supposed to be the torchbearer for the entire Africa”, the statement noted. Oyeniyi said, “We know the president is jittery seeing the groundswell of opposition developing against his unpopular administration by Nigerians home and abroad, but section 41 of the 1999 constitution as amended legally guarantees the right to freedom of movement to all Nigerians and this right can only be tampered with by established laws as enshrined in the section 45 of the same constitution and not by any draconian executive order targeted at political opponents by a president that is scared of electoral defeat.” Ozekhom Mike Ozekhome, constitutional lawyer and human rights activist, has admonished the 50 Nigerians who were slammed with travel ban to seek redress in court. In a statement on Sunday, Ozekhome said it was necessary that those affected by the travel restriction go to court immediately and get the order struck down on the grounds that it was not a law but a mere executive order. He said the Executive Order No 6 could not even enjoy the qualification granted under section 45 of the constitution which permitted restriction and derogation from the observance of section 41 under a law reasonably justifiable in a democratic society in the interest of defence, public safety, public order, public morality, or public health, or for the purpose of protecting the rights and freedom of other persons. He added: “Executive Order No 6 violates the doctrine of separation of powers ably propounded in 1778 (sections 4,5,6 of the 1999 constitution ), by Baron de Montesquie, the rule of law as espoused by Prof AV Dicey and ALL tenets of constitutional democracy. “It is high handed, obnoxious, barbaric, pristine, capricious, whimsical and arbitrary. “It violently erodes hallowed fundamental rights that are inalienable and God-given. It seeks to strike terror and fear in the minds of Nigerians, especially the opposition and critical voices. “It usurps the functions of a court of law and the NASS that has already promulgated the EFCC, ICPC and Money Laundering Acts, all of which allow for interim forfeiture and attachment of citizens’ money and properties, but with an order of a court of law.” The lawyer said while no one had ever doubted the legality of executive orders, which were regularly issued by American presidents, where Nigeria borrowed its presidentialism, same must conform with laid down procedure, due process, citizens’ rights, and rule of law. OBJ, IBB, Atiku, Saraki Real Targets Of Executive Order 6— Timi Frank Timi Frank, former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has alleged that Atiku Abubakar, former President Olusegun Obasanjo; former military President Ibrahim Babangida, and Bukola Saraki, Senate President, are among major targets of the Executive Order 6. Also named as targets by Frank are Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, General Aliyu Gusau, Gen. TY Danjuma, Pastor David Oyedepo, Rev Fr Matthew Hassan Kuka, Sheik Gumi and so many other traditional rulers, businessmen and women sympathetic to the Atiku Abubakar presidency. Frank in a statement in Abuja claimed that Executive Order 6 is “reminiscent of the infamous and draconian Decree No. 4 of 1984 which was cruelly pursued and enforced by the incumbent president who was then the military Head of State.” According to the former member of the APC National Working Committee, the Executive Order 6 has as its sole aim to weaken leaders of opposition political parties ahead of the 2019 general elections. Frank said the earlier list released to the media was a distraction from the real targets which he assured will soon be made public. He, however, warned that unless the international community and well-meaning Nigerians speak up now against the alleged fascist plot of President Buhari, Nigerians would be bidding democracy bye soon. Why Buhari Directed Implementation Of E-Order 6—Aide Meanwhile, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, has said the need to make for speedy trial of corruption cases compelled President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the implementation of Executive Order 6. Shehu, who spoke to a select State House reporters on Sunday, in Abuja, noted that access to resources by suspects standing trial has enabled them to be in a position to sometime compromise investigation and prosecution. He said, “In the history of independent Nigeria, this is the first time any government is taking such a key decision to fight corruption. “EO 6 is not only revolutionary to the efforts to rid Nigeria of corruption but a manifestation of systemic changes that are required to make necessary adjustments as we carry on with the war against corruption. “The very essence of the order is to make for speedy trials and conclusion of graft cases. The order is not political and there is political gain behind its activation.” Those allegedly on the travel ban list are Gbenga Daniel, former governor of Ogun State and director-general of the presidential campaign of ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar, as well as Orji Uzor Kalu, former governor of Abia State. Also on the list is Innocent Umezulike, former chief judge of Enugu State who was in 2017 arraigned for alleged corruption. However, Umezulike died in June. Former governors affected are Saminu Turaki (Jigawa), Murtala Nyako (Adamawa), Adebayo Alao-Akala (Oyo), Gabriel Suswam (Benue), Rasheed Ladoja (Oyo), and Danjuma Goje (Gombe). Others are Attahiru Bafarawa (Sokoto), Muazu Babangida Aliyu (Niger); Chimaroke Nnamani (Enugu); Sule Lamido (Jigawa); Ibrahim Shehu Shema (Katsina) and Ahmadu Fintiri, former acting governor of Adamawa. Ex-ministers are Bashir Yuguda and Nenadi Usman, former ministers of finance; Jumoke Akinjide and Bala Mohammed, former ministers of the Federal Capital Territory; Abba Moro, former Minister of Interior; and Femi Fani-Kayode, former Minister of Aviation. Former service chiefs affected include Alex Badeh (defence staff), AD Jibrin (naval staff), Mohammed Dikko and Adesola Amosu (air staff) as well as Sunday Ehindero (police). Also affected are Raymond Dokpesi, chairman emeritus of AIT/Raypower; Waripamowei Dudafa, a former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan; Rita Ofili-Ajumogobia, a former judge of the Federal High Court; and Olisah Metuh, former PDP spokesman. Also included are Jide Omokore, a businessman; Ricky Tarfa and Dele Belgore, Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN). Some of them are facing trial for various corruption-related offences. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 