ABAKALIKI – Chief Michael Ama Nnachi, a chieftain of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Sunday, said that the Senator representing Ebonyi South zone in the Senate, Sonni Ogbuorji, was regretting joining the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Chief Ama said the senator had defected from the PDP to the ruling party to become Deputy President of the Senate. At a press briefing in Abakaliki, Nnachi, an Ebonyi South PDP senatorial aspirant for 2019 general election, also joined the clamour in the party for Ogbuorji’s seat to be declared vacant. He noted that Ogbuorji, a two-term senator rose to the position he is today through the PDP and wondered why he left the party when according to him there was no crisis in the PDP. Nnachi further vowed to retire the deputy chairman Senate Committee on appropriation and Ebonyi APC gubernatorial aspirant from active politics. “I want to lend my voice to the masses of Ebonyi South zone who are still clamouring for his seat to be declared vacant since there is no division in the PDP. You cannot hate a party and cling unto the party’s mandate. “I have a strong suspicion that he defected finally, so as to upset the Senate leadership and become the Deputy Senate President. Without mincing words, my emergence shall retire Ogbuoji politically and put an end to his dubious scheming, political maneuverings and unjustified use of our people to achieve his selfish political ends. “I promise my constituents that our administration will be all-inclusive, all encompassing and human- oriented to the benefit of the zone and the state at large. I will not disappoint them as I am determined to rewrite the history of the zone in terms of representation and provision of democracy dividends,” he said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 