Lagos – The governorship primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State was no doubt a controversial exercise. While there is no doubt that  Mr. Babajide  Sanwo-Olu had the upper hand given the multiple endorsements he received from the key stakeholders in the party, especially the Mandate Movement, the most influential political organisation in the state, there were footages and reports of victimisation of party members who are loyal to incumbent governor, Akinwunmi Ambode. Many of them alleged that aside being manhandled; they were prevented from participating in the voting exercise despite showing their party membership card. Clement Ebri, the chairman of Election panel sent to conduct the primary first stirred the hornets’ nest when he rejected the result. According to him, the primary would be rescheduled as the state chapter has no power to conduct the party governorship primary election on its own. However, the Lagos State Chairman of the party, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, had announced Sanwo-Olu as the winner of the primary. Announcing the results to newsmen in Ikeja, Balogun said that Sanwo-Olu polled 970, 851 votes to defeat Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode, who polled 72, 901 votes. It took the intervention of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to wade into the crisis by upholding the results declared earlier by  Balogun. On the conduct of the APC primaries in Lagos State, Oshiomhole disclosed that the National Working Committee (NWC) was in charge of the primaries and that every situation had been put under control. “I told the president that the primaries held as planned and everything is being done to ensure there is no violence because democracy doesn’t flourish with violence. Nigerians must begin to learn how to differ in opinion and in choice without fighting; this is something people have to acquire over time. For me, I’m excited that if we can do it in Lagos it can be done anywhere. Everything that is being done is done under the control, supervision and direction of the NWC.’’ Ebri later made a detour by announcing Sanwo-Olu as winner. “The Lagos State APC governorship committee collated the results in the 245 wards from our collating officers. At the end of the exercise the following votes were scored by the aspirants: Gov Akinwunmi Ambode scored 72,901 votes and Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu scored 970,851 votes. “Following the results, I, Clement Ebri, the Chairman APC Governorship Committee hereby declares Sanwo-Olu winner of the primary.” Many thought Governor  Ambode will reject the outcome of the controversial primary The suspense became intense when the governor’s media team announced that he will be addressing a press conference where he will give his verdict on next step. However, the governor in displaying sportsmanship gave a speech in a state broadcast on Lagos Television (LTV) saying time had come for the state to move forward in order that the gains of the last three and half years would not be lost. In the broadcast, Ambode conceded defeat to Sanwo-Olu, acknowledging that the last few days “have witnessed intense political activities that have gripped the attention of the country and created palpable tension in the polity.” Specifically, Ambode noted that he believed the time “has now come for the state to move forward in order that the gains of the last three and half years are not lost.” He said, “APC is a great party and the interests of our beloved state must always supersede that of any person or group. It is in this regard that I wholeheartedly congratulate the winner of the Lagos State APC Primaries, Sanwo-Olu.” He, therefore, urged all Lagos residents “to immediately support our party’s gubernatorial candidate in the 2019 elections and work for the success of our dear party.” Ambode said in his capacity as the governor of Lagos State, he pledged “to do everything possible to ensure a smooth transition in the remaining period of this administration and ultimately to the new governor, come May 2019.” The governor, also, appealed to all APC members “to remain one family and unite behind the candidate of the party so that the party could continue to move this state forward. The progress of Lagos State is non-negotiable.” According to him, it is a project that he has passionately worked for in the last three and half years as governor and one to which he will forever be devoted. He thanked Tinubu, the leadership of the party at state and national levels, all party faithful and all Lagos residents for their unflinching support. He urged all Lagos residents “not to relent in their support for the APC as we prepare for the 2019 general elections. I thank all Lagos residents for their faith and trust in me.” In his reaction, Dele Momodu, politician and media guru in a tweet commended Ambode for knowing when to concede to his opponent and acting like a true sportsman. He said, ”I congratulate Governor  Akinwunmi Ambode for knowing when to accept reality by conceding to his main opponent Babajide Sanwo-Olu and would encourage him to work harder on completing some of the great projects he has started. There are brighter days ahead.” Adedapo  Ojo, a  Lagos-based lawyer also showered praises on the governor for displaying sportsmanship in the midst of the tension. He said “I sincerely appreciate Governor  Ambode for accepting defeat. I am so proud of him. At least, in the next eight months he can freely govern Lagos as an independent person ,he also now know all fake people around him. Also reacting, a group,  Putting  Lagos First (PLF), a non-governmental organisation also commended the governor for “laying aside personal interests and putting the interests of the state and party members first”. In a statement signed by its Secretary,  Akinwande Samuel, the group said the governor’s action doused the political tension that has enveloped the state by not only conceding defeat but promising to work for Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu despite knowing that the process that produced him as the party’s flagbearer was heavily flawed. It however warned against victimisation of the governor, especially by the members of the State’s House of Assembly saying “any action to frustrate the governor, victimise him or preventing him from effectively discharging his duties to Lagosians may be resisted by Lagosians who are already sympathetic to the governor and desires him to continue in office but for the party leadership in Lagos who are against him”. “ We in PLF believe that the governor has achieved a lot in the last three years and there are still lots of projects to be completed between now and May 2019. All major stakeholders in Lagos and the ruling party should cooperate with him to complete these projects for the benefits of Lagosians.  We also appeal to whoever succeeds him to ensure none of the uncompleted projects that will be left by the governor must be abandoned” the group said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 