Temidayo Akinsuyi and Yaqoub Popoola Lagos / Ado-Ekiti – Outgoing Ekiti State governor, Ayo Fayose, has regretted the failure of Sokoto governor, Aminu Tambuwal, to emerge as the PDP presidential candidate at the party’s national convention held in Port Harcourt on Saturday, saying he may renounce his membership of the party if the need arises. Fayose, in a statement on Monday in Ado Ekiti, said that he supported his Rivers counterpart, Nyesom Wike, to ensure the emergence of Tambuwal. Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar picked the PDP ticket for the presidential race after scoring 1,532 votes to floor Tambuwal who got 693 votes. Fayose, while reacting to the outcome of the primary election, said that he was reconsidering his membership of the PDP because of Tambuwal’s loss. “We have no regret aligning with Governor Wike to support Governor Tambuwal for the presidential ticket. We have no apologies either. “We kept the party alive and strong when most men became ladies. We never compromised. If any group feels it can do it alone, we will see how far they can go. “I may renounce my membership of the party, if the need arises. “In the main time, myself and others will continue with our consultations while watching the turn of events. “We cannot but appreciate leaders that have intervened so far, but this release became necessary to avoid fresh crisis or misrepresentation,” he said. Meanwhile, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday said Governor Fayose will not escape prosecution even if he joins the party at the expiration of his tenure. Reacting to Fayose’s statement that he may soon quit the PDP, Yekini Nabena, APC’s National Publicity Secretary, said the outgoing governor of Ekiti State will be making a grave mistake if he thinks defecting to the ruling party will shield him from prosecution if found guilty. “Nigerians know that this is a progressive party. No matter what, if found guilty, he will be dealt with according to the dictates of the law”. “It is wishful thinking for anyone to believe that joining APC will shield him from prosecution if found guilty. Whether he likes he can join APC, SDP or any other political party, the law will take its course. It is only under APC government that high ranking people have gone to jail”. “So, if Fayose likes let him come, the law will still catch up with him if found guilty. Tell Nigerians and the world, that even if Fayose comes to APC, the law will catch up with him if found guilty”, he said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 