Ibadan – Engr. Oyedele Hakeem Alao, governorship candidate of Alliance for Democracy (AD) in Oyo, has declared that real progressives will take over power in the Southwest geopolitical zone in 2019. Engr. Alao,who stated this while speaking with newsmen  after his emergence as the Oyo AD governorship candidate for the 2019 election, maintained that his emergence as the party’s governorship candidate was in “fulfilment of the burning desire to revive AD towards the enthronement of a prosperous progressive governance in the Southwest”. He noted that :” Twenty 0years ago, our party across the Southwest states elected governorship candidates and subsequently swept all the six states in the 1999 elections. “It was a feat many saw as unrealistic until it came as a rude shock. I am happy that we are on the verge of repeating the history and stories of 1999”. The Oyo AD governorship candidate lamented that since the political party was rigged out of power  in the Southwest in 2003, the region has been battling with the problem of bad governance. Engr. Alao particularly lamented over the situation in Oyo state, saying that “ our economy is in shambles, education in comatose, healthcare system in outright jeopardy”. He revealed that he has travelled round the 33 local government areas of the state to preach the gospel of redemption. His said: “As you have just taken a bold step of electing me as your candidate for the 2019 election, I am more than ready to combat all these anomalies using my super five agenda of Economic Revitalization, Free and Qualitative  Education,  Effective and Efficient Health Care Services, Industrialization, Youth Empowerment and Sports Development in line with the manifesto of our great party”. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 