Temidayo Akinsuyi, Francis Onoiribholo and Samuel Ogidan Lagos / Benin / Abuja – The Nigerian political landscape experienced a moment of solemnity on Sunday with the passing of a Nigerian political comet, Chief Tony Anenih. His death was confirmed by multiple sources, including his son, who said the family would release a statement later. Anenih, 85, died on Sunday evening at an Abuja hospital where he was receiving treatment for an undisclosed ailment. Born in Edo State, Anenih was one of the most influential politicians of his era. He was nicknamed ‘Mr. Fix It’ for his reported ability to manipulate the electoral process. Anenih was the state chairman of defunct ruling National Party of Nigeria (NPN), between 1981 and 1983. He was believed to have played a major role in the controversial 1983 general elections, including in his home state of Bendel (now Edo State) where he helped Samuel Ogbemudia to a controversial victory. Anenih was also the National Chairman of the Social Democratic Party in 1993 on which platform Moshood Abiola won the June 12, 1993 presidential election. Abiola was later imprisoned by the Sani Abacha dictatorship with many of his supporters accusing Anenih of betraying the June 12 cause. Upon return to democracy in 1999, Anenih was also a founding member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and was appointed works minister by then President Olusegun Obasanjo. Shockwaves In Edo Anenih’s demise was received in Benin, the Edo State capital, with shock and disbelief. All was quiet at his house on Delta Crescent in the Government Reserved Area (GRA), Benin as the massive gate was under lock and key. But his eldest son, Tony Anenih (Junior), told our correspondent that he was at the Lagos airport on his way to Abuja to ascertain the true situation and promised to call back as soon as he gets there. The two security guards confessed that they were not aware of the death of the Iyasele of Esanland, adding that the younger son who drove in shortly before our correspondent’s visit at about 6p.m was inside and not disposed to talking to the press. The situation was the same at the residence of his wife, Iyom Josephine Anenih, on Liberty Avenue, GRA, as the gate was under lock and key. However, in a telephone interview, a grief-stricken Mrs. Anenih, a former Minister of Women Affairs, said she would only speak after the family had issued a statement. Another of his son, Mr. Usolo Anenih, confirmed the demise of the former Minister of Works in a private hospital in Abuja after a brief illness, adding that the eldest son, Mr. Tony Anenih, Jnr, flew to Abuja from his base in Lagos and would issue a statement after a family meeting. Speaking in the same vein, the Edo State Chairman of the PDP, Chief Dan Orbih, said the party would only come out with a statement after the family had officially broken the news of the death of the political titan. Buhari Mourns Tony Anenih, Condoles With Govt., People Of Edo President Muhammadu Buhari has extended heartfelt condolences to the Anenih family on the death of its beloved patriarch and elder statesman, Chief Tony Anenih. The president’s condolence message is contained in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Sunday. President Buhari also commiserated with the government and people of Edo State and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on the passing of their illustrious son and former Chairman, Board of Trustees. He described the deceased as a frontline figure in the annals of the country’s political history. The president attested that Chief Anenih had lived a life of service, as state chairman of the defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN), National Chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), chieftain of the PDP, and a former Minister of Works. He also affirmed that across the political spectrum of Nigeria, the late Anenih was known for his strong views on issues pertaining to the unity and stability of the nation. The president, therefore, prayed almighty God to grant Chief Anenih’s soul eternal rest and comfort all who mourned the octogenarian. A Monumental Loss, Says PDP Expectedly, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) expressed shock over the transition of one of its founding fathers and former Board of Trustees (BoT) chairman. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said “Chief Anenih was a great Nigerian, a light-bearer, brilliant administrator, fine officer, quintessential nationalist, and democratic icon, who made innumerable sacrifices for the unity, stability, and development of our dear nation”. It added: “Indeed, Chief Anenih, who was known in the political circle as ‘Mr. Fix it’, owing to his ability to find solutions to very knotty political and governance issues, remains a colossus with unparalleled array of legacies which will be celebrated for generations. “His roles in ensuring the stability, not only of our great party but also for our nation at large, stood him out as a patriot who dedicated his life for the service of humanity.” The party said it was particularly pained that Anenih left the stage at the time the party and the nation needed his wealth of experience the more, “especially in our collective quest to restore good governance and democratic ideals in our country.” The PDP, therefore, condoled with the Anenih family, the government and people of Edo State, and prayed that God would grant the nation the fortitude to bear the monumental loss. End Of An Era, Says Ibori Chief James Onanefe Ibori, former governor of Delta State and prominent PDP leader, described the death of Chief Anenih as the end of a remarkable era in Nigerian politics. He said the late Chief Tony Anenih was in a class of his own as he was almost unsurpassed in political strategy for four decades. In a statement signed by Tony Eluemunor, his Media Assistant, Ibori said Chief Anenih was a repository of political wisdom, a library of contemporary Nigerian political history, and the nation’s foremost political tactician for decades. Ibori said Anenih’s life should be studied like a book by anyone who wants to go far not just in Nigerian politics, but in life generally, because he drew himself up by his own bootstraps and remained almost unequalled as a political leader and pathfinder since the 1970s till his retirement after the last general elections. He said: “Anenih was a self-made man who did not have the benefit of attending a secondary school but studied at home for his West African School Certificate while he was already in the Police Force. With that certificate in his pockets, the sky was his limit as he attended the Police College in Ikeja, and merited to be selected for further training in the Bramshill Police College, Basingstoke, England in 1966 and the International Police Academy, Washington DC in 1970. “Perhaps as a sign of what was to come, he served as a Police Orderly to the first Governor-General of Nigeria, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe. He retired as a Commissioner of Police in 1975,” he said. Speaking of his political alliance with him, Ibori said: “I was lucky to have been very close to Chief Anenih as he took me under his wings. I learnt a lot from him.  Even in my darkest moments, he believed in me. His memory will ever remain green in my heart. May God grant him eternal rest and grant his family the fortitude to bear this massive loss.” His Death Is Edo’s Loss
– Obaseki Similarly, Godwin Obaseki, the Edo State governor, expressed deep sadness over the passing of Anenih. The governor, in a statement, said Anenih’s death was a huge loss to the state and the nation as the elder statesman devoted a better part of his life to the development of the state and the country, contributing to national development in the various capacities he served while he lived. According to him, “The whole of Edo State has suffered a huge loss with the death of Chief Anenih, the Iyasele of Esan land, who ranks as one of the most illustrious sons of the state. “Chief Anenih rose to the occasion when it mattered most, to defend the interest of Edo State and her people. “He attracted development to the state and groomed several Edo sons and daughters who are now active players in the nation’s political space. “I am deeply saddened by the loss, more so at a time like this, when Nigeria needs his wisdom and guidance as we approach the election season.” Obaseki prayed that God would grant the Anenihs the fortitude to bear the loss, noting that “as the whole nation mourns Anenih’s passing, my condolences go to the family, as I pray that God grants them the grace to face this great loss.” Babatope, Afenifere Mourn Other political heavyweights have since been sending their messages, expressing their deep feelings regarding Anenih’s passage. Chief Ebenezer Babatope, a former Minister of Transport and PDP stalwart, in his tribute, described the late Anenih as a fine gentleman who contributed immensely to the growth of the PDP. He said his relationship with the late Anenih began in 1984 after they met at Kirikiri prisons after the Buhari-Idiagbon regime jailed politicians, following the military takeover of December 1983. “He was a fine gentleman. In the Second Republic, he was of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) while I was in the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), led by Papa Obafemi Awolowo. “We met in Kirikiri prisons where Buhari had put all politicians when the military struck in 1983. “He was a very kind person and we became very close. We later both became members of PDP. I am so unhappy that he has died. “He was a very nice man. He was a dedicated police officer and he lived a very good life. All of us are going to die. May his soul rest in peace,” Babatope said. On his part, Yinka Odumakin, National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, described Anenih’s death as a closure of a chapter, saying the late elder statesman lived a fulfilled life. “It is a closure to a chapter. He has lived a fulfilled life. We pray for the repose of his soul and may God grant him eternal rest and give his family the fortitude to bear the loss,” Odumakin said. Also reacting, Chief Tunde Adeniran, a former Minister of Education, said the late Anenih was a loyal member of the PDP who was committed to its cause. Adeniran, a former member of the PDP who is now a chieftain of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), said Anenih made significant contributions to the development of politics in Nigeria, especially in Edo State. “He lived a fulfilled life. Our condolences to his family because he was a great patriot who was very concerned about public affairs. “He made great contributions to the development of politics, particularly in Edo State. “We hope that people will learn to be committed to one cause that they believe in. Anenih was someone who was very passionate about what he believed in. “He also put all his energy into whatever he was doing. May God grant him eternal rest,” Adeniran said.