Abuja – Claimants of the just concluded All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial tickets in Niger State have advised the leadership of the party to return the mandate freely given them by their various constituencies or risk losing the entire state to the opposition come 2019. The three aspirants – Alhaji Mohammed Sani Musa, Mohammed Bima, and Alhaji Zakari Haliru Jikantoro – claimed that the National Working Committee of the party brazenly snatched the mandate given them through direct primaries and instead issued automatic tickets to incumbent senators. Protesting the primary election conducted by the second panel sent to the state, the claimants alleged that the committee did not conduct any primaries but were there to endorse the incumbent senators. According to them, Senators David Umaru, Mustapha Sani, and Sabe Abdullahi were the only people cleared for the second contest. Musa and Bima, who addressed journalists on Tuesday, in Abuja, said they would resist the attempt to hijack their mandate. Musa, who said that he campaigned vigorously to win the primary, wondered how his victory could be upturned after he was declared winner by the returning officer. “If we stand for elections 10 times, we will win because we have the support of the people. We have got our result sheets that declared us the winners. “Both chairman and secretary of the first election committee signed our result sheets. What we got from a meeting with national chairman is that there are automatic tickets for the three senators. “We called this press conference to say that the mandate given to us cannot be taken. It will be a political suicide for APC in Niger State. Is that democracy or dictatorship? “We call on the national chairman and National Working Committee (NWC) to do the needful by giving us our certificates so that APC can win in Niger State. “The three of us traversed all parts of our state. The incumbent senators cannot do that because they have lost touch with their constituencies. The change the APC came up with is that there will be equity, peace, fair play, and justice.” He regretted that this was not what the party was offering the people of the state. Alhaji Bima asked: “If they know that they are going to give automatic ticket to sitting senators, why did they sell nomination and expression of interest form?” Asked whether they would approach the National Appeal Committee constituted by the party, Musa said: “We are not going for appeal. The returning officers had declared us the winners. As far as we are concerned, we are winners. What appeal are we going for? Why should they sell forms if they would not conduct primaries?” The aspirants appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene in the matter, noting that the effort of the state governor, Mohammed Sani Bello, did not yield any results. “For our great party to make people to buy forms, campaign for the primaries and some people emerge, and to turn around and say that we will not give you. I don’t know what we can call that. Is that not corruption? “The president needs to wade into this. We should not start with chaos. Everything should be done to maintain peace in Niger State. We have been maintaining this party. We are the friends of Mr. President. We want to go into the Senate so that the rights of our people are not denied,” they maintained. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 