BENIN – Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has said his administration’s goal is to reposition the state as an information hub in this part of the world. As a first step to achieve this objective, he said the government has been working to resuscitate the state-owned Nigerian Observer and Edo Broadcasting Service. According to him, the Nigerian Observer would be split into two components, the printing press and the publishing company while the Midwest Newspaper Limited would also be restructured. Obaseki, who disclosed this while receiving the new executive of the Edo State Correspondents Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) led by Mrs. Nefishetu Yakubu, pointed out that his administration was working to make the state-owned media houses formidable primary sources of information. The governor said he did not believe in workers’ retrenchment, but giving them the opportunity to improve themselves through training and retraining. “The members of staff of these media outfits will be retrained on digital reportage and publishing,” he said. The governor promised to support and work with the new executive of the correspondents’ chapel, saying, “I believe in the freedom of the press and would support you in the discharge of your duties.” He also promised to digitise the chapel’s centre at the NUJ premises and make available a bus for the correspondents’ chapter, adding that the facilities were necessary, especially as the 2019 electioneering period were approaching. Mrs. Yakubu, in her address, commended the Obaseki-led administration for delivering on the dividends of democracy to people of the state especially in providing conducive working environment for public service and investment in human capital development. Yakubu said the visit was to present the new executives of the chapel to the governor and to assure him of continuous fair and balanced reportage of all government activities. “The Correspondent Chapel of the NUJ, as the largest constitution of accredited reporters of various media organisation, there should be a strong synergy between your government and the media for effective, credible and balanced reportage of government’s activities,” she said.