Dr Mohammed Junaid, a politician, public commentator and critic, in this interview with JULIET OYOYO, speaks  on Nigeria’s journey from independence in 1960, the state of the nation and others issues. Excerpts: At the Independence of Nigeria in 1960, there were hopes that the country would be great but, the hopes have been dashed.  What went wrong? Well, I have to agree with you in the postulation that there were great hopes and expectations at independence on 1st October, 1960. Those of us who were alive, perhaps much younger knew and must have seen a lot of excitement; a lot of the euphoria that was being anticipated, as part of the process of nation building. The fact of course was that the country has not quite witnessed or achieved the potential which was seen by Nigerians and by friends of Nigeria internationally.  Nigeria had gone through a lot and is going through a lot but I think it has to be said that, in spite of the dashing of those hopes, or, to quote you, and by large, Nigeria has survived as a country. That is very important, even though survival per se, is not the aim of any human society to celebrate about. It is only animals that celebrate when they survive when they are not being slaughtered or killed by other animals or something terrible happens. But, humans have cause to aspire to heights or higher order; to aspire to be great, to be peaceful, to expect to have good neighbours, to have prosperity, to have essential services in case of health, and to not have to depend on outsiders to treat them and on many of these counts, Nigeria has not succeeded but as I said, the fact that we survived in spite of the normal challenges which have been thrown at us and some of which we invented and threw at ourselves, perhaps calls for very mild celebration. The fact that, however, we have had problems does not mean that we are doomed to remain a problem country; No! But, human nature cannot be without problem, so, I have to be very careful here in saying what we should condemn ourselves or that we should celebrate but I believe what needs to happen is that, whenever you are at a critical junction in your own development, you want to stop and think; what have I done right and what have I done wrong. It is that sense of rational proportionality; that sense of look; I have taken my own destiny into my own hand. What do I need to do in order to avoid the mistakes of the past? And, what do I do to learn from the best practices of societies of other countries of the world? These are areas I thought that Nigerians should now be focused upon because it has become clear that nobody can dictate to Nigerians what they should do or they should not do. And, no group of elites and of course, all the problems are elitists, of course no group of elitists can dictate to any country what should or what should not happen. And, if it is in the process of contestation for power, certain elements imagine that they can now agitate or that they can put some impossible demands on the country, they are likely to be disappointed because, the rest of the country and I believe the overwhelming majority of Nigerians believe in the oneness of the country, will simply say NO and ask them to go to hell, expressly. What is the way forward out of our present predicament? Well, we have a predicament. If we now accept that we have a predicament then we are making progress but the first thing is, what do you do about the predicament? If we are not developing economically, what are the reasons? If we are poor today, do we have a reason to be poor? If we have no reason to be poor, why is it that we are still poor? These are questions that we have to be asking because we have to ask the right questions before we get the correct answers. And of course, the correct answer will be to your being bold for inching forward and having a better result out of from the evidences available to you and at the moment, there is no evidence of that. But, what worries me is this idea somehow, when something is wrong, we don’t want to blame the whole country, we don’t want to blame the elitist leaders, and we want to say no, it is the other people, the other regions, the other political zones or it is other religions or other ethnic groups. That is a very dangerous way for you to go, because, if the country has been in a mess, then all of us must accept responsibility for the mess, collectively. If we are making progress, then, all of us will be justified as that means that we have done so well. If we are not doing so well, you cannot isolate yourself and say, okay, it is not my fault that I am not doing well, after all, that some people are parasites, that some are not good or that some are this or that. It hasn’t been proven either by science or by anything inherent or by any group of people; good or bad. You have to be very careful about how you go about condemning other people. And I believe that the greatest changes that we need are changes of the mind; attitudinal changes so that we have better and more informed and more scientific things, verifiable and rational attitude towards ourselves and then we can see ourselves as fellow human beings on a very uncertain journey, to a land of milk and honey or some kind of journey which at least, does not leave anybody behind. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 