Will the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) compromise its stand that the All Progressives Congress (APC) cannot submit any list of candidates for Zamfara State? Will APC have its way and submit its list of candidates for the 2019 elections? INEC had given all political parties till October 7, for them to conduct their primaries following which the commission will axe any party that did not comply with the directive. However, the Zamfara State chapter of APC, which is plagued by internal crisis, could not meet the INEC deadline for the conduct of primaries.  The party had been torn between the state governor, Abdulaziz Yari and about eight other governorship aspirants led by Senator Kabiru Marafa who were up in arms against the state governor. Yari wanted his preferred aspirant, Mukhtar Idris, the state Commissioner for Finance, to succeed him. But the plan by yari was challenged by Marafa and the other aspirants who locked in battle to dislodge the governor from the control of the party structure in the state. In its reaction to the aborted primaries and to create a level playing field for all the aspirants, the APC national headquarters dissolved all party structures in the state while also directing Yari, himself a senatorial aspirant, to hands off all matters relating to party primaries in the state. However, the APC’s decision on the removal of the party officials led to a fresh battle between Oshiomhole and his deputy, Lawal Shuaibu. Following the aborted primaries, the stage was set for a battle of wits between INEC supported by opposition parties against the leadership of the APC. INEC insisted that the party couldn’t present candidates for Zamfara elections, while APC claimed it has not ran foul of INEC rules. As INEC and APC are locked in horns over whether the party can present candidates for election in Zamfara State, lawyers were unanimous that the rule of law, which barred APC, must be stuck to. According to Chief Mike Ahamba SAN, Mr Kayode Ajulo, Azeez Oduleye, Adebiyi Adegbenle, Mahmoud Magaji SAN and Barrister Kanmi Ajibola, if the APC ran foul of INEC rules as claimed by the commission, it should be sanctioned Ahamba said, “If APC is out of time, they are out of time. On this issue of eligibility, the court will decide, but in my opinion, I do not think the APC has the right to present candidates for elections in Zamfara State. The gate has been shut against them due to their own problem.’ On the implication of disallowing APC from participating in the elections in Zamfara State, he added, “Haven’t you heard about walk over? If the other team is in the field and the other side fails to show up, the other one in the field claims the victory. There is no basis for them to be in the election because they were late. So, let Adams Oshiomhole go and create his own electoral commission since he is the commander-in-chief of everybody. He commands the President, he commands the party, he commands everything. He is creating all the problems for his party.” Ajulo said, “The Independent National Electoral Commission has schedule for electoral activities. In the case of All Progressives Congress in Zamfara state, the INEC said they failed to conduct primaries within the stipulated time frame and therefore cannot field candidates in the poll. “Honestly, the APC cannot field any candidate as far as elections are concerned in Zamfara. It is only the court that could do otherwise.” To Mahmoud Magaji SAN,”I cannot speak because the issue is subjudiced. I am in court because of this APC and INEC matter.” Adegbenle said APC has lost the chances of presenting candidates for election in Zamfara State over its failure of the party to conduct primary election in the state. He blamed the leadership of the party at the national level for the problem, saying it was a product of their active or inactive on the matter. He however warned INEC against compromising its integrity on the matter saying APC should just forget about the state. In his response, Barrister Kanmi Ajibola cautioned INEC against compromising its integrity over the matter, stressing that the fault was not that of INEC but the party. He said that the APC candidates are likely to seek for participation in the election on another platform and the chances is very slim because other parties might have presented their candidates to INEC as well. He stressed that the development will serve the party and others who preferred to create crisis within party due to imposition a lesson. But Barrister Azeez Oduleye, an Ibadan based legal practitioner, said INEC lacks the power to disqualify the Zamfara State APC from presenting a governorship candidate for  the 2019 election. Speaking on a radio programme in Ibadan, Oduleye maintained that the Zamfara APC is still within the time stipulated by the Electoral Act for political parties to present candidates for elections. According to him, Section 31 of the Electoral Act stipulates that political parties should present candidates for general elections at least 60 days to appointed time for the conduct of the elections. Oduleye added that apart from this, the Electoral Act does not empower the electoral body to disqualify any political party from presenting candidates for elections. He insisted that the worst INEC could do is to approach the court to interpret the Electoral Act, and determine if APC in Zamfara state can still present their candidates. The APC should therefore forget about the state and concentrate on others so as not to completely lose out of the 2019 elections. Already, opposition parties are calling on INEC not to yield to pressure to accept list of candidates from APC for the general elections in Zamfara State. First to fire a salvo on the issue was the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which warned the commission against accepting any list of candidates from the APC for all elections in the state over its inability to meet the deadline for the conduct of the primaries. According to the publicity secretary of the party, Kola Ologbodiyan, “Since Zamfara state APC did not meet the October 7 deadline, then it means that they have no candidate for 2019 general elections. “You remember after our national convention, we alerted the nation that the closing date for primary and congresses was October 7th and since that day, the Zamfara state chapter of the APC has not held a singular congress to elect candidate into various positions that will be contested in 2019 general elections. “We warned INEC because we are aware of underarm measures and moves by the leadership of the APC who summoned the INEC chairman and the governor of Zamfara state to a meeting. “We raised the alarm because we are democratic party, and we have respect for the 1999 constitution as amended. And all the the electoral laws guiding our elections. “As such, we warned INEC not to allow itself to be subdued by the APC. For once they must not allow any form of collusion with the APC.” Apparently reacting to the stand of PDP, INEC in a letter to APC notified the parry of its ineligibility to submit list of candidates for the general elections. A letter by the Acting Secretary of the commission, Okechukwu Ndeche, titled: “Failure To Conduct Party Primaries in Zamfara State Within The Stipulated Time Frame”, told the party that it is not expecting any list of candidates from Zamfara State. According to the letter, “You would note from the timetable that the conduct of party primaries is scheduled to take place between 18th August and 7th October 2018. “Kindly also refer to the last schedule communicated by your party to the commission on the dates of party primaries nationwide, including Zamfara vide your letter Ref. APC/NHDQ/ INEC/19/18/51 dated 3rd Oct. 2018. “However, report received from our office in Zamfara State shows that no primaries were conducted by your party in the state. Notwithstanding that our officials were fully mobilized and deployed.” INEC said based on the provisions of Section 87 and 31 of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), “the commission does not expect that your party will submit names of any candidates from Zamfara State. “For clarity, our position is that the All Progressives Congress (APC) will not be fielding candidates for the governorship, National Assembly and State Assembly Elections in Zamfara State for the 2019 for the general election.” The APC on the other hand rejected the position of INEC claiming it has not ran foul of the law. Adams Oshiomhole, national chairman of the party, faulted INEC’s position, insisting that it would field candidates for election. Oshiomhole said it was incorrect to state that primaries did not hold in Zamfara, though he admitted that there was violence during the primaries. According to the party chairman, While he admitted that there was violence when the national working committee (NWC) of the party went to Zamfara for the exercise, Oshiomhole said the primaries took place but there was no voting. “The contents of your said letter seem to conclude that no primaries were conducted by the APC in Zamfara State. We wish to state emphatically that nothing can be farther from the actual situation in Zamfara State,” Oshiomhole explained. He said, “Kindly find a comprehensive report from the Zamfara Electoral Committee of the All Progressives Congress and signed by all the members on the conduct of primary elections for the Zamfara State held between 6th & 7th October, 2018. The summary of the report, as you will find, is that following the high level of friction, disagreements and threats of violence by various political camps before the primaries, all the aspirants met at City King Hotel, Gusau, to find a truce. “After hours of intense horse-trading, a consensus was reached within the spirit and context of the Electoral Act and the constitution of our party on the basis of which a list was produced which was confirmed/affirmed by all delegates present. This was done in strict compliance with section 87 (6) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as Amended). “Therefore, the claim in your letter under reference that ‘no primaries were conducted by your party in the state, notwithstanding that our officials were fully mobilized and deployed’ could only be referring to their observation that actual voting did not take place, which is not the only mode prescribed for producing candidates in the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended). We, therefore, affirm that indeed primaries took place in Zamfara State.” The party also castigated the commission of being unfair to APC, pointing out that the PDP did not conduct primary in Kano State but no letter was written to the party. Cable news, an online medium also quoted the APC chairman as saying that he would respond to further inquiries from INEC after it had presented its flag bearers for 2019. According to the medium quoting Oshiomhole, “Please also refer to the INEC’s Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the 2019 General Elections released by the Commission on the 9th of January, 2018. By that timetable all political parties are expected to submit a list of their candidates on or before 18th of October, 2018, after exhausting all internal procedures for Appeals arising out of the congresses,” he said. “As a party, we are in the process of exhausting those internal procedures before forwarding the names of our candidates to you. We are perplexed that you did not wait for us to submit the names of our candidates in Zamfara State (considering that the time within which such submission should take place has not elapsed) before raising your observation in your letter under reference. “This is more so when we received no correspondence from the Commission at least to inquire from our party the true state of affairs in Zamfara State, in the spirit of fair hearing, before making haste to write your letter. We, however note that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) did not also hold primaries in Kano, but no such similar letter was written to the PDP in relation to Kano State. “It is our contention, in the circumstance, that your letter is not only preemptive, but your position seems to negate the spirit of any fair hearing and is devoid of legal basis. “BE INFORMED, that in the spirit of due compliance with the law, we affirm that we shall indeed be presenting candidates for Governorship, National Assembly and State Assembly Elections in Zamfara State for the 2019 General elections before the deadline for submission of such names which has been fixed by your Commission on the 18th of October, 2018. “If you raise further observations AFTER you receive our list of candidates, we shall be glad to clarify them.” Marafa, one of the governorship aspirants in the eye of the storm in Zamfara State, has countered Oshiomhole on the issue of consensus candidate for the party in the state, saying there was neither primary nor consensus. Pointing out that Oshiomhole may have been misled,  he said, “The only thing I saw wrong in the letter (Oshiomhole’s letter) is the assertion that there was consensus among the aspirants during the primaries. “The governorship ticket had nine aspirants. I recall that four withdrew, but there was no consensus among the five left, until the close of primaries by 7 p.m. “The primary election committee really tried to bring about consensus, but the two factions of the state chapter of the APC could not agree. “What I am saying is that if you force any consensus or say there was one, there is going to be revolt. “An aspirant forced out of the race on the ground of consensus has the right to go to court and contest that claim. I don’t want to see that happen.” On the options left for the party if it is unable to hold primaries or arrive at consensus candidates, Marafa added, “So, if APC has the right to field candidates without these two issues, so be it; we should be allowed to field candidates. “But, if we cannot, because of these two issues, then that means we cannot. “Any attempt to make it look otherwise will only put the party in a more precarious situation, which I think is avoidable. “So, if we are not allowed to do it, then we will look at other options. Those that don’t have other options can stay around for another four years.” Already, the position of INEC has received the support of other opposition parties, including Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), which asked the commission to stick to its rules. Debo Adeniran, CACOL’s director said, “It does not matter whether it is the ruling party or any political party that is found wanting in meeting the deadline of the electoral commission. The party has to produce evidence that INEC was aware and represented in the primaries.” Former INEC National Commissioner, Prof Lai Olurode said, “This is the time to stop the excesses of political actors in this country. The INEC timetable said primaries must be conducted between August 18 and October 7. The Zamfara chapter of the APC has been factionalised to the extent that there are parallel camps.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 