The Federal Government on Monday expressed shock and sadness over the execution of Hauwa Leman, an aide worker with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) by the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP), a faction of Boko Haram. The government said the aid worker was killed despite the actions taken by it and the widespread appeal to save the young woman. In a statement issued in London, Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, described Monday’s killing as “dastardly, inhuman and ungodly”, saying nothing can justify the shedding of the blood of innocent people. He commiserated with the family of the aid worker, and said the Federal Government did all within its powers to save her life. “It is very unfortunate that it has come to this. Before and after the deadline issued by her abductors, the Federal Government did everything any responsible government should do to save the aid worker. “As we have been doing since these young women were abducted, we kept the line of negotiations open all through. In all the negotiations, we acted in the best interest of the women and the country as a whole. “We are deeply pained by this killing, just like we were by the recent killing of the first aid worker. However, we will keep the negotiations open and continue to work to free the innocent women who remain in the custody of their abductors,” the minister said. He thanked all the friendly governments that have continued to work with Nigeria for the safe release of the abducted women, and the clerics across religious lines who have been pleading for their release. The terrorists also promised to keep Leah Sharibu, the Dapchi schoolgirl, as “a slave for life”. In a reported short clip, Leman was forced to kneel down, with her hands tied inside a white hijab which had a crest symbol, and then shot at a close range. In September 2018, the group killed Saifura Ahmed, one of the three humanitarian workers abducted in Rann, Kala Balge Local Government Area of Borno State, in March 2018, in a similar manner. Leman, a 24-year-old nurse and student of health education at the University of Maiduguri, was in the group that was abducted. Four soldiers, four policemen, and three humanitarian aid workers were killed in the attack. Toafic Toure, ICRC operational communication delegate, Maiduguri sub-delegation, had on Sunday pleaded with the Federal Government to avert Leman’s killing as the Monday deadline given by the insurgents approached. ISWAP, in a short statement, said: “We have kept our word exactly as we said, by killing another humanitarian worker, Hauwa Leman, who is working with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) that were abducted during a raid on a military facility in Rann, Kala Balge in March, 2018. “Saifura and Hauwa were killed because they are considered as Murtads (apostates) by the group because they were once Muslims that have abandoned their Islam, the moment they chose to work with the Red Cross, and for us, there is no difference between Red Cross and UNICEF. “If we see them, we will kill the apostates among them, men or women, and chose to kill or keep the infidels as slaves, men or women.” The group threatened to keep Sharibu as a slave. She is the only Christian among the 110 girls abducted at the Government Girls’ Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State, on February 19, 2018. While other girls were released, she was kept back because she refused to renounce her Christian faith. There has been a global plea for her release. The group said, in the statement, that Alice Ngaddah, a Christian who works with UNICEF, will also be kept as a slave. “From today,” ISWAP said, “Sharibu, 15, and Ngaddah, a mother of two, are now our slaves.” It added: “Based on our doctrines, it is now lawful for us to do whatever we want to do with them.” In the audio reportedly sent to one of her male friends when she was captured in March, Leman, who spoke in Hausa, had asked that her parents be informed that she had been kidnapped. Running and panting, the victim said: “We are under attack in Rann. They are shooting everywhere, please pray for me; please, go and tell my parents that I am in trouble. “Please, look for Fatima and tell her they are taking us away. They have entered here now.” At that point, a male voice had reportedly ordered her to keep quiet and not to move an inch. That was the last that was heard from her. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 