The Lagos State Government has appealed to residents of the state to maintain calm over a reported clash involving Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) and some residents of Ilasamaja area of Isolo. The government said those involved will be brought to book, adding that their action has put the state government in bad light. In a video circulating across social media, the officers, about 20 of them, were sighted attacking residents in Ilasamaja axis of the state with machetes and other weapons during an alleged assault gainst the men of the LAGESC during the week. The bloody combat also reportedly led to the damage of millions of properties. Many people were also reportedly injured during the clash. In a statement issued on Saturday by Public Affairs Officer, LAGESC, Rahmat Alabi, identified the officers alleged to have been involved in the street combat to include: Babatunde Segun, Bature Muhammed, Supt. GL: 07., Whosu Clement, GL: 05. Shofolahun Ibrahim, GL: 05. Adeyanju Ibrahim, GL: 05. The list also includes: Qudus Alao, GL: 05, Ojo Tosin, GL: 05, Sulaimon Kazeem, GL: 05, Adeleke Omikunle, GL: 05. Olowoporoku Salawu, Koleosho Ayinla, GL: 07, Seun Ige, GL 05, Yusuf Tunde, GL: 05, Dibia Vincent, GL: 05, Lawal Fatai, GL: 05, Musibau Adebayo, GL: 05,Odunlami Samuel, GL: 05 (Injured)., Shokoya Adegbuyi, GL: 05, Obagbenro Yinka, GL: 05, Also, the Executive Secretary, LAGESC, Idowu Mohammed, who took the necessary action on behalf of Corps Marshal ASP Daniel Isiofia (rtd), condemned the action of the officers. The statement added: “It has come to the knowledge of the agency the viral report of some Corps Officers engaged in unruly activities with members of public yesterday during their operation at Ilasamaja, Isolo area of Lagos State. “The State has considered it rather unfortunate that some officers by this singular act have seriously embarrassed the Agency and the State Government at large. In order to quickly correct this, the Agency will make sure that appropriate disciplinary action is quickly sanctioned against any officer found culprit in accordance with Public Service Rules number 040501(xxviii and xxix) Battery and Assault. “Meanwhile, as a measure to ensure adequate disciplinary action is meted out to the erring officers without delay, the Agency has directed the head of operations to forward the list of all officers in that particular operation and also directed that those officers that were injured during the fracas be taken to hospital for immediate treatment. “We use this medium to appeal to the members of the public and those who were directly affected not to take law into their hands and that the State Government would look into the matter holistically and bring any one found culprit into book without fear or favor”.
Error Icon
Recipient inbox full
Your message couldn’t be delivered to xaodeeq.fresher@blogger.com. Their inbox is full, or it’s getting too much mail right now.
The response was:
You have exceeded the file size limit per mail or mobile post. – SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 