Dr. Jay Osi- Samuels is the National Chairman of Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), one of the fastest growing political parties in the country. In this interview with ODUSANYA OMOTOLANI, he speaks on what necessitated the formation of the party, 2019 elections and other issues. Excerpts: Please give us a brief introduction about yourself? I am Dr. Jay Osi Samuels; a medical doctor by training, with specialisation in public health, international health development and health System Strengthening. I am from Edo state, born and bred in Ibadan, buttered in Lagos and I was based outside the country, United States presicely before returning to the country in 2016. I studied medicine at the University of Ibadan and I did my post graduate studies at Harvard University. You spearheaded the founding of the Alliance for New Nigeria, ANN, one of the last registered political parties. Yes. I did but ten of us actually were founding members of the party. Can you mention their names? The 10 founding members of ANN were myself,  Dr Dale Ogunbayo, Dr Nkatachukwu, Victor Odoeme, Aesosa Osaghae, Thompson Nsima, Sunny Famojuro, Adebola Adekoya, Amos Musa and Steven Odesomi. There has been a lot of controversy regarding the formation of your party, Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN). Can you tell us a little bit about how and who are those people who founded the party? Well, ANN came about with the meeting of young and patriotic Nigerians, professionals, Doctors, Engineers, Lawyers, etc, who were been concerned about the state of decadence of governance in Nigeria and we felt it was right for us to play our role, hitherto even though most of us have not been involved in politics. We felt that we can’t just sit on the side line and be complaining instead of being part of the process. So, a group of us started coming together. We were initially 10 in number, but with time, we expanded with the original founding members of ANN, we are 10 and we cut across all professions and age. I happen to be one of the oldest among our group at that time.  We all played different roles in the formation of the party, but one of the common understanding that we had in the beginning was that, ANN will be a party that will belong to no one, a party that every member, whether you are just joining or you have been a member from the very beginning, you can claim to be a member or an owner of the party provided you are a financial member. That was the underlying principle and guideline that set out ANN. So, ANN belongs to every Nigerian that is a financial member of the party, but one thing we are clear about is that, we would not allow people with special interests to be involved in the party, whether openly or discreetly. I read the piece you published and a lot of people are asking questions about what led to the current crisis in the party, starting from the August convention. If you recall, it was since that August convention that we have been hearing a whole lot of complaints. Please, can you tell us what led to that controversy? The crisis or the controversy that we are witnessing in the party right now actually predates the August convention. It actually started last year. The gentleman that I just mentioned his name, Adebola Adekoya, sometime last year, without my knowledge had been making some underground moves, which actually came to the open in January this year. And it all boils down to the fact that he has been laying claims to be the owner and founder of ANN, which was against the tenets and purpose of the party. There was never a time that we said ANN belongs to anybody and if at all, ANN was to belong to anybody, I should be the one to be laying claim to own ANN. But ANN belongs to nobody and he has no right to claim ownership of ANN. Along the line, we found out that he was being pushed by some people in the background. They were sponsoring him and making him cause all those troubles. He tried to divide the party, but by the special grace of God, we managed to arrest that process at that time. However, some of these things were still lingering by the time we did our Convention last August. However, one thing that we didn’t reckon with is that the people, the powerful forces that were behind him were not relenting because what became very obvious was that his own style or the way he went about executing the mission that he was sent was very crude and brash and maybe they decided to re-strategise and use a more subtle way. But without bragging, I have been responsible for 90% of the funding of ANN. Apart from the financial resources that have been put in place, my time, my everything was involved. I am like a one man battalion running ANN. So, in the lead up to the convention, I was tired, weary and I didn’t think I was ready to continue as chairman. That was why in the build-up to the convention, when a certain gentleman called Emmanuel Dania came forward and said he wanted to be chairman, even though I had some misgivings in the back of my head, I was kind of happy that at least somebody was coming on board to take over from me. That’s why I gladly stepped down. But subsequent events after that have come clear to me that he was actually planted in the party by those same forces with the aim of hijacking the party and that’s what led to the crisis, or controversial issues of whether or not we had our primaries, but by the special grace of God, we have intervened and those things have been arrested and we are moving forward as a party. Those forces you are talking about, why do you think, right from the onset, they wanted to hijack or take control of the party? Because they have their own agenda and even though I have an idea of what the agenda was, I don’t think I am ready to go public with it at this point. Coming to the issue of Fela Durotoye. He has been laying claim to the party now and claiming to be the presidential candidate of the party. We also saw some press releases that they claim that some Board of Trustee (BOT) members are upholding their primary. Who are these BOT members and are they really BOT members? Well, we have members of Board of Trustees (BOT), but why I don’t want to join issues is that these are my colleagues and friends, some of them are fellow founders that we started the party together. But why I don’t join issues with the Board of Trustees members that has been supporting or issuing press releases in support of Fela Durotoye is because, apart from the fact that some of them are supporting Durotoye, some of them are acting in ignorance, half of the things I know, they don’t know. So, if they know, they won’t be acting that way. So why don’t you put them in the know? It’s happening gradually, In fact, as at now, the most among them that I have spoken with know, but they will not come out open because they know what is right and wrong for the party. Some people had accused Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim of coming to hijack the party. What do you have to say on that? They are acting on ignorance. There is so much false information out there. I think the problem a lot of people have with Hashim is because he was a founding member of PDP and that’s the sword they are dangling on his neck. But in terms of the ideological perception or belief in ANN, some of these people that are claiming to be ANN members, they don’t come anything as close to Hashim in the ideology and belief in the new Nigeria that we are championing in ANN. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 