Organizers of the Nigerian Sports Award NSA, Unmissable Incentives Limited, have announced that the nominations of Sports men and women for the various categories of awards for the 2018 edition would close on Sunday, October 7, 2018. Executive Director, Unmissable Incentives Limited, Kayode Idowu disclosed this while briefing the media on developments on the 2018 edition of the NSA. Idowu also commended all sports lovers as well as stakeholders in the sports community in Nigeria for participating in the nominations process thus far. Idowu then reiterated the call for all sports loving Nigerians who has not been involved to seize the opportunity of the remaining few days to nominate their favourite Nigerian athletes who have recorded excellence performance in the various sports during the course of the year for the 2018 award programme. He urged Nigerian sports enthusiasts to visit the website of the award using the link – http://nigeriansportsaward.com/nomination or nominate on Facebook, Instagram & Twitter. It would be recalled that the nomination phase of the 2018 edition of the award opened on May 23rd, 2018. There are 21 categories of the award open for nominations this year including; Racket Sports Person of the Year (Lawn Tennis, Table Tennis, Badminton, Squash), Team Sports Person of the Year, Coach of the Year, Combat Sports Personality of the Year (Karate, Judo, Taekwondo, Wrestling, Boxing), Wrestler of the Year, Discovery of the Year, Footballer of the Year (Women), Footballer of the Year (Men), Athletics Star of the Year, School Sports Award, Sports Administrator of the Year,  Sports Governor of the Year and Para Sports Person of the Year. Entry verification by Nomination Auditors would hold between October 8th and 9th while the announcement of final shortlist would be made public on October 10th, 2018. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 