Eshanekpe Israel, a.k.a Akpodoro, an ex-militant in the Niger Delta, was one of the very few of his contemporary who made up their mind to work with then presidential candidate Muhammadu Buhari, and with the All Progressives Congress (APC) back in 2013. In this interview with NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE, the reformed agitator who heads the National Coalition of Niger Delta Ex-Agitators, NCNDE-A in 2015 now says there is parting of ways between his group from the president and his party ahead of 2019 general election. You have been known to be a supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari. But of late your stance seems to have changed. Does it have to do with your assessment of the President and APC? There is nothing to assess about President Buhari’s administration. This is because there has been nothing on ground to show that the man is working. If there are great stories to tell, you only need to look at the faces of Nigerians. The truth is that the faces of Nigerians are frowning more than before. Nigerians are hungry. Any leadership that spreads hunger in the country is a failure. So, the APC government has failed. But will it not be fair to say that you are part of the failure after all you were part of the people who worked for Buhari to win in 2015? No, I am not part of his failure. Since the President decided to abandon those of us who worked for him by empowering those who opposed him, I had to withdraw my support. I will not be part of his reelection. Can you elaborate more on this? It is seemingly not in the character of the president to reward loyalty particularly those who are not from his place or religion. Remember, I was the only ex-militant leader who declared support for Buhari in 2014 even though it wasn’t fashionable then. Buhari used me to work against my people. My life and that of the members of my family were put on the line for Buhari to be president. Today, I have nothing to show for my loyalty to him. Does it not make you regret being instrumental to his winning in 2015 and what appears to be a success story in the fragile security in Niger Delta? I don’t have any regret for being part of the process that brought renewed militancy to a halt in the delta region. That region is our home and we have no other place to call ours. Buhari’s interest in the region is political while mine is regional and national solidarity. Therefore, I’ve no regret. My only regret is that I worked for President Buhari against my people to become President after which he neglected me and my followers. I led my group of about 17,000 members to work for Buhari’s emergence. When did you decide to withdraw your support for the President? My decision to withdraw my support for Buhari’s reelection was taken when it became obvious that he lacks the moral rectitude to reward loyalty. When he called the bluff of those who were instrumental to his ascension to power, I took my decision. When the President decided to empower members of the opposition against those of us who almost lost our lives for his course, I decided to leave him. Yes. I left Buhari when he patronised notable members of the PDP against whom we fought to bring APC to the Niger Delta. I took my decision to dump him. When I was asked to bring $100,000 by Aso Rock profiteers to have audience with the man I worked for, I decided to withdraw my support for the President. $100, 000? How, where, who? There was growing need to see the President at the time. I was privy, towards the end of 2015, to the plan by the Niger Delta Avengers, NDA to resume hostilities in January 2016. Several letters leaking that plan was sent by me to the security chiefs but they didn’t act until the January 2016 strike by the Avengers. I met with a handful of Ministers too after the strike in January, explaining the enormity of the plan by the Avengers to wreck havoc on our national patrimony in the region but was tossed here and there. At a point, I made moves demanding to see the President but his handlers demanded $100,000 from me to see the man who told me to help him stabilise the Nigeria Delta region. Also, I needed to see the President over the neglect of my group – the National Coalition of Niger Delta Ex-Agitators, NCNDE-A and its affiliates by then. But $100,000 was a major impediment. So what happened thereafter? I was eventually engaged by the Army to cripple the operations of the NDA and we succeeded and eventually we were abandoned. The army officers were lackadaisical and carefree. They don’t act as at when needed. They allow evildoers strike severally before they halfheartedly rise to the occasion and that’s the more reason we have killings everywhere in the country. For me, we have to overhaul the security structure of this country. It is long overdue but unfortunately, the president is not in touch with the realities on ground, he is caged by the racketeers who I call Jankolikos in Aso Villa. So, why didn’t you approach the party leaders? I did but was rebuffed by the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu led Reconciliation Committee after I was told to submit all documents as mentioned by me to the politician’s aide in his Abuja home following a rally by members of my group. If I may mention this, Asiwaju, prior to the election hosted me in his Lagos home at Burdillon. He was very happy seeing me that day and he gave me the title: Number 1 APC ex-militant Leader and he gave us ‘kola.’  He did much better compared to the deception of Rotimi Amaechi who tricked me into making declaration in the Creek for General Buhari only to renege in all his promises. Incidentally and as customary of politicians in our clime, Asiwaju became inaccessible after the victory till date. How did that affect you? My group members till date thought I’ve been settled and they became hostile but for the fact that they know how honest I am, the group would being in extinction today because of infighting. What’s your next line of action? For 2019 election, I am still in discussion with powerful forces who have all it takes to defeat President Buhari and send him back to Daura. I’m in talk with those forces who have the capacity to fulfill promises both to the nation and individuals.  My Coalition is discussing with those who can overrun the APC candidate at the poll. We need a more visionary and energetic leader who can redeem Nigerians from the scourge of abject poverty and despondency. President Buhari has tried his best for our nation unfortunately, his best is not good enough for us. He has fought corruption in the media, let someone else come fight hunger and starvation, practically. How has the Amnesty Programme being? The administrators of the Amnesty Office are the major impediments to the success of the programme owing to their love for acquisition of wealth, massive looting and subsequently derailing of the focus of the Programme.