Our paths in life are never set in stone. Instead, they are liquid like the ever-changing tide of the sea. Hon. Tunde Braimoh is one politician who understands this vital rule of life and simply let’s go and flows with the tide. Having considered a number of professions, the amiable gentleman and power dresser became a lawyer, but it seemed as always, life had more in store for him. Today, he is a politician, a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly and Chairman House Committee on Information, Strategy, Publicity and Security. In this interview with Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade, the bespectacled lawyer shares the story of his sojourn into politics, his inspiration and hope for the electorate come 2019. Most people decide on their career path as children. Was politics something you always dreamed of as a child? My own calling into politics is an implication of my leadership traits, which God had granted to me since my youth. I’ve always liked to organise people. As a matter of fact, I didn’t like partisan politics when I was young; I didn’t like the shenanigans in politics, the chicanery, the lies, the intrigues, and I didn’t like to show quest for power. I like to be in the background. As much as I like to be relevant in my community and useful to my people, I like to serve without being in the limelight or being the head, points man, or even the one taking the credit. I just like to work; I like to see things happen, I like to make my environment function. As a student, I would organise people to become office holders. Were you a student politician? I was in politics not as a direct participant, contestant or office holder, but I was a kingmaker; that’s an apt illustration of who I was. I would look at a person and assign him a position to contest, and I would go all out to campaign. I would even lead the campaign. I was not inhibited or in anyway afraid or abashed to campaign for anyone. At a point though, in my absence, I was made chairman of my hostel because most of students who came anew and became the largest number of our set, decided that I, who used to welcome them and make them feel at home would be their chairman. They didn’t even know my name and I was not around. I can never forget that. I was also member of SDP at the time, but I didn’t come out to contest any election. I worked as if I was an agent of Chief MKO Abiola. I worked as if I was sleeping in the same bedroom with him. In my area, I was known as an MKO Abiola boy, in spite of the fact that I only met him once. But I worked for him because I believed in him, even without regular access to him. That was the beginning of my direct political activism. I became very active politically during the SDP days, especially when MKO died. I was so devastated that I felt we must continue from where he stopped. Was that the point when you decided you would run for office? Actually, I had run for office before MKO died. I started running for office in 1994 because MKO was incarcerated, and I felt it was unjust for him to be incarcerated. I did not agree with people who thought we should boycott. If we boycotted, people would continue anyway. Our leaders asked us to boycott at the time, but I had the inkling that if you give mad people the opportunity to bury their mother, they may burn her, roast her and eat her. I didn’t want that to happen. Having been in politics successfully, what would you say is the most important quality a man must have to be a true leader? I believe in qualities, and just one won’t be enough. Tolerance, understanding, compromise, sacrifice, altruistic spirit, patriotic spirit, those are all important to me. Perhaps the most important quality of all is the desire to make others happy. The greatest happiness must go to the largest number of people; one must, at all times, strive to make others happy. It gratifies me a lot when I put smiles on the faces of people, life is about hope, it’s about happiness. You may be a billionaire without being happy. Never make the mistake of thinking that when you are rich, you are happy. There are many rich people that are not happy, and there are many peasants that are very happy, it’s a question of your priorities in life. Some wealth could be a source of worry for you while some would be a source of joy. So happiness is very important and I like to make people happy. Did politics make you as happy as being a lawyer did? It did and still does because it is a platform for me to reach out to more people than I would have as a lawyer. Politics pushed me into limelight and gave me access and insight to more people than I would have had if I were just a lawyer. What would you say was your most defining moment in politics? I have won elections before; I have lost elections before, so there’s no question of a defining moment. Every moment is a call to service. Even as a loser in an election, you still have a duty to your electorate. You cannot lose totally, there would be some that have voted for you, and they would just be fewer than your opponent’s. You owe a duty to them to provide leadership for those who believe in you. I have never been totally rejected in any election. Even when I lost, I lost with a narrow margin. There’s a role for opposition to play, and that is the bane of Nigerian politics. Once people lose an election, they go away. And that’s why some people have become recurring decimals or phenomenon every four years. You don’t see them until four years after when it is time for another election. They don’t do anything, and they abandon those people who believe in them. A vibrant opposition is a veritable tool in democracy, so even if you’re a loser, still oppose well. If you’re a winner, win well. If we had the opportunity to glimpse your library, what books would we see more of, law books? Of course, yes. That’s because it’s my investment. My law library is worth more than N50 million. I have Gani Fawehinmi reports from 1985 to 2009, and I’ll still update it. When I was given the bill to update it, they said it would cost about N11 million. I have other books too; I have Supreme Court reports and many more. Do you intend to return to your practice someday? I don’t intend to die as an active politician. A time would come that I would go back to law practice in service of people. What is important is to impact lives. I don’t see myself continuing to raise my hand every four years for too long; there would be a time I would put an end to that. I would still be in politics as an adviser or guide and mentor to people, but not now. Maybe in about 10 or 12 years time, but I may not be as active in politics. But I’ll be working, at least to put food on my table. I would revamp my practice, and I would still deal with politicians. I would never completely quit politics. I’m not in politics because I want to be employed; I’m in politics because I’m interested in what goes on around me. I’m interested in politics because I want to be my brother’s keeper, because I want to ensure that people are assisted and guided to reach their goals. I want to put happiness on the faces of people and impact lives. So I’ll do that whether I’m in office or not. If you hadn’t been a lawyer, what other career path would you have taken asides politics? When I was younger, I wanted to be a journalist like you. Unfortunately, as I grew up, I lost interest in journalism. In my advanced level classes, I had the opportunity of studying Mass Communication in the polytechnic, but I rejected it. I discovered that what I actually liked was proficiency in the languages and literatures, especially Nigerian language and literature. I wanted to focus on as many Nigerian languages as possible. How many languages do you speak? I speak two proficiently, English and Yoruba. I eventually dropped my love for language and literature because of peer influence. I became a lawyer because of influence. My focus was to be a master of languages and literature. If you look at my educational evolution, I was very proficient. I had an A in Literature-in-English, O levels and A levels, same thing with Yoruba language and the same thing with English Language. Unfortunately, my parents, siblings, and friends thought I would be jobless if I read languages and literature, they felt I should be a lawyer. Looking back, any regrets? None whatsoever. That’s because law is a good pursuit. I don’t regret being a lawyer. I eventually fell in love with law, but at the beginning I was very reluctant. And it wasted my time, because I would have finished university long before I did, but I had to wait a while to get enough scores to study law. Maybe I’d have been a professor of language and literature now, but I don’t think I would have made as much impact as I have made. Even before I joined partisan politics, I was very impactful as a lawyer. I was able to help a lot of people in my community. I was drafted into politics because of the fact that I am a lawyer. People insisted that I must come and lead them. 1000 people signed a ledger book in 1994 to ask me to contest for Somolu Local Government Chairmanship. Then, there was no Kosofe, everything was under Somolu. That was how I started active politicking. If you had the opportunity to talk to your younger self, what advise would you pass on? Trust less and love more. Is there a story behind that? Lots. But many of the people who are players in those areas are still alive. It’s not good to rehash. The major thing is that I would trust less and love more. I am too trusting, and that is a weakness. I am too loving too. You can read me like a book. I would have wished to be ‘coded’ or cunning, unpredictable, I am too predictable. If I am going to do something, I would tell you, I don’t like surprises. But surprise is the game of life. So, even in government, you don’t disclose what you are going to do tomorrow, it means you will not be a good manager of government, unless it is an official thing. When it comes to my personal life, I don’t hide anything. I hide official things because I have sworn an oath of secrecy not to disclose anything that comes to my knowledge as an official. That’s why I tell my children to be patient and study people well and not be quick to judge or rely on everyone. Love all; trust few, if not none. Would you encourage it if any of your children decide they want to go into politics? I would not be against it, but I will not encourage them. If it is the child’s calling, fine, but I will not go out of my way to make them do it. I am not one of those people that bring their children to contest an election. If God says that’s his calling, then so be it. One of my sons said he wanted to be a politician and I asked him why. He said because he wanted to paste posters, and I told him that’s not enough reason. Sometimes, you see people in Lagos just pasting posters all around without even collecting a form. To be a politician, you must have some conviction within yourself that will make you come out to contest. If my children give me good reasons, I would pray for them and let them be, but none of my children have shown any interest in politics. They do not even like me doing it, but I have told them it is my calling. I didn’t set out to be a politician, but I have been doing it from 1991 till date. That’s a long time. When people see me doing something else, they push me back into politics and don’t accept me in other fields. That has made me realise that what God wants for me is just politics. Even in court, judges ask me what I am doing there, same thing with business meetings. For now, God wants me to be a politician. Another election year is almost upon us, what advise do you have for the electorate in picking new leaders, what are the things they should look out for? I want to beg our people to de-emphasise monetary influence in politics. Also, they should de-emphasise forcible postures in politics. I want us to do our best to be objective in our choice of candidates. We shouldn’t throw the baby away with the dirty water. We should be as objective as possible, and we should make the elections violence free. We should allow the candidates to sell themselves to us; know the candidates and research them. If we are not careful, we may get to a point that almost every politician would have a questionable background because if you emphasise money, where would someone who is straightforward get the money from? Political parties have been trying, especially my own party, APC. It has been sponsoring its own candidates. So they should continue that, and candidates too should be loyal to their parties as much as possible. A candidate cannot do it alone unless he is a thief. If you want to curry the electorate alone, where would you get the funds? But if you have a good platform like a political party, it will sponsor you. In turn, when you emerge victorious, don’t forget you have been sponsored by a political party. Be loyal to your party. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 