Organised Labour under the aegis of the Trade Union Side (TUS) of the Joint National Public Service Negotiating Council (JNPSNC) yesterday stressed the need for the Federal and State Governments to implement the new national minimum wage or face the wrath of workers. Comrade Abdrafiu Alani Adeniji, Chairman, TUS, in a press statement issued in Abuja, lamented the plan by the government to “derail” increased welfare packages for workers. Adeniji regretted that instead of the Federal Government to send a bill to the National Assembly to enact the 2018 National Minimum Wage Act, it has elected to embark on a fruitless plot to subvert the entire negotiation that took more than one year to conclude. “How can the Federal Government want to sabotage a democratically agreed National Minimum Wage that was even voted for and agreed upon by all the stakeholders? “We call on the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) that participated actively and fully in the negotiation to speak out and tell the world the whole truth on what transpired before the new National Minimum Wage was arrived at,” the union stated. He posited that labour was in the exclusive legislative list and as such the Federal Government should proceed to enact the National Minimum Wage Act, instead of trying to intimidate workers by threatening no work no pay on the workers. The body said that no amount of intimidation from the government would cow them from demanding for their right. According to the TUS, since State Governors were represented at the tripartite committee that negotiated the new National Minimum Wage, it was surprising that the same government would turn around to express reservations on the recommendations of the panel. “Once the Federal Government sends the new National Minimum Wage bill to the National Assembly and it is passed into law, it will become binding on the State Governments and any of them that refuse to implement it will face the wrath of millions of Nigerian workers. “At Any rate, it must be admitted that some State Governors have publicly stated that they will implement the new National Minimum Wage. “This is why we demand that the new National Minimum Wage should be enacted into law and governors that refuse to implement it will meet millions of Nigerian workers at the polls during the forthcoming gubernatorial elections,” the union stated. The TUS chieftain regretted that after members of the committee toured the six geopolitical zones and held several meetings in Abuja in the past one year, their efforts were being truncated by the Federal Government. According to the labour leaders, while political officeholders including Ministers, Governors and others receive millions of naira monthly as emoluments, it was surprising that some of them were opposed to a National Minimum Wage of N30,000 that could not even take care of the minimum needs of average Nigerian worker.