Lagos – Most Nigerian airlines fail barely few years after commencement of flight operations due to lack of accountability by their promoters. To save the airlines from collapse, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has also been advised to effectively regulate the industry. Mr. Ahmed Kuru, the Managing Director of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) made the declarations yesterday in Lagos during his presentation at the Travelsmart Colloquium with the theme: ‘Corporate Governance and Airline Industry Development in Nigeria.’ Kuru lamented that no fewer than 160 airlines had failed over the years in Nigeria due to lack of corporate governance by the promoters of the airline, saying that this would continue to make them uncompetitive. He observed that on the average, a Nigerian airline cumulatively delays flights to the tune of 20 hours daily; stressing that with such attitude, none of the country’s airlines could compete in the international market. He agreed that airline sub-sector was complex, highly capital intensive, had low Naira return on capital with very low tolerance for failure and incompetence, but noted that lack of adequate planning, poor infrastructure at airports, inadequate remuneration, bad leadership, inexperienced board of directors and inaccessible to foreign exchange contributed to their demise. “Every company should be headed by an effective board, which is collectively responsible for the long term success of the company, with clear division of responsibilities t the head of the company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the company’s business.” “Effective directors’ remuneration should be designed to promote the long-term success of the company. Performance-related elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied and to be fixed by the board. There should also be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives”, he said. Kuru also canvassed for concession of the nation’s airports in order to improve their infrastructure, lamenting that government had shown so far that it could not adequately improve on the existing infrastructure. The AMCON boss noted that the airports could be concessioned to foreigners, no matter their country of origin, stressing that at least 90 per cent of their staff would be Nigerians. He, however, called for transparency on the part of the government to make the exercise a success, stressing that Nigeria could take a cue from Ghana, which recently constructed a state-of-the-art airport facility. He explained that with modern facilities, Lagos in particular and Nigeria as a whole would be a hub for the continent. “Concession of the airport is the best thing to happen to the Nigerian aviation industry as our facilities have all broken down. However, there should be due processes in the entire exercise. It doesn’t matter who the airports are concessioned to. The most important thing is for the airports to function properly. “We are here talking about Ghana Airport. What can Ghana do that we can’t do more? We need a new airport for Lagos to be a hub. The regulation in the industry should be properly enhanced,” he said. Also, Mr. Dapo Olumide, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Ropeways Transport Limited, identified de-marketing among the nation’s carriers as some of the challenges militating against their growth. He further declared that Nigerian airlines are using wrong equipment for flight services, stressing that using Boeing 737 for an hour flight would not make them to operate profitably. “Also, the airlines have poor on-time performance. On the average, there are 90 delays among the existing airlines in Nigeria daily. How can they compete with this? He queried. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 