Port Harcourt – Like a confluence, the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to Port Harcourt, Rivers state capital on October 26, was historic in all sense of the word. Three and a half years since becoming President in 2015, Buhari was in the state to carry out one of the most important assignments ever. The inauguration of the international terminal of the Port Harcourt international airport was a landmark feat for the President as the project is expected to boost the economy of not just Rivers state, but that of the South-South, South-East and Nigeria in general. President Buhari’s visit created a nexus that knitted the divergent views and beliefs of Nigerians resident in Rivers state irrespective of political, cultural and religious differences. The President was received by a full house of members of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP and his political party, All Progressives Congress, APC. At the event venue, there was no difference between APC and PDP members. No official at the event discussed politics or party differences. They were Rivers people who went to witness a giant stride in the development of the state. They hugged. They greeted. They laughed together. No 2019. No party discussion. Nobody talked about direct or indirect primaries. It was about Rivers state and development. It was interesting to see Architect Tonye Dele Cole and Senator Magnus Abe two leading figures of the APC in the state who are also laying claim to the candidacy of the party for 2019 exchanging decent pleasantries. Not just that, they gave due regards to the state governor, Nyesom Wike. High point of interest at the inauguration was the extraction of any form of politics from the event which was purely a development matter. Speeches at the event were devoid of the usual political spices. Every speaker dwelt within the ribbon line. That included the President. President Buhari made it clear that he was in the state for development and nothing else. Hence, he was careful not to stir any hornet’s nest. The President was expected to touch on several issues. Some of them included the Ogoni cleanup, the near absence of federal presence in the state and the political rancor that has engulfed the state chapter of the APC. His party. Recall that President Buhari’s government on June 2, 2016, flagged of the cleanup of Ogoni environment heavily polluted by decades of intensive and excessive oil spills from the multi-national oil companies. Represented by his Vice, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, the flag-off ceremony endeared the President to the people of Ogoni and Rivers state in general. With that feat, President Buhari became the toast of the Niger Delta people. He was rated far higher than the former President and the indigene of the region, former President Goodluck Jonathan. His tenure only saw the establishment of the hydrocarbon pollution remediation project, HYPREP. That ended Jonathan’s closest romance with the Ogonis. But President Buhari moved a step further by commissioning the flag-off of the cleanup and that action was distantly followed by the release of US10million as initial sum, out of the US1billion joint contribution between the Nigerian government and the Shell Petroleum Development Company, SPDC, the principal culprit in the pollution, for the cleanup. Therefore, Ogoni indigenes were expectant that the President would raise their hopes again on when the cleanup will actually commence in earnest. They were disappointed. The President was not in Rivers state to play politics or kick-start his presidential campaign. Many promises could be made during campaigns. Not now. “I was a bit disappointed. I thought the President will say something about the Ogoni cleanup. I expected an executive order for the immediate commencement of the exercise”, lamented Badom Ke. Explaining his mission to Port Harcourt, President Buhari said “as part of the infrastructure renewal program, the construction of four new international terminals at Abuja, Lagos, Port Harcourt and Kano airports was embarked upon by the Federal Government with a view to modernizing the aging airport facilities to meet global aviation standards and improved service delivery in tandem with best international practices”. That is development. He reminded that at the presentation of the 2017 Budget to the National Assembly, “I promised to upgrade and develop Nigeria’s transport, power and health infrastructure, and complete a number of stalled infrastructure projects. “These include construction of new terminals at the country’s five major airports; numerous major road projects; key power transmission projects; and the completion of the Kaduna – Abuja as well as Itakpe to Warri Railway lines”. The President argued that Nigeria having an advantageous central location within the sub-region and the desire to develop into a regional air transportation hub, must upgrade its facilities to take advantage of its assets. The recent decision by the Federal Government to remove Value Added Tax, VAT, from domestic air transportation was in line with global best practices. Buhari went on to say that decision to upgrade the Port Harcourt Airport would make air travel more affordable and subsequently lead to the creation of jobs by the air transport service value chain as well as increase revenues for government. Port Harcourt Airport being third busiest in the country is very important for the Nigerian economy. It served last year 2017, 1,080284 passengers. That is more than what three or four airports in the country can boast of. The old terminal also being rehabilitated is unable to accommodate a combined requirement of space to handle such volume of passengers. For the four airports earmarked for upgrading at the cost of  US600million, the quality is worth the trouble. Political observers at the venue of the inauguration who spoke their minds said President Buhari’s speech was “corporate”, devoid of the vocal emission decked with incisive political colorations. “He came to inaugurate a developmental project. Not politics. He did just that”, Comrade Franklin Ntekim averred. Riding on the same clean slate, the state Governor, Nyesom Wike played the role of a political father of the state. He enjoined the President to fulfill his promise of completing the renovation of the domestic wing of the airport. Wike tasked the minister of state for Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika to implement the President’s “executive order” of completing the renovation project on or before December. “Mr. President has directed that the domestic wing of the airport be commissioned in December. I hope my friend (Hadi Sirika) will keep to it so that the people of Rivers and Niger Delta will continue to be happy with President Buhari”. Wike, who is commonly referred by his admirers as “Mr. Project” used the event to market the serenity and security of the state. He informed the President that if there was no security in the state, the company that handled the construction of the international wing of the airport would not have been in the state to do the job. “Mr. President what has happened today is a clear statement to the fact that Rivers state is safe, secure for people to come and invest. If the state were not safe CCECC would not have come to complete this project”. He was subtly responding to a remark earlier made by a frontline politician in the state few days before the airport inauguration that there was so much insecurity in the state. However, the missing link in the historic event was the conspicuous absence of the former governor of the state and minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon Rotimi Amaechi. When the President’s jet landed at the tarmac, the atmosphere at the airport was electrified. APC supporters were in wild excitement. They waited patiently to sight the minister alighting from the aircraft side by side with the President. They planned to rent the air with the swan song of  ‘lion of Niger Delta’, ‘CRA’, ‘Lion of Ubima and Rivers politics’ and so on. Amaechi was not there. He was nowhere to be seen.