European governments — in addition to the U.S. — appear perplexed about what action to take in response to the disappearance of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, who vanished two weeks ago after entering his country’s consulate in Istanbul. While most media attention has focused on the U.S. reaction to Khashoggi’s disappearance, European governments are also wrestling with a quandary about how to punish Saudi Arabia, if it is found beyond doubt to be behind the journalist’s disappearance, without destroying what they say are valuable relations with the Gulf kingdom. The questions policy makers are asking include: Should they confront Riyadh more as they demand answers about what befell the journalist and prominent critic of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, even if that wrecks security cooperation with Riyadh and endangers trade and lucrative weapons sales with the Gulf kingdom?
Or should they give the benefit of the doubt to the Saudi government, which claims Khashoggi left the consulate safely by the back door and that nothing happened to him inside the building, but risk by doing so undermining their own much-lauded insistence on the observance of global norms and rule-based values? Another factor at play as they weigh how to respond is who will benefit from a confrontation between the West and Saudi Arabia. Some policy makers and analysts say Iran, Saudi’s arch-rival in the region, would be a beneficiary. “As it has done in the past, Tehran will leverage this latest crisis to shore up its regional position,” cautions Sanam Vakil of Britain’s Chatham House research organization. “In the face of forthcoming U.S. oil sanctions and coordinated pressure from the U.S., Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Israel strategy – and as the EU attempts to preserve the nuclear accord after Washington’s withdrawal – the opportunity could not come at a better time for Tehran. Iran has repeatedly seized on Saudi miscalculations to gain leverage and protect itself from regional isolation,” she says. Khashoggi disappeared after entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul to complete paperwork to finalize his divorce from his Saudi wife. Turkish officials say they believe Khashoggi was killed inside by Saudi assassins with links to the crown prince and that his body was dismembered and removed while his unwitting Turkish fiancee waited for him outside the consulate.
The Saudis strongly deny the claim — and Saudi leaders reiterated their innocence Tuesday to U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who was dispatched to the Saudi capital, Riyadh, by President Donald Trump to discuss Khashoggi’s disappearance with the leaders of the Gulf kingdom, a close U.S. ally for 73 years. On Wednesday, a senior ally of German Chancellor Angela Merkel issued the strongest warning yet from a European government about possible punishment, saying that Europe may have to adjust its relations with Saudi Arabia in the wake Khashoggi’s disappearance. “We have a very ambivalent picture of Saudi Arabia, especially with what has happened in the Khashoggi case in recent days, and what emerges in the coming days will complete that picture. Europe may need to correct its policies toward Saudi Arabia,” Juergen Hardt, foreign policy spokesman for Merkel’s ruling Christian Democrats, told broadcaster Deutschlandfunk. But rights campaigners and European opposition politicians who want a tougher approach to be adopted towards Saudi Arabia over Khashoggi’s disappearance say the German comments fall short of what is needed and fit a pattern of hedged remarks from European governments and officials. They note Hardt cautioned that as yet there are no plans for imposing sanctions on Saudi Arabia. A joint statement on Khashoggi’s disappearance Sunday by Britain, France and Germany also made no reference to possible sanctions. British Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt later cautiously announced Britain would consider an “appropriate way to react,” if it transpired the Saudis royals were found to be behind Khashoggi’s disappearance and likely death. In Britain, Labour foreign affairs spokeswoman Emily Thornberry says the British government has a “blind spot” when it comes to Saudi Arabia.” She criticizes Foreign Minister Hunt for taking a week after the journalist’s disappearance before issuing a tweet saying he was urgently seeking answers from Saudi Arabia.Abbas picked up his third and fourth wickets inside the first hour on Wednesday when he found the outside edges of Shaun Marsh and Travis Head. Mitchell Marsh fell to legspinner Yasir Shah and offspinner Bilal Asif (3-23) struck twice by removing opener Aaron Finch (39) and captain Tim Paine (3) in quick succession as Australia slipped to 91-7 in first session. Marnus Labuschagne (25) and Starc put on the best partnership of the innings when they contributed 37 runs for the eighth wicket stand before Labuschagne fell to a bizarre run out. Labuschagne watched the ball hit the stumps at the non-striker’s end while his bat was in the air as legspinner Shah got tips of his fingers off Starc’s drive. The Australian wickets fell at more regular intervals, and the batsmen weren’t able to combine for a decent partnership to regain any momentum. Marsh looked susceptible against Shah’s sharp turning deliveries before edging to Asad Shafiq in the first slip as Australia slipped to 5-75. Finch, playing in only his second test, appeared to be in control until he fell to Asif’s sharp offspin as Zaman plucked a one-handed diving catch at forward short leg. And just before the first session ended, Paine was adjudged lbw to another sharply turning delivery from Asif and had his umpire decision review rejected on a TV referral. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 