PwC firms around the world earned total gross revenues of $41.3bn, thereby topping $40bn for the first time – and marking 21 years of uninterrupted revenue growth for the year ending 30 June 2018. The Report also held that in local currency, revenues grew by 7 per cent and in the United States dollars by 10 per cent. Bob Moritz, PwC’s Global Chairman in a statement made available to newsmen, said the impressive growth was due to the company’s focus on the marketplace and the hard work, professionalism and dedication of its 250,000 employees, who he said, had continued to develop and innovate to meet the changing needs of its stakeholders around the world. Moritz noted that all the decisions of the company were guided by the team’s focus on quality and management’s purpose to build trust in society and solve important problems. He added that technology was redefining PwC and the quality and relevance of the services it provides, emphasising that this was also reshaping the world of business. Moritz maintained that across its networks, the company was fully focused on implementing the best technology ideas for its stakeholders, adding that by 2019, it would have invested over $1bn enabling its business in the cloud, helping maximise the quality and impact of its services and solutions. “We are proud of the work we do for our stakeholders, our role as one of the world’s major recruiters and trainers of finance professionals as well as the contribution we make to the societies in which we operate. No organisation is, however, perfect.  We have been criticised this year, and where we have made mistakes we have taken responsibility for our actions. “There are always lessons for us to learn and more that we can do to improve. We are also very conscious of some of the criticism that has been levelled at our profession. We take this very seriously; we are working hard to address it and to better demonstrate the contribution that we make to the capital markets and society as a whole. “Nothing is more important to me than to lead a PwC that remains trusted, relevant and vital to serving the needs of all our stakeholders”, he said The company in its report emphasised that it believed business had a key role to play in solving societal challenges alongside other stakeholders. One of the ways in which it is doing this was through collaborating with the T20 (a network of Think Tanks that provides policy recommendations to the G20) and Global Solutions, a multi-stakeholder initiative. “Together we are highlighting the need to bring economies, business and society back into greater alignment. We are also helping facilitate a Young Global Changers programme, which brings together 120 future leaders from around 80 countries to develop mutual respect and understanding. “Our community investments are an important part of our work. By sharing PwC’s greatest asset – the skills, knowledge and talent of our people – we focus on education, building the capacity of NGOs and supporting social and micro enterprises around the world. “In FY18, we set an ambitious new global target: to invest in the future and growth of 15 million people, NGOs and social and micro enterprises to help them maximise their potential by 2022,” the report said. The report said that this year alone, more than 60,500 PwC people contributed over 850,000 hours – 619,920 of which were spent sharing their professional skills. As a result of this contribution, we PwC said it reached over 3.2 million people, NGOs and social and micro enterprises – a solid step towards our new 15 million goals. It insisted that its most significant environmental impact was the carbon emissions from powering our offices and air travel. This year, it said it would announce a new global commitment, while driving efficiency to reduce its absolute carbon impact. “We commit to offsetting air travel emissions from FY19 and to sourcing 100 per cent renewables for our electricity consumption and offsetting residual energy use by FY22. “While our priority is reducing our absolute carbon impact, offsetting is an important part of our strategy to mitigate the impact of our unavoidable emissions,” it added. For the 12 months ending 30 June 2018, PwC’s revenues were $41.3bn – up 7 per cent – while investing and repositioning our portfolio – marking 21 years of growth. Revenues were up across all PwC’s operations, boosted by continued significant investments in quality, new technologies, services and talent. In the Americas, revenues grew by 4 per cent with a particularly strong performance from operations in the United States. Growth in Western Europe was stronger than the previous year, up by over 6 per cent in FY18, and remained very buoyant in Central and Eastern Europe where revenues were up 10 per cent. Revenue growth from the Middle East and Africa was impressive at 12 per cent. Across Australasia and the Pacific, revenue growth was 7 per cent while PwC’s strongest growth was in Asia where revenues were up 15 per cent. “Demand for our services continues to grow across all regions and industries, which is testament to the quality of our work, and the investment we have made in anticipating the changing needs of our stakeholders with the introduction of new and enhanced services. “We continue to make strategic acquisitions in key areas of growth, especially blockchain and data analytics and to invest in new technologies including artificial intelligence and robotics, as we work to increase the effectiveness of our core services such as audit,” said Carol Sawdye, PwC’s Global Chief Operating Officer. In FY18, the company’s global headcount grew 6 per cent to more than 250,000 people. But, the largest headcount increases in Asia (14 per cent) and Central and Eastern Europe (10 per cent). Globally, 64,776 people joined PwC firms around the world – including 27,016 graduates and 32,924 experienced professionals. In FY18, nearly half of all the people who joined PwC were female. PwC firms admitted a record total of 739 partners across the world. 30 per cent of its firms’ new partners in FY18 were female, which increased its female representation partnerships from 13 per cent in 2006 to 20 per cent in 2018. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 