LAGOS – Temple Nnedu, the national president All States Women Association of Nigeria, Worldwide (ASWAON), a non-governmental organisation (NGO), has lamented the intimidation of Chief Innocent Chukwuma, chairman, Innoson Motors by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), and urged the Federal Government to call the anti-corruption agency to order. Speaking to journalists in Lagos, Nnedu called on President Muhammadu Buhari to use his good offices to compel the EFCC boss, Ibrahim Magu, to desist from harassing a fellow Nigerian, violating him his fundamental human rights. “My organization is an NGO that has interest in good governance, deepening our democracy and ensuring that our great country is given its right place in the comity of nations. Our attention was drawn recently to the development in the country as its regards human rights abuse;, we are also worried that EFCC as an agency of the government has been violating the fundamental human rights of Chief Innocent Chukwuma. “It is on record that Chukwuma had financial transactions with GTB and the court has ordered the bank to make payments to the entrepreneur, it is worrisome how EFCC got involved and has continued to intimidate the businessman.” Nnedu added: “EFCC as an institution of the government is expected to be unbiased in its operations; it is on record that different courts in this country have given judgment in favour of Chukwuma. This judgment has not been obeyed and as a democratic country, the institutions of government should obey court orders. It is the capacity to obey court orders that makes a nation democratic, counted among those governed by the rule of law.” She said that the NGO was concerned because it wasn’t sure if the Federal Government and the acting chairman of EFCC were aware of the issue between Innoson boss and EFCC, noting that a financial transaction between a bank and a customer which had no criminal undertone shouldn’t have attracted the attention of EFCC in the first place. She added: “We want to passionately appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to look into this matter, and if Chief Chukwuma has been given judgment, as we are aware, why has it not been implemented? Why has the anti-corruption agency been tormenting a man who has added so much value to the economy of this country. The government should look into it because this man is a citizen of Nigeria.”