Lagos – There is obviously no gain saying that the coming of Antonio Conte to Chelsea breath a new lease of life into Victor Moses’ career and it was also the panacea the retired Super Eagles winger needed to cement his place at the Blues. But before Conte changed to a 3-4-3 on his coming to London, the Italian set up his side to play a 4-1-4-1 in the first six league games of the 2016/2017 campaign which saw Moses not having a strong case on the field, with the trio of Eden Hazard, William and Pedro Rodriguez preferred in the wide attacking positions. However, having made five substitute appearances initially, the former Wigan wide-man then went on to start 29 games from the next 32 in his new wing-back role as the Stamford Bridge club sealed a fifth Premier League title under Conte. The 3-4-3 formation was what worked for him when he managed other clubs like Juventus in the Italian Serie A. Initially playing 4-1-4-1, Conte told reporters that he was still studying English football and what could be done to get the right rhythm and balance and also fully accommodate some talents like Moses he noticed on arrival to the London side. But switching later to 3-4-3 formation was a dramatic turn in fortune for Moses. Even though his form deteriorated considerably the following season, with fewer appearances, he was then far better than new recruit, Davide Zappacosta, and was a huge favourite for regular shirt under the new manager, Maurizio Sarri. But a huge gap was to surface following the appointment of Sarri. Conte is a typical Italian manager of yore with huge emphasis on defensive approach to matches, while Sarri believes that the best way to effectively defend is to deploy more men upfront in order to have a relentless attack. Looking at Sarri’s time at Napoli will underscore the current ordeal of Victor Moses under him. Unlike Conte, who preferred a 3-4-3 or 3-5-2 formation, Sarri is a firm believer of 4-3-3 formation where the emphasis is on the attack rather than defence. Moses was taking back to his former and hitherto preferred wing position where incidentally fell in pecking order behind Eden Hazard, Pedro and Willian. Observers, who followed the development, knew that with Hazard acting as Sarri’s inside forward, Willian will play the touchline on the right, while other forwards lead the line, Moses was in for his former bench role position. Sarri’s philosophy, the coach thought, could not accommodate him in the new setup. Incidentally, the coach, as he had been known, is not a manager fond of rotating his squad. Right from his time at Italy, he keeps a winning team and this is where the Nigerian international has found himself in a huge problem, especially if he decides to remain at Chelsea. Having gone 12 matches unbeaten, it is unlikely that Sarri will change the team, or try to accommodate the likes of Moses. The coach highlighted his preference after his appointment, declaring that the former Super Eagles star must up his game if he hoped to get the look-in at the former European champions. “He (Moses) has changed his position on the pitch, he is now a winger and he has to improve in that position to be playing,” Sarri told reporters. Sarri’s philosophy has always been to get the goals and he prefers players who will not only create the chances but get the goals. Incidentally, only Hazard has been burdened with the task of scoring as others have been cameo on this. Victor Moses has never been one to score lots of goals; break assists records or creates so many chances for his teammates. But his strength is in his ability to hug the line and dribble with the ball in an attempt to cause havoc in the opponent’s rearguard, but his final ball has often been a continuing problem. So many believe that Conte’s decision to deploy him to the left back helped him to unearth his hidden potential and at the same time masked his weakness at getting on the score sheet as a winger since he is not a high scoring forward. To some, it is not surprising that Sarri decided to bench him for his more preferred players in the wing. Observers believe that the dark days of Moses as Chelsea player has returned. Recall that following his transfer from Wigan in 2012, just moments after the London side won their first and only UEFA Champions League and the eventual sacking of Roberto Di Matteo, Moses was plagued with multiple loan spells, which took him to Liverpool, Stoke City and West Ham United. For his loan spell to Liverpool, watchers believed that it was not Moses’ fault. Jose Mourinho’s Chelsea revolution involved picking up both William and André Schürrle, and with Kevin de Bruyne recalled from loan, there was simply no room in the squad for the Nigerian. Meanwhile, the player at the eye of the storm recently quit international stage, citing, among other reasons, his desire to concentrate on club football. “However I feel that now is the right time to step away in order to be able to focus fully on club career and my young family as well as to allow the next generation of Super Eagles stars the opportunity to step up and to flourish.” And opinions have supported his move away from Chelsea since he has been found surplus to requirement. Gianfranco Zola, Chelsea’s assistant coach, lent credence to this position when he was quoted as saying that even youngster, Callum Hudson-Odoi, is now preferred ahead of Moses in the pecking order. “…Don’t forget that, when we played the Community Shield, he (Callum Hudson-Odoi) was in ahead of players like Victor Moses. If he hasn’t got the consideration of the value, we wouldn’t have done that. “He is the future. But he’s in a very competitive team. He has to be patient, wait for his opportunities and, when they come, take them in the best way.” Joseph Dosu advised the player to consider a move to mid table clubs, insisting that remaining at Chelsea would destroy what remained of his career. “He should not continue to remain there (Chelsea). I don’t see him regaining his place so soon, so I will advise him to move may be to a lesser club where he will be playing regularly otherwise, his career will be over soon. It is not good for a player to depend on only training for fitness,” the Olympian said. But Ike Shorunmu has a different advice for Moses. Moses, he noted, should at this time consider making a return to the Super Eagles where his true performance would be on public radar, which, he said, would help him to get a better deal. “He should reconsider his international retirement because at this time, the national team will help him a lot to get a better deal somewhere or even at Chelsea. He should think positively on this direction,” Shorunmu noted. Meanwhile, stories were rife over the week that the player was considering a move away from Stamford Bridge, with international media revealing that Moses was just the latest in a group of fringe players who were considering departing the club in January, with Andreas Christensen having recently admitted that he is unhappy with the current level of game time. Also, Ladbrokes, a UK Bookmaker, claimed earlier in the week that former boss, Mourinho, planned to take Moses to Manchester United in the January transfer window. “Moses has struggled for game time since Sarri’s Stamford Bridge arrival. Amazingly, it looks as though former boss Jose Mourinho could make a shock move for the Nigerian.” If that eventually sees the light of the day, Moses would have made record as the first Nigerian to don the colours of the Red Devils.