With Agency Reports – There is a Yoruba adage that says “A black pot produces Ogi.” The Ibos refer to it as Akamu, while the generic name is pap. The corn Pap or Ogi or Akamu is a Nigerian meal made from wet corn starch. It is processed from dry white or yellow corn. It is a fermented cereal pudding, typically made from maize. Traditionally, the grain is soaked in water for up to three days before wet-milling and sieving to remove husks. The filtered cereal is then allowed to ferment for up to three days until sour. Subsequently, it is boiled into a pap or cooked to make a creamy pudding. It is a nutritious meal which is a good source of carbohydrate, B vitamins (pantothenic acid – B5, niacin – B3, riboflavin and thiamine – B1), folic acid, vitamins A and C, potassium, chromium, selenium, zinc, phosphorous, magnesium and many others. It has a distinctive sour taste that makes people crave for it. Well I am not saying this is the way D’Tigress, the national women’s basketball team, was made. But just like the various processes leading to the preparation of Pap, as explained earlier, the team that opened a new African basketball chapter at the just concluded 2018 FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup in Tenerife, Spain, with the world taking notice, was a product of a divided house. At its second adventure at the global stage, having first qualified for the World Championship in 2006, the Nigerian girls placed eight out of the 16 teams that took part. They became the first African team to reach the quarter-final of either the World Cup or the Olympic Games basketball event. To reach such milestone, D’Tigress won three games and lost four. After losing their opening game 86-68 to second placed Australia, Nigeria went on a three-game winning streak, beating Turkey (74-68), Argentina (75-70) and Greece (57-56) in the tournament’s quarter-final qualifying game to become the first African team to reach the FIBA Women’s Basketball World quarter-final to the delight of basketball fans across the continent. For the first time in the competition’s history, two African countries (Nigeria and Senegal) achieved a milestone by moving out of the Group Phase. For years, African teams defined world stage competitions as learning platforms, where winning games, especially against European opposition, was a mirage because of the huge competitiveness gap between African basketball and those of Europe and other continents. Senegal, Kenya,  Mali, Tunisia, Angola, Madagascar, Mozambique, Nigeria, and Zaire (now Democratic Republic of Congo), all have represented the continent in the World Cup over the past four decades, but it’s the just concluded 2018 edition of the tournament that proved to be the turning point that Africans dream of. Although both Senegal and Nigeria lost their opening games – losing to USA and Australia respectively –however, both teams bounced back from their losses to beat Latvia and Turkey respectively. While Senegal’s victory was shocking, the more surprising was Nigeria overpowering Turkey 74-68, having lost to Turkey 89-51 in a friendly a week to the tipoff of the World Cup. The victories recorded by these African countries on September 23, 2018, marked the first time ever the continent would be winning games in a Group Phase of a FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup. The two countries also qualified from the preliminary round, thus becoming the first African teams to achieve such feat. But Nigeria went further to become the first African team to reach the World Cup quarter-finals. Was it surprising to see two African nations finishing eighth and twelfth in the 16-team competition in Tenerife, Spain? The world took notice after Australia needed to step up to defeat Nigeria, and Australia’s top performer, Liz Cambage, later admitted that Nigeria was a “tough team” to beat. Cambage’s comments were followed by USA head coach, Dawn Staley’ assessment of African teams, noting that “We’ve been fortunate or unfortunate to play both teams, and they played us extremely well.” The three-time Olympics champion added: “The African teams have certainly had history on their side, meaning that they haven’t broken through by getting wins. They’re well coached. They’re much disciplined in their style of play, and they don’t bend for anybody. “When you go up against teams like us and play your style of play, you believe in it, and you start getting us to make adjustments to how they’re playing, you will win a lot more basketball games than not. They have broken some history, and surely in international play to come, they won’t be looked over. They weren’t looked over by us by any means. We know what they’re bringing to the table, and we certainly have to prep for them.” And FIBA Africa’s President, Hamane Niang, who witnessed history being made, said, “Africa has learned lessons from the past and now the likes of Nigeria and Senegal have shown they can play against top teams. I salute this performance. We need this to spread to the rest of Africa because we deserve better.” Niang, who urged African countries to build on the performances of the African representatives, said “We have to tip our hats off to Nigeria and Senegal for their performances. “For a very long time, African teams came to this competition to limit the damage as used to be said. What has been positive in this competition is that the African teams have played without any anxiety and on an equal footing with their opponents,” Niang reflected. Niang, who is also FIBA Vice-President, explained why the performances by the two teams were a game-changing moment. “For Nigeria and Senegal to prove themselves to be evenly matched with these teams is a source of great happiness for us. We’re convinced that what has happened in Tenerife is historic,” he said. “To have one African team in the eight best women’s sides and two of them among the top 12 teams in the world is a performance we have to highlight so that future African teams coming to the competition will not do so just for the sake of taking part, but rather to rightfully represent the very best of the African game and continent. “It’s historic for women’s basketball and the arrival of Africa in what is otherwise a closed circle and selected group has to be saluted. It is worth recognising the steps forward that Africa has taken. It means that basketball, from a young age, is starting to bear fruit.” While the world savours the good game by the Nigerian team, a lot of preparation went into making D’Tigress becoming a World Cup quarterfinalist. Otis Hughley, D’Tigress coach, who praised the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) for setting a standard with their organisational skills in getting the team prepared on time for the World Cup, said, “Early preparation made possible by the federation which saw us camp in Atlanta, Lagos and the friendly against Turkey in Istanbul before the World Cup was really helpful in getting us ready for our best ever finish by any African country in the history of the World Cup.” The players also ascribed their record breaking performance in Spain to NBBF’s preparation of the team, hinting that the board deserves praises. They noted that the structure, which has continued to cause upsets, would not have been possible without the right condition and atmosphere they enjoyed from the Musa Kida-led federation. In the words of captain, Adaora Elonu, the world should not be fixated on what the girls have achieved at the World Cup without paying special attention to those who made it happen. “We have never had this good until now. The world is talking about Nigeria upsetting bigger foes, but before we got to this stage, some people (NBBF) have been working behind the scene to make sure that the players have the best of preparation and a conducive atmosphere heading to the World Cup.” With the FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup done and dusted, it’s fair to say that African basketball is definitely moving in the right direction. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 