Lagos – Odion Ighalo was the star attraction in Saturday’s 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier between Nigeria and Libya in Uyo, as his hat-trick, as well as Samuel Kalu’s lone strike deep into the match, sank the North Africans 4-0. In a match the Libyans dominated possession, Ighalo announced his presence as early as the fourth minute of the match when Libyan goalkeeper brought him down inside their vital area. He scored the resultant penalty kick to shoot Nigeria ahead. Moments after the goal, Libyans controlled the ball and dominated possession, but could have equalized in the 12th minute if not Francis uzoho that denied them. Libyan winger, Motasem Sabbou had beaten Shehu Abdullahi to make a cross into the Nigeria goal area but Mohamed Abdussalam’s header at the edge of the six yard box was brilliantly stopped by Uzoho. The first half ended thus, even though Samuel Kalu missed a sitter in the 43rd minute. His solo run off the left flank hit the under of the cross bar and bounced back into the field of play after outplaying there defenders. In the second half, it was also the Libyans that threw more men upfront in search of the equaliser but Ighalo doubled Nigeria’s lead on 56th minute. Libyan’s Ben Ali who has been doing a yeoman’s job in the middle loses the ball and Alex iwobi waited no time giving a through pass to Ighalo who beats the Libyan goalkeeper for the second goal. Twelve minutes later, Ighalo completed his hat-trick firing into the net off Ahmed Musa’s pull out. Libyan defender, Ahmed Eltarbi, failed to clear the ball allowing Ighalo to fumble before slotting in. The last Nigerian to score a hat-trick for the Super Eagles is Nnamdi Oduamadi. He did it in the Confederation game against Tahiti on June 17, 2013. Despite trailing three goals, the Libyans did not relent in their search for a goal as they continue to push forward. But in the 88th minute, Samuel Kalu made amends for the many misses in the game finding the back of the net. He gets the ball outside the Libyans’ 18-yard box from Henry Onyekuru before curling a shot past Mohamed Abdaula for Nigeria’s fourth goal. With the result, Nigeria now place second in Group E with six points behind South Africa with seven points having defeated Seychelles 6-0 early in the day. Libya now drop to third with four points from three games. Nigeria will be guest of Libya in the reverse fixture on Tuesday in Tunisia. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 