Dr Ben Nwoye is the Enugu State Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with Patience Ogbodo-Iwuagwu,  he speaks on the crisis rocking his party, reappearance of Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), among other issues. Excerpts: What is your take on the crisis rocking APC as a result of the just concluded Primary election? All over the world, we have never had any election in a democratic dispensation where perfect election was conducted. Those who are aggrieved that election is perfect are usually those who win election and when people lose, they found fault either in the process or in the system or even in some cases in the electorates. If you look at the recent history of  the United States which was assumed to be the best democracy, there are still aggrieved candidates. If I could recall, in United States when former President George Bush came to the office, there was a problem of whether or not Bush won the election. There was a problem, people went to court and the matter went all the way to the Supreme Court, raising the issue of constitutional crisis. At the end of the day, it was decided that they cannot keep counting, that was the case of should we keep recounting or should we stop counting?  So in that particular election, we saw a judge just by a vote of 5 to 4, only one vote and George W Bush became the President of United States. It was an imperfect election but they had to move on. The same thing happened in the most recent election in United States. We had Hilary Clinton versus Donald Trump. People accused Russia, they accused social media, Facebook precisely but in the end, Trump won, Clinton and her supporters were aggrieved but they have to get together, the same thing was the case following the 2015 election, we saw open protest by the supporters of former President Goodluck Jonathan when the result was being announced by the former Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman,  Professor Attahiru  Jega.  The whole  world saw the protest on live televison so people were usually aggrieved when their candidates fail to win or when they themselves fail to win but as time passes by, the truth will begin to set in through party members and patriotic citizens. We realised that  in democracy, when you throw in yourself to contest, you will be a sportsman, you cannot just continue to blame the referee or the spectators for your poor performance You will take it as it come and move on. So, I am indeed hopeful that those people that lost will take it as it has come, they will move on. By God’s grace, we will have a stronger party, a stronger candidate, we are going to win Enugu state Government house, we are going to take the three Senatorial seats; we are going to take the eight House of Representatives seat, and we are going to take majority of the State House of Assembly. APC will rule Enugu come 2019 and of course President Muhammadu Buhari will be returned. If we may recall, before the 2015 general election, many PDP members defected to APC because they were aggrieved, a development that affected the return of  President Goodluck Jonathan as he the lost election and with the recent defection of your members to PDP as well as the emergence of former  Vice President Atiku Abubakar as the PDP presidential candidate who is also from the same region with President Buhari, don’t you think history may repeat  itself in 2019? On history repeating itself,  I agree but it’s President Buhari being re-elected,  that is the history repeating himself because Atiku Abubakar is no match for President  Buhari. Look at the history, look at how many votes he scored, you have to look at the point that he  has run several elections repeatedly with other party, the last general election he ran against Yaradua, how many votes did he score? President Buhari consistently scored over 10 million votes, Atiku was in that ballot, he didn’t come second but President Buhari came second. Look at  2007 when Atiku Abubakar ran under Action Congress (AC), how many votes did he get? Buhari was there and fast forward to 2011, he couldn’t win the ticket and he started grudge movement. He was not a sportsman, he went away. President Buhari ran in 2011, he scored over 12 million votes, that is consistent. Fast forward again, 2015 President Buhari then won, consistently for the three previous times that he ran, he has scored over 10 million votes in each of the election, and if you look at what the result is in our own third world and what independent observers said recently in a book written by a seasoned diplomat who says “that he won all those election”, that is history repeating itself so Atiku Abubakar has never being a match for President Buhari. We have records to show, we are not talking about personal record, we are saying  performance, this man has followership, because of his patriotism, because he means well for the  country, because all his life he has plans on how Nigeria will be better, that is a military officer, as a military General, as a military head of state, as a civilian President, all his programmes has been geared at making our Nigeria a better society and that is  why he is going to win, his programmes are there to show. His transportation programme is connecting the entire country; his rail road network is connecting entire country even in South East. Buhari is doing things PDP couldn’t do for 16 years, in Port Harcourt, the entire road construction is still going on. I was in Warri recently, using the Enugu – Onitsha expressway and I saw the construction is still going on, I mean second Niger bridge. He is tackling the insecurity that we are dealing with, the insecurity started with PDP, they sacked many villages and many towns in North East, he restored it, Atiku Abubakar was there and he couldn’t do anything. These are things that was happening in his own doorstep, he did nothing about it. So the point is what we have on the ground will be exactly that history repeating itself, President Buhari will come back. The only place history will not repeat itself is Enugu state where we will have a change, history will not repeat itself because we are going to sack the incumbent Governor. What is your reaction over the reappearance of the  leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, do you think that his coming back as he stated in the video will change the political atmosphere in the region? Namadi Kanu is inconsequential; his language of speech is inconsequential, because he has no effect in political atmosphere of Nigeria. These are rabble rousers. He ran away and caused the death of innocent citizens while pursuing his self-interest in the name of seeking his own sovereign nation. He left to enjoy himself somewhere, now he is sending message that Igbo people shouldn’t participate in the election, when Igbo people are looking forward to leading the nation in 2023. They should ignore him as a statement of someone who is a dreamer, he enjoys himself but unfortunately he deceived some youths. It is the incumbent upon the elders of Igboland to inform the youths that  the man is a deceit because those that have being killed cannot come back.