The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Borno, on Sunday held parallel primaries to elect candidates to contest the 2019 governorship election in the state. It was gathered that separate congresses were held by two factions of the party to elect the party’s flag-bearers in the forth coming election. The Usman Baderi’s faction held their exercise at the secretariat with only two candidates, Muhammed Wakil and Alhaji Bukar Kyari, contesting the election. Wakil, a former Minister of State Works, said they held separate primaries because they were opposed to the conduct of the election by Zanna Gadama’s faction. He alleged that Gadama’s faction abused earlier court order, describing the exercise as  “null and void”. Wakil claimed that the Court of Appeal had ruled in favour of Baderi as the recognised chairman of the party. “What the other faction is doing is illegality of the highest order because we are the ones legally recognised by the court of law. So we are conducting election and submitting result to the national body. “If they see reasons to accept the result fine, and if they don’t, I am sure some of us remember the case of Rotimi Ameachi. “You cannot just build something out of nothing and expect it to stay. The issue of impunity and illegality has to stop in the country, political parties have to behave. On his part, Kyari lamented that the national working committee of the party chose to recognise an illegal faction despite existing court order. Kyari said, “We as law abiding citizens will not indulge in illegalities, we shall seek redress in competent court of law for our rights. “Therefore, we will conduct our elections here. We will invite the INEC to monitor it and then come up with the authentic delegates that have been elected this October,” he added. However, Gadama said his faction had secured a court injunction, which ordered that the status quo be maintained. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 