Barrister Adeniyi Ladega is the chairman of Lagos State chapter of Fresh Democratic Party of Nigeria (FRESH). In this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, he spoke on crucial issues relating to the 2019 general election. Excerpt: What is happening in Fresh Democratic Party of Nigeria? Not much is being heard about the party in recent time. Why is it so? We were de-registered at some point. We went to court and we are just back. It is not easy to run a political party because of the cost. We were in Justice Party in 2003 before we formed Fresh Democratic Party of Nigeria. We do not steal money from government. We should understand that a political party does not have to contest all the elective positions. We need to change our thinking of what a political party should be. All parties cannot be like Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or All Progressives Congress (APC) if we must grow as a nation. We must allow the small ones to grow. We want to keep our party clean. Those parties that have turned this country into what it is today would not be allowed into our party. They won’t come to our party because of what we stand for. In 2019, will your party be contesting for presidency? Yes, we will. We have not only contested at the presidential level, we have also contested for other elective positions. In 2007 we contested for governorship in Lagos State. I was the candidate in 2003 and we got 26,000 votes after campaigning for just three months. It was on the platform of Justice Party. Our candidate, Rev Chris Okotie, has already emerged during our presidential primary held recently in Lagos. Could you assess the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC government? If the government has done well, there won’t be clamour for change. Many of us thought at a time that the APC was not another form of the PDP. We have seen what the leaders of APC government have done even in the states. People say Lagos State has done well, but, I disagree, if we consider what Lagos State receives as revenue and the impact on the people. I am not talking of infrastructure. Infrastructure will not feed the people. We are not taking care of the people. We are building infrastructures; we are building Atlantic cities. Who are we building them for?  Are the Atlantic cities for Nigerians? The bridges that we are building all over the place, are they what Nigerians need? Nigerians that cannot eat, what will infrastructures mean to them? We are building big roads, for what purpose? We are turning small villages into towns. We must have villages, we must have small towns. We must have the villages, we must have the small cities and we must have the towns because not everybody will live in city. What APC is doing in Lagos, has it impacted on the people? People cannot afford to send their children to school. They cannot afford to eat. People don’t have good houses. Is it infrastructures that we will survive on? You cannot find a place in the western world where two families are sharing a toilet. If Lagos State is that way, you can image what is happening in other states. Our leaders have turned us into slaves. Slavery in the western world is done by capture. But, here, it  is our own people selling us. Consider the environment where Nigerians live; a place where a family of seven live in one room. They get hardened. They fight everyday and so they get hardened. That is what our leaders are breeding. If you check the history of Nigeria, you cannot find a time that the people have been taken care of. It has always been a case of leadership oppressing the people. These things need to change. It does not matter the government in power, whether it is PDP or APC. But, Nigerians deserve to be treated better. If Lagos State is this bad, you can imagine what is happening in other states because Lagos State is probably the best state in Nigeria. It means that APC government has failed. I wonder whether the President has the capacity to lead this kind of nation. Does he have the mental and physical capacity? I doubt if he does. Buhari has been out of circulation for so long. APC couldn’t have won the election without him. That was why they went and got him. Does he have the mental capacity, the physical capacity? You can find the crisis that has bedeviled APC. It is ambition that is driving all of them. Some want to president after him and so they cannot speak. How do you see the rift between Governor Ambode and his political benefactor Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu? I really don’t like to interfere in other parties’ affairs. But, I believe that if someone assisted you to get to a position, I think that it is just right that you keep to the terms of the agreement. If you want to be a leader you cannot be breaking agreements. Keep to your word. That is what the Bible teaches. I don’t want to know what it is that Ambode wants to achieve. But, the truth is that he couldn’t have been governor today without Tinubu. People are of the view that Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, the former Minister of Finance, should be prosecuted for presenting a fake NYSC certificate. What is your take on that? The APC government had told us that its major mantra was anti-corruption. They said that they had come to fight corruption. The law is not interested on how you have presented it. You have presented a certificate and it does not matter how it was presented. The certificate was not done in 2011. It was done in 2009. The party had not won election in Ogun State in 2009 and so it was not like she needed it to become a commissioner. That certificate was done for her in 2009 when she was a private person, without any intention of becoming a commissioner. Once you have done something wrong you must face the consequences of your action. She should be prosecuted. She presented the certificate, so she should face the music. People that said that she should have gone back to serve are not guided properly. It was a case of deception. She deceived; she presented the certificate and claimed she had served to get a position.  If we are serious about reducing the level of corruption, which I don’t think that we are even ready to do. We cannot reduce corruption if staff of government are not well paid; your own employees are not well paid. They will find ways to make up for the shortfalls. Mrs Adeosun should be prosecuted. They do the same thing to the other side, so they should just extend that to their own people because they say charity begins at home. There is this speculation in some quarters that some agencies of the government have been politicised, especially those that will be actively involved in the 2019 elections. What is your view? We have seen these things happen over time. Jonathan during his time used the agencies to his advantage. If APC could win incumbent PDP in 2015, if it is the will of the people, the agencies cannot stop anything. It will be tough during national elections. How many policemen are going to be sent to the states? You don’t even have 100,000 policemen. How will you share them? I don’t think that the agencies will have much impact. If it is the will of the Nigerian people to change the government, it can achieve that. I must also say that it is wrong to use the agencies of government to influence elections. Politics is business and some of them call it a game. They are trivialising it. They are playing with peoples’ lives. Some politicians have destroyed this country. Our young men are travelling all over the world in very difficult conditions. We are playing with the lives of Nigerians because of what they do at the National Assembly, the courts and executive arm of government. We are not serious when it comes to doing the right thing. We must get rid of this crop of bad politicians. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 