Lawrence Ogbe, one of Nigeria’s new breed politicians from the diasporas stunned naysayers by emerging as the Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate to represent Otukpo/Ohimini Federal constituency (Benue State) at the House of Representatives in the forthcoming election having beaten more popular aspirants at the primaries. In this interview with ONCHE ODEH, Law, as he is fondly called speaks on the journey to his emergence, his vision for his constituency and other issues that played out after the primaries, including allegations that he was offered money to relinquish his slot. Excerpts: How did you come about the dream to run for an elective office? The dream to run for an elective position dawned on me many years ago; I was still in the tertiary institution when it dropped. When it dropped I thought I was only been emotional about the affairs of my dear country, little did I know it was a purpose I was born for. Some years ago I sacrificed my well paid Federal job (Nigerian Immigration Service) to travel out and study for more leadership skills. Recently I resigned from a great job to answer this inevitable call. It’s beyond an ordinary dream and I have prepared myself to deliver the best for my people by way of service. Was it difficult a decision to take considering that you were coming from the US where things work against what we have in Nigeria? It was a bit difficult I must confess, like you said there’s big difference between leadership recruitment processes as well as leadership management there and in our side of the world, I struggled between choices before I came to the conclusion to run for an elective position in Nigeria. I convinced myself Nigerian can only become better because of the risks and pains we can take for her; hence I presented myself for the onerous task of leadership regardless of the obstacles in sight. How would you describe the journey so far? It’s been progressive and promising. I saw a lot of Nigerians aligning forces with visionary leaders to cause a meaningful transformation from the old order and I’m impressed. For the first time I can say many Nigerians are actually discouraging material and money based politics for visionary leadership. The strive by young intellectuals to take over politically shows that a marked departure from the norm is here. A reinvention is already upon us and the momentum is being sustained by men and women of courage and honor who uphold the truth that only a resurgence of ethical values and a culture that supports hard work can give our nation the stool of prestige it deserve in the committee of nations. We are recording success. My campaign organization has been wonderful and promising. Our supporters and well wishers made me proud. What does this mean to you and your immediate constituency? It means a total change, a positive transformation. It’s an opportunity to tap genuinely from the National cake and share evenly according to areas of needs. We will gain the most as we have modeled ourselves to be closer to the Federal Government than ever. This will be a representation beyond ordinary. A leadership that shall act as role model to future and present generations. Do you think you stand any good chance of making it to the Green Chambers of the National Assembly running under SDP, a relatively new party in the state and the country? SDP is not a new party per say, it was revitalized to continue in its great performance considering her achievements in during its creation in the third republic. SDP being a gender sensitive and youth minded party that emphasizes high discipline in leadership recruitment processes is the best platform for visionary youths like me to transform this country. Yes, I stand great chances; our support base is large and increases daily, Nigerians are tired of existing parties whose only interest centers on prebendary agenda. You are one step away from your dream of representing Otukpo/Ohimini at the National Assembly. What would be your priorities if elected? As an intellectual who has been on the trenches learning and practicing Modern Global leadership for years, my priorities will be to build a world class constituency filled with endless possibilities and opportunities for growth and development. I will lead a united, informed and prosperous constituency; Marshal all Internal and External Resources (human and material) in liaison with all the stake holders in order to improve and uplift a sustainable standard of living in the Constituency. I will pay great attention to abandoned projects and constituency challenges in the areas of health, education, economy, agriculture, security and social amenities-making sure that I establish world standard infrastructure as resources permit for a better Otukpo/Ohimini. Beyond Otukpo/Ohimini, how do you intend to make your time at the National Assembly count if elected? A leader must be productive in all ramifications, I will not be a dormant legislator who is confine to constituency dealings, I will move motions and press for legislations that will protect the rights of Nigerians at home and Diaspora. I will not succumb to the order of intimidation, corruption and godfatherism , the interests of the ordinary citizens of Nigeria will be my highest priorities as we press towards a better Nigeria. Do you think your emergence as House of Representatives candidate under SDP represents the dawn of the youth era in Benue politics? Yes, like I said, I’m a visionary youth who believes so much in the powers and potentials in youth, that’s why I chose a platform that recognizes, represents and motivates the youths. SDP is youth oriented and can never take the leaders of tomorrow for granted. I am the hope they have always expected and together we shall repossess our state. Benue youths will be liberated from the abyss of discrimination and marginalisation. We will work in harmony to occupy significant offices where our skills and competencies will be put to proper uses for a better Benue and Nigeria at last. We heard that you were offered 150 million by an aspirant who failed to scale the primaries hurdles under one of the big parties to relinquish your slot. How true is this? Politics in Nigeria and most part of the world is full of uncertainties and tests, while I may not want to discuss this I like to reiterate that SDP Otukpo/Ohimini mandate is not for sale. I didn’t join this race for personal enrichment neither is it a mission I just decided to embark on for servitude and entrenchment of dignity for the downtrodden. I am on a great mission, a cause that I’m ready to bear any cost for, the task is onerous, yes, but my darling constituency is worth the sacrifices. My candidacy is intact and my campaign progressive, we are fielding in the best hands that will drive a world standard and modern campaign devoid of rancor and chaos. I like to use this opportunity to call on all well meaning Otukpo/Ohimini constituents to join this ship lets together marshall an enviable constituency. We are a single indivisible entity.