Abuja – A High Court sitting in Abuja on Thursday adjourned till November 28, 2018 hearing in the case of criminal diversion of N3.4 billion ($9.5m) being FIFA football development fund, preferred against a director of the Nigeria Football Federation and two others by Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The Director, Christopher Andekin, Jafaru Mamza and Rajan Zaka, were alleged to have diverted the said amount meant for football development sometimes in 2015 to personal use. They were to have been arraigned on five count charge earlier in the week but EFCC Spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, said that their counsel asked for time to look at the charges. The suspects were alleged to have diverted the sum of $9,535,923.87 belonging to the NFF to personal use. Andekin was alleged to have fraudulently diverted N1, 353,407.22 from the domiciliary account of the NFF in one of the new generation banks, without due process. Particulars of one of the counts read, “That you, Christopher Andekin, being the Director of Admin and Finance of the Nigeria Football Federation on or about 8th day of January to 26th day of January 2015 in Abuja within the jurisdiction of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja while being entrusted with dominion over money meant for the development of football in Nigeria, a grant from the Federation of International Football Association to NFF fraudulently, diverted the sum of N1,353,407.22 from the NFF domiciliary account No. 5070407456 with the Zenith Bank into your personal use and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 311 of the Penal Code Cap 532 LFN 1990 and punishable under Section 312 of the same Code.” Counsel to EFCC, Steve Odiase, who spoke to reporters after the arraignment said that the anti graft agency has been inundated with petitions of fraud at the federation. He said the EFCC will take the cases one after another. On why the commission decided to charge accounts staff of the federation instead its principal officers, he said that the diversion was traced to the personal accounts of the suspects. . SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 