With the adoption of President Muhammadu Buhari by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the emergence of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar as the Peeoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, the coast seems clear for the two to slug it out as the flagbearrs of the two man political parties. Although Nigeria has 91 political parties, their populartiy, their  reach and finance cannot compare to those of the two main political parties. Thus, Nigerians see the 2019 presidential contest as a straight fight between Buhari and Atiku. Since the emergence of the two, the public domain has become awash with reports and comments about then. Thus, the question arises: What should Nigerians consider before making their choice between Buhari and Atiku in next year’s Presidential election? Atiku Will Unite And Democratise Nigeria – Nwoko Barrister Uwemedimo Nwoko, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Akwa Ibom State, while contributing to the issue, charged Nigerians to look out for the candidate who has the tendency to unite and democratise Nigeria more among the two eminent Nigerians seeking to be president. Nwoko maintained, however, that whoever must govern Nigeria between the two must have at some point, both in public and private life, demonstrated the ability to contribute to the unity of the country and the ability to improve the nation’s economy. Nwoko, who appeared to be in favour of Atiku Presidency, drew attention to his ability to invest generously on the nation’s economy. He stressed that Atiku has to a very great extent, helped to tackle unemployment as his investments and companies have engaged thousands of Nigerian, who hitherto, would have been roaming the streets. While accusing President Buhari of being a sectional leader who he said, has been promoting disunity in an unprecedented scale, Nwoko challenged Nigerians to point to Buhari’s private investments in the country a and how many have been employed by such efforts. Nwoko said: “Nigerians are very lucky at this point to be confronted with well known choices in deciding who becomes the next president. Attention must be given to who between the two has over the years shown the tendency to be more democratic, who has demonstrated the ability to work for and promote the unity of Nigeria? “Fortunately, the two Nigerians we have to choose from have both had chances to prove their abilities or inabilities at one point or the other. “We are at the time in the history of our nation that whoever is to be voted as president must have demonstrated his ability to manage and turn around the economy of Nigeria. “Now looking at Atiku, you see that he is one Nigerian that has been able to invest in the development of the economy of Nigeria. We are all witnesses to the number of employments generated by Atiku’s investments after he left public service. As Vice President, Atiku was equally able to demonstrate how detribalised he could be. “Now, turning to Buhari, never in the history of Nigeria have we been this divided. He has shown the tendency to be highly sectional, especially in terms of appointments. He has no nationalistic credentials. He has no regard for due process and the rule of law. “Few days ago, he signed another Executive Order. How long can we continue with a president that would continually undermine the roles of the other arms of government?” Buhari’s Performance So Far Are Glaring – APC Scribe Igboeli Arinze, APC Zonal Publicity Secretary, Anambra Central and Southeast Coordinator, Buhari New Media Centre, says: “The choice between President Muhammadu Buhari and the PDP candidate is like a choice between light and darkness and between progress and backwardness. “For me, the candidature of an Atiku Abubakar is a gift to the APC. Firstly, Atiku has a lot of baggage and cannot offer the country the quality leadership we Nigerians are presently being offered by President Buhari and the APC. “President Buhari’s achievements are indeed glaring for all to see and 2019 will be for all Nigerians to endorse President Buhari and his party in order to consolidate on its good works so far, which are majorly the fight against corruption, the massive infrastructural developments ongoing all over the federation, the social intervention programmes such as the National Home Grown School Feeding Programme, NPower, Conditional Cash Transfer and GEEP. Let us not also forget the insurgency war and its achievements against terrorism. “Before now, Boko Haram occupied territories which were like the size of Belgium before the Buhari administration pushed them out of such grounds. Again, before now, areas like Kano, Kaduna and Abuja were susceptible to numerous bomb attacks. This is no longer the case now. “Recently, our economy was voted best in Africa and if you understand the policies employed by the Buhari administration under the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), you will appreciate the gains currently being made.  Nigerians surely cannot allow such achievements to be eroded by the election of a party that misplaced the country’s priorities for 16 years.” Nigerians Should Not Vote For Tribal Leader As President – Veteran Politician Chief Johnson Ezegbulem Mbaogu is a Second Republic politician under the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) and now a member of the Nigeria Intervention Movement (NIM). He said: “The situation of things in the land is most painful and lamentable. It was not like this during the Shehu Shagari era, which lasted between  October 1, 1979 to that fateful day of Sunday December 31,1983. “Before casting their votes, I would advise the electorate to look before they leap and see who among the presidential aspirants actually has the capacity to tackle insurgency, economic recession, rehabilitate the nation’s highways that have become death traps, reduce the rising level of youth unemployment. “Nigerians should look for a leader who is not tribalistic and who will accord all parts of the country a sense of belonging in the scheme of things, whether you voted for him or not in the election. “You know that the average Nigerian has lost hope in the system. Therefore, I expect the voters to take their destiny in their hands by electing a leader that will provide the basic necessities of life for them. I pity the masses. “Above all, Nigerians should consider a leader who has the fear of God in him, because, one who is not with God is with the devil.” Nigerians Need President Who Will Restore Citizens’ Hope – NCP Chief Nze Onyewuchi Elugwaraonu Uche is the Chairman, National Conscience Party (NCP), Amaukwu ward, Owerri North LGA in Imo State. He said: “Before going to the polls next year, I will advise the voters to look for someone that can restore hope for the masses. Let them elect a president that can provide food, stop incessant killings and destruction of property by the Boko Haram people. “Let them vote for someone who will give us regular water and electricity supply, improve our transportation system and also restructure Nigeria.” Atiku Is Better Equipped To Provide Good Governance – Entreprenuer Martins Oluwole, Minna, Niger State-based entrepreneur, stated: “I and many others Nigerians will consider some basic facts before making our choices between incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari and his main challenger, former Vice President Atiku Abubarkar, in next year’s Presidential election after considering what has happened since the inception of the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration in 2015 and what Nigeria used to be before their coming on board. “If we must tell ourselves the truth, this government has not pleased a lot of Nigerians, including myself. Indeed, I do not understand the policy trust of the government. Maybe I could have been one of the people praising Buhari and his team. One thing I want to tell you is that I don’t care about choice of economic policy. But, any policy that is anti-masses or is further impoverishing poor Nigerians or those of low income like us, you have got it wrong. “It is as if President Buhari is operating alone, or, that each Minister or Adviser is on his or her own, while the President acts alone. In fact, it is becoming almost impossible for me to understand exactly what this government is up to and where it is heading to in terms of economic growth and development. “The President seems less interested in core areas that will end tension in the land. You and I know that Nigeria and Nigerians are shaky. The level of insecurity is so alarming. Kidnapping has become the order of the day. There are killings as if the entire security apparatus of this country is being overwhelmed by what is happening. “The Boko Haram is still very much potent despite claims by the Federal Government that the group has been depleted. It has got to a point where citizens now resort to self protection. That is why you hear policemen being killed here and there because they sometimes turn against citizens they are paid to protect. Thus, people take laws into their hands in self-defence and because the Presidency seems overwhelmed by the challenges of this country perhaps due to old age, ill health or both. “Atiku is much younger and still full of life. I believe one of the cardinal points Nigerians needed is restructuring and job creation. Maybe, restructuring will bring about end to insecurity because the voices calling for restructuring is getting louder by the day. “Without sounding immodest, the Buhari-led APC administration, by all standards, tilts towards pursuing tribal agenda, But, Atiku, who I very much believe is not only more exposed, but more nationalist in character, will see the various segments and regions of this country as having equal stake, deserving equal treatment and as well, partaking in the equal sharing of the nation’s cake. “With Atiku, I don’t think we will be talking about ‘the other room’ or trying to edge out Nigerian youths from the scheme of things. I believe he will give full opportunity to the youths and womenfolk many of whom have shown their mettle in their various fields within Nigeria and across the globe to contribute to national development. “Besides his other wife from Adamawa State, Atiku has a Yoruba wife, Titi, an Igbo wife from Delta State, Jennifer, whose name was later changed to Islamic name, Jamila. “So, from all standards and as a global businessman, he has tested the way of reasoning and characters of  the majority of the people in Nigeria, besides his global clout. “That is why I believe he is a better choice than Buhari, who is a core military man with all-round military mentality. “The Buhari government claimed that they will end corruption. But, the way we are all witnessing, nothing much has changed. In fact, the situation, I am afraid, is even getting worse, because, corruption is being given a new name. Those who claim to be championing the cause are the ones enmeshed in it. That is why you see more of ‘your votes, or your life’ in the recent Ekiti and Osun states’ elections, which also is a reflection and a legacy of the Buhari administration Nigerians will live to remember. “I can go on and on to prove that Atiku cannot be compared with Buhari in terms of the much-talked about freedom of expression and choice of political party Nigerians so much desired.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 