Abuja – The upper chamber of the National Assembly adjourned sitting on Wednesday for two weeks and directed its committees to commence immediate investigation into how the N9.120 trillion 2018 budget had been implemented. The Senate also directed its committees to check how ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) had implemented the $2.78 billion Eurobond. The Senate, which suspended plenary sitting for two weeks to allow the committees conclude the assignments, would resume plenary session on November 6, 2018. Announcing the decision, Senate President Bukola Saraki said the committees were going to carry out the oversight functions, adding that it was only plenary session that was being suspended. He said: “We expect our committees to carry out oversight in this period. “Particularly, if you recollect, when we debated the Eurobond, there were a lot of questions on implementation and utilisation of those loans. “But it was because of the expediency and the demand from the executive that we approved those loans; we did it on the understanding that our committees will quickly go and do oversight in MDAs to see that those funds have been properly utilised.” On the 2018 budget, Saraki said the committees had been instructed to do serious work, adding, “I will charge all our committees that during this period, they should carry out the necessary oversight so that we can report when we do resume back to plenary. The committees will be meeting till 6th of November.” Also at the plenary, the Senate condemned and linked the ongoing killings and attacks on communities in Kaduna State to government negligence and elite conspiracy. Observing one minute silence in honour of the dead, it noted that the executive arm of government was deliberately refusing to evolve proactive measures to address the situation. The position of the Senate on the unfortunate killings and attacks in Kaduna State came under a point of order raised by Suleiman Hunkuyi (Kaduna North). To this end, the Senate resolved that the National Assembly leadership and committee chairmen of defence, intelligence, police and other security agencies meet to discuss the issues involved. The Senate didn’t absolve Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai, from blame regarding the killings, but accused him of calculated attempt and also questioned him on his absence when the attacks occurred. The senators said the recent attacks and killings in the state were indicative of religious and ethnic violence, and that relevant leaders were not rising against it. Expressing concern, the Senate noted that the unfortunate killings were being carried out in communities across the country with relevant security agencies. Disturbed by this development, Saraki pointed out that it was high time the security problem in the land stopped. The Senate alleged that government was shielding those behind the killings, pointing out that it was when the killers were fished out that the country would know peace. The lawmakers noted that security agencies were not discharging their responsibilities effectively, adding that they must act responsively. Leading debate on the motion, Hunkuyi explained that the motion became imperative to inform Nigerians to note the senseless killings and general insecurity in the state. The lawmaker, who narrated how the attacks were carried out in Kasuwan Mageni community of Kaduna State that led to the death of several people and a paramount ruler abducted, faulted the role of the state government in ensuring the release of the victim. In his contribution, Shehu Sani (PRP, Kaduna Central) condemned the attacks and killings in its entirety, adding that the situation would persist unless the people embraced peace and tolerance. Also contributing, Danjuma La’ar (Kaduna South) said “all the crisis in Kaduna State are caused by the governor (el-Rufai),” alleging that the elite in the state knew the killers but were not willing to reveal them. Other lawmakers that contributed to the debate condemned the killings and tasked security agencies to arrest and prosecute those involved. The Senate, in its resolution, called for immediate constitution of a central committee to interface with the executive arm of government so as to evolve adequate security measures and end the killings. The lawmakers also resolved to pay a special condolence visit to Kaduna victims; urged the Federal Government and Kaduna State government to ensure the release of the kidnapped traditional ruler, while urging NEMA to assist those in need, provide food and medicals to the affected persons. They also directed security agencies to investigate and proffer solutions to permanently avert the killings, as well as call for implementation of the recommendations of the Senate on the national security summit. Meanwhile, the Senate has urged the Federal Government to immortalise the former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), the late Justice Idris Legbo Kutigi, who died on Sunday in a London hospital at the age of 78 years, by naming a national monument in his honour. The resolution was sequel to a motion, ‘Demise of Justice Idris Legbo Kutigi, CON, GCON, Former Chief Justice of Nigeria’, sponsored by David Umar (APC, Niger East) during plenary. Leading debate on the motion, Umar noted with sadness, the demise of Justice Kutigi, whom he described as a patriotic Nigerian and jurist per excellence.