ADO-EKITI – Rasaki Ojo-Bakare, a   professor of Theatre Arts at the Federal University, Oye Ekiti, says  the introduction of Aramoko Cultural Heritage Festival has reduced crime rate among youths in the community . Bakare,who is the Director General of the event disclosed this at  Press Briefing held at Aramoko Civic Centre in Ekiti. “Some of our youths who have taken to some negative behaviours are now turning a new leaf so that they can be recruited into some programme lined up for the event.Not only that many of them have taken the advantage of the occasion to show case their talents “ Bakare said . He also said that no fewer than 100 local and foreign celebrities  are expected  to grace the Second Edition of billed for November. The programme slated for November 6  and 11 waay sponsored by Aramoko Development Association (ADA). He disclosed that foremost celebrities like Funke Akindele(better known as Jeniffer ) ,Peju OGUNMOLA and Dele Odule among others have agreed in principle to grace the occasion . He also explained that star actress like Zainab Shuabu from Benin Republic would also featured. The don , who described the first edition as a success also  advised  the federal government to make development of tourism potential of the nation a priority, saying the sector can take the country’s economy to higher pedestal than what the oil can do. Bakare regretted the  lukewarm attitude given to the sector by the state government,adding that  tourist attractions in Ekiti West Local Government alone can  pay the salary of workers, if properly harnessed and stop dependence on the federal allocation for sustenance. He said the cultural fiesta  was targeted at launching the tourism potential of Ekiti to the  global scene and make it the hub of arts and culture in Africa,particularly the ones that has to do  with traditions and culture in  the town. The scholar lamented that the country was losing multi-billion dollars yearly due to the lip service being paid to the development of Arts and culture as well as hospitality businesses. “We can’t gainsaying the fact that Nigeria is losing for not paying attention to tourism business. Tourism if well handled will take Nigeria to where oil has not taken us to. “Though, those in charge of tourism sector  have not been able to prove that Nigeria can make money through tourism. Tourism is bringing people to your doorsteps to see your culture. “Many countries  like  Gambia, Tanzania and Kenya are making big money from tourism. In Ekiti alone, activities of tourism along Ikogosi, Ipole Iloro and across Ekiti West alone  can pay salaries of workers in Ekiti. “Let us just assume a situation whereby the federal government sites a globally accepted film village around this place, this  will bring many film makers to Ekiti and our economy will go up. “In case the FG doesn’t know, tourism development can take Nigeria to a higher pedestal the oil they are depending on can never take us to”, he said. Speaking on the 2018 edition of the ARAFEST carnival, Bakare said the cultural fiesta will feature  a lecture, titled:  “The place of Aramoko in the history of Yoruba’,  which will be delivered by an emeritus professor of history. He said the annual programme was introduced by ADA to stop crime rate, generate revenue and employment for the locals and expose them to the outside world. “It will also feature traditional sports  and  games competition, competition for the preparation of  traditional cuisine and push bar,  comprising local meals and drinks,  traditional wrestling competition, and  beauty contest . “It is going to be a carnival where traditional guards , hunters, traditional priests , masqueraders  will display artistic performances that typify them. “Since we started last year, our local economy has been encouraged and the crime rate has dropped comparatively. This is the power of tourism on the citizens. “As a Director  of Abuja and Calabar carnivals, who  has also directed festivals in other countries of Africa, our plan is to take this ARAFEST  to the National Carnival in Abuja next year”, he said. The  President of ADA, Dr. Isaac  Aladeloye,  said no efforts will be spared to protect the cultural heritage of the town and that the ARAFEST was one of the moves targeted at making the town preserves its core values of bravery, contentment and brotherliness. “We  are introducing some core traditional styles and events  and bringing in the youths with the contemporary carnival.  We will soon make the carnival suits in the nearest future but we are renting  them now. “ We are also including non indigenes who have been part of us for so long. This way the coming festival would be performed by citizens of Aramoko, not only indigenes. We will also be featuring celebrities from across the nation”. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 