Lagos – Al-Nassr of Saudi Arabia attacker, Ahmed Musa has given reasons why the Super Eagles must beat the Bafana Bafana of South Africa in next month’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifier. Although the Super Eagles will be away in the encounter on November 17, Musa said victory in the encounter billed for FNB Stadium, Johannesburg goes beyond the search for another round of maximum points that would seal a ticket to AFCON 2019 for Nigeria. Musa affirmed that qualification for Cameroon 2019 would be top of their minds going into the penultimate fixture in the qualifiers, but further pointed out that the Super Eagles need to make up for losing the first leg 2-0 at home. He recounted that the Super Eagles took the first match in Uyo for granted, as they assumed that Bafana Bafana would not get anything from the fixture, as they had never at that time beaten Nigeria in a competitive match. Musa, though, admitted that the Super Eagles were brought down to earth in astonishing fashion back in June 2017, hence the need for them to take atonement from the upcoming reverse fixture at Soccer City. However, the former Kano Pillars, VV Venlo of Holland, CSKA Moscow of Russia and Leicester City of England star, who played the first leg as a 59th minute replacement for Alex Iwobi, also admitted that Bafana Bafana would aim to get their campaign back on track with a home victory. Nonetheless, he is of a view that Nigeria’s back-to-back wins against Libya have further boosted the Eagles’ morale for a smooth cruise to Cameroon, and stressed that the urge to make up for defeat at home on the open day will spur them to get all three points on November 17. Musa said: ”Next month we are going there even for a point. We remember what they did to us in Uyo. We are going there for revenge. South Africans are under pressure not Nigeria.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 