ENUGU – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors in the South-East zone have distanced themselves from the decision by the party’s flag bearer and former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to field former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi as his running mate for the 2019 presidential election. The Governors made their feelings known after an emergency stakeholders meeting of South-East PDP at the Enugu residence of Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu. Briefing journalists after the meeting, Governor David Umahi said there was no formal notice that the vice presidential slot was zoned to the South-East adding that they were shocked to read from the social media that their brother Obi has been chosen by the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, as his running mate. Umahi explained the emergency meeting of stakeholders was convened to brainstorm on the news making the rounds in the social media concerning purported choice of the former governor of Anambra state as Atiku running mate. He said both PDP governors in the zone and indeed other stakeholders were shocked over the news of a vice presidential slot given to Ndigbo whereas no former notice to that effect was given. Umahi revealed that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar sent in message during their meeting informing them that he was out of the country on a short period and pleaded with them to remain calm that he will be coming down to the zone to dialogue with leaders. “We saw news flying up and down saying that our presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has picked a running mate from the zone.  We were shocked because we were not consulted. While we were meeting, Atiku sent message that he traveled out of the country for a short period. He promised to come down and meet with South East leaders” The meeting was attended by Governors Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Okezie Ikpeazu and Deputy Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, others were members of the National Assembly from the zone and other major stakeholders. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 