Investments in Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) is becoming more important, as the nature of work continues to evolve in response to rapid technological change. Markets are increasingly demanding entrepreneurs’ with advanced cognitive and socio-behavioral skills. The lack of these abilities can leave countries poorly prepared for the future. BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI, IKECHI NZEAKO and ANDREW UTULU in this article examine what roles SMEs play in the Nigerian economy, the challenges that limit their performances and what can be done to increase their contribution to the national economy. Excerpts: Small and medium scale businesses (SMEs) in Nigerian are the bedrock of the Nigerian economy and are mostly defined in terms of the size of investment and labour force. They normally have less than 50 workers. SMEs play a role in mitigating the problem of imbalance in the balance of payment accounts through its export promotion, while the large-scale industries are expected to increase the inequities of income and concentration of wealth; SMEs help widespread equal distribution of income and wealth. Small sector provide opportunities to a large number of capable and potential entrepreneurs who are deprived of appropriate opportunities. It can help to release scarce capital towards productive use. SMEs can reap the benefits of lean production and can find new cost-efficient techniques of lean production. As small units can use resources more efficiently to the full capacity without any wastage, they may have higher allocation efficiency. The impact of Small Scale Enterprises to the development cannot be neglected in every economy, more especially developing nations where sustainable economic development is highly desirable small business enterprises have such a crucial impact to play in the development of an economy in such a way that they cannot be ignored. Small business enterprises form one of the development objectives they can serve as a source of impact for multinational, thereby replacing existing foreign resources, they are also training ground for local skill ensuring a more equitable distribution of income and reducing the migrating of manpower from the rural to the urban areas. Small-scale enterprises are crucial for economic growth, poverty alleviation and wealth creation. In an economy like Nigeria, small business enterprises face credibility problems. Small-scale enterprises contributed greatly to Nigerians development by the provision of employment, marketing of goods and services and the growth and development of the rural areas. It has also brought about the growth of indigenous entrepreneurship in Nigeria. Poor or inadequate knowledge of the operating environment of small-scale enterprise adversely affects the performance, survival, growth and eventual success of small-scale business enterprises. As the element of risk is low in SMEs, more resources will be employed by large number of labour force. Despite important roles that SMEs play in the development of the national economy, they do not have been the support they require to deliver up their optimum capacity. Their capacity is hampered by inadequate power supply, technical and managerial skills to up their ante and contribute more to the development of the economy. They also complain that the operating environment is harsh and hostile to business. In the quest to make address the financing challenges confronting small and medium enterprises in the country, the Bank of Industry (BoI) signed a memorandum of understanding with 10 deposit money banks on new frameworks to support the SME sector. The commercial banks included Access Bank Plc, Diamond Bank Plc, Ecobank Limited, Fidelity Bank Plc, First Bank Limited, First City Monument Bank Limited, Skye Bank Plc, Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, Standard Chartered Bank Limited, and United Bank for Africa Plc. Under the new framework, prospective customers of the Bank of Industry would access the bank’s funds based on its risk acceptance criteria, while the commercial banks would provide working capital to the SMEs based on agreed terms under the framework and the banks’ individual risk acceptance criteria. According to the pact, which would be due for renewal after the expiration of the initial three years period, will see BoI providing financial intervention for sectors like agro-processing, solid minerals and metals, light manufacturing, logistics, and other critical sectors identified under the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan. Indeed, the pact would see the BoI providing loans to beneficiaries at an interest rate of 9-10% per annum and a tenor of at least five years as well as moratorium period of 12 months. On part of the commercial banks, working capital facilities would be provided at an interest rate of 19 per cent, representing a combination of the current Monetary Policy Rate and six per cent interest from commercial banks with a tenor of at least 12 months. In the same vein, Stanbic IBTC Bank, a member of Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, introduced a banking product that will help small and medium scale enterprises save on cost and optimize their business margins/revenues. The products, Biz-Smart Account, enable enterprises open and operate the account without paying maintenance fees and other related charges. Biz-Smart Account is a hybrid current naira account specially tailored to enterprises and offers the unique features of both a savings and current account. The account was developed to help Enterprises reduce to the barest minimum the cost of business, especially the ones that emanate from transactional accounts, Stanbic IBTC Bank says. The account offers zero account maintenance fees and it attracts interest based on the available deposit on the account. The account also gives the holder access to Internet/mobile banking channels and access to MasterCard Naira Debit card. Other benefits include third party cheque lodgement, setting up of direct debits or standing orders for regular bills payment and receiving transfers, amongst others. This unique enterprise banking solution from Stanbic IBTC Bank is offered in two variants namely Biz-Smart account and Biz-Smart Plus account. The Biz-smart requires an opening balance of N60,000 and a daily minimum balance of N50,000 and enables the holder receive interest on their account. In addition to this, a maximum of four cash withdrawals is allowed at the branch. However, there are no limits for transactions on e-channels (*ATM, Web payment, Mobile Banking, POS and Internet Banking*) so applicable transaction fees for using these channels would apply. The Biz-Smart Plus on the other hand allows for unlimited monthly withdrawals but requires a minimum account opening balance of N520,000 and a daily minimum account balance of N500,000. “We recognise the importance and pivotal role of enterprises in the growth and development of our economy. Small and medium scale enterprises are the key drivers of the economies of developing countries, creating thousands of jobs and enhancing GDP growth. This explains the efforts of Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc. in supporting this critical sector with the ultimate aim of achieving entrepreneurial optimisation in the Nigerian economy. “We call on all SMEs in the country to embrace this unique offering that would help in boosting their business continuity, growth and productivity,” Ayodele Ojosipe, acting head, enterprise banking and trade finance, Stanbic IBTC Bank. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 