Abuja – As the All Progressives Congress (APC) grapples with the fallouts of its primaries, angry aspirants and their supporters sealed the APC national secretariat for several hours on Monday evening. The protesters from various states defied the heavy presence of security men to block the gate and road leading to the APC headquarters in Abuja, barring party chieftains, including Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, workers, visitors, and journalists from leaving the secretariat. Some chieftains of the party, including former governor of Delta State, Emmanuel Uduaghan and Senator Andy Ubah, who were on a routine visit, had to escape the barricades on foot, escorted by security operatives. Comrade Oshiomhole also had to abandon his official car as he was whisked away at about 7.55p.m in a Lagos State marked private vehicle. The protesters, who were obviously sponsored by aggrieved APC aspirants, were agitating against their arbitrary disqualifications and exclusions. The protesters had come from Kano, Niger, and Nasarawa states. Earlier, Ex-IG of Police Suleiman Abbah had rained curses on the national leaders of the party who, he claimed, played God in administering the concluded primaries. Speaking with journalists, IGP Abbah lamented that he was excluded from candidates cleared to participate in the Jigawa State senatorial primary after he was initially cleared to run. The angry ex-chief cop said the APC needed prayers. “Let me say that this is not a time for too much talk; this is a time for prayers, and I want you all to please join me in this prayer. “The prayer is this: Oh, Almighty God, any person copying you and their powers should not be in this headquarters of the APC. Almighty God, if there is already one, you know what to do, so that you don’t allow him to continue copying you. “Almighty God, any person claiming to be an officer of the APC, if he will not work with the vision and the mission of the APC, Almighty God, don’t allow him to use the demon style of destroying the APC,” he said. Meanwhile, worried by growing agitations, the party inaugurated an Appeals Committee on Monday to look into the petitions that trailed the primaries, with former governor of Edo State, Senator Oserheimen Osunbor, as chairman. Inaugurating the committee, Oshiomhole charged the members to be fair and firm in dealing with the petitions. He said the petitions were quite many and urged them to look at the petitions based on merit. He said: “You understand what the stakes are. The petitions are quite a lot. Look through them, identify the petitioners, and ensure you put a face to the petitions. “There must be fair hearing. The individuals mentioned in the petitions, call them. You must do what is just, bearing in mind the constitution of our party and the Electoral Act.” Other members of the committee are Rt. Hon. Mike Ugwa (Secretary); Alh. Musa Gwadabe; Bashorun Reuben Famnyibo, and Alh. Abdulrahman Adamu. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 