The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primary election has come and gone, but the effects are still reverberating across the country. It is no longer news that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the former Vice President, recorded an overwhelming victory over his co-contestants. However, immediately after the primary, Governor Ayodele Fayose, who like most to the party’s governors, had supported Rt. Hon. Aminu Tambuwal, the Sokoto State governor, and former Speaker of the House of Representatives, was sad that his preferred candidate did not win. In an emotional outburst, he threatened that he might dump the party under which he had served as governor. Since his threat, Nigerians have been wondering if the fact that his candidate lost the primary election was enough reason for him to quit the PDP, even when the election was seen to be credible, free and fair. Fayose Will Be The Loser If He Quits PDP -Leaders Community leaders and politicians believe that Governor Fayose’s threat is not tenable. One of them believe that should Fayose quit PDP, he will live to regret his action. Prince Orjika Donatus, Coordinator of Ethics and Values  Foundation in the  South, said the PDP presidential primary has been acknowledged as one of the best in the history of Nigeria as it was transparent, open, free and fair. Donatus is of the opinion that if Fayose dumps PDP for another party because his preferred candidate did not win, he will not be missed. He said: “There are people waiting to take his position and when he returns he will be a floor member. So, he should stay where he is, even if he loses.” Sir Chris Chikwelu, another community leader, said it is normal in politics that people disagree to agree. According to him, “There must be misunderstanding before things settle down. PDP is a party of democrats. I believe that Fayose cannot leave PDP. He is a great party man and cannot leave the party. His threat is all part of politics.” Leaving PDP Won’t Solve Fayose’s Problems – APGA Chief Hon. Chinedu Nkwonta, State Publicity Secretary of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), in Imo State, stated: “I like Fayose. But, sometimes, he indulges in a little bit of excesses. I can’t say it is exuberance because he is not a young man. “Leaving PDP won’t solve the problem. He should think about his credibility, his integrity in everything he does. What he needs is dialogue, political gerrymandering. “Leaving a party he had been an outspoken member is not the best,” he concluded. Dumping PDP Will Not Present Fayose As A Democrat – APC Stalwart Igboeli Arinze, APC Zonal Publicity Secretary, Anambra Central, and Southeast Coordinator, Buhari New Media Centre, said, “The Ekiti State governor is noted for controversy. He cannot be wiser than the 1.532 party delegates who gave Atiku Abubakar their votes as against the 633 who voted for Tambuwal his preferred choice. “By threatening to dump the PDP because of the outcome of the party’s primary, it means that he (Fayose) is not a democrat. Let him go and crucify the voters in his state who voted against the PDP’s governorship candidate in the last governorship election and elected Dr. Kayode Fayemi of the APC.” Fayose’s Outburst Is childish, Ridiculous – NCP Chieftain Nze Onyewuchi Elugwaraonu Uche, Chairman, National Conscience Party (NCP), Amaukwu ward, Owerri North LGA in Imo State, said: “The PDP is not Governor Fayose’s property and he is not indispensable to the party. I am not holding brief for the PDP members. After all, I do not belong to the party. But, the truth is that the Ekiti State governor only wanted to be heard. His excuse is childish and ridiculous.” Fayose Should Key In With Majority – PDP Helmsman Barrister Tanko Beji, Niger State PDP Chairman, said: “Governor Ayodele Fayose is the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party Governor’s Forum. I respect him so much because he has been one of the vocal voices in our party. “Truly, he issued threats to dump the PDP because of the outcome of the party’s presidential primary in Port Harcourt which the former Vice President, Atiku Abubarkar, won against his preferred candidate, Aminu Tambuwwal , the governor of Sokoto State. “I don’t think he would do that. I do not imagine that the statements were made by the Fayose I used to know. However, I will say Fayose has every right to express displeasure over his grievances, in the sense that he had wanted Tambuwwal to win the ticket. “But, the majority decided otherwise. That was exactly what happened. That is democracy in action for you. Maybe someone or some groups would have felt the same way if it turned out to be any of the contestants that lost out. Democracy is about number, not just about interest, likes or dislikes of whoever emerged as chosen or choice of the majority. “Ayodele Fayose cannot quit PDP because he is a foundation member and a vocal voice of the party. As chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum, I don’t think he should be thinking of abandoning midway the feat he has achieved over the years simply because his preferred candidate did not win. “He has made his points, he has the right and as a man, he has expressed his displeasure. We Nigerians have heard him. But, I don’t think Fayose should be crying more than the bereaved. He was backing Tambwal and his preferred candidate has already congratulated the winner, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. “Fayose cannot cry more than the bereaved. That is why I would personally encourage him to accept the outcome of the primaries and avoid taking steps he could regret later. Fayose is a democrat. We respect him in the party. But, the majority of the PDP members or delegates to the convention have said, ‘Yes in Atiku we stand for 2019’, because, we believe he is more qualified and fit for the job. “So, Fayose cannot say and insist on saying. No! I am not saying that others are not qualified. They are all qualified for the number one position in this country. But, we are asking for who is the most qualified in the circumstance considering all variables and options before us. So, I expect Fayose to key in with the majority. “I hope he will not make the mistake of carrying out his threat out of anger. He should allow majority of the PDP members that were present in Port Harcourt from the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, to have their way to avoid overheating the polity.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 