LAGOS – Super Eagles will attempt to prove that their 4-0 bashing of Libya on Saturday in their 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier in Uyo was no fluke when they seek a second victory in four days in their reverse fixture today in Sfax, Tunisia. Nigeria, who failed to qualify for the last two editions of the tournament, need a win today in order to be a win away from qualifying for the most prestigious football tournament in Africa. A win today will mean that Nigeria only need to win one of the remaining two games against South Africa (away) or Seychelles (Uyo) for her to qualify for the Nations Cup. A draw means qualification is dependent on winning the remaining two games. A loss will depend on not only winning the remaining two games but hoping that South Africa and Libya draw their last group game in Tunisia. Beating Libya today is not impossibility; it is a task the team should accomplish. The players must fight for the win and should not be complacent as they were in the first half of the Saturday game in Uyo. The players must appreciate the importance of winning the game and realise that playing as a team is the panacea for victory. Such selfish games exhibited by Samuel Kalu on Saturday must be discouraged in all ramifications. While Oghenekaro Etebo ensured that he defended with all his might, Alex Iwobi was busy sending those killer passes that led to the second goal. Good Gernot Rohr believes that winning today is not a walk in the park, hinting that the team must be disciplined. “To win by 4-0 is good but this result does not mean we had a perfect game,” Rohr said. “We had obvious problems defensively especially in the first half and before we play Libya again in three days, we must improve on our weak areas. Now we must maintain discipline in all areas.” Super Eagles must ensure discipline as the Rohr has said because Libya interim coach, Omar Al-Maryami, is of the view that luck was not on their side in Uyo. “We were unlucky not to have scored minutes after we conceded, but this result hasn’t changed anything. We have a good team and we will fight,” Al-Maryami said. “We lost the game due to some little details and the first goal we conceded affected us. “Unfortunately, we lost three points but we are sure of taking them back in the second leg, but we must attack the Nigerian team to score.” Libya captain, Mohammed Fathi, also ascribed their loss to luck, promising to win the reverse fixture. Their goalkeeper, Fathi Abduala, also toed the path of his captain saying on Sunday, “It’s not over yet. We can still beat Nigeria in Tunisia and we will do that. They (Eagles) were lucky with some decisions and we were not. In Tunisia, it won’t be the same.” Hopefully baring any injury, Rohr should start the game with the same team that played in Uyo. The Super Eagles, who arrived Sfax safely on Monday, had their first training by 7.00pm. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 