Uyo – The Umbrella Business Quest, a programme of the Akwa Ibom State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday dolled out millions of naira to small scale business entrepreneurs in the state. Beneficiaries of the programme, said to have been strictly selected on merit, emerged through a presentation of their business ideas on live radio, answered questions from panelists and received votes from listeners. The winner of a current week’s edition contests against winners of the two previous weeks for a chance to win startup funds in the final round of the show. Presenting winners of Seasons 5 and 6 for their various awards, Ini Ememobong, the state PDP publicity secretary, said the party decided to embark on the project as a way of getting back to the people, to further humanize politics and not politicize humanity. He listed Utibe Akwa, a custard producer, as the diamond winner of the Season Five with a cash award of N250,000, Young Christian as gold award winner with a cash sum of N150,000 and Syman Ekemini as silver winner, with a cash sum of N100,000 in Season Five. Solomon Aniefiok Inyang, Unyime Sunday Bassey and Samuel Sunday Edet got Diamond, Gold and Silver awards respectively with cash prices as indicated above in Season Six. The Umbrella Business Quest, a 90-minute radio programme, sponsored by the Publicity Unit of the PDP, Akwa Ibom State, in addition to rewarding outstanding business ideas with startup funds, also gives business Icon awards to enterpreneurs who have distinguished themselves for decades in growing businesses. This edition of the award witnessed a presentation of a Business Icon Award of N500,000 to Grace Asuquo Bassey, a widow and CEO of Gee Brunch Fabrics, who has been in business since the 80s and had used proceeds of same business to train all children to the university level. Enobong Etuk, CEO of Boldoz Book Store, said to have started her bookshop from her handbag to the trunk of her car, to a shop and later expanded to a book club, also got a Business Icon Award of N500,000. “We want to stimulate businesses so that people can remain there, because we want to make a Lagos out of Akwa Ibom; to make it a commercial city by encouraging our young ones with great business ideas to fulfill their dreams and also motivate those who have survived in businesses in the state, Ememobong said Goddy Umoh, the state PDP legal adviser and chairman of the occasion, congratulated the beneficiaries for the privilege to bring their business ideas into fruition and applauded the state party’s Publicity Secretary for always adopting extraordinary measures to touch lives. While encouraging beneficiaries of the 5th and 6th editions of the Umbralla Business Quest to channel the funds attracted to harness their various business ideas, he pledged to support the next exition of the program with the sum of N500,000. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 