Coach Gernot Rohr has just come up bright with his team. The Super Eagles of Nigeria on the double header encounter they had recently with the Libyan national team in Nigeria and Tunisia respectively where they beat the Libyans 7-2 goals aggregate to come top of the group “E” Cup of African Nations qualifying rounds billed to take place in Cameroun. It is no doubt that the Super Eagles will be in for another Litmus test after their World Cup outing in Russia which was not impressive; that is if they are able to qualify for the forthcoming AFCON. It will be another litmus test because since the arrival of Rohr in Nigeria this will be the first time he is going to take the national team out for an AFCON assignment. Although, he narrowly missed the previous edition which the team did not attend because of the failure of Coach Sunday Oliseh to qualify the team before the German’s employment immediately after Coach Oliseh left Nigeria. This is the tournament with which the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) will use to measure the prowess of the coach and the Eagles, given the fact that this football tournament is holding in Africa. However, the Eagles under coach Rohr, have proven to be very effective in playing qualifying rounds. We saw this in their execution for the qualification matches for the just concluded Russia 2018. Although, one thing is to play well during qualifications, another factor that is more arguably correct is to represent well and clinch a laurel in any given championship, be it FIFA or CAF organised event. One thing that has worked for the Eagles so far is the fact that the match between Bafana-Bafana of South Africa with Sychelles which ended draw was the elixir that skyrocketed the Eagles to the top position of the group. And my fervent prayer is that the Eagles must eschew complacency in their next match against South Africa if we must qualify for the games. The match with Libya was a quick ride for the Eagles in Nigeria and the second leg in Tunisia where the Libyans hosted the Eagles. It was with some stroke of luck for the Eagles, even though, they had upper hand against the Libyans. It would have been a different story for the team against the more determined Libyans. I did say that Rohr must be very careful in the way he is planning his games, especially when it comes to effecting substitutions. Substitutions should always be made when it is necessary and giving the substitution to right kind of players who would change or effect the tempo of the game as desired . I do know that it would be an understatement to say that the Eagles will not pick one of the tickets available in her group; therefore, the team must play together as one force as qualifying series has become a birth right since the emergence of Rohr, many years after Nigeria’s football nose-dived. And until Rohr and his Eagles bring a laurel, it is not yet Uhuru for the Eagles! Good Morning. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 