Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun, has reassured the citizens of his administration’s determination to work on all awarded road projects with speed as soon as rainfall subsides. The governor said this at the State 2019 Budget Town Hall Meeting organized to sensitize and obtain inputs from stakeholders for inclusion into the budget. He explained that work was already on-going on some of the roads while others would not be left unattended to. Amosun, who dispelled the rumours on the status of J4 and J6 Forest Reserves, said that his administration did not and was not aware of the sale of the forest reserves. He appreciated the citizens for their support to his administration, which he said, has contributed in no small measure to his success. Meanwhile, Adenrele Adesina, the Commissioner for Budget and Planning, has said that investment in infrastructure, education, housing, among others, have been identified as tools for the transformation of Ogun State. The commissioner, made this known while welcoming stakeholders to 2019 budget town hall meeting, explained that the state’s proud heritage in education is currently in the cocoon of the next wave of transformation, as skills revolution is underway to support the next chapter of manufacturing and agricultural sector growth. She urged stakeholders to join hands with the present administration to ensure a stronger and more productive future for growth and economic advancement in realising the Ogun potential and preservation of the state heritage. “As proud citizens of Ogun State, we are all stakeholders in this journey and must all join hands to ensure that the state’s potential is realized, and our proud heritage is honoured,” Adenrele stated. Responding on behalf of traditional rulers, Oba Aremu Gbadebo, the Alake of Egbaland and chairman of Ogun State Council of Obas, appreciated the present administration for timely response to the welfare of royal fathers in the state. Stakeholders at the meeting included representatives of various interest groups across the state, such as traditional, religious and political leaders, trade associations, market associations, professional bodies, civil society groups, student unions, among others.