Juliet Oyoyo and Justice Iyasere Kaduna/Warri – The Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) has disclosed that 23 people were killed and 17 injured in various parts of Kaduna metropolis during the violence that took place on Sunday. The Executive Secretary, SEMA, Ben Kure, disclosed this on Monday, during an assessment tour of affected areas. According to him, no society can progress without peace which is an essential ingredient of development and harmonious coexistence. The executive secretary commiserated with the injured, while extending condolences to the families of the bereaved. He said the state government was committed to providing security for all and ensuring conducive environment for all to live peacefully. Kure thanked the state governor, Malam Nasir el-Rufai, for his unflinching support to the agency. After touring Kaduna metropolis, the SEMA boss also visited Kasuwan Magani, where 55 people were reportedly killed on Thursday to present relief materials to the affected families. Kure called on the people of the state to embrace peace and shun violence. Similarly, eight persons, including a boy and three women, were reportedly killed in renewed clashes between Aladja people of Udu Local Government Area and Ogbe-Ijoh in Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State. The Aladja people have accused the military of opening fire on the defenceless women who filed out to protest alleged attack on the community by Ogbe-Ijoh people. The attack, which lasted several hours on Monday, saw Ogbe-Ijoh militia allegedly launching unprovoked attacks on the people of Aladja but was repelled by the hard-fighting Aladja youths who regrouped to push the attackers back. According to sources close to the scene of the fight, sporadic gunshots were heard in the afternoon but Aladja regrouped to push back the attackers only for soldiers, allegedly drafted in to quell the crisis, to open fire on protesting women. The soldiers’ action was said to have resulted in the death of three women while a little boy, who was hit by a stray bullet, also succumbed to the cold hands of death. Leaders from both communities, when contacted on phone, blamed one another for the renewed clash. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a community leader in Aladja blamed the army for opening fire directly on the women who were out on a peaceful protest against the unprovoked attack on the people. He explained that the soldiers came into Aladja on a designated mission to punish and annihilate Aladja. “It’s like the soldiers were paid and directed to kill as many Aladja people as possible,’’ our source said. However, this claim was countered by an Ogbe-Ijoh leader who did not want his name in print as President General of Ogbe-Ijoh could not be reached to comment on the crisis. Chief Christian Whiliki, a foremost community leader in Aladja, lamented the onslaught, describing the development as most unfortunate. He disclosed that from information he gathered from those directly in the theatre of war, over eight persons had been confirmed dead, making it the heaviest casualty recorded in recent time by Aladja since the protracted boundary dispute between Aladja and Ogbe-Ijoh communities began. He appealed to the Delta State government to call the soldiers to order so as not to escalate the crisis beyond its present level. The battle was still raging as at the time of filing this report on Monday evening.