Stakeholders in the industry are of the view that there should be practical interventions to minimise the level of impact of road traffic accident on human security. They suggested that, given the  gravity  of  road  traffic  crashes and  injuries  in  the country that experience  of  best practices  from  countries where incidents of road accidents are minimal  should  be borrowed, and recommended that Police  control  of  speed  and  drunk driving  must  be  intensified  on  the highways to stem the high incidence of traffic fatalities and injuries. Mr. Kingsley Mofunanya, said: “Governments should intensify efforts towards the national road safety policies and strategies, allocate adequate financial and human resources to ensure that the Federal Road Corp, more than ever before, becomes more efficient in carrying out its constitutional responsibility.” He added that governments should create regular public education programmes on road safety, and should be adopted in all states of the federation. Besides, he advocated that awareness raising programs should be intensified. Similarly, he suggested that awareness creating activities carried out as a way of keeping  all people informed about the cause and effects of traffic accident on human lives and property damage, saying that  on that note, there would be continuing, comprehensive and holistic awareness creation programs which should be conducted regularly. In the same vein, he suggested that coordination of works among stakeholders should be improved, and that traffic concerned bodies and the larger public should work cooperatively in general and cooperation and coordinating activities. Mr. Ambrose Ebizide said: “Governments should establish driving training centers that would be constitutionally empowered to train drivers, and imbue them with the knowledge that are required to ply vehicles on Nigerian roads.  On that strength, government-owned driving schools should be managed by government, saying that private vehicle training centers are working only for the sake of maximising profit without regarding for measuring and assessing skill, knowledge and ability of the trainee drivers”. But the Federal Government said it is not relenting in its efforts to ensure that the prevalence of road traffic accident on Nigerian roads is nipped in the bud in the country. It would be recalled that Babatunde Raji Fashola, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, few weeks ago carried out a faithful implementation of reports of Road Audit regularly prepared by the FRSC and sent to his office. Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, the Corps Marshal, commended the minister  on  his prompt action ,saying  such reports has led to timely rehabilitation of several roads across the country. The Corps Marshal who gave the commendation in his goodwill message at the 24th meeting of the National Council on Works held at the Presidential Banquet Hall, Birnin Kebbi, Kebbi state in the month of August expressed satisfaction with the high level of collaboration between the FRSC and ministry of Power, Works and Housing, noting that the nation is benefitting immensely from the partnership. He further stated that as part of the statutory responsibilities of the FRSC, the Corps’ patrol teams are on the roads on daily basis during which they monitor the conditions of the roads and would always draw the attention of the Ministry to portions of the roads that required immediate action. The Corps Marshal stressed that the immediate response which the Minister has always given to such reports has led to many of the collapsing and deteriorating parts of the roads being given priority in rehabilitation works, thus saving many lives of road users. Oyeyemi thanked the Federal Government for its efforts at domesticating the Geneva conventions on road signage and markings. He particularly commended the Minister for his commitment to provision of road signage to roads across the country. He called on the Commissioners for Works in the states of the federation to render necessary support to the FRSC in its determination to ensure effective implementation of the guidelines on the operations of driving schools. The FRSC Boss further noted that the call became imperative in view of the need for effective supervision of the operations of the driving schools in the states in the collective efforts to protect the integrity of the national driver’s licence. He restated the commitment of the FRSC to diligent implementation of the resolutions of the council for safer road environments in the country. The meeting which was declared open by the Governor of Kebbi state, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, saw the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola presenting the keynote address, while technical sessions were held thereafter. In attendance were commissioners of Works from the 36 states of the federation, including the FCT and other council members from across the federation. Considering the fact that road traffic accidents in Nigeria represent a serious problem, where several productive lives have been wasted, according to NBS statistics, not a few watchers of the economy are of the view that efforts should be intensified in the bid to stem the tide. Traffic accidents, according to them, incur a large social and economic loses to the nation, families and individuals. Road crashes recently became one other major problem in the country. As gathered in the media parleys conducted by SUNDAY INDEPENDENT there were unanimity of views that road traffic accidents, more often than not, subject families and communities to bearing funeral cost while organisations bear vehicle repair cost, vehicle detention cost, police work cost and travel time delay, and all the costs impinge on the economic growth as they cumulatively lead to slow economic growth. Mr. Gideon Oyedele, said the government needs to be at par with the pace of development in motoring and transportation as the challenge posed in the sector is “becoming bigger and bigger, noting that “There is no doubt that motorization has contributed in a significant way to the prosperity of Nigeria. However, the price being paid for this is exorbitant. Road accidents in Nigeria resulting in injury or fatality, loss of man power, loss of productivity, high medical expenses, costly management, property damage and others are estimated to cost an annual economic loss that is not documented. A Lagos based insurer, Adetayo Benson, told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that, “The average per claim paid by insurers for physical damage to vehicles has continued to surge its upward trend. The increasing numbers and cost of road accidents would only push insurance premium up and the sheer numbers of road accidents on Nigerian roads was a terrible “economic waste” to the nation as a whole. Poor people in developing countries have the highest burden of injuries and fatalities due to road traffic crashes.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 