The Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) yesterday disclosed that it has closed the Garu Micro Finance Banks (GMFB) in Bauchi state. The Manager Garu Micro Finance Bank Bauchi Ibrahim Abubakar, who confirmed the development during an interview with our correspondent in Bauchi, said:  “The bank was closed because the shareholders of the bank have been unable to recapitalise it. This is coming at wrong time when we are paying pensioners September salaries and ultimately it has affected the depositors” “But the NDIC and the management are collecting forms from depositors to process their payment with designated banks across the state to enable them received their money” He said the bank has been operating for over 20 years in the state capital, adding that pensioners and other depositors are already used to the bank. On his part, a Senior officer with the NDIC who pleaded anonymity also reacted to the development, saying that the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, had already approved the liquidation licence  of Garu microfinance bank Bauchi. “The CBN has revoked the licence of Garu Micro Finance Bank Bauchi for its inability to meet up with the financial obligations guiding operations of micro finance banks” “Other reasons why the CBN revoked the license of the bank include the bank inability to meet its credit obligations and poor customer service that involves notifying customers and the public on bank matters” “The bank has already closed it the doors to the public and immediately started working with the bank’s staff to bring the books of account up to date and ultimately, post all relevant entries to the bank’s general ledger,” he said. The official said when an insured bank fails, the NDIC becomes the receiver, that is the entity appointed to protect the bank’s accounts and other properties while it manages the orderly liquidation of the failed bank. “This liquidation process entails more than converting assets to cash. It also involves finding new ownership for the failed bank,” he said He gave the assurance that the NDIC would work to determine the number of depositors, their individual deposits and modalities for paying them. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 