The Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) and Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) met yesterday to discuss various issues that affect employers and their employees. Among the issues was how to renew NSITF Compliance Certificate. Barrister Adebayo Somefun, Managing Director/CE, NSITF in his remarks explained that the first step entails the submission of a letter of application with photocopies of previous certificate, current staff schedule/payroll, and evidence of payment either through bank teller, RRR receipt and receipt from NSITF branch office. He added that the amount to pay as Employees’ Compensation Scheme (ECS) contribution is one percent of employee’s total emolument. On what does one do if he is the only employee in his or her company, Somefun argued that there is no minimum or maximum number of employees to register under ECS, adding that the scheme recognises one employee. On what to do when one is trying to register on the NSITF portal without getting confirmation, the advice given by Somefun at the interactive forum was that in such a case, complaint should be lodged with NSITF online or visit the nearest NSITF office. The issue of employers, who had registered with CAC many years ago but have not operated until recently, the steps for getting NSITF Compliance Certificate was offered. In such a situation, the employers were advised to obtain clearance certificate from Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), showing period of tax returns, submission letter of application as well as submission of photocopy of valid means of identification. He said that there is need to submit current staff nominal and payroll, evidence of ECS payment in the form of of bank teller, RRR receipt, official receipt from NSITF and CAC certificate. On what evidence is there to check if claims are paid by NSITF, explanation was given by the Managing Director that letters are sent to employers, NECA and employees showing details of payments to the claimants. On the process of registration with the NSITF, intending applicants were advised by Somefun to obtain and fill RE01 data form, submit photocopy of CAC Certificate (original copy to be sighted), and submission of photocopy of valid means of identification. On how to make claims for an injured employee, employer were advised to notify the fund about the incidence or accident within 21 days using form submit claims application on behalf of the injured employee by completing the following forms, CDF02 claims application Form, CCF03 Affidavit by employee, confirming the accident or incident form CCF04 meant for resumption of duty report and claim for loss of productivity. They were also advised to complete and submit Form MR01 Medical Report, advising that all claims applications should be filled through the originating branch. On who gets compensated where there are more than one surviving spouse and no named beneficiary, advice was also offered that “The surviving spouses (usually wives), are encouraged to open a joint account into which the benefits are paid or, a family resolution is reached and documented where a nominee is elected as the recipient of the benefits, usually one of the surviving wives. Where the nominee is not any of the surviving spouses, then letter of administration is required. It was added that the fund may wish to apply Section 17(13) keeping in mind the precepts of Section 17(11); as a guide. On whether NSITF can take over the cost of an ongoing treatment, it was explained that “NSITF may consider taking over the cost of treatment if the employer is duly registered and complying with the precepts of the ECA 2010 and the employee is covered under the scheme, and the disease or ailment falls within the scope of the First Schedule of the ECA 2010.