YOLA – Tension has gripped the Adamawa State branch of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the National Working Committee (NWC) has confirmed the candidature of Governor Muhammadu Umaru Jibirilla Bindow as its gubernatorial candidate in the 2019 elections. The bigwigs led by Naval Admiral Murtala Nyako (rtd), Babachir Lawal, former SGF, Nuhu Ribadu, one of the contestant, Dr. Mahmood Halilu Ahmed, brother to Aisha Buhari, Sen. Abubakar Halilu Girei, Sen. Bello Tukur, Sadiq Mohammed Kalu, and their followers may be on their way out of the party to protest the confirmation of Governor Jibrilla as the APC candidate for the 2019 general elections. Dependable sources indicated that a mainstream faction of the party has vowed to ensure the defeat of Bindow come 2019 as the party chieftains will work with other interest groups to ensure that Bindow is defeated. The resolution of the party chieftains was sequel to the approval and submission of Bindow’s name as the gubernatorial candidate of APC to INEC by the NWC of the party. The party’s primaries in the state were conducted amidst rancor leading Buhari’s Inlaw Dr Ahmed and Mallam Ribadu to register bitter complaints as they said it did not take place anywhere in the state. Sources in the ruling party have hinted that Bindow should not start exuding his victory as his traducers have vowed to ensure his defeat come 2019 general polls. A source said, “This is a resolution we have made to teach the party a bitter lesson for accepting the result of a kangaroo primary which was done through bribery to the Jibrin Alpha committee despite sufficient evidence that it was a Kangaroo arrangement by Jibril Alpha committee, the NWC still went ahead to give victory to Bindow. “We have resolved with our supporters in millions to ensure the failure of APC in Adamawa State during the general elections.” Sources said the bigwigs are now meeting to adopt this strategy to cage APC in Adamawa State under the candidature of Bindow. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 