LAFIA – Ogbonnaya Onu, the Minister of Science and Technology, on Thursday, said his ministry has made tremendous progress in the implementation of the national science, technology and innovation roadmap. Ogbonaya stated this during a five-day 16th annual meeting of the National Council on Science and Technology held in Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital. The minister said the Ministry of Science and Technology has successful carried out the sensitisation of Nigerians on the innovation roadmap in all the six geo-political zones including those Nigerians living in the diaspora. According to the minister, “We have vigorously pursued the sensitisation of Nigerians on the importance of the revolutionary presidential order No.5. We have so far successfully carried this out in the South -West, North-West, North-Central and South-East geo-political zones of the country. “The presidential executive order No. 5 is the policy guidelines for the Federal Executive Council, as well as ministries, departments and agencies to cover the design and executive of programmes, projects and contracts with science, engineering and technology components. “This has become even more important in this age of globalization, hence the theme of this year event:  ‘Enhancing Nigeria’s Competitiveness in all Sectors of the Economy Through Effective Development of Science, Technology and Innovation’, he said. Onu further said before the coming of President Muhammadu Buhari, Nigeria was importing rice, “but now Nigeria is no longer doing so because of innovation that is coming out.” He advised Nigerians to stop patronising foreign products because Nigeria has gone far in innovation. Earlier in his keynote address, Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, who was represented by his deputy, silas Ali Agara, said state government had concluded plans to revolutionise science and technology in Nasarawa State. The deputy governor explained that Nasarawa State Government had signed MoU with Singapore Government to enhance the teaching of technical education in the state, adding that the  state government was already in agreement with technical innovation  education to provide technical education to students in Nasarawa State.