Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has come under renewed pressure to resign his position and face prosecution after a new video went viral showing him receiving bribe from an unidentified contractor. The short video, which is the third since the bribery allegation against the governor first broke out, lasts about nearly three minutes, showing the Governor conversing with an unknown contractor in Hausa language, also showed him receiving a bribe. Below is clip of Another video of Ganduje Kano State governor receiving bribe from a contractor#LetsGetNigeriaWorkingAgain #Nigeriawillwork #NigeriaDecides2019 #AbujaTwitterCommunity pic.twitter.com/GCTrzy9WZ1 — Atikulators Nigeria  (@Atikulatorsngr) October 31, 2018   Jaafar Jaafar, the publisher of Daily Nigerian, the publication that first broke the news, has repeatedly stated that the videos are not doctored as some have claimed and that he has 15 of the said videos showing the governor compromising his position. In his appearance before the Kano State House of Assembly Panel set up to investigate the matter, Jafar insisted that according to his sources, Ganduje has been collecting between 15 and 25 percent on every contract awarded by his administration, and that should any dispute arise about the videos, he was ready to swear by the Quran that the videos are authentic. After the latest video went viral on late on Tuesday, Nigerians have taken to social media, expressing their opinion on what should be done to address the matter. Popular social media influencer, Japheth Omojuwa, through his Twitter handle, has called on the Kano State House of Assembly to ensure a speedy conclusion to its investigation, adding that the scandal is a further dent on President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti-corruption campaign. Many of those who commented on the issue believe Ganduje should take the path of honour and resign without waiting for the State House of Assembly to impeach him. Based on the scenes in those 3 videos released, Gov. Ganduje should be tendering is resignation letter anytime soon else the Kano State House of Assembly should do the needful by impeaching him. The NWC of APC should also withdraw his candidacy & replace him with another person. — KUKUTE  (@Ade_Nurayn) October 31, 2018  Ganduje is a disgrace and should resign immediately! — Daddy D.O (@DOlusegun) October 31, 2018  Some others also called the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to immediately invite the governor for questioning:  Ganduje should resign, @officialEFCC should do the needful. These evidence against him are strong and he deserves whatever he gets. Immunity clause should be revisited by the 9th National Assembly. — Ọlákúnlé Abíọ́lá Sómóyè (@MrSomoye) October 31, 2018   Based on Nigeria’s Constitution, some have however pointed out that as a sitting governor, Ganduje enjoys immunity from prosecution until his tenure ends: 2. many seeming saints to be sinners & to me, this is good outcome. Now talking legalese what can happen to Ganduje? Presently he is covered by immunity just like Fayose was until the end of his term, so the law can't touch him presently although EFCC can legally investigate… — Arinola A (@iyaboawokoya) October 31, 2018 