Yemi Adebisi and Oyinkan Somorin Lagos – The recent intervention of the Senate, which urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to suspend the Automatic Teller Machine (ATM) card maintenance charges being deducted from customers, must have brought a sweet relief to most Nigerians especially the low income earners. The motion, sponsored by Senator Olugbenga Ashafa, queried the continuous exploitation of the citizens on the illicit and excessive bank charges on customers’ accounts. In addition, the Senate called on commercial banks to configure their machines to dispense up to N40,000 per withdrawal pending the outcome of the investigation by the Senate committees tasked with investigating the excessive and illicit bank charges. Nigerians therefore insist that the senate should follow this ‘war against corruption’ to a logical conclusion. They said, if implemented, the motion will be one of the most successful records of the senate since the beginning of their session in this political dispensation. “If the senate can help the masses to fight and win this war, we will not forget them. The money bags do not know that anybody is deducting anything from their bank account. But the masses depend on crumbs, yet these ‘scavengers’ are using technology to swallow the money. It is very unfair.” These were the comments of Tinu Aderinto, a petty trader in Ikeja, who said she has stopped keeping money in the bank. But beyond the charges through ATM, Nigerians are also lamenting on the excessive rate in which banks are charging on every form of transaction made with the industry. Transactions affecting loans, money transfers, foreign trade, bonds, guarantees among others also come under imposition of excess charges by banks. It was observed that several businesses and individuals who borrowed money from banks have been ruined by, in a majority of cases, banks’ excessive charges. The same is true of those involved in international businesses, to mention a few. It is no longer news that four commercial banks generated about N49bn from maintaining customers’ accounts in 2017, according to the annual reports of the banks. Financial market analysts said the managements of some of the banks lacked ideas on how to find alternative sources of fees and commission. They said that many commercial banks were engaging in exorbitant charges of customers and noted that the Central Bank of Nigeria had failed to sanction such banks. In spite of public outcry, there is no end in sight to this unethical practice as banks, rather than stop and repent, are perpetrating it in greater proportion and with impunity. Unfortunately, not all customers that are excessively charged by banks are aware of such charges let alone being disposed to the recovery. Saturday INDEPENDENT speaks with some Nigerians who expressed their grouse against this act, saying it has ‘killed’ several businesses and families. Mrs. Seun Badmus, an Apongbon, Lagos based businesswoman, said she got a debit alert for card maintenance despite the fact that she never used the card. “I am crying out for money and some people are busy taking the little I have. I didn’t use my ATM card last month, yet the bank deducted maintenance fee. Please what are they maintaining if the card is not used? I still don’t understand the maintenance fees issue but what is paining me is that of the withdrawals. It is too much, something should be done about it.” Miss Eunice Ode from Ipaja said she sees cash withdrawal from banks as a reap off from the bankers, lamenting that a customer cannot take more than N100,000 without losing so much money. “Not too long ago I was sent N200,000 for my rent. When I got to my bank, the queue was so long and I was advised to go to another bank. When I got there, the crowd wasn’t that much but unfortunately it didn’t take me long to realise that the ATM can only give me N10,000 per transactions. So in agony, I was only able to withdraw N150,000 because the other people on queue wanted to bite my head off and besides I was already tired of repeating the same process all over again. After my transaction, despite that I didn’t get the whole cash as reflected in the alert I received, I discovered that I was charged almost N1,000 for the transaction. This is not funny. Imagine the shortage.” A customer of GTB complained of hidden charge of N20 taken from her account whenever she makes transactions with the said bank. According to her, she has other accounts with First Bank and Diamond Bank and doesn’t have such issues with them. “I don’t understand why GTB is different from other banks in the sense that I am being charged N20 when having a transaction from GTB to GTB. I also bank with First Bank and Diamond bank and I don’t have such problem. Is it not supposed to be free since it is the same bank?” Aside from some of these charges, customers also complain about charges made from the counter and when transferring from one bank to another or even from the same bank. Mr Charles Okon, a tourist from UK complained bitterly of how he was charged exorbitantly for bank transfer. According to him, he has never been charged this heavily while living in the states. “I have been living in the states for some years now and I have never been charged for bank transfer. Why is Nigeria different? This act sounds like sabotage to Nigeria’s economy,” he said. A septuagenarian church security guard, Mr. Uchenna Ogobonnaya accused Nigerian banks of extortion by tricks. “Nigerian banks are too money conscious. Withdrawing money, they would charge for debit. If you credit your account, they will charge you for putting money in your account. Now to transfer is worse because transferring is N105 for a single account but if it is more than one accounts, it is between N52 or N55 each. The way banking sector treats its customers is very unfair. What if customers no longer put money into the bank, how would they survive?” A house wife, Mrs. Deborah Akande was almost on tears over her recent disappointment. “These people don’t even have conscience. After they told me that I would have to get a new ATM card because my card has been seized from another bank’s ATM machine, I was told to make my withdrawals over the counter which I did only for them to charge me N110. I didn’t notice at first until I got the alert. If not for my husband I swear I would have gone back to the bank. What are the charges for?  Was that not how it’s been done in the past?” Miss Tinuke Ojo, a teacher said she opened a Diamond Yello account but the only thing she does with the account is to buy recharge card. “I have Diamond Yello Account. Although I pay money into the account, all I do with the account is to buy recharge card from this account. Unfortunately, I receive messages from Diamond bank saying I withdrew the said amount from my account. When I got my statement of account, more than three times of what I took from my account is debited. I went to the bank to ask why and I was told that I am being charged for messages. I told them that if that is the case then I am not interested in it but I still get them. Now I prefer to buy my card outside than to buy from the bank. Buying from the bank is a mess.” A First bank user, Ifeoma Okeke is not happy with her bank as she claims they charge her more than N200 for monthly SMS. According to her, she doesn’t see the need for the use because some of the SMS sometimes doesn’t make sense. “Do you know First Bank charges me more than N200 when it comes to SMS monthly? I have calculated it and many of these SMS doesn’t even make sense. They would send alert for debit and credit which is normal but sometimes the credit is not even normal credit but their own bank transaction of maybe N12 or the likes and most of their SMS are for information like quick banking, bank maintenance fee and the likes. Ain’t those types of messages supposed to be free?  So why do I get charged for something like that? There was a time I went to the bank and I complained about this. I told them I would like to deactivate my account from these alerts but I don’t think any action is being taken seriously as I still get them.” Saturday INDEPENDENT also spoke to a staff in one of the banks that chooses to be anonymous. He says that the apex bank was working on the issue of customers complaint. According to him, all these issues will be resolved as soon as possible. “We have lots of customers who have made their complaints about not being able to withdraw more than N10,000 from other banks. What they should understand is that ATM is not supposed to attract any charge until after the third withdrawal in a month and besides if one is using their bank’s ATM they can withdraw as many times as they like without getting charged at all. Also it is encouraged for customers to engage their banks to find out why there is such a withdrawal restrictions on ATMs. Besides ATM is not only for withdrawing money as they can make other transactions from it too. Customers can use these transactions for goods and services and for those who have serious complaints, all would be resolved soon, they should be patient.” Recently in the news CBN made an announcement that any bank that has wrongfully deducted from customers’ deposits and other transactions within the banking system should return the money with immediate effect as excessive bank charges have become a source of worry for bank customers. Bank users are hoping that these actions take place soon as they are tired of being swindled every time they make bank transactions with their ATM. They are also hoping that the authorities take actions for other transactions being done within and outside the bank.