Abuja – The Senate on Tuesday set election campaign expenses limit for presidential, gubernatorial, and senatorial candidates. It also set campaign expenses limit for House of Representatives, state House of Assembly, local government chairmanship and councillorship candidates. These are part of the amendments in the Electoral Act Amendment Bill passed by the upper chamber on Tuesday earlier rejected by President Muhammadu Buhari. It would be the fourth time the Bill was being sent to the president. President Buhari had rejected the Bill three times over observed lacunas in some sections of the Amendment Bill and advised that the observations be addressed. In the Bill passed by the Senate on Tuesday, Clause 14 was introduced to amend section 49 (4) of the principal Act that deals with failure of a card reader. The report of the Senate Committee on Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), chaired by Suleiman Nazif, said: “Where a smart card reader deployed for accreditation of voters fails to function in any polling unit and a fresh card reader is not deployed three hours before the close of the election in that unit, then the election shall not hold but be rescheduled and conducted within 24 hours thereafter, provided that where the total possible votes from all the affected card readers in the unit or units do not affect the overall result in the constituency or election concerned, the commission shall notwithstanding the fact that a fresh card reader is not deployed as stipulated, announce the final results and declare a winner.” Clause 24 was also introduced to amend section 87 (13) of the principal Act that deals with the issue of deadline for primary election. “The dates of the primaries shall not be earlier than 150 days and not later than 90 days before the date of the election to the elective offices. “The same section also stipulates a specific period within which political party primaries are required to be held following the unintended consequences of leaving lNEC with only nine days to collate and compile lists of candidates and political parties for the various elections. “This is because the earlier Electoral Act Amendment Bill did not properly amend sections 31, 33 and 85 of the principal Act that stipulate times for submission of lists of candidates, publication of lists of candidates, notice of conventions and congresses for nominating candidates for elections,” the adopted report stated. Clause 32 was introduced to amend section 140 (4) of the principal Act that deals with omission of name of a candidate or logo of a political party. It stated: “If at the point of display or distribution of ballot papers by the commission, a candidate or his agent discovers that his name, the name or logo of his party is omitted, a candidate or his agent shall notify the commission and the commission shall postpone the election to rectify the omission, and appoint another date to conduct the election, not later than 90 days. “Where the election is postponed due to omission of a political party’s name or logo, the commission’s officer responsible for such printing of party names or logo commits an offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for two years or a fine of N2,000,000.00 or both.” The main objectives of the amendment of the Bill, according to the lawmakers, was “to provide for the use of card readers and any other similar technological devices in conducting elections; to provide a time line for the submission of list of candidates as rightly captured in section 31 (6) and 85 (l) of the Bill; to identify criteria for substitution of candidates, limit of campaign expenses; and to address noticed problems related to the omission of names of candidates or logo of political parties.” Nazif, however, said all the issues raised by President Buhari have been addressed in the adopted report. He added: “Mr. President, distinguished colleagues, at this juncture it is worthy to state very clearly that all the issues raised by the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, while declining his assent to this Bill have been captured and addressed.” The Senate, after passing the Bill into law, commended Nazif and his committee, adding that it was waiting for President Muhammadu Buhari to assent to the Bill. In his contribution shortly after the presentation of the committee chairman, Emmanuel Bwacha said he hoped the president would not send the Bill back again. “Everything that needs to be done has been done. It involved both PDP and APC, anything that will not make the Bill to be assented to will be sending a bad signal,” he said. The president of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, shortly after the enactment of the Amendment Bill, congratulated the committee, adding, “This will go a long way to improving our election and I am sure Mr. President will assent this Bill.” The Senate, in the Bill, has limited the electioneering expenses for presidential candidates to N5 billion, gubernatorial candidates N1 billion. While the senatorial candidate is limited to N250 million, House of Representatives’ candidates is N100 million. The limit for state House of Assembly candidates is N30 million, chairmanship of area council, N30 million, while councillorship is N5 million. According to the amendment, no individual or other entity shall donate to a candidate more than N10 million, just as section 91(10) stipulates that “a candidate who knowingly acts in contravention of this section commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of 1% of the amount permitted as the limit of campaign expenditure under this Act or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or both.” Request To Include South East In Defence, Security Councils Splits Senate Meanwhile, moves to include an officer from the South East as a member of the National Defence Council (NDC) and National Security Council (NSC) in compliance with the federal character principle as enshrined in the constitution split the Senate on Tuesday. The motion seeking to address this observation, was, however, not adopted by the Senate. The motion titled, ‘Urgent need to appoint a representative of the South East into the National Defence Council and National Security Council’, was sponsored by Victor Umeh (APGA, Anambra Central) during plenary. Opposition to the motion was mounted, going by observation, by mainly lawmakers of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) of Northern extraction, who justified President Muhammadu Buhari’s lopsided appointment of members of the two councils. In a bid to douse the tension generated by the motion, the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, in his remarks, tactically suspended further debate on the matter, saying that he had noted the prayers of the motion. Leading debate on the motion, Umeh had urged President Buhari to reconstitute the membership of the council. Umeh also enjoined the President, as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, to appoint an officer from the South East as service chief for equitable representation of the people of the region in the council. He explained that by virtue of section 153(1)(g), more particularly third schedule part 1 of the 1999 constitution, the council should comprise of the President as the chairman, Vice President as deputy chairman, Minister of Defence, Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Naval Staff, Chief of Air Staff, and such other members as the president may appoint. He said: “The exclusion of the South East from appointment of service chiefs will continue to cause the feeling of alienation, neglect and consequential agitation among the people of South East. “The inclusion of the South East among the service chiefs will automatically accord them membership of the National Defence Council and National Security Council and will go a long way in assuaging their feelings of isolation and neglect.” Umeh was also “convinced that immediate appointment of an officer from the South East as service chief will enhance the feeling of oneness among the South Easterners towards other parts of Nigeria.” He explained that the council was constitutionally empowered to advise the president on matters relating to the defence of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Nigeria, and those relating to public security, including those affecting any organisation or agency established by law for ensuring security of the country. He said: “None of the service chiefs as appointed to the National Defence Council and the National Security Council comes from the South East of Nigeria as firmly enshrined in the constitution through the spirit and principle of federal character.” In his contribution, Enyinnaya Abaribe (PDP, Abia South) wondered why Buhari excluded the region from the council, alleging that Mr. President misinterpreted the constitution. Abaribe, who said he had, in the past, led the South East caucus in the National Assembly to the president on the matter, alleged that “it’s a deliberate attempt not to include the region as part of the security architecture of this country.” Deputy Leader of the Senate, Bala Ibn Na’Allah (APC, Kebbi South), however, accused the sponsor of the motion of “gross misunderstanding of the provisions of the constitution on the matter” and warned against politicising security issues in the country. The lawmaker cautioned the Senate to be extremely careful on its position on the matter, adding that “it has never been a deliberate policy of any government since 1999 to exclude any section of the country”. Speaking through a point of order, Barau Jibrin (APC, Kano North) described the motion as misleading and asked its sponsor to apologise to the lawmakers for misleading them, adding that the Ministers of Internal Affairs and Foreign Affairs, which are members of the council, were omitted by Umeh in his motion. He pointed out that the present Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema, was from the South East. Also coming from a constitutional point of order 153(g), Mao Ohunabuwa (PDP, Abia North) said it was a security matter that should not be trivialised and therefore sought the support of his colleagues on the matter. The President of the Senate, while ruling on the motion, said although the motion was well highlighted by Umeh, it was difficult to reach a consensus and, as such, he refused to call for the adoption of its prayers, but only said it was well noted. Addressing newsmen shortly after the plenary, Umeh said he considered the non-inclusion of the South East in the National Defence Council as an aberration. He pointed out that since the zone formed a major ethnic group in the country, it should be carried along on issues concerning the security of the country, adding that there were many military personnel who were qualified to be appointed into the service chief cadre or membership of the Defence Council.