AKURE – Bisi Adanri, a House of Representatives aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, on Monday, lamented that men were making things difficult for women in politics. Adanri, who said all those considered as the APC National Assembly and state House of Assembly candidates in the state were men, added that the APC leadership at the national and state levels should have conceded some slots to female aspirants. Warning that the development could discourage women from aspiring to public offices, Adanri called on Mrs. Aisha Buhari, the wife of the President, to assist women in addressing the issue. “I am using this medium to appeal to the wife of the President to support female aspirants or candidates or women in politics, this is the right time to do such,” she said. The female aspirant also called for the implementation of the resolution adopted by the United Nations at the end of the Fourth World Conference on Women in September 1995 in Beijing, China, that women should be given greater access to policy-making. She said, “I have been in politics since I retired in 2004. I aspired to the House of Representatives three times. This is my third attempt. “I am just appealing to those in power to think about that Beijing Convention. Nigeria was a signatory to it and I think women should be supported. “All of us know that in most cases, we have consensus candidates. But when consensus candidates are picked, women are not favoured in any form. “If you look at the current dispensation, especially in Ondo State, you will discover that for the three senatorial seats in APC, we have men, no single female.” “No female aspirant was considered as a consensus candidate or in whatever form used to pick the three senatorial candidates. “For the House of Representatives, we have nine seats. If we go by the Beijing Convention, we expect that we should have at least three female candidates. “We have about four female aspirants but at the end of the day, they have come out with nine male candidates for the House of Representatives in the APC, for instance. “If you look at the House of Assembly, the same thing happened. All the candidates are males. Female aspirants were not favoured in any form.” She criticised women societies in the country, saying they only paid lip-service to helping women, especially those in politics. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 