Abeokuta – Some elders in Ogun West Senatorial District in Ogun State have vowed to wield the big stick against National Assembly members from the zone for their failure to publicly speak against the rejection of the candidature of Abdul Kadir Akinlade as Ogun State All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial candidate. The elders, in a communiqué signed at the end of their meeting held in Ilaro; the headquarters of Yewa South Local Government Area of the state on Tuesday, threatened to disown the Senator representing the zone, Gbolahan Dada, and other National Assembly members from the zone if they failed to make their stand known on the crisis rocking the party. The meeting, which was attended by key stakeholders from the all the local governments and local council development areas in the district, “requested that the Senator representing Ogun West Senatorial District, Senator Gbolahan Dada, and other National and state House of Assembly members to declare their stand on the issue of the gubernatorial candidacy in Ogun State, otherwise the Ogun West Senatorial District will disown them.” The communiqué signed by Chairman, Ogun West Senatorial District, Alhaji Yakubu Ajayi, Secretary, Ogun West Senatorial District, Chief Kayode Kajebora, Senator Iyabo Anisulowo, Chief M.A. Olagbaye, and Chief Jide Ojuko also “commended the state Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, for standing firm and for being steadfast in the struggle for Ogun West for governor and the mandate of Hon. Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade as the APC gubernatorial candidate in Ogun State. We express our unflinching support to Senator Amosun and declare our readiness to follow him wherever he leads us.” The elders also declared, “Ogun West Senatorial District does not recognize any other governorship primaries other than the primaries that produced our son, Hon. Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade, on 2nd October 2018. “The stakeholders of the district stated unequivocally that the primaries that produced Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade was free, fair, credible and was duly supervised by all the accredited agencies such as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the State Security Service (SSS), the Nigeria Police and other security agencies. All members of APC in our senatorial district stand by the mandate freely given to our son in the governorship primaries of 2nd October 2018”. “Therefore, Ogun West Senatorial district was completely surprised that the National Working Committee (NWC) of our party had the effrontery to declare another person, Dapo Abiodun, as the winner of the governorship primaries which were never conducted. The Ogun West Senatorial District hereby pronounces as fraudulent and daylight robbery the declaration Dapo Abiodun as the winner. “We carefully followed the reactions in the political space about the recent visit to President Muhammadu Buhari by the governor of the State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, the Olu of Ilaro and paramount ruler of Yewaland, Oba (Dr.) Kehinde Olugbenle, paramount ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo and Senator Iyabo Anisulowo. We applaud the efforts of these eminent citizens of our great state towards arriving at peace and amicable resolution of the issue.”