Ubong Ukpong and Jide Oyekunle Abuja – The Nigerian army said on Sunday that its troops killed three members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, popularly called Shiites, who had allegedly attempted to overrun troops’ convoy and steal missiles and ammunition. The Shiites are led by their detained leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky. Major General James Myam, Commander, Army Headquarters Garrison, made the confirmation in a statement issued in Abuja, and expressed regrets that his troops sustained diverse degrees of injuries following the encounter. General Myam said that troops of Army Headquarters Garrison were on official duty escorting ammunition and missiles from Abuja to Army Central Ammunition Depot in Kaduna State when they were attacked by some members of the sect at Zuba Bridge in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) about 3.00p.m on Saturday. The sect, which was supposedly in a procession, he claimed, set up an illegal road block denying motorists free passage. He said, “When the troops’ convoy attempted to clear the road block, they met stiff opposition from the sect. “Members of the sect used various objects to barricade the road and also pelted the troops with stones and other dangerous items. “They smashed both military and civilian vehicles’ windscreens and windows. “They also attempted to overrun the escorts to cart away the ammunition and missiles the troops were escorting. “This led to the troops opening fire to extricate themselves. “Consequently, troops of 102 Guards Battalion, in whose area of responsibility the incident occurred, rushed to the convoy’s rescue. “Unfortunately, during the encounter, three members of the sect were killed while two soldiers sustained various degrees of injuries and are being treated at a military medical facility.” Myam said normalcy had been restored in the general area, requesting members of the public, especially those plying the Abuja – Zuba Road to go about their normal activities with the assurance from the Nigerian army that “no individual or persons would be allowed to disturb public peace and unprovoked attacks against military convoys.” On Sunday, the Shiites said five of their members were killed during a procession. Our correspondent reports that members of the movement on Sunday stormed the nation’s capital city from various states about 3:30p.m, wielding flags with Arabic inscriptions. They had alerted residents of the three-day protest via a statement on Saturday, asking them not to panic. They surmounted barricades and blockades mounted by the Nigerian army, the police and civil defence, thus paralysing sections of the city. The protesters, who came via the Suleja-Kaduna axis, were said to have come from Sokoto, Kano, Katsina, and Kaduna states, among others. Their numbers on the Abuja-Kubwa-Zuba Expressway reportedly overflowed the service lane of the road, paralysing vehicular movement, and forcing motorists to divert to other routes. The protesters were said to have trekked the distance from their states, defying the downpour which left them drenched as they chanted ‘Free Zakzaky; Free Our Leader’. The several blockades mounted by the police and soldiers along Suleja-Zuba Expressway, apparently meant to prevent them from gaining entry into Abuja, were serially dismantled by the group. Having overcome the barricades on Kubwa road, another detachment of armed personnel and soldiers from Guards Brigade was said to have been drafted to Katampe junction with a view to stopping the protesters. But the group, sensing the reinforcement by the security operatives, decided to terminate their protest at Gwarinpa which is roughly 2 kilometres to the city centre. Along the Mararaba-Nyanya axis, where members of the group from North East and North Central states made their entry, the situation was different, as the police and Nigerian army refused to allow the group to go beyond Abacha Barracks. According to eyewitnesses, the operatives reportedly fired gunshots to scare the protesters. Many motorists were caught up in the mêlée, resulting in heavy gridlock along the area already notorious for its traffic issues. As at the time of filing this report, the protesters around Gwarinpa and Abacha Barracks had been dispersed and normalcy returned to the area. The group had on Saturday, at press conference, announced that over one million followers of Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky would converge on Abuja on Sunday, October 28, to embark on Arbaeen Symbolic Trek to mark the tragic day that Tyrant Yazid bn Mu’awiyyah killed Imam Hussain Ibn Ali and his family. The group claimed that five of their members were allegedly shot to death by the Nigerian army during a violent clash around Zuba in Gwagwalada Area Council of Abuja. The Spokesperson of the group, Abdullahi Muhammadu Musa, said the movement would not be intimidated by the killing of its members. He added that the movement would not give up its demand for the release of their spiritual leader, Sheik Ibrahim El-Zakzaky. “If the security agents are trigger-happy, then they should save their arms and bullets to other parts of the country engulfed in violence, but not on peaceful marchers carrying no arms with them,” Musa noted. He said the protest would continue today, Monday, and end on Tuesday, appealing to the residents of Abuja and environs not to panic.