ASABA – The Delta State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has responded to the statement credited to the immediate past governor of the state, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan, days after his defection from the PDP to the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC). PDP described Uduaghan as “a man in a crisis of conscience,, saying that it was “completely laughable” for the former governor to boast that the APC “will wrest power from the PDP” in 2019, APC in a statement entitled “Okowa and PDP: Eat the Humble Pie and Bury Your Head in Shame,” saying that “every discerning mind in Delta State knows that Okowa administration is a total sham”. The Delta State Chapter of the PDP dismissed as a “pipe dream” the statement credited to Uduaghan, that the APC “will wrest power from the PDP” in 2019. Dr. Ifeanyi Michael Osuoza, PDP Publicity Secretary, said that the boast by Uduaghan was “completely laughable” and “further proof that the former governor still has not learnt any political lesson from the humiliating defeat he suffered at the hands of then Senator Okowa at the PDP primacy in 2014, when he (Uduaghan) used the full apparatus of the state to sponsor and support another candidate. According to Osuoza, “When it comes to politics and elections in Delta State, Dr. Uduaghan should realise that he is less than a featherweight. Does he even know how he became governor in the first place? In 2019, we shall ensure that he is exiled into political oblivion once and for all.” The PDP spokesman referred to Uduaghan’s assertion that the PDP “has never protected its own” as the ranting of a drowning man clutching at every available straw for political survival and relevance. “Governor Uduaghan was actually referring to himself when he made that statement. This was exactly what he did when he was leader of the party as governor. Out of sheer arrogance and vaulting ambition, he estranged many PDP members with his bad leadership style and worked hard to frustrate and impoverish many of them. However, Comrade Okonji Chidi, APC state secretary, in defence of Uduaghan, said every discerning mind in Delta State knows PDP, which the governor claimed is “still strong and formidable” has been decimated long before now, right from 2015 when those who knew Okowa very well as an ethnic bigot and a very vindictive fellow decided to dump him He said, “He that the gods want to destroy, they first make mad. PDP is behaving like mad dogs already in everything they are doing, including press releases they have been issuing over what Dr. Uduaghan did to them and we as a party, have the antidote that would silent them forever in Delta State. He said Deltans know tha,t “Okowa is a failure, will it not be better for him to eat his humble pie and start preparing his hand over note? “The defection of Uduaghan to the APC, which is currently shaking the political landscape and causing the PDP and Governor Okowa high fever, is just the icing on the cake when they will eventually lose the 2019 governorship election and many House of Assembly, House of Representatives and Senate seats to the All Progressives Congress (APC).”