ABUJA – The Registrar of Nigerian Institute of Soil Science, Prof. Victor Chude, has warned that Nigeria’s quest for food security would remain a mirage, unless the present application of fertilizer to crops is changed. Chude, who stated this in Abuja while addressing agricultural correspondents yesterday, lamented that there has been low crop yields and productivity as a result of the use of conventional, blanket fertilizer which more often than not, is NPK 15:15: 15 fertilizer. He explained that NPK fertilizer is not suitable for all soils, adding that the present trend where the same brand fertilizer is supplied to farmers was counter-productive. Chude, who was the immediate past President of Soil Science Society of Nigeria, therefore, called on the relevant government institutions to carry out soil testing and mapping before fertilizers are given to farmers for planting. According to him, “Soil is the cradle of civilisation. It supports life and soil is life. “Any nation that refuses to manage soil well will definitely go underground with time. We need a lot of resources to make soil productive. “For a long time, farmers have been using conventional, blanket fertilizers NPK 15: 15: 15 or NPK 20: 10: 10. “You notice that for the past four decades, the yield of crops has not appreciated so much. No wonder, our farmers have remained in poverty. This is because our soil has not been taken care of. “It is not true that NPK 15:15:15 fertilizer is good for all crops. It is not also true that NPK: 20:10:10 can be used anywhere in this country.” The professor of soil science however, acknowledged that present administration has been working assiduously to correct the anomaly in the fertilizer application, which necessitated the establishment of Nigerian Institute of Sol Science recently by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. To this end, Chude called for the use of targeted fertilizers by farmers to guarantee increased productivity, after soil mapping must have been carried out.