Lagos – Capt. Edward Boyo, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Overland Airways has said that for Nigerian airlines to operate at a profit level, they need to charge air travellers at least $200 (about N70,000) for one-way ticket. Boyo also lamented that the nation’s airlines are operating under very hostile environment without any support from the government or its agencies. He further said that the country’s environment did not encourage acquisition of new aircraft, stressing that airline operators pay about 30 per cent interest on loans obtained from banks while their counterparts in Europe and America pay back with single digit interest rate. Speaking last week at the Quarterly Business Breakfast Meeting with the theme: ‘Short lifespan of Nigerian Airlines, The Importance of Corporate Governance,’ organised by Aviation Round Table (ART), Boyo said that for the airlines to breakeven, they needed to impose at least $200 on travellers for a one-way ticket. He observed that the travelling public in the country wanted cheap flight and topnotch services at the expense of the operating airlines, saying that until all the challenges inhibiting growth in the sub-sector were addressed, aviation industry in Nigeria would continue to lag behind. He emphasised that no airline was set to intentionally delay or cancel flights, but said infrastructure decay at airports and stations contributed in no small measures to their unstable operations. The Overland Airways also boss mentioned scarcity of aviation fuel especially in Abuja, single runways and Very Important Personality (VIP) movements as some of the reasons the airlines delay or cancel flights. Boyo itemised challenges confronting the country’s airlines to include executive management knowledge, technical management knowledge, financial management, political management knowledge and the operating environment. He also said that the age of aircraft does not affect its operations; rather its maintenance mattered for its continuous airworthiness. He said: “No airline in this country or anywhere in the world is set out to delay passengers, but the operating environment is hostile to our operations. Until a minimum of an hour flights starts from $200, then, we will not last. “As long as the aircraft is airworthy, it is good to fly. Airlines today suffer too much of regulations from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). The age of an aircraft is measured in circle and hours. The key thing is for an aircraft to be airworthy. The Nigerian environment does not encourage Nigerian airlines to acquire new aircraft. The loans we obtain are repaid back at about 30 per cent interest.” Boyo further blamed NCAA for dearth of training of technical personnel in the sector and urged it to amend its regulations to accommodate compulsory training of personnel by organisations. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 