The Nigerian Women Association of Georgia (NWAG), a US-based women group, says it has awarded scholarships to no fewer than 507 female undergraduate students in Nigerian universities. The President of the association, Dr Stella Etta, told the Correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the non-profit was funded in 2,000 to empower women, youth and children in Nigeria and the U.S. State of Georgia. Etta said NWAG is a group of accomplished Nigerian women residing in the State of Georgia, with the aim of impacting on the lives of Nigerians at the homeland and in the diaspora. According to her, the association also currently supports 12 orphanages in 11 states in Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) through the ‘Beacon 100’ campaign. Etta said: “This year, 37 female university students drawn from the 36 States and the FCT in Nigeria will receive the naira equivalent of 300 dollars each. “In addition, 12 orphanages across the country will receive the equivalent of 700 dollars each for meals and toys,” she said. She said another organisation also gave an equivalent of 600 dollars for another three female university students, making a total of 40 student beneficiaries in 2018. According to her, the 2018 scholarship awards will hold on Thursday, November 1, at the Kapital Klub and Apartments in Abuja. Etta said in 2017, the women organisation also shipped medical equipment and supplies worth two million dollars to equip 13 community hospitals in Nigeria. “We have awarded 507 scholarships to female college students across the 36 states and the FCT and 52 one-time scholarships to high school seniors in Georgia, USA. “Last year, we increased the number of containers of medical supplies shipped to hospitals in Nigeria to five containers worth over two million dollars to 13 community hospitals in 12 states. “Efforts with our community outreach programmes in Metro Atlanta, help promote the Nigerian culture, change some of the common misconceptions about our home country and narrow the cultural gap between our various cultures,” she said.