ASABA – Mrs. Onyemachi Marakpor, member representing the Aniocha/Oshimili Federal constituency in House of Representatives has said there is no candidate for the constituency pending the determination by the national executive council of the party. Marakpor said the development was as a result of the nullification of the primaries conducted by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to elect a candidate for the 2019 general elections. The primaries which were conducted in Asaba on Wednesday October 3 saw Ndudi Godwin Elumelu declared winner with a total vote of 266, Marakpor 226 to emerge second, Peter Onwusanya, former Speaker of the State House of Assembly, scored 13 while Ike scored one vote. Marakpor was, however, displeased with the results saying they were manipulated in favour of Elumelu. At the government event centre in Asaba where the re-run was called on Friday, October 5, Mrs. Marakpor told journalists that the election was canceled and a re-run ordered following the resolution of the appeal panel which she and Elumelu attended. She said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was aware of the nullification of the election, adding that it was a collective decision of the appeal to cancel the election and fix the re-run for Friday October 5 and following the nullification, she said there is no candidate for the federal constituency. She said the re-run was fixed by the state chairman of the party, Kingsley Esiso, who sent text messages to all delegates, the four aspirants, including Elumelu and herself that the re-run should be held on October 5 but to her utmost disappointment no member of the senior PDP officials attended the re-run, the state party chairman whom she said fixed the re-run was not found at the venue. Also, no official of INEC was represented at the venue. The event centre had only Marakpor, the 401 delegates, spectators, police officers and journalists. The people were said to have waited from 8am to 4pm without INEC officials and party representatives from either the national headquarters or the state secretariat. Prior the declaration of the final results at the police headquarters, which was only left with that of Elumelu, Onyemaechi was said to have disrupted the counting process when it became obvious that she was losing the election to Elumelu, a former occupant of the constituency office. She was said to have stepped down from the stage where the aspirants and others were sitting, came to the counting table, began to throw questions to the officers and that all entreaties made to her to return to her seat failed, hence to avoid breakdown of law and order, the police released teargas canisters, bullets, rending the air and everybody around ran helter-skelter for fear of their lives. Some were said to have scaled the fence surrounding the cenotaph where the election was held and the final result was given at the police headquarters after peace had returned between 9 and 10pm on October 3. Meanwhile, Elumelu has said he has been declared winner and such do not call for another primary election. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 