WARRI – The leadership of the Ijaw Peoples Development Initiative (IPDI) has decried the neglect of the riverine communities in Delta, Edo, Bayelsa states. Comrade Austin Ozobo, National President Ijaw Peoples Development Initiative (IPDI) Comrade Austin Ozobo, the National President of the Initiative, noted that “It is disgusting to note that despite the outcry of the ravaging effects of flood on riverine communities in Delta, Bayelsa, Edo and other states, no relief efforts have been made to ameliorate the effect caused by flood among victims by the various state governments in the above states. “It appears that riverine communities are being neglected. Many riverine communities such as Ayakoromo, Bobogbene, Newtown, Gbekebo, Obotebe, Oruwaregbene,  Oyangbene, Akparemo, Ekanmuta, Ogbeigbebe, Ofounibenghan, Agbodobiri, Egodo, Yayorogbene, Okpokunou, Enokorogha, Tuomo, Ogbogbeigbene, Torogbene, Ojobo, Tamigbe, Ekogbene, Ekumugbene, Abadama, Endoro ,Ekrangbene, Orugbene and others in Burutu LGA have been ravage by flood but no critical effort has been put in place to address the plight of the victims. He explained that while those  affected at Kpakiama, part of Bomadi, Edegbene, Ogiriagbene and others in Bomadi LGA and Bolou_Angiama, Toru_Angiama, part of Patani, Agoloma and others in Patani LGA. Polobubo, Opuama, Sekelewu, together with those in Warri North LGA both in Delta have been submerged, and property worth millions of naira ravaged, Delta state governor, Dr.  Ifeanyi  Okowa has ostensibly decided to abandon them, explaining that “We are aware of how he is handling the flood issues in Delta North. He said “It is to our greatest dismay that when the Vice President visited the state, Okowa took him round to flood affected communities in Delta North, but never deem it fit to take him round any of Delta South flood affected communities.  His action, according to stakeholders in the communities, is indicative of neglect and disdain for the people of Delta South.  Most people in Delta South were unanimous in their views that Delta South has been the base of the economic mainstay of the state, and wondered if it is not a disservice for the governor to have neglected the people during the Vice President’s Visit given the fact that the governor was massively supported during the election that brought him to power. “On a serious note, residents of flooded communities are dying. No serious government will abandon its people to die. Our primary occupations are fishing and farming. Our lands have been ravaged by mysterious flood, damaging crops and livestock worth millions of naira. We have been sacked from our homes by floods; we are now homeless. .We live in canoes and on makeshifts. Hunger is the order of the day as we can no longer farm or fish on our lands and rivers, yet no effort has been made to rescue the affected communities. “It is worthy to note that Okowa provided money for the LGAs in Delta North to address the flood menace but in Delta south no money has been appropriated to various LGAs to evacuate flood victims from affected communities. No IDP camps have been put in place, no preparation is on ground to evacuate people been trapped by the flood in such communities”, the Ijaw Opinion leader further said. He emphasized that BAYELSA communities such as Abedebiri, Adagbabiri, part of Amassoma,Ekeremor, Foutorogbene, Amabolu, Peretoro, Agalabiri etc are greatly affected by the flood, but up till now no IDP camp has been put in place, no effort to evacuate affected residents of such submerging communities. No relief materials have been sent to ameliorate the sufferings of the people. I described that as an act of gross negligence and bad governance. Governor Seriake Dickson should quickly swing into action and see how soon the plight of flood victims could be alleviated. He said palpable fear has gripped riverine communities in Delta State as scores of buildings including churches, schools and market places have been submerged by ravaging flood, devastating all nook and crannies of the state. Investigation conducted by DAILY INDEPENDENT revealed a lot of pains and woes being encountered, especially by riverine dwellers, as most of them have been trapped for days just as they cannot go out of their abode to eke out a living. Ozobo lamented that it was horror at Asaba-Ase river in Ndokwa West Local Government Area of the state when a senior police officer who was coming to resume work in Warri, narrowly escaped death as the boat in which he was travelling almost capsized but luck smiled on him as he only lost some of his belongings, including police particulars to the ravaging flood, adding on a different note that thousands of residents living in the riverine areas are trapped as nobody is ready to take the risk of coming to the upland to purchase food stuff and valuables for their families. He said the situation is worse in Ijaw riverine areas, as dangerous species, such as crocodiles, snakes and various reptiles now live among the people who are no doubt defenseless and vulnerable. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that hunger is ravaging the areas as boats can no longer sail through the affected areas to Warri, Sapele and neighbouring town and villages in the upland to buy foodstuffs. A prominent Ijaw Opinion leader, Barrister Clarkson Aribogha, who is worried over the dangerous situation, has appealed to both the federal and state government to urgently wade into the matter and save the affected people from dying. “The major solution now is reclamation and pilling of the areas badly affected. I learnt from a source that some persons have lost their lives even as property worth millions of naira have gone down the drain”, stressed Aribogha, who is visibly afraid of what will further befall the victims, some of whom are expectant mothers, children and the aged. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 