Professor Elochukwu Amucheazi is the Secretary General of Igbo Leaders of Thought and former Director General of National Orientation Agency (NOA). In this interview with EMMANUEL NZOMIWU, he spoke on the debate for the restructuring and other issues of national importance. Excerpts: Igbo Leaders of Thought have been demanding that the Nigerian federation should be restructured before 2019 general elections. What is the possibility this happening four months to the election? I can’t see it being done before the election. In fact, we have been very consistent, apart from this our platform, in other platforms. We believe that 1999 Constitution is a fake. We believe that the country must be restructured. We talked about a federation, but we don’t have a federation. So, what are we having election for; for a federation or for a unitary system of government? So, you can see that fundamentally, restructuring is an important issue to be discussed. But, it is a pity that it is not being done. The President said he is not ready and APC, which had promised, said they are not ready. So, there is a problem. It is part of the tension now. So, we just pray that Nigeria survives this. Can you tell us in clear terms the way Igbo Leaders of Thought think Nigeria should be restructured? I think it is unfair to say Igbo Leaders of Thought. I can talk about myself. We want a federation and we don’t have a federation. In 1963 we had a federation.  Let us get back to a federation. That takes care of all these questions that people are asking. In 1963, we had a regional structure. Now that we have 36 states, people are still agitating for states. Are you saying that these states should be returned to the regional structure? We have made progress. We are doing six zonal structures and in each zone, the states are there. No one is saying, ‘abolish the states’, no. But, we have six zones. Let the federation therefore constitutes six regional structures and that is it. Usually, states contribute to the centre. They retain what they were able to generate. That is what we are talking about. You can’t come, take over everything and develop a certain section of the country and you say you are running a federation. The Federal Government is taking care of primary schools, primary health centres, agriculture and the rest of them. That is not the way to run a Federal Government. You look at Enugu Onitsha road. That is one of the reasons we are talking about a federation. Have you ever been there? That is the worst road in the country. No one goes through that road, which is a federal road. They tell you that someone has been contracted to do the road. That is what they say all the time. No one is doing anything. It is all deceit. We want to go back to real federation, whether they are 36 or 50 federating units, that is not the issue. We have six zones. We can make them seven, but not more than that. It is logical how you can make it seven. The issue is not even the equality of states or the equality of local governments, the important thing is zone, you are   responsible of most of your internal affairs and you run your state and you see what will happen in this country within just five years. As you talk of restructuring, some groups in the South East like Nnamdi Kanu’s Indigenous Peoples of Biafra  (IPOB) are agitating for break-up. How do you see his recent appearance in Israel? I am very happy he is alive. All along, we were still worried what has become of him. I was one of the people who were excited that he is still alive. Now, he has not shifted his stand. He thought Biafra and by Biafra, he means South South and South East will become a nation. That is not impossible. If Nigerians want it, it is not impossible. If you have a genuine federation of six geo-political zones or seven geo-political zones, you are having a real confederation. We were moving towards confederation. Even during the war, we negotiated confederation. It was only some side things that stopped it. Otherwise, we would have opted for a federation. Do you know that in this country we have 379 ethnic groups, virtually 400 ethnic groups and you think that we can run them via a Unitary system of government? You see government giving tips to people. Is that how we can run a country like this? That is why there is nothing like integration. I knew what I did when I was in NOA. I did a lot. I visited all the local governments. I visited all the states several times. We thought we were building up something. But, you need a structure that will make it possible that we facilitate the emergence of that nationalism. Do you think that what you are saying is possible? That is not impossible. But it has to come through real confederal system or federal system of government, whichever is the case. The issue is: Where lies the power? This is the essence of federation and confederation. All over the world, people are restructuring, responding positively to the demands of the time. So, I think that we have to be realistic about these things. You cannot tell me that in 10 years time, in 200 years time, there will be a Nigerian. No. Look at even the United States of America. Every state maintained its constitution and many others are revising theirs, making sure that blacks cannot vote. Anything can go on in that country called United States. It is just that sometimes you just think about the centre; because you have independent industries, centres, manufacturing and selling. Therefore it has become very strong as a country. We just think about United States, forgetting what is happening in the rural areas. These are independent states. We need independent states. Whoever says we will not have independent states is not realistic, but is creating problems for himself. I keep on saying that if East or Anambra or Imo can generate its funds, it can get to any part of the country. It is not that you are just there. I mean, how many people have we lost over the past few years? I was reading the table the other day, over 400 people dead, some kidnapped. Some killed. We have herdsmen wandering about, killing people. I mean, this is conservative way of rearing cattle. How do you expect them to rear the cattle? All over the world, whether it is Australia or Argentina or anywhere, you have ranches. Every person can establish a ranch. So, why is our own different? Kano at a point or Jigawa, they have enough land. So, why not have them. You will be surprised the kind of beef they can produce over a couple of years. But, we have some of these chaps straggling about, saying they are taking care of cattle, wandering about. In the 21st century, people are still wandering about. It does not make sense at all. Let us be serious, structure this country into a meaning federation or confederation, and then, progress will emerge. The President said that those clamouring for restructuring are not serious and that Nigeria’s unity is not negotiable. What is your reaction to the President’s position? It is restructuring that can guarantee unity. Therefore, the President needs some orientation. Over the years, our people in the South East have been crying over political marginalisation. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar the Presidential candidate of PDP named Peter Obi, former governor of Anambra State, as his running mate. But, some stakeholders in the South East, are saying that they were not consulted. How would you explain the development? The people are talking about the process, not necessarily the person brought up. I have congratulated Peter. I have talked with him and with some of the governors. It is the process. He is their kinsman. He (Atiku) should tell them, ‘look I want to pick somebody from you’. And they agree on that. Not necessarily, you pick somebody and you tell them, that is your kinsman. That is what they are saying. So, I think their quarrel is with the process, not necessarily the individual picked by Atiku. But, I think they are all talking. It can be resolved. That is the way that I look at it. To me, it is a matter that can be resolved.