Lagos – As part of ongoing measures to find a solution to the lingering crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari will today meet with governors elected on the party’s platform in the Presidential Villa, Abuja. A presidency source, who confirmed the development to Daily Independent on Monday, said he is unsure whether Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the embattled national chairman of the party who is expected in the country today will be present at the meeting. He, however, said among other issues, the meeting will centre on the multiple crises arising from the just concluded primaries in some states which have put the governors at loggerheads with the Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC). Our source said with few months to the general elections, “President Buhari is deeply concerned about the developments in the party and as the party’s national leader, he is determined to engage the critical stakeholders in the party on ways to amicably resolve the crisis. “As such, he will be meeting the state governors tomorrow (today) on the way forward. But one thing I can tell you is that removing Adams Oshiomhole as chairman is not an option. The president has declared support for him as well as other party leaders such as Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Tony Momoh, Ogbonnaya Onu. “In recent times, there have been reports of possible defection from the governors while those remaining in the party are threatening to work against the party in the forthcoming election. In Ogun, it was reported that Governor Amosun has planted his key aides in the Democratic People’s Party (DPP) and may defect any moment from now. “The same can also be said of Imo, Zamfara and Ondo states. I believe this and other issues will be discussed at the meeting. The meeting will also seek ways to unite the governors who have reportedly fallen apart over the plot to remove Oshiomhole from office”. The plot to sack Oshiomhole has driven a wedge in the relationship between governors elected on the platform of the party, Daily Independent has gathered. The governors, who operate under the aegis of Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF) are sharply divided on the issue as those loyal to President Muhammadu Buhari have distanced themselves from the move. A meeting of the governors called by the chairman of the PGF, Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, last week, at the Imo Governors Lodge in Asokoro failed to materialise as many of the governors decided to boycott it. According to a credible source, out of the 21-member group, only Okorocha, Governor Jibrilla Bindow of Adamawa; Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun and Governor Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara, who is the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), attended the meeting. Daily Independent gathered that the meeting could not yield any positive result as the governors need “at least two third of their members to append signatures for Oshiomhole’s removal”. According to him, it is becoming an impossible task for the aggrieved governors to carry out their mission owing to the backing of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the party’s national leader, who had instructed governors loyal to him not to support the move. However, speaking with Daily Independent, Babatunde Ogala, the party’s national legal adviser, said while the crisis in the party is something that is unexpected given influx of politicians seeking to get its ticket, he is confident that the party will soon overcome its challenges. “Firstly, I want you to know that whatever we are going through today is not unexpected. Why is that so? First, we look at the nature of how politics is played in Nigeria. We look at the fact that the stock of APC in 2018 where we are now, going forward towards the 2019 elections, is not the stock of APC in 2014. “If I recall when APC was formed in 2013, a prophet of doom said it would not last one year, while we have run for five years. If you also recall, nobody gave us a chance, but of course, we went into the elections, and we won. Those who had faith in the party got elected as governors, senators, Reps and so on. “Being the ruling party and looking at the nature of our politics, you will notice that in the last three or four years, there has been an influx into this party. The awareness and the appreciation of the prospects of the party is now much higher. Unlike in 2014 or 2015, where the party’s ticket was almost like yours-for-the-asking, now there is a mammoth rush for it. So, naturally, the losers will complain. “No election, by the virtue of whoever agrees with me, is free and fair. Even the man who loses when votes were counted, will tell you that delegates’ list was manipulated against him. Even if he had all the delegates and he loses, he will still tell you that they were induced. “We are contending with 360 House of Reps seats, 109 Senate seats, 32 governorship positions, 800 or more House of Assembly seats across the nation, and for each of those seats, there is an average 5 or 6 people. So if you put all that together, we are talking about tens of thousands contending for less than 1000 seats. So it is not unexpected. “Notwithstanding all of that, you cannot deny the fact that there are people who will be unhappy or aggrieved. But the party also has an internal organ to deal with these issues. I can assure you that… when INEC releases the list, you will see people who are ordinarily aggrieved even joining the campaigns”, he said.