Dennis Adikwuru, former Executive Secretary, Imo State Pools Betting and Gaming Board, and a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, is the Chief Facilitator, Grassroots Employers for Ihedioha, a major campaign team of the party. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the recent party primaries, travel ban place on top Nigerians among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see the recent Executive Order 6 through which the Federal Government places a travel ban on about 50 prominent Nigerians? The Executive Order 6 of President Buhari through which the Federal Government placed a travel ban on some Nigerians seems to me a misdirection in Buhari’s so-called corruption fight. The President oftentimes abuses the civilian government under his dispensation by eroding legislative and judicial functions. To come up with a travel ban on certain Nigerians, most prominent among whom are members of the opposition political party, PDP, portends danger and a serious threat to Nigeria’s democracy. I think the president has breached certain aspects of the fundamental rights of such citizens and they should seek enforcement of their rights. How do you see the party primaries of some of the major political parties? The primaries of political parties have come and gone as contained in the INEC guidelines and stipulated by the Electoral Act. Though there are currently over 90 political parties currently parading under our current democracy, one can say that only three are visible at the moment. They include the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the leading opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), although Accord Party and the Social Democratic Party (SDP) occupy one or two seats in the National Assembly. From what transpired in the primaries of these parties across the country, it is obvious that only the PDP conducted its primaries according to democratic and electoral rules. From the governorship primaries which was the first, followed by the Senatorial, House of Representatives, the State Houses of Assembly and finally the Presidential Primaries, PDP conducted these primaries to the satisfaction of every rule of the game. However, the ruling APC under Adams Oshiomhole has demonstrated deficiency in the conduct of free, fair and transparent primaries across the strata of the positions. In the first place, APC has been engulfed in endemic crises since after the party’s congresses wherein parallel executives emerged in most of the states from Ward to State levels and up to the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. As we speak today, most states are unsettled with their Executives, being the aftermath of inconclusive congresses. As a result, this scenario recycled in the conduct of the party’s primaries across the federation. What played out as APC primaries is just but mockery of democracy and I can tell you that this marks the end of APC in governance. Coming to APGA, the party can best be described as a limited liability company owned by the government of Anambra State, which went to the Stock Exchange and offered its shares to the public with major target at Imo State subscribers. While the stock business is always real and profitable, APGA’s outing is a scam and riddled with all forms of fraudulent undertones. And today, the main activities of APGA primaries took place in Imo State and ended up in fiasco. With disputes on the emergence of APGA candidates and no presidential primary and by extension no presidential candidate, the fear and suspicion are on the increase that APGA is an appendage of APC. I must state here that APC and APGA, by their abysmal outings in the just-concluded primaries, pose great dangers to the forthcoming general elections. I therefore raise the alarm to that effect. What is your take on the emergence of Atiku Abubakar as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)? The emergence of Alhaji Abubakar Atiku is a product of keenly contested free and transparent Presidential primary of the PDP, the outcome of which remains acceptable to all and sundry. I can tell you that Atiku’s emergence has added a boost to the credibility and image of PDP while the electoral chances have increased as well. You can also notice the spate of reconciliations, alignments and realignments across the country with Atiku’s emergence. Would you say Atiku Abubakar would be a better candidate than President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC)? For sure, Atiku Abubakar is a better candidate than Buhari and certainly will make a better government in all ramifications. There is already a new rhythm and aura across the international community in general and the country in particular. The real change is about to take place with Atiku Abubakar becoming the next president of Nigeria. How would you explain the crises that trailed the primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in parts of the country? The crises that engulfed APC and its primaries can be traced to the emergence of Adams Oshiomhole as APC National Chairman. I can remember that shortly after Oshiomhole’s emergence, I warned that APC would witness endless crises. Oshiomhole represents crises, he is a product of crises, he swims and swells in crises. The people who supported his emergence are crises gladiators. You cannot have something different from a crises prone man like Oshiomhole. And APC’s crises will continue as long as Adams Oshiomhole holds sway as the party’s National Chairman. Do you think that any of the young candidates of the emerging political parties could emerge the nation’s president in 2019? I cannot see any young candidate in the presidential race making an impact. Nigeria is a big democracy and not an infantile one. So, it is not possible for the candidates under your consideration to score up to 5,000 votes in the presidential election. What agenda would you proffer for whoever would emerge the nation’s President in 2019? The simple agenda for the incoming Federal Government should be restructuring and I tell you that restructuring is all encompassing. Any government that adopts restructuring will succeed. What is your take on the emergence of Chief Emeka Ihedioha as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP governorship candidate in Imo State? Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha as PDP governorship candidate for Imo state is appropriate and most expedient for the rebuilding and liberation of Imo State at this moment. Ihedioha’s emergence has been heralded by mass applause, sighs of relief and expression of hope that the face of credibility, integrity and transparency is about to occupy the reins of governance St. Douglas House come 2019. I can authoritatively say here that the Imo electorate has been galvanised towards the Ihedioha candidacy and there is hope that with Ihedioha, Imo State will rise again. It is no longer a party affair, but a collectivity of political parties, professionals, religious bodies, artisans, employers and employees, as well as the youth, students and market associations, the traditional institution, the transport unions, trade unions and, in fact, the generality of Imo State electorate are bound together by the Ihedioha candidacy. As one of the strong men in Ihedioha’s campaign team, would you explain his G-Employers  Scheme? Grassroots Employers for Ihedioha is my brainchild which was conceived as a result of the need to bring about innovation in the electoral process and add value to the electoral chances of our candidates. While impunity and godfatherism have become out of fashion in our politics, there is the proactive need to replace it with a more acceptable phenomenon. And you can think of identifying the directorate influencers who ordinarily are not the routine politicians. You see that the employers who put food on the tables of the ordinary people, the people who play humanitarian roles in the lives of others, the artisans who train people on various trades, name it, truly exert high influence on the grassroots. From the background of the stable of my former office as Executive Secretary of the Pools Betting and Gaming Board, which today produced the highest private employer of labour, I rallied the structure and spread it to other sectors such as agriculture, banking, hospitality, building, philanthropy, health and today we have built structures from the state to the senatorial zones, LGAs to the INEC wards and down to the polling units, bringing together, the electorate who of course constitute the grassroots of the populace. This is a more formidable structure and very dependable which is aimed at boosting the political campaign structures of the candidate or candidates of the party. Therefore, the Grassroots Employers for Ihedioha is a well thought out initiative meant to galvanise voters for the Ihedioha candidacy. And with the emergence of candidates under the Ihedioha umbrella, Grassroots Employers for Ihedioha will definitely explore into the State Assembly, National Assembly, Governorship and Presidential elections to ensure that the entire platforms under the Ihedioha political interest are victorious in the general elections. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 