Prof. Frank Onyezili of the Biological Sciences Department of the Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi, committed suicide weekend because he was tired of living. Sources close to the professor said on Wednesday in Makurdi that the deceased was found dead on Tuesday, October 23. Roseline Waku, the Director of Protocol and Information of the university, who confirmed the incident, however, said she was not aware of why Onyezili killed himself. “The only thing I can confirm is that the professor killed himself; I don’t know why he did it,” she said. Waku hinted of reports that the deceased left a suicide note, but said that she was not privy to its contents. A top official of the university said that the professor drank some substance suspected to be poison, after leaving a suicide note. The source, which craved anonymity, said that the university don’s action might not be unconnected with depression and loneliness that had been his lot since his wife and children relocated to a foreign country. “I am not sure why he killed himself, but he was always complaining of loneliness; his wife and children live abroad and have not been in touch with him. He might have opted to end his frustration by killing himself,” the source said. A competent source told Daily Independent that in the suicide note the professor said he was tired of taking drugs to check depression and as a result he took his life to end his suffering. He explained that the police took the note along with them when they were called in after the professor was found dead. On Tuesday, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Moses Yamu, said he was yet to get details on the matter. However, when Daily Independent got fresh details on the issue on Wednesday, the PPRO would not pick calls. He did not even reply to text messages requesting him to confirm the contents of the suicide note. A medical practitioner, who spoke to Daily Independent, said people suffering from depression are likely to hear voices that may push them to commit such act.