Onitsha – The former Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. Gen. Onyeabor Azubuike Ihejirika (rtd), on Tuesday flaged off the Nigerian Army Sports Festival (NASFEST) at the 82 Division, Enugu. The Deputy Director, Public Relations, Nigerian Army, Col. Sagir Musa, stated that the festival commenced with the Combat Marathon race (10 KM) in the early hours of the day at Bende Local Government Area of Abia State. Ihejirika, in his keynote address expressed satisfaction, saying, “I am glad to see that training programmes to keep fit are continuing in the Nigerian Army, especially engaging in sports competitions that will not only engender esprit-de-corps but showcase the soldiers’ mental and physical capabilities.” He commended the participants/formations and units of the 82 Division that took part in the competition for their zeal, commitment and determination. According to him “I do understand that this festival is in preparation for the Nigerian Army Sports Festival which is expected at a later date. Observing the zeal, commitment and determination displayed by officers and soldiers of 82 Division shows that the division will put up a good outing at the forth coming Festival. “The overall concept of the Nigerian Army Sports festival is in line with the COAS Vision which is-to have a professionally responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional roles” he added. Earlier in his welcome remarks, the General Officer Commanding 82 Division, Major General Emmanuel Kabuk, said that the festival was aimed at testing the combat proficiency, level of endurance of the Brigades within 82 Division and their capacities to tackle existing and emerging security challenges within their areas of responsibilities. According to him “The festival is also intended to improve the combat readiness of the Brigades under the Division in line with the COAS vision. “Hence, the importance of physical fitness as part of military training, professionalism and responsiveness will be clearly brought to bear during this contest.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 