The All Progressives Congress (APC), Nigeria’s ruling party, is presently embroiled in severe crisis over the conduct of its primaries for the 2019 general elections. This is however in contrast to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) primaries, which has been less acrimonious. From Lagos, to Ogun, from Imo State to Akwa Ibom, and from Kaduna to Ondo, to mention a few, confusion has been the order of the day during the on-going primaries. The crises cut across the primaries for governorship, House of Assembly, House of Representatives and Senate seats. In Lagos for instance, while the panel set up by the National Working Committee (NWC, led by former Gross River State governor, Clement Ebri, announced the suspension of the governorship primary, declaring that no election took place, the party’s state chairman, Babatunde Balogun, stated otherwise, insisting that the election was free and fair. He went ahead to announce the result, which was in favour of the candidate of the party’s leadership, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, at the expense of the incumbent governor, Akinwunmi Ambode. The next day, the party’s national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole told Nigerians that the election was free and fair, thereby preferring Balogun’s account to the report of the NWC’s panel. Surprisingle the panel recanted, and in line with Oshiomhole’s stand, later announced Sanwo-Olu as the winner of the primary and the party’s governorship candidate in Lagos State. The case of Imo was more melodramatic. There were stories of alleged abduction of some of the NWC’s panel members, while the panel chairman was declared missing by Governor Rochas Okorocha. The team that was reportedly abducted by Okorocha announced a result in Owerri, while the panel chairman surfaced in Abuja and submitted a report to Oshiomhole. Oshiomhole declared both reports as fake, while he announced the cancellation of the exercise. Across the states all over the country, there have been protests by APC aspirants to one position or the other, with their supporters besieging the party’s secretariats. With this drama going on all over the country among members of the ruling party, peace seems to have eluded the APC.  With the confusion trailing the APC governorship and other primaries all over the country, a cross section of Nigerians have been wondering if the 2019 general elections, the first to be conducted under party’s administration, will be credible, free and fair. This issue became necessary since some of the elections conducted by the Independent National Election (INEC) under the watch of the APC administration have been enmeshed in controversies. It has been stories of inconclusive elections, vote buying, alleged manipulations and malfunctioning of data capturing machines, ballot box snatching, with the opposition putting the blames, rightly or wrongly, at the footsteps of the ruling party, APC. Confusion In APC Primaries Are Self-Imposed – Lecturer Tope Abiola, a lecturer at Osun State Polytechnic, Iree, said the confusion that trailed the governorship primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) are self-imposed. He said that what have transpired in these primaries seem to be part of the style or approach the ruling party used to pick its candidates. According to him, “It is common approach within APC because of several interests that go at variance with the party’s interests.” Abiola, a senior lecturer at the institution’s Department of Mass Communication, stressed that in politics, “there are individual interests and there also party’s interests. Most times, party’s interests run against the individual interests. “Party’s interest is when the party leadership decides who becomes who, what and when. The party’s leadership most often decides who becomes the party’s candidate. Invariably, they decide or impose candidates on the party, even as they do not regard their action as imposition because it is their household trade and approach. “For instance what happened in Osun State and the decision taken by certain party leaders by the preventing Lagos State governor, Akinwumi Ambode, to get a second term ticket.” Abiola maintained that what has been transpiring within the APC all over the country is the party’s trade mark and should not be seen as undemocratic as such since it is their house style. However, he stressed that the only problem could reduce the respect the electorate has for the party, even as he added that the APC leaders and followers know how to resolve the crises within the party, without incurring the wrath of voters. The approach, according to him, may work for the party should all interests agrees to work for it after the selection processes. He also maintained that with what is happening within APC across the country during the primaries, the party’s administration may have challenges in conducting credible polls come 2019. He cautioned that the Mahmood Yakubu-led INEC must maintain its neutrality and independence and should not fall prey to the antics of the APC leadership during the 2019 general elections. He added that the Nigeria people may accept its imposed candidates at polls.. Primary Elections Are Parties’ Affairs – Engineer Nelson Idemudia Oghagbon, a Benin-based industrial engineer, said: “APC primaries, whether for governorship or any other position, has nothing to do with the general elections. “Every primary election is an exclusive affair of the party while the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is the body recognised and empowered by law to conduct general elections from the state to the national level, only attend the party primaries as an observer. “Whether the party members kill themselves during primaries has nothing to do with INEC because at that level, everything done is a party affair. INEC can only come in soon after the party submits its list of candidates for the election proper. “INEC has no right to investigate how many people died during the primaries, because, it is not their business. APC is a political party like every other registered political parties in Nigeria. Under normal condition, that the party is in power does not give it the right to interfere  with INEC’s duties. INEC will not ask any political party how many of its members died during primaries because it not part of their duties. “The duty of INEC as an umpire is to screen the candidates submitted by the parties. With or without APC or any other party, the general elections will be conducted by INEC. “The confusion that trails APC governorship primaries has nothing to do with peaceful or credible conduct of the forthcoming general elections. Even if APC writes to INEC today saying, it cannot participate in the general elections because of the crisis in the party, it will not stop the elections which a time table has already been drawn up by the electoral umpire, unless the crisis snowballs into a national one that may require a state of emergency throughout the country. “Only then will INEC say it cannot conduct any election under such volatile atmosphere the safety of its men and materials cannot be guaranteed. If I may recall the Western Region election crisis of 1963, it didn’t affect the conduct of the general elections because while the crisis was ragging in Western Region, elections were going on in other parts of country. Anybody envisaging that because the APC members want to bring down the sky as a result of their crisis ridden primaries, that INEC will not conduct credible general elections has a misplaced thought.” I Foresee Confusion In 2019 Elections – Analysts Dr. Bethel Olujimi, a public affairs analyst, said: “I see the confusion that is trailing the entire primaries of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), which are not only the governorship primaries, as a reflection of what the party stands for. “The situation will serve as a lesson to other registered political parties. Let me say that the founding fathers of the APC, the present day ruling party, is contrived by the leaders of the different political parties that merged to become one. “The political parties came together without considering their differencies, just to send the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) out of power. They never cared about who should be in charge at any point in time and how to manage the power they snatched from PDP in 2015. “That is basically the challenge the APC leadership is facing today at all levels. I can only remember that the APC was formed by the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), All Peoples Party (APP), which later become the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and part of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). “These parties with different ideologies and agenda came together to wrestle power from the PDP. They did not sit down to agree on who gets what. After getting the power, they are asking what each political party can get as reward for roles played in getting the PDP out. “But, few individuals who constituted themselves to be in control are denying the other. This is exactly what we are experiencing today. “Having said that, on the question of the possibility or otherwise of the ruling APC to conduct credible general elections in 2019, your guess is as good as mine. “With the fierce disagreement within the government in power now, I can imagine what will happen during the general elections next year. “Look at what happened during the Ekiti and Osun states governorship elections. Look at how the former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and the party’s stakeholders have allegedly turned themselves demigods by deciding who becomes the next governor of Lagos State and messed up Governor Akinwunmi Ambode who many Lagosians adjudged to have performed creditably well in developing the state more than what he met on ground. “But, observers say that this was simply because Ambode was not paying ‘tithes’ as demanded by the party’s leadership and his godfathers, and was sacrificed. What is happening today goes a long way to prove that the APC government is not different from the immediate-past, and that is if the past administration of PDP was not even better. If for nothing, things were not as difficult as it is today during the immediate-past administration. Corruption, which this administration claims to be fighting, to me, is even worst today when compared to the past government. “A lot is happening that has not in any way shown the possibility of free and fair elections next year. I see this government as being more individualistic than working for the collective interest of Nigerians. “I am afraid that I don’t see any political future for Nigeria judging by what the APC is doing now because all that they want is to continue in office by force against the wishes of Nigerians. Anybody that tries to stop them is as good as dead. This certainly is far from the democracy that Nigerians are yearning for.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 