YEMI ADEBISI and IFEOMA ONONYE LAGOS – When in January 2017, four students of the prestigious Queens College Lagos, reportedly died of water-borne diseases: typhoid fever and cholera, the parents, human rights activists, students and well-meaning Nigerians expressed their displeasure to how government and school management handled the life of these innocent students.  It was reported that 1222 students who took ill and proceeded to the School Clinic complained of abdominal pain, fever, vomiting and diarrhea between January 11 and February 15, 2017. The source of the disease was allegedly traced to 23 food handlers out of the 40 kitchen staff of the school according to laboratory tests conducted by the ministry of health. It was also discovered that the water samples collected from the kitchen, behind dining hall and Queens Delight, the school water factory contained high bacterial content. After the unfortunate incidence, it was gathered that the school management embarked on certain measures to disinfect, sterilise, sanitise, fumigate and revamp the entire social facilities in the school. A visit by our reporters to the school recently confirmed that though the school has improved on its health care facilities, responses from some of the students showed that the school management should not relent on its effort to avoid another disaster. One of the students suggested that the government should continue to do serial check-up on the school to prevent future occurrence, saying till date, there were certain things that the management promised to do which has not been done. However, he refused to talk further when he discovered that he was talking to a journalist. Every attempt to speak to the any of the teachers or principals also proved abortive. To prevent continuous outbreak of epidemic diseases in government owned schools, a retired principal from Lagos State, who does not wants his name in the print told Saturday INDEPENDENT that the government should look inwardly. “You see what happened last year in Queens College may happen again except those in the helms of affairs decide to face reality, be sensitive and never to play politics with life. Most of the government owned schools in Nigeria are exposed to series of dangers. There are some schools with about 200 students in the class. Teachers hardly have a space to stand and teach. How will the students in such schools comprehend what the teachers are teaching them? Students inhale each other’s breath. How many of our leaders have their children in such schools? I know of a Federal Government College in Lagos, not Queen College anyway, where boarding students are forced to go on compulsory fasting each time they are late to dining hall. Why and how? The food would have finished when they are late to the kitchen. The situation is this. The kitchen staff brings their family members to the school kitchen where they eat the best of the bunch of food meant for the students. The so-called food prefect and teachers in-charge would have also been bribed with special delicacies. They threaten the students not to tell their parents. So the students have no choice than to wait for the next meal. Who is looking after the affairs of our children in the school? I pray that our labour will not be in vain,” he said. The sole responsibility of every government is to provide quality education for the citizens. The quality of secondary school leavers and university graduates turn out yearly is a proof that the education sector in Nigeria has fallen below standards. Critics have fingered many lapses on the part of government as the reason of continuous nose dive of the education system in Nigeria.  After what seemed like a long wait and thoughtfully believing that government would have a change of heart towards the sector that grooms future leaders of the country, private individuals started establishing schools to help government improve education. In the late 80’s when private individuals started establishing private schools, they were not much of a threat because back then most government owned schools were not bad as well. The population of the country was not so much to contend with and so government schools, to some extent faired favorably because most government officials had their wards in the government owned schools at the time. But as time went on and continuous neglect and looting of education funds by different government in power kept holding the sector to ransom, private schools became the only savior for parents who want the best for their children to fall back on. At the time, only the middle class and elite can afford the private schools. Few years down the line, education in Nigeria is one of the most expensive things to get. It has also become a dream many children cannot fulfill. The private schools that stepped in to bridge the gap is far beyond the masses reach. The challenges many private schools contend with is measured to be beyond imaginable compared to the help they do for government in education sector. Challenges like government taxes, electricity supply, advertisement and getting approval to operate have thrown most private schools into serving only the highest bidder. The Managing Director (MD) of Chrisland Schools, Mrs Ibironke Adeyemi, confirmed in an interview that heavy government taxes is one of the many challenges running a good private school in Nigeria faces. Adeyemi, who spoke at a media parley organised to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the school founded by her mother, Mrs Winifred Awosika affirmed that tax officials always show up with a new demand. “There is so much harassment on private businesses, especially when they feel you are big or well known. You see different people coming for various kinds of taxes. The electricity bill we pay is nothing less than N8 million every month.” Breaking down the payment, she said “Our school in Opebi pays N2million, the one at Victoria Garden city pays close to N2million, and the one at Idimu and Abuja are going to N1million each. And that does not mean we will not buy diesel. Considering the high prize of diesel, you can do the mathematics of how much providing power takes from us. The costs are enormous and we cannot pass it on to our parents because the economy is bad. Some of our parents who could pay before are finding it difficult to pay up now,” she said. In the same interview, Adeyemi narrated how schools are falling below standards daily because of lack of proper funding. “The education sector is not getting adequate attention and this is affecting the quality of education needed to prepare children for the future. Poor funding of schools, especially the tertiary institutions, lack of infrastructure, poor remuneration have reduced schools to mere establishments rather than centres to equip and build minds. You cannot get quality education without good investment into the sector. I believe the government is not investing enough in education. It is poorly funded. “I graduated from University of Lagos in 1986 when I had my first degree and I decided to go back for my masters in education not because I could not do that abroad but because I had faith in the school. But today, the difference in what I am seeing and what I saw then is really bad. In fact, there was a time I was nearly in tears because of the situation I saw in UNILAG and if I had not gone to UNILAG then, I would have concluded that it is not a good university. For the first time, I am scared for this nation and that is the truth. I had my secondary education in one of the schools here in Lagos, but today, I cannot send my children there because it is poorly funded. It is high time government took education seriously. Teachers should be motivated. In some countries, teachers are paid even more than the doctors,” she said. Adeyemi’s confession serves as an eye opener in the high cost many private schools incur in their quest to provide quality education for children. Some of these costs which keep increasing with different government policies, is the reason the gap of parents being able to meet up with schools expectations gets wider. Many of the schools after paying heavy taxes and going through rigorous processes to get approval brandish their claws on parents who want their children in their school. The high cost the schools bear also affect the quality of teachers such school would employ. Most private schools are not perturbed about the basic equipment that are needed to build the minds; they invest more on mundane structures and luxury environment to attract rich parents. It was also discovered that most private schools do not follow the government certified school curriculum, yet the students will write the same Junior/Senior School Certificate examinations. A parent once told our reporter, that she is not sure she can register her child in a school where there is no air condition in the classes. “The school structure should be attractive enough before I will have a second glance,” she said. Another parent, Soyeye Sade, explained that given how poor education is in Nigeria presently, any school that their fee is less than N20,000 is not getting it right. Presently, that is a general belief that a good school where a child will get quality education must cost an arm and a leg. Anything less, is seen as low standard. In Lagos State, an affordable private school for nursery and primary school pay nothing less than N40,000. The upper class is estimated to be between N70,000 to 120,000. The expensive schools for the elite are pegged from N250,000 upwards. Paying these relatively high school fees do not give parents the license to relax that all is well with their child’s education. Many still have to get after school lesson teacher to augment what they learn in school. Just as private schools wrestle with government policies and taxes to stay afloat, government owned schools are weighed down with years of neglect and poor funding. Most federal owned secondary schools are maintained by the schools’ Parents Teachers Association, thereby increasing the burden of the parents whose list of expenses are already enormous. From the time most of the federal schools were established, the population was not a challenge compared to now. Government fund which should help augment the little parents are supporting with are not forth coming. The result is the deteriorating school facilities, bad living conditions for students in the boarding houses and poor welfare. Speaking with a parent whose daughter is in Federal Science Technical College, Yaba, Lagos who pleaded anonymity shared what he experienced when he visited the school. He said that the classroom he saw was over crowded. In his words “the pupils I saw in a class were not fewer than 120. The teacher had to find a corner to stand to be able to teach and then struggle to find his way to the board to be able to write on the board,” he said. However, It is not all negative on the part of Federal government. A parent, Rekia Adegbuyi, whose daughter attends Federal Government Girls College, Sagamu, has a few positive comments about the present administration. She said that from the time President Muhammad Buhari assumed office, there has been positive changes in the Federal owned schools. She explained that the fees have been reduced favourably compared to when she first registered her child. She pointed out that, Parents Teachers Association levy that used to be high according to the location of the school has been reduced to N5000 across board. “In my opinion, President Buhari tried in making some changes in federal school. When I first registered my daughter at Federal Government Girls College, Sagamu, everything we paid was close to N250,000. That is including school uniform, bed, and many other things, now getting your child into the same school is barely above N100,000. PTA levy which used to be from N15,000 to about N50,000 depending on the location of the school has reduced to N5000,”she said. She stated that though she is grateful to this government, there is still room for improvement. Be that as it may and without prejudice, government at all levels is expected to be more sensitive to the running of school system to guarantee a better nation since the youth has often been described as leaders of tomorrow. They are also advised to create enabling environment for private school owners and checkmate their operations to ensure good standard. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 