Uyo – More Nigerians would have the opportunity of watching the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier between Nigeria and Libya in Uyo on Saturday following the decision of Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom to slash the ticket prices for the match by half. Fans will have to pay as low as N500.00 to watch the game from the popular stands as against N1,000.00, while those wishing to see the game from the VIP stands would now  pay a token of N1,000.00 as against the initial N2,000.00 price tag. The Senior Special Assistant to Governor on Sports, Mr Paul Bassey, disclosed this while interacting with sports journalists in Uyo yesterday. Bassey explained that the Governor’s gesture was aimed at encouraging as many fans as possible to watch the match live at the Nest of Champions, while cheering the Super Eagles to victory. “Football fans around the world usually pay huge amounts of money as gate fees to watch international games of this standard, but here in Akwa Ibom, His Excellency Governor Udom Emmanuel has graciously subsidized the ticket price to five hundred Naira for popular stand tickets and one thousand naira for VIP tickets. “Governor Emmanuel is a passionate sports lover and he has demonstrated it in the huge investments he has made in sports development in the state. His gesture of subsidizing the prices of tickets for the match is to ensure more fans turn up to watch the game live while supporting the senior national team to victory on Saturday,” said  Bassey. Libya are top of the group with four points, same as South Africa but with superior goal difference. The Super Eagles are third on the log with three points from two games and they need to win on Saturday to have any real chance of making it to AFCON 2019 in Cameroon. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 