Lagos – Today, October 1, 2018,  Nigeria officially clocked 58  years as an independent nation. It is yet another milestone in the life of the world’s most populous black nation and activities were lined up in celebration. But other than the count of years, is there anything worthy of celebration? 58 years ago, our founding fathers, such as the late Nnamdi Azikiwe, Obafemi Awolowo, Sir Ahmadu Bello , Anthony Enahoro and other nationalists  succeeded in ending the supremacy of the British colonial rule by fighting for the collective emancipation of Nigerians. The freedom is what we enjoy today. According to Chief Ebenezer Babatope, a former Minister of  Transport and Board of Trustees (BoT) member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), “ We have cause to celebrate because we are still remaining one indivisible country. We are happy God has given us that”. “But if we remove that, I think those who are in charge of the country today are people who are shameless political jobbers.  They have no programme for the country except to manipulate democracy and if we are not careful, we might manipulate Nigeria out of existence”. Depending on which side of the divide one is; this milestone means different things to different people, it is a nation that had so much hope at independence in 1960. It was to be the pride of Africa and rub shoulders with Japan, China, Brazil, India and so on, as the next big thing on the global economic and political stage. Japan and its Asian contemporaries are now prided as industrial Tigers; Nigeria with its enormous human and natural resources has remained a potential giant of Africa and indeed the hope of the black man. In  an interview with Daily Independent, Dr. Junaid Mohammed, a Second Republic lawmaker said the liberation of the nation from colonial rule brought about much excitement for the nation in 1960. He said “ I have to agree with you in the postulation that there were great hopes and expectations at independence on 1st October, 1960.Those of us who were alive, perhaps much younger knew and must have seen a lot of excitement; a lot of the euphoria that was being anticipated, as part of the process of nation building”. “The fact of course was that the country has not quite witnessed or achieved the potential which was seen by Nigerians and by friends of Nigeria internationally.  Nigeria had gone through a lot and is going through a lot but I think it has to be said that, in spite of the dashing of those hopes, or, to quote you, and by large, Nigeria has survived as a country. That is very important, even though survival per se, is not the aim of any human society to celebrate about. It is only animals that celebrate when they survive when they are not being slaughtered or killed by other animals or something terrible happens”. “But, humans have cause to aspire to heights or higher order; to aspire to be great, to be peaceful, to expect to have good neighbours, to have prosperity, to have essential services in case of health, and to not have to depend on outsiders to treat them and on many of these counts, Nigeria has not succeeded but as I said, the fact that we survived in spite of the normal challenges which have been thrown at us and some of which we invented and threw at ourselves, perhaps calls for very mild celebration”. “The fact that, however, we have had problems does not mean that we are doomed to remain a problem country; No! But, human nature cannot be without problem, so, I have to be very careful here in saying what we should condemn ourselves or that we should celebrate but I believe what needs to happen is that, whenever you are at a critical junction in your own development, you want to stop and think; what have I done right and what have I done wrong. It is that sense of rational proportionality; that sense of look; I have taken my own destiny into my own hand. What do I need to do in order to avoid the mistakes of the past? And, what do I do to learn from the best practices of societies of other countries of the world?” “These are areas I thought that Nigerians should now be focused upon because it has become clear that nobody can dictate to Nigerians what they should do or they should not do. And, no group of elites and of course, all the problems are elitists, of course no group of elitists can dictate to any country what should or what should not happen”. “And, if it is in the process of contestation for power, certain elements imagine that they can now agitate or that they can put some impossible demands on the country, they are likely to be disappointed because, the rest of the country and I believe the overwhelming majority of Nigerians believe in the oneness of the country, will simply say NO and ask them to go to hell, expressly”. The post 1960 independent Nigeria which ran on a tripod of Eastern, Western, Northern and later Mid Western regions blazed a trail in economic development. In 1964, the World Bank named Eastern Region economy, spearheaded by palm oil and coal, the fastest growing regional economy globally. The Western Region led by the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo was ahead of many European countries economically with its signature agricultural product, cocoa, and had the Western Nigeria Television before countries like Spain and Belgium, and Egypt, while the North with its groundnut and textile industry was catching up fast. Nigeria like many other African countries was a colony of Britain, until it gained its independence as a sovereign state on October 1st 1960. This day is set aside yearly to celebrate the independence of Nigeria, and to look back and reflect on how far she has come and how much has been achieved. Looking critically at the present situation of things in the country, one has to wonder, is there really any cause for celebration? Things don’t seem to be getting better, in fact, they may be getting worse in terms of security, inflation, cost and standard of living, value of the average citizen’s life, jobs, education, healthcare and so on. A major call for concern now is the threat to the unity of the nation, as many fear it will only be a matter of time for the country before the country disintegrates. A part of the country is calling for secession, while others want restructuring and only time would tell how much the country can absorb, and if this nation can ever be great again. Economically, it was almost a roller coaster, but politically, frictions were becoming rife. In the North, the United Middle Belt Congress led by Tiv born Joseph Tarka was violently being cracked down in their demand for a Middle Belt Region. The East was, to a lesser degree, facing agitation for the creation of COR state by the minorities of the region, while the West from which the Mid West was carved out in 1963, was having an escalating political crisis prompted by the rivalry between Awolowo and the Northern backed Samuel Ladoke Akintola. This later culminated in the nation’s first civil war, popularly referred to as Biafra War which lasted between 1967- 1970 with millions of lives lost. Buhari Preaches United Nigeria At Independence President Muhammadu Buhari’s Independence Day Speech on October 2017 shed more light on the horrors of the civil war and the need for Nigerians to guard against actions that may further conflagrate the country. The president  also expressed his disappointment over the failure of responsible community leaders, especially in the South-East to stop the agitation for the dismemberment of the country vowing that his administration will not succumb to threats to dismember the country but rather work tirelessly to fulfill the promises he made to Nigerians during campaigns for the 2015 elections. He said: “Recent calls on re-structuring, quite proper in a legitimate debate, has let in highly irresponsible groups to call for the dismemberment of the country. We cannot and we will not allow such advocacy. “As a young Army Officer, I took part from the beginning to the end in our tragic civil war costing about 2 million lives, resulting in fearful destruction and untold suffering. Those who are agitating for a re-run were not born by 1967, and have no idea of the horrendous consequences of the civil conflict, which we went through. “I am very disappointed that responsible leaders of these communities do not warn their hot-headed youths about what the country went through. Those who were there should tell those who were not there, the consequences of such folly. “At all events, proper dialogue and any desired constitutional changes should take place in a rational manner, at the National and State Assemblies. These are the proper and legal fora for National debate, not some lop-sided, un-democratic body with a pre-determined set of objectives. “Government is keeping up the momentum of dialogue with stakeholders in the Niger Delta to keep the peace. We intend to address genuine grievances of the communities. “Government is grateful to the responsible leadership of those communities and will pursue lasting peace in the Niger Delta.” How Have We Fared? Speaking during the occasion of Nigeria’s 57 years independence anniversary, Governor Nyesom  Wike of Rivers said the situation in the country has been made worse by the  failure to successfully redefine and restructure the country towards a progressive path since independence. According to him,  Nigerians must unite behind the national flag, setting aside  the narrative of division, violence and hate and replace them with the narrative of peace and unity. He said: “After nearly 18 unbroken years of democracy and despite positive assertions to the contrary, our democracy keeps floundering under the watch of the Federal Government just as the vast majority of Nigerians are alienated from the State and estranged from the development process and denied the dividends of democracy. “If economic progress is the test of our democracy then we have woefully failed as a nation. For 57 years we abandoned all other economic options and depended on a single economic product derived from the natural bowels of the Niger Delta.” Governor Wike said that the reality is that the country is deeply divided, constantly flirting with crisis from the hegemonic tendencies of the powers that be, who have failed and are unwilling to even acknowledge the depth of injustice against other sections of the country, especially the minority resource-bearing communities. He said: “We all crave for strong national institutions to support our democracy, protect our freedoms and advance our development. Unfortunately, instead of advancing our democracy and protecting our liberties, some of our most important national institutions, specially the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Nigerian Police have become the undertakers of their destruction by acts of deliberate compromise, partisanship and even sabotage in the discharge of their constitutional responsibilities.” The governor added: “How else can we attribute INEC’s misfeasance and criminal complicity in the emerging but strange jurisprudential contraption in election disputes where fake results produced and procured from the custody of terribly partisan Police agency were validated and accepted as evidentially superior to its own results by the electoral tribunals to overturn the returns it genuinely and rightly made in respect of the outcome of the 2016 legislative re-run elections in Rivers State?”. Governor Wike said that after 57 of independence, the nation’s  judiciary constantly suffers from systemic intimidation and denied the strength to act with courage and conviction to defend the constitutional rights of Nigerians to freely elect their leaders through free and fair elections. “It is obvious that for so long as the Federal Government continues to weaken the nation’s democratic institutions, in including the judiciary our democracy will continue to stutter and Nigerians would never have the genuine chance to effectively exercise their constitutional right to freely and fairly elect the right leaders to move the country forward”. Also, Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa in his Independence anniversary message in 2017 felicitated with Nigerians and charge them to work against violence and all threats to the corporate existence of the country. He also  admonished Nigerians to be proud of their country and desist from acts that are inimical to the continued corporate existence of the country. He observed that at 57, the journey has not been easy for the country, as she has witnessed economic and political setbacks; bloodletting largely due to misguided religious extremists. “Our people have enjoyed democracy since 1999 and appreciates better, the inherent gains of democracy, as respect for human rights and the rule of law. As Nigerians we must continue to work together to surmount the challenges threatening to destabilising our budding democracy and undo the gains achieved in the past 18 years.” “We should be proud to be Nigerians because God in His infinite wisdom did not make a mistake in His decision to make us Nigerians.  It is a day to celebrate our glorious state and great nation; and to pay tribute to our countrymen and women who sacrificed so that we can celebrate this day; we should never forget the sacrifices of our heroes past.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 