Lagos – With the conclusion of presidential primaries between Nigeria’s two major political parties last weekend, the ruling  All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the 2019  presidential election will be a two-horse race between  President Muhammadu Buhari and  former Vice- President, Atiku Abubakar. While President Buhari emerged as the sole candidate of the APC, Atiku fought a major political battle to clinch his party’s ticket. He polled 1,532 votes to defeat 11 other contestants at the party’s elective convention held in Port Harcourt. In the results announced by Governor Ifeanyi  Okowa, the Chairman of the Convention Committee,   Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state came second with 693 votes.  Senate President, Bukola Saraki had 317 votes,  Rabiu Kwankwaso, former Kano state governor had 158 votes while David Mark, a former senate president had 35 votes. Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe state had 111 votes, Ahmed Makarfi had 74 votes,  Sule Lamido polled 96 votes, Kabiru  Turaki scored 65 votes,  Attahiru Bafarawa had 48 votes while  Datti  Ahmed scored 19 votes. Since defecting from the ruling party to the PDP in November 2017, political analysts have predicted that President Buhari will face a herculean task if  Atiku secures the ticket of the major opposition party. Their argument is that out of all the people that have declared to run for the Presidential election in 2019, only Atiku has the same widespread name recognition across the country as President Buhari and can divide his votes especially in the core Northern states as well as other parts of the country. Born on 25 November, 1946, 72 year-old  Atiku is a dogged, seasoned and experienced Nigerian politician who has been relevant in the socio-political space for over three decades in the country. He has leadership skills with capacity that has been manifest in the various roles he has occupied since the 80s. Atiku is passionate about a cohesive, integrated, transformed and economically viable Nigeria that creates opportunities for all the citizens, closing the wide inequality gap and uplifting millions from poverty. Atiku who served as Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria between 1999-2007), an indigene of Adamawa State in the North-Eastern region of Nigeria is also a pragmatic business leader, with investments in various sectors of the Nigerian economy. A former Deputy Comptroller General of Customs in Nigeria, Atiku is an audacious leader who will go any length to drive and steer a movement and vision he believes in. In the 1980s  he began his political career by working for Chief Bamanga Tukur’s Gubernatorial campaign, and later worked with former Chief of General Staff Lt. Gen Shehu Musa Yaradua (Late) and was the Vice-Chairman of the Peoples Front of Nigeria led by Yaradua. In 1991 he contested the Gubernatorial position in then Gongola State (Now Adamawa and Taraba States) but still remained a close associate of  Shehu Umaru Yaradua (Late). In 1993 Atiku  contested for President under the platform of the Social Democratic Party(SDP) , but lost to Chief M.K.O Abiola(Late) who was the flagbearer for the party in the annulled June 12, 1993 elections. Atiku emerged the key driver of the Peoples Democratic Movement that joined other political movements to form the Peoples Democratic Party in 1998.  He contested and won the Gubernatorial elections in Adamawa State, but was tapped to serve under President Olusegun Obasanjo as the Vice-President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. As Vice-President he was the Chairman of the National Council of Privatization and played an instrumental role in the Privatization process of the Telecommunications Industry, which has been described as one of the best economic decisions of the Obasanjo administration. With his wealth of knowledge and understanding of business, Atiku carried out other pro-business reforms of the  Obasanjo administration, which saw Nigeria’s economy experiencing a turnaround attracting key investments from the western nations. He came to limelight when it was widely reported of his refusal to endorse a much talked about third-term ambition of President Olusegun Obasanjo in between 2005 and 2006. Nigerians commended him for his firm stand despite all his travails towards the tail end of his tenure. In 2006 Alhaji Atiku Abubakar joined the defunct Action Congress (AC) to mobilize efforts to contest elections against the PDP, but he returned back to the PDP in 2009. When things did not go the way he planned and desired, the former Vice-President joined the APC in 2013, where he contested and lost the Presidential primaries in 2014 to President Muhammadu Buhari. Atiku supported Buhari as the APC defeated the former President Goodluck Jonathan’s PDP government in the 2015 general elections, and delivered Adamawa State during the polls. The former Vice-President has business interests like Intels (Maritime and Oil servicing) and Adama Beverages Limited. Despite the narrative and allegations that he is a corrupt politician and businessman, there has been no proof or criminal conviction from a court of competent jurisprudence in the country. He is also the founder of one of the best private Universities in Nigeria, the American University of Nigeria in Yola, Adamawa State which is raising world-class leaders. The Waziri Adamawa believes he has the vast experience from the public and private sector, to lead Nigeria to economic prosperity and national cohesion. He is a strong believer in the clamour for restructuring 75 year old  President Muhammadu Buhari came into office in May 2015 with  lot of goodwill but many Nigerians believe his popularity has waned significantly and he is no longer as popular as he was four years ago He can be described as one of the most charismatic and popular politicians from Northern Nigeria,  owing to the fact that he has a strong appeal in the North, and is a remarkable political brand that has revolutionized the socio-political landscape of Nigeria in the fourth republic. After his first three attempts in the fourth republic, contesting for the Presidency in 2003, 2007 and 2011, Buhari Made his fourth attempt in 2015 through the All Progressives Congress Party, and defeated then incumbent President Goodluck Jonathan of the People’s Democratic Party. It was the first time in Nigeria’s political history that an incumbent President lost an election in the country. The 2015 elections was remarkable as President Buhari and his deputy, Prof Yemi Osinbajo campaigned on the promise of “Change” and garnered over 15 million  votes to win the election. President won the elections with a commitment to tackle corruption, tackle unemployment  and tackle insecurity As President,  the deadly Boko Haram have been decimated in the North-East, but are now resorting to unconventional ways of attacking troops and people in the area. Despite the recession of 2016, the economy recovered in 2017 and is experiencing a steady pathway to growth. under Buhari’s leadership. There have  been ongoing reforms in the taxation space, Ease of Doing Business, Power, Improving Made in Nigeria, Agriculture, Solid Minerals, amongst others. The Buhari administration is also carrying out a multi-billion Social Investment Programme across the country, through initiatives like the Homegrown school feeding programme, Conditional cash transfer, N-Power Empowerment programme. In the area of security, the Buhari administration has faced the challenge of a new dimension of terrorism that is unconventional and has also grappled with agitations from the various regions in the country. The incidence of herdsmen killings, abduction of over 100 school girls from a government school in Dapchi,Yobe State are part of the challenges the administration is facing in the area of security. In the area of Infrastructure the 2016, 2017 and 2018 budgets have seen a consistent step in sustaining an increase in infrastructure investments, with 30% of the budget going to capital expenditure. In his acceptance speech after the primary that produced him, Buhari assured Nigerians that he will be reelected in 2019  saying his track record since assumption of office in 2015 speaks volumes for him. “We are very proud of our record from 2015 to date, we have arrested and checked the slide to anarchy on the security and economic fronts. “Boko Haram is reduced to dastardly attacks on soft targets. Normalcy has returned to much of North East and neighbouring North West states. “Our currency has stabilised. Our reserves are now $44 billion, a lot higher than we had in 2015. While other political parties have also picked their presidential candidates, the 2019 presidential election, analysts believe will be a straight contest between  Atiku who has promised to restructure the country within six months as president and President Buhari who said if re-elected, he will consolidate on his achievements in the last four years.  The next few months will be interesting as Nigerians  decide who get their mandate among the two seasoned and experienced statesmen. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 