On its part, Diamond Bank Plc has also given insight into one of the requirements commercial banks consider before granting loan to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the country. Njideka Esomeju, Head Emerging Market, Diamond Bank Plc, gave the insight in her presentation on “Growth Financing for SMEs,” delivered recently at an event in Lagos. She said: “I found out that so many business operators dwell so much on cash flow. I don’t think cash flow is the challenge for SMEs; rather it is your cash cycle that is a challenge. Cash cycle is that your banker wants to know how you would turn N5 to N50; what you are going to do, your production cost, how you are going to sell, the market you are going to sell and at the end of the day, you make N50; you can give your banker N2 for debt servicing. “So you need to understand your cash cycle. Cash cycle is not the same as cash flow that an accountant prepares for you. You should be able to explain that cash cycle to your banker in your own words.” Significantly, Lidya, Nigeria-based digital financial services platform focused on improving access to credit for micro-, small-, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) in Africa, during the week announced that it has raised $6.9 million in a Series A investment round, one of the largest in Nigerian tech history. The funds raised in the round would allow Lidya expand its loan book, scale in Nigeria, enter new markets in Africa, and bring in more skilled professionals, particularly data scientists and engineers. Omidyar Network, the Silicon Valley impact investment firm established by Pierre Omidyar, the founder of eBay, led the funding. New investors, Alitheia Capital (via the Umunthu Fund), Bamboo Capital Partners, and Tekton Ventures, also joined the round, which included existing investors Accion Venture Lab and Newid Capital. “Lidya was founded on a simple, yet fundamental idea: technology can unleash and empower a generation of business leaders and entrepreneurs throughout Africa by revolutionizing how risk is assessed, credit is underwritten, and customers are banked,” said Tunde Kehinde, co-founder of Lidya. “We are excited by the overwhelming support from the investor community, which signals a great confidence in our business model and team,” added Ercin Eksin, co-founder of Lidya. The company noted that globally, MSMEs are one of the strongest drivers of economic development, innovation, and employment, and yet access to finance is frequently identified as a critical barrier to growth for these businesses. It added that 40 per cent of MSMEs in emerging markets are underserved when it comes to access to credit representing an estimated $5.2 trillion credit gap and that in Nigeria, where Lidya is based, the IFC estimates that there is an MSME credit gap of at least $25 billion, “Access to flexible, affordable credit is at the crux of unlocking growth in the MSME sector. Lidya is addressing that by using smart algorithms to analyze transaction data from small businesses to assess their creditworthiness,” said Ameya Upadhyay, investment principal at Omidyar Network and Lidya’s newest board member. “This data-driven approach allows the company to offer loans without the need of hard collateral-a requirement that has scuttled MSME financing in Africa. In the process, Lidya gathers insights that help expand its product portfolio to become a holistic partner to small businesses,” Upadhyay added. However, despite the efforts of the financial institutions to provide funds to SMEs, Ayodele Akinbami, a bakery owner in Agege suburb of Lagos State, says one of the biggest impediments to the development of SME development in the country has to access to finance. He told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT that the prevailing interest is too high for SMEs. He said that commercial banks charge as much as 30 per cent interest on loan given to small business owners and others, adding that only a business could borrow at that rate, make a profit and pay the loan back with interest. Mrs. Bamgbose Alaba, an industrialist and the general secretary of the Yaba Industrial Estate Residents Association, said she had tried but failed many times to obtain money to expand her vegetable oil business. “I have gone everywhere. If you go to the banks, the first thing they want to know is how soon you can pay back the money. If you tell them that you want to borrow the CBN fund, the banks will tell you that they don’t have the CBN loan to give, that what they have is shareholders’ money and they cannot give shareholders’ money at nine per cent. “I even went to a microfinance bank which urged me to borrow their own money at the interest rate of 60 per cent per annum. They said after doing that for two years, they would now expose me to the CBN fund.” Another small-scale entrepreneur and a maker of pure water, Mrs. Veronica Onule, said she had tried many times but failed to obtain N5m from the fund to expand her business. She said: “The banks keep asking for landed property. It is hard for small manufacturers to come up with some of their requirements.” Onule added that some of the banks also declined to give long-term loans to industrialists and instead preferred to give the loans to importers and traders who would pay back within a short period of time. “We tell them that the short-term loan they give to importers cannot work for industrialists. Some of them even give the loan to operators of fast food restaurants, anybody who will pay back immediately,” she alleged. Prisca Adele, alleged that when she approached some of the banks to make enquiries about the percentage of the fund that was reserved for women, she was told that the fund had been disbursed and was no longer available. “We do not know who has been accessing the funds,” she told our correspondent. An SME operator, who do not want name in the print, said a source at one of the banks that he refused to name informed him that the fund was accessed by some big manufacturers who went behind to form small cooperative groups, masking as SMEs. The SME operator, who pleaded anonymity, said it was easy for big manufacturers to access the loan because they had landed property and could meet other conditions for borrowing. A wine manufacturer and chairman of the Matori Industrial Estate residents Association, Linus Kotey, said it would be necessary for the government to establish an SMEs bank to service the sector. According to him, that will go a long way in overcoming the huge funding challenges faced by operators. Mr. Paul Ugbajeh, a bottled water producer at Iyana Ipaja, said that he had tried to process the various types of bank loans through two different microfinance banks, to no avail. “I have tried to access the loans to expand my business, by applying to two different microfinance banks but I have been denied. “I have provided all the required documents, but have heard nothing from them, and I keep asking. “I had to approach a friend of mine because there are prospects in water and Ice block business that I want to expand into,” he said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 