LAGOS – A 24-year-old man, Chinindu Innocent, has been arrested by operatives of the Inspector General of Police Special Intelligence Response Team, IRT, for staging the kidnap of his girlfriend’s mother. The incident occurred at Ukwa West Local Government Area of Abia State. Daily Independent gathered that Innocent and three others identified as Ekendu Chidiebere, Tochukwu Samuel and Ikechukwu Nwankwo, conspired together to carry out the act. They were rounded up by the IRT operatives led by Abba Kyari, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), few days after they collected N300, 000 ransom from the relatives of the victim. Police sources disclosed that the suspects who are currently being detained at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, were apprehended following a petition written to the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, by a relative of the victim, Agnes Semion, while she was in captivity. A source explained that the IRT discovered that Innocent, who was abducted alongside the woman on the day she was abducted in Aparazu Ogwu Community, Abia State may have mastermind the kidnap. Innocent was said to have been present in the woman’s home when the kidnappers struck and he was abducted alongside the woman. The source disclosed that relatives of the woman said in their petition, that after the woman’s release Innocent was always persuading her to urge her family to pay up the ransom demanded by the kidnappers. This information was said to have prompted the IRT to invite Innocent for questioning and upon interrogation, it was discovered that he mastermind the kidnapping, adding that his motive was to extort money from her and to punish his girlfriend for dating another man. Innocent confessed to the DAILY INDEPENDENT,that he was moved by jealousy and his girlfriend’s mother’s inability to stop her daughter from dating another man. “At that time my cousin, in whose house I reside in Aparazu Ogwu, community approached me and sold the idea of kidnapping to me.  He told me that one of his friends, known as Onyemuwa, who had made money from kidnapping told him that people in the community where we reside could pay us huge money when we kidnap them. “I then suggested that that we should kidnap my girlfriend’s mother. We had agreed that I will be in the woman’s house when she will be kidnapped because I was the only one who could know when she is at home. “That was how both of us were blindfolded, kidnapped and taken to a forest in Omuma Village. My gang members demanded N1.5million ransom from her brothers, but they paid N300, 000. The worst part of it is that the gang took the whole money and refused to give us our share before we were arrested.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 