Aaron Ramsey has revealed Arsenal have left him totally in the dark over why they decided to retract their contract offer. Sportsmail were first to reveal that Ramsey was expected to leave the club at the end of the season due to the impasse over a new deal on September 26. Ramsey had been on the verge of signing a new deal at the Emirates, only for the offer to be retracted earlier this season. And the Wales international claims he’s had no answers as to why the club withdrew the deal. “Well, there is no contract on the table at the moment so there is nothing for me to consider or whatever,” said Ramsey. “We all know that the contract was taken away off the table. I’m not sure exactly why because a few weeks before we sort of agreed and I was ready to sign. “Something happened, I am not sure exactly what, but that contract is no longer there, or nothing’s on the table. “Hopefully somebody will come up and tell me why. I’ll accept that if there’s a reason. But at the moment, no, I haven’t (had an answer). “Yes I’d like some clarity, but I’m just concentrating on playing my football. When the time is right, I probably will find out but that hasn’t happened yet.” As a result, Ramsey’s future is now hugely uncertain. Manchester United, Chelsea and Juventus have all been credited with an interest in midfielder. But no matter what the future holds, there’s one club Ramsey says he’d never sign for. “No, I’d never join Tottenham,” said Ramsey, after he captained the Gunners in Thursday’s 1-0 win over Sporting Lisbon. “I don’t feel like I’m playing for a contract, I’m going out and playing the way I have always played. “I try to give my best for the team, help the team and try and go out there and play the best I can for myself as well. Nothing’s in my head when I’m out there.” Ramsey captained the team that recorded an 11th consecutive win at Sporting in Lisbon in the Europa League, but has been more peripheral in recent Premier League games, starting on the bench. That is a source of frustration. “I think any player who is on the bench would be disappointed not to play but I’m part of the team and I want the team to do well,” he said. “We are all in it together to try and achieve the same objective. I’m going out and playing the way I have always played. I try to give my best for the team, help the team and try and go out there and play the best I can for myself as well. Nothing’s in my head when I’m out there; I’m just trying to have fun on the football pitch. “These things happen in football and I’m just concentrating on playing now. I’m not really thinking about anything else too much. I’ve got other things as well in my life that I’m delighted with. I had twins last week, so everything is good at the moment for me. I can’t complain … It has been a very positive run. In a lot of the games we’ve found it difficult in the first half but we come out then strong in the second half and we’ve blown some teams away.” Ramsey has not ruled out moving abroad but he did have a straight answer to the question of whether he would be interested in a move to Tottenham: “No.”