Abuja – Controversies surrounding a new national minimum wage for workers in the country continued on Monday as indications emerged that some of the governors were not in agreement with what the Federal Government has proposed as the benchmark. This much came to the fore after the Economic Management Team (EMT) meeting, chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. All the stakeholders, mainly representatives of the state governments, met to take a position on the new wage bill but it ended in a deadlock. Recall that workers under the auspices of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC), and the United Labour Congress (ULC) have threatened to embark on an indefinite strike, beginning from November 6, 2018, over the alleged recalcitrance of the government to announce a new minimum wage. At the level of the National Tripartite Committee on Minimum Wage, headed by former Minister of Housing and Urban Development, Ama Pepple, the NLC leadership said all the stakeholders settled for N30, 000 as the minimum wage. However, at the Federal Executive Council meeting recently, Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, countered labour’s position, insisting that the Federal Government settled for N24, 000 while states said they could only afford N20, 700. At the interface between the presidency and the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), where they were supposed to critically analyse the memo from the committee to take a final position, the governors’ representative, Abdulaziz Yari, said they could afford to pay any amount demanded by the workers but that they were constrained by the capacity to sustain such payment. Yari, who is the Chairman of Nigerian Governors’ Forum, said: “The position of the governors is not very clear to some of you. We are willing to pay any amount, but the issue is the capacity to pay.” He said that the meeting discussed the proposal made by the organised labour and the figure proposed by the Federal Government, noting that “the governors still haven’t come out with any figure.” He added: “So, by tomorrow (today), we are going to discuss with our governors on the bill by the minister of labour and employment to the NGF secretariat. “We will digest it and come up with our own positions as governors, because we are critical stakeholders on this issue.” It was, however, gathered that the governors were not comfortable with the N24, 000 proposal by the Federal Government and would likely come up with their own figure after the meeting slated for today. A source privy to the meeting said the governors were furious over the N24, 000 proposal when some governors were unable to pay the current N18, 000. Ngige, however, gave an indication that the stakeholders had a fruitful deliberation. Ngige said, “We held a meeting for us to bring out modalities for us to respond to the emerging problems thrown up by the National Minimum Wage Committee and we had a very fruitful meeting which necessitated in governors having further meeting tomorrow (today). “We will reconvene tomorrow (today) to brief the Economic Management Team and the vice president, and we’ll take it up from there. “The governors will meet to take a position and brief the Economic Management Team. This meeting is only for the Tripartite Committee of the government side.”