There is no doubt that coach Gernot Rohr has some disdain for the Nigeria professional football league players or rather for the league itself, hence, he has never hidden his dislikes for the league and its players and if it were not so, there is no reason tangible not to leave one (at least) a player from the local league in his Eagles. Just on Wednesday this week, during the AITEO cup final between Kano pillars and Enugu Rangers at the Stephen keshi Stadium in Asaba, Coach Rohr, once again mentioned the name of the Kano Pillars playmaker (Junior Lokosa), saying he was going to spy on him during the games-even though, he also said that it wasn’t only Lokosa but some others. This action goes a long way to tell you that the German trainer for the Eagles is no way interested in developing our local league or even picking the likes of Lokosa for proper harnessing to suit his position in the national team. Rohr is too obsessed with the Europe based tested and untested players in the name of playing outside the shores of Nigeria nay Africa. Coach Rohr is already falling into the class of the likes of Coach Lars Largerback who played entirely all foreign based players and failed in his contract with the Eagles. We do know that indeed football has gone scientific therefore, the dynamics have changed overtime, and hence, every coach wants to make do with highly rated professionals who could deliver a match at any given period. The Eagles coach, in this regard, has not got it right because if it were so in his coaching styles, the Eagles would have been considerate ambassadors during their world cup outing in Russia 2018. In this light, therefore, Rohr will only be undoing himself if he continues the way he has decided to neglect the country’s league for relatively unknown Nigerians, playing low level clubs abroad. It could be recalled that when Nigeria made waves in Africa and the world with the Super Eagles was when very few professionals will be invited from Europe to mix up with the best legs in the Nigerian League. If coach Rohr knows his onions well, he will have time to watch the local leagues and access players whom he may transform into the Eagles, and by so doing he will be improving the league and the players for continental and local championships. There would be serious competitions amongst players in the league and that would mean that our local football is progressing- somebody should call Rohr to order. How many players aside Junior Lokosa will catch the attention of Rohr in Asaba? If he only came out on the day of the final of the AITEO cup to watch players and see for himself who and who is fit to make his call-up is indeed laughable. He will be only opportune to watch 22 players on the pitch aside the substitutions that will be made if any. Without mincing words, the German coach is not doing justice to locally based Nigerian players and if he continues like that he will end up in a merry go round Europe tour for his employers to clap for him and get some pyrrhic accolades. My thought goes to the likes of Henry Nwosu, late Stephen keshi, John Etim Esin, Humphrey Edobor, et al. Most of these locally based players in their days registered their names in Africa and beyond via the Super Eagles. In fact, they were discovered by foreign coaches who have worked in Nigeria from the local leagues and were groomed, transformed and became superstars for the Eagles. They made Nigeria proud in their various department of play while they won laurels in various championship categories in Africa and made very indelible impact with FIFA! This coach, Rohr, I guess is lazy! Good Morning