WARRI – Thompson Abideke, a Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State, has applauded the emergence of Atiku Abubakar as the party’s presidential candidate in 2019 elections. Abideke, who spoke with journalists on Monday in Warri, said that Atiku’s victory did not come as a surprise, adding that he is the only one who can give President Muhammadu Buhari a good fight in 2019 exercise. “I see PDP taking over the reins of governance at the centre because the APC-led government has disappointed Nigerians thereby plunged Nigerians into untold hardship to the extent that the average Nigerian cannot afford two meals a day,” said Abideke. The PDP stalwart from Bomadi Local Government Area of the state remarked that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has already laid a solid strategy through his numerous achievements that would bring him back to complete his second tenure. “Governor Okowa has no doubt fulfilled all righteousness by impacting all the 25 local government areas by providing infrastructural development that has placed Delta above all other states of the federation. Owing to this fact, the governor has played well his part, hence I am appealing passionately to all the people of the state to vote massively for him,” the Ijaw opinion leader stressed. Nigerians should also avoid crisis that would further heat up the polity, stressing that, effort should be geared towards ensuring a virile and indivisible country. “It is no more secret that Dr. Okowa has been the governor whose administration has touched the lives of the people of the state. No doubt, both Deltans and non-Deltans have appraised the present administration in the state and lauded the solid achievements of the governor,” said Abideke. “The primary election has been conducted and Governor Okowa emerged as the sole gubernatorial candidate of the PDP in the state. It is also a clear indication of his giant developmental stride; hence majority of Deltans are clamouring for his return in 2019,” he said. The Ijaw leader, however, assured that his people are ready to vote Okowa again in 2019, because he has truly showed that he is committed to the wellbeing of the people. “Currently, he has promised to build an overhead bridge in the Bomadi axis as well as other strategic places in the state. Above all, his smart agenda are being implemented to give Deltans a sense of belonging,” the renowned politician remarked. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 