Daniel Abia and Innocent Oweh P/Harcourt / Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari has said exorbitant air fares necessitated the decision of the Federal Government to remove Value Added Tax (VAT) from domestic travels. He also said the decision was to enable speedy movement of more people and to spur business activities to stimulate the economy of the country. President Buhari said these while commissioning the international wing of the Port Harcourt International Airport at Omagwa, in Rivers State, on Thursday. He revealed that the decision to cut VAT from domestic air transportation was in line with global best practices of making air transportation affordable, which will subsequently lead to the creation of more jobs by the air transport service value chain. According to the president, removal of VAT will increase revenue for the government as it will spur more traffic at the airports. The president noted that the increase in national population with consequent surge in air passenger traffic necessitated upgrading and construction of new airports across the country. “I am very pleased to formally commission the new international terminal of the Port Harcourt airport, Omagwa, today. This ceremony represents a significant landmark for international air travellers, particularly from the South-South region and the entire country. “You will recall that after opening the major airport terminals in the country in the late 70s and early 80s, not much was added to increase the passenger handling capacity of these facilities by successive administrations. “Following the large increase in national population with consequent surge in air passenger traffic, the capacity of the airport terminals became woefully inadequate to cater for the increase in passenger traffic,” he added. The president said decisive actions had to be taken by the Federal Government to ensure that terminals meet minimum international standards for the travelling public. “The Federal Government responded to a global trend in which aviation became a catalyst for economic growth as a result of massive and speedy movement of persons, goods and services in a safe and secure manner. “As part of the infrastructure renewal programme, the construction of four new international terminals at Abuja, Lagos, Port Harcourt and Kano airports was embarked upon by the Federal Government with a view to modernising the aging airport infrastructure to meet global aviation standards and improved service delivery in tandem with best international practices,” he said. The president recalled that at the presentation of the 2017 budget to the National Assembly he promised to upgrade and develop Nigeria’s transport, power and health infrastructure, and complete a number of stalled infrastructure projects, which include major airports, roads and power projects, and the completion of the Kaduna–Abuja as well as Itakpe to Warri Railway lines. He said Nigeria, having an advantageous central location within the sub-region with a desire to develop into a regional air transportation hub, must upgrade its facilities to take advantage of its assets. Earlier, in his welcome address, Nyesom Wike, the Rivers State governor, thanked the Federal Government for commissioning the project at a time when international terminal was in desperate need in the oil-rich region to ease business activities and create opportunities for the influx of foreign investors. Wike said, “For doing this today, the people of Rivers State and people of the Niger Delta are happy for seeing this. What you are doing today will boost the economy of the state and create employment for people. It would bring investors to this state. “Mr. President has directed that the domestic wing of the airport be commissioned in December. I hope my friend (Hadi Sirika) will keep to it so that the people of Rivers and Niger Delta will continue to be happy with President Buhari. “Mr. President, what has happened today is a clear statement to the fact that Rivers State is safe, secure for people to come and invest. If the state were not safe, CCECC would not have come to complete this project.” On his part, Hadi Sirika, the Minister of State for Aviation, said the project, along with three others in Lagos, Abuja, and Kano which commenced in February 2014, was funded through China Exim Bank loan of $500 million with another $100 million counterpart fund from the Federal Government. Expected to be delivered in two years, at the time the Buhari administration came in, work was below 30% and bedevilled by various technical challenges, including foundation design change, inaccessibility to the airport, inadequate airspace, master-plan distortion, water, sewer provision, litigation, inadequate power supply, among others. Sirika said: “Port Harcourt Airport, being the third busiest in the country, is very important for the Nigerian economy as well. It served last year 2017, 1,080284 passengers. “The old terminal also being rehabilitated is unable to accommodate a combined requirement of space to handle such volume of passengers.” According to him, the administration had achieved a milestone in the implementation of its aviation roadmap. Meanwhile, Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transportation and leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, was conspicuously missing at the historic commissioning of the international terminal which falls directly under his ministry. It was the first time in three and a half years President Buhari would be commissioning any project in Rivers State which has been a source of political debate and wrangling since he became president in 2015.