The most difficult character in comedy is that of the fool, and he must be no simpleton that plays that part. Playing the fool is not as easy as many people think. That’s because there is a lot more work to being deliberately humourous, and it can cause a mix up of identities off camera, away from the audience. For a successful and robust life, comic actors must learn the difference between their characters and who they really are. Afeez Oyetoro, popularly known as Saka is definitely not confused about his many personalities. He is a successful husband, father, friend, lecturer and actor, and his life leads one to believe that being a successful comic actor borders on your ability to be able to turn on the comedy once the cameras are on and the audience is seated. But what really happens behind the scenes, is there a distinct difference in the personalities, or is it a jamboree all the way? These and many other questions are what Afeez Oyetoro answers for Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade in this expository interview. You have several pursuits, family, entertainment, lecturing, and every other thing that makes who you are as Afeez Oyetoro and Saka. How do you do it all? I thank God because he helps me. The more time you have, the more time you waste. I know that I do not have so much time, so whatever it is that I want to do, I do it in a timely manner. So many factors are responsible for that and it has been so easy for me. I teach Theatre Arts and I practice it, so going into the field is not difficult and teaching in the class is not difficult. The two help and complement each other. When I teach in the class, I go out to practice it and when I get experience outside, I come to the class to teach my students. But I want to thank the producers and directors who actually give me jobs to do. They know that I am a civil servant and I have to be in the office from Monday to Friday. So most of the jobs that I do, I do them during the weekends. I am always in the office, my school, to teach during the week and then weekends, I go for location. And it’s not every time one goes to location, the thing is that we block shoot most of the movies and television series that we do. Sometimes we do 30, 26 episodes in a weekend or so and people will continue to watch it. So before the next 26 weeks, we go to do another block shoot. So it has been very wonderful. Also, I have a very stable home, so I don’t have any stress at home when I leave home. When I go out of the house, I know that my home is okay, so I’m emotionally stable within and outside my home and within and outside the office. I think that is all by the grace of God. A lot of people only know and see Saka the comic actor. Many of them probably believe that is all there is to you. How do your children, family and those who truly know you see it, or is Saka simply an extension of Afeez? The truth is that lot of thinking and a lot of research goes into my roles. I thank God that I had the grace of going through training; training to distinguish between the real person and the roles that I play. My children know that when I am at home, Daddy is at home. My students know that when I am in class, the lecturer is teaching. My friends know that Afeez is around when we are together; and my producers and directors, when dealing with Saka, they know that they are dealing with Saka. Sometimes, my wife, children and I sit down in our living room and watch Saka. It has been so defined that my children can identify Saka and also identify Daddy, they can differentiate. My wife can identify Saka from husband. Saka and I are two different people. Saka is funny, Afeez is quiet. I think Afeez is a very quiet and reserved person. So Afeez is just the actor who is living the life of Saka when he is on stage or screen. You talk quite passionately about your wife and children. How many children do you have, and is your wife also in the entertainment industry? I am a Yoruba man, we don’t count children, but I have wonderful kids. The most important thing is that I have wonderful kids and I have a wonderful wife. She really shares my passion, my vision. It’s like God just created the two of us together and it has been wonderful. She decided and agreed to resign her job. She is a Mathematics graduate, and was a teacher when we got married. We all agreed that because I will not be at home regularly, somebody must be at home to take care of the home and manage the challenges at home, especially the children and all that. We agreed and she resigned. She is a businesswoman now. She has shops where she sells children accessories. She has good shops and she is doing well. A lot of burden has been taken away from me in terms of home activities and other things. Mine is to go out, make money, drop some… she is also adding value to my home economy, so we are doing things together in terms of managing the house and taking care of the children. That is why I feel passionate about her, she has created an enabling home environment that gives me emotional stability, and I am able to think and do things, plan and make sure things are working well. Some stakeholders have said that Nigerian dramatists and artistes are lazy, that they hardly put in enough research before production. They use Nollywood as an example. What is your opinion on this? Unfortunately, it might not be totally right and it might not be totally wrong. When you watch some productions on television, you feel bad because people did not do enough research. I must say that when you watch a movie and the movie is not delivering the appropriate message or disseminating information effectively well, then it means those who are behind it are not professional dramatists. Those who have gone for the training know what they can do. Unfortunately, because of the lack of facilities, resources and enabling environment, those who can do it and are actually the professionals are not able to do it because they do not have the resources. Art is liberal in Nigeria. This profession is liberal; every Saka, Buremo and Janet can come in as long as you have the money. People will just buy camera, buy equipment, and then gather their sisters, aunties, uncle, dogs and chicken and then shoot. Unfortunately, those who want to do it want to do it well, but there is no money to do it well. Most of them are not doing anything. Let me also say that by the grace of God, in the nearest future, professionals are coming in because even the audience are becoming critical, they are becoming objective and selective. They are not watching bad films anymore. Parents are conscious of the fact that their children must watch good films, and so they are conscious of the fact that the children must not watch garbage. So in the nearest future, things will become better and then we will work well. You dabble in all brands of entertainment. Which would you say is your strong suit, which is most fulfilling for you? I am fulfilled. I am not a musician; I only participate in music videos and all that. I write songs, I can compose, but I am not a musician. I am more comfortable in acting and directing than in music. Stage or screen, which platform do you prefer? I prefer stage but there’s no money there. Stage is good, it takes everything about you. See Uncle Tunji Sotimirin, he uses his body, voice, everything. You feel fulfilled at the end of the day. Screen is just you talking to the camera and you go away. After that, the producer or the director allows the audience to see what he wants them to see, unlike in stage. You played a major role in the video of Patoranking, how much did he pay you to appear in that video? He paid me as much as we agreed upon. But when you saw the product of the video, how did you feel? I felt okay, but I believe it could be better because I am sure by now if Patoranking wants to shoot that same video again, it will be much better. You spoke recently about your days in school that you once lived an isolated life. What would you say is responsible for that? My background. I was living under a very strict condition that didn’t really allow me express myself, and that informed my personality. What’s your take on parents raising children now? Firstly, I would not allow my children to be raised by anyone. Secondly, our parents should know that there is a difference between fear and respect. If I fear you, it doesn’t mean that I respect you. I will just do what you want when you are there with me. Once you are off, I will do anything and revolt. There is something they call direct social influence and indirect social influence. A child that lives under the fear of its parents will only have direct social influence. But if your child loves you, he or she will respect you, he will not offend you whether you are there or not. The child would be conscious of not hurting you. But if that child fears you, whatever you ask him not to do, he will revolt when you are not there. It is always good to bring up a child that will be affected by indirect social influence. If you had access to your younger self, what advice would you pass on from your wealth of experience today? I will tell my younger self to do the same thing he did. The reason is because in the midst of all those challenges and hustling and struggling, I did not lose faith in God. I kept on enduring, focusing and developing a kind of tenacity that looks for success. Till today, I still strive to be there. But things have changed, and I can look back and say I thank God. With all those experiences, I have something to compare with now. It took me to various levels of experience. Now, when I have problems, I look back to see if it is as hard as those times. When I realise it is not, then I know it is not a problem and I move on. I am rugged. My experiences have trained me to be rugged, to be able to maintain and manage my life. It has taught me self-management. Some will lose focus and not make it in life.