Engr. Etido Inyang is the Chairman of Ibom Power Company, an electricity generating firm wholly owned by the  Akwa Ibom State Government. Prior to his appointment, he had been a member of the state Executive Council under the immediate past administration, serving as Special Adviser on Technical Matters, he later served the present administration as Commissioner for Special Duties. In this interview with Idongesit Ashameri, he speaks on Governor Udom Emmanuel’s chances of winning the 2019 election and the Akwa Ibom State government’s efforts to collaborate with the Federal Government in the provision of power infrastructure in the state. Excerpts: With the unfolding political events in the state how would you gauge the popularity of Governor Udom Emmanuel in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial district? Governor Udom Emmanuel is well loved in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial district. As one of the divine mandate coordinators in the district, among the 10 LGAs that comprise Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District, we have been meeting and we have compared notes. I can speak authoritatively that Udom Emmanuel will win convincingly in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial district. We should even ask if the defectors have followership. The number of defectors that followed the former Minority Leader is infinitesimal. I want to tell you that the principal actors, political gladiators in Ikot Ekpene senatorial district are intact for PDP. I went into a meeting where we were called to discuss the issue concerning the senator representing the district, twenty names were selected per Local Government Areas, Over 200 people attended that meeting and there was no missing face. All stakeholders both former public office holders that formed the caucus and statutory delegates are all intact. What is in place to ensure that party loyalists are not lost at the 11th hour? If the former Minority Leader had moved to a better political party, maybe he would have had followership, but for me and my household going to APC, that is where it is bad. I cannot even interact with them, and that is the stance of most stakeholders in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District.  How can I go out there and be carrying broom? The broom symbol means a lot in my belief and where I come from. What are your concerns about the forthcoming general elections? When the President is not assenting to the Electoral Bill, it is a thing of concern. The former President Goodluck Jonathan would have signed it. I just want to believe the President is still reading it to understand, but I hope in the time spent reading, the timeline for assent does not lapse. That may to a very great extent, prove that the APC-led federal government is not being honest about a credible election. It brings a lot of suspicion. When you hear some stakeholders talking about violence, you question whether election is about violence. PDP does not profess violence at all, we are for  peace. It is like parking battalions to go to war but once you do not see an opposing force, you will down your tools. We believe completely that when APC comes with their warriors they would not see an opposing war fighter. We are professing peace, and we want the international community to listen to this. It is not about Akwa Ibom state, it is about Nigeria. The way forward is to bring in international communities and put structures in place to ensure that people professing violence will not hijack voting materials. Also the President should assent to the Electoral bill. Once this is done, people will go out there and canvass for votes. In my own area we are doing continuous enlightenment of people by going from house to house. We need a new leadership at the centre. You have been on the saddle as the Chairman of Ibom Power for the past 18 months, how has it been? It has been very challenging but interesting. The reason being that over the years or some years back, I was a Director at Ibom Power Company limited. I did not come into a Greenfield per se; it is more or less a brownfield for me. Being here at Ibom power is a familiar terrain, therefore it was easy for me to understand quickly what we needed to do. As we got into the saddle as a Board, we looked at the Management team, the workforce, technical issues and of course, the community. We considered how all of these could work together and give an optimal result. Good enough, we met an astute acting Managing Director (MD) that the Governor brought from the power sector with many years of experience in transmission, having worked for the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). He was on ground and had already started work; all we needed was collaboration with him to move the company forward. He has been very understanding and we work as a team. Technically, the plant Gas Turbine Generator 1 (GTG 1) has been down. We have three generators – GTG 1, 2 and 3. GTG 3 is the only one running. GTG 2 had problems. In the next couple of weeks, GTG 2 will come on stream and we will be running at 153mw. It is capital intensive to get GTG 1 to work. We are talking with investors to work with us on GTG 1. We have streamlined with two investors, it is just to take a critical look into the issues and see how we can get them on board to work with us. Also as a Board, training has been a priority. We make sure that we looked at what the Management had on ground and ensure that we boost it up to make sure that adequate training is done and on time.  We were able to conduct a seamless reshuffling of the management team for optimal output which was received very well by the team and we are beginning to see a lot of productivity in that line positively. What has been your relationship with the host community? We have been able to interface serially with the community. We have streamlined issues and briefed His Excellency, the Governor. The governor has approved certain budget to work with the community. The number one is the restoration of power supply to Ikot Abasi. We have taken delivery of a 30MVA transformer that will energise the whole of Ikot Abasi. We will deal with the fixing and line stringing such that in less than no time, power supply would be restored to Ikot Abasi as the governor had promised. At Ibom power, there were many issues with past contractors. Court cases were lingering. As a Board, we have been able to reduce the number of court cases from 33 to about nine cases. We intervened in most of the issues with contractors, which have gone a long way to bring sanity to the company, and the working relationship with existing contractors. This has really helped and it shows a Board with serious understanding. We can say that we have done very well. This cannot happen without the vision of His Excellency, Udom Emmanuel who created the Board and appointed the quality of people on the Board. Little wonder he envisioned the provision of ensuring quality power supply. We have been like a gateway into ensuring that the plant runs adequately. I want to use this medium to announce that Akwa Ibom State Government is the only state government in the whole of the federation that stands out in investments in the power sector. Though Power is in the exclusive list of the Federal Government, the Governor makes budget for power projects in the state. He cannot afford not to do that to accomplish his vision of industrialisation. You cannot separate industrialisation from power. Therefore, when we are talking about adequate, sustainable, reliable and steady power supply, that is what industries need, be it at the entrepreneurial stage or mega industries, you cannot separate power from industrialisation. That is the reason he has been able to attract the industries that he has attracted already, there were promises on ground that power will be provided for these industries.