The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has been in severe crises over the primaries for the 2019 general elections. In almost all the states, there exist rises over who should be recongises as the party’s authentic candidates. The crises situation covers almost all the electoral positions, right from the House of Assembly, House of Representatives, Senate and governorship candidates. In some of the cases, there were multiple results, with the party’s state executives approving a list, while the panes sent by the National Working Committee (NWC) to supervise the primaries submitting another list. In Lagos, Ogun, Imo, Kaduna and Rivers states, it has been one story or the other, as the crises polarised the party at all levels, thereby threatening its participation in the general election. Although the situation in Lagos was brought under control, there still exist the feeling that the incumbent governor, Akinwunmi Ambode has been cheated by the party’s leadership conserving his achievements, especially on infrastructure. In Imo State, the efforts of Governor Rochas Okorocha to ensure that he hands over to his son-in-law polarised the APC, pitching him against the party executive. Thus, presently, the issue of who is the party’s governorship candidate has become a matter for the courts. In Rivers State, two factions are also at war over who should be its governorship candidate. In some states, the crises have led to the APC not meeting the deadline for the submission of lists of candidates to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), thereby threatening its full participation in the 2019 general elections. The issue has become more serious when it is understood that APC, which is the current ruling party, is a major platform,. Thus, whatever affects it, will negatively of positively impact on the nation. Presently, due to the fall-outs of the primaries, the party’s National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, is not at war with the state governors, while the APC  National Executive Committee (NEC) and the National Working Committee (NWC) have been polarised, giving the impression that there may be an immediate implosion within the ruling party. Thus, Nigerians are wondering if the crises within the ruling party will not adversely affect the 2019 general elections. The question among stakeholders, therefore, is whether the crises in APC will have any negative impact on the conduct of the 2019 elections? APC Crises Will Not Negatively Affect 2019 Elections – Unionist Comrade Augustine Okosodo Aigbokhan, a Benin-based trade unionist, said: “The crisis rocking APC has nothing to do with the 2019 elections. There are several political parties in the country. That only one is in crisis has nothing to do with the others. “We are already aware that even if they resolve their crisis now, they have already lost out in two or more states where they will not field candidates in the elections. “APC was impregnated in crisis and delivered in crisis and the party will continue to be in crisis because they have no vision for this country. This is why you discover that the few good people who joined them to form the party to win the 2015 elections are already returning to their original parties. “This is because they have discovered that APC was put together to put a wedge on the smooth democratic movement of the country initiated by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 1999 after the military retarded the nation’s growth between 1983 and 1999. This is why God gave them what would occupy them so that they will not participate in the elections. So, I believe that the crises within the APC are divine.” APC Crises Will Not Be A Threat To The Elections – Activist Comrade Prince Kehinde Taiga, Chairman, Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Delta State Chapter has declared that the crises in APC cannot affect the outcome of the general elections in any given manner. He maintained that Nigerians now have a more widened political knowledge than in the past, stating that regardless of the crises in the party, Nigerians know who to vote for. He also stated that there would be no manipulation of election not minding that APC is in power, even as he assured that all forms of electoral malpractice would be checked during the elections. Taiga said: “They cannot use federal might. Those kind of incidents cannot happen again in Nigeria. I am sure the 2019 elections would be free, fair and credible. They would not influence elections. Nigerians have come to a realisation as they would elect whoever they want to rule them.” He said that Nigeria has witnessed little or no growth during the reigns of both APC and PDP. In that vein, their chances should be limited in the elections. “APC and PDP are not the only party we have as there are others. Both of them may not scale through. APC crises will not be a threat to the elections,” he said. APC Crises Will Adversely Affect 2019 Polls – Igbo Apex Leader Agbalanze Jezie Nzomiwu, President-General, lgbo Community Association (ICU), Niger State and the Advocacy Group Chairman, Coalition of Civil Societies in Niger State (COCSINS), stated, “There is no doubt that the All Progressives Congress (APC) crises will have an adverse consequences on the 2019 general elections. What is not certain is the dimension and scope of the crises, whether it will be limited to internal wrangling that will result to the party losing the election, or, a spillover effect that will affect the whole nation. “What we are seeing in today’s polity, particularly in the APC fold, is not strange. This is because of the party’s foundation which is a composition of people with diverse political opinions, interests and ideologies coming together simply to ease the then ruling PDP from office. Now that the diverse ideologies that came together to form the party is beginning to give way, that is basically what we are witnessing today “The APC started so badly with its manipulated primaries that generated a lot of contentions and bad blood among its members. For instance, the primaries were marred by shortchanging of most of the aspirants, leading to violence in virtually all the states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. “The question is: If the APC’s internal primary elections could be this contentious and violent with losers fighting to finish, what will happen during the 2019 general elections when they will be facing more tough situations? “The feelers so far points to the fact that the APC will likely lose the elections having lost grounds in many of its strongholds such as Benue, Plateau, Sokoto, Kwara, Zamfara and several other states. The exercise was generally believed to be mismanaged and the controversies it generated have pitched many APC chieftains against each other with some members and groups calling for the removal of the party’s chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. “Hajiya Aisha Buhari, wife of President Muhammadu Buhari, is in the forefront of those campaigning for Oshiomhole’s removal. However, Oshiomhole going or not will not make any difference. The different opinions within the APC desperately want to be heard. “My belief is that there is the likelihood that the party will be in complete disarray during the 2019 general elections. It it remains alive, since APC is already divided, it will continue to fight for survival. So, the likelihood of the ruling party losing the 2019 elections is very glaring. “If that happens, that is the price APC has to pay due to its lack of in internal democracy and good management of its affairs. “But, what should worry every Nigerian is whether the Independent National Electoral Commission (lNEC) can conduct a free and credible elections that will not be marred by violence, considering what people consider as charade in the Ekiti and Osun states governorship elections and the fallout from the APC primaries, which the commission supervised. “Nigerians in anticipation of APC losing the elections are already anxious about whether President Buhari will be magnanimous enough to willingly bow out, or accept defeat like his predecessor, former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan did. “So, this is where the issue of the dimension and scope of the consequences of APC crises will come in as it will spill over into the entire Nigerian polity. Already destabilising effect of the crises on the APC is manifesting with obvious pointer to loss of power at various levels. “Again, and most disturbing consequence is letting the APC crises destabilise the entire nation’s polity and Nigerians in general if their irreconcilable differences is not nipped in the bud now.” The Crisis May Affect APC’s Electoral Fortune – Lawyer Olorunfemi Ajibade, an  Osogbo-based lawyer, explained that the crisis will not have negative impact on the general elections in 2019 since there is an electoral umpire in charge of the elections. He said: “The crisis in APC will only affect the chances of the party because it may not remain the same again. You can see by now a lot of alignments and realignments going on within the two major political parties in the country now. “The ruling party is disintegrating because of certain interests driving its affairs. Those leaving the party are mostly those that joined the party from PDP. The crisis is only weakening the APC chances because many members are not happy over the running of its affairs at the top. “The party leadership is being controlled by few elements that have ulterior agenda. But, this will not affect the chances of President Muhammadu Buhari returning to power because the government is doing fine. It is only the party that has problems. “The APC, as a party, needs to solve its internal crisis. As they are resolving one, they end up creating fresh ones. The party’s management is poor as it is being run like personal estates of few individual leaders.”