AWKA – The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) has promised to refund monies extorted from aspirants in the just concluded primary election of the party. The chairman of National Reconciliation Committee who is also Vice Presidential candidate of the party, Chief Jerry Chukwueke who led other members of his committee said this after meeting with Anambra State Executive Committee of the party in Awka, the state capital at the weekend. Chukwueke blamed the crisis of nomination that hit the party in Anambra and Imo states in particular on the management of sudden success of the party, saying the committee was mandated to reconcile all aggrieved members of the party. He said, “We feel a sense of loss but also convinced that we will rise from this, stronger and better and poised to be very successful in the coming elections. “We have a party that quickly became very successful in terms of membership and aspirants and managing the success is work in progress. “The National Reconciliation Committee will ensure that anywhere there is established cases of extortion at any level, that restitution will be made. “Those who we can be pined down as having perpetrated this and they are few shall face the necessary consequences.” He promised that what happened in the primary election will be resolved to the satisfaction of members, saying the party was poised to show leadership that is required in Nigeria. Chukwueke said that what transpired in Anambra State is similar to what transpired in Imo, pointing out that the difference being that the case in Imo has to do with gubernatorial primaries. He warned that those who think they can buy their way in representing the people should have a rethink because the party will not accept that. He also warned that those who received certificates of return without being grounded in the party might lose them. He apologised to all those who felt let down saying that what they did on Friday was to engage the state party executive committee before meeting aggrieved members.