Lagos – Spokespersons of President Muhammadu Buhari and Atiku Abubakar, Nigeria’s two leading presidential candidates, engaged each other in a fiery debate on Monday on the performance and credentials of their principals. Festus Keyamo, the Director of Media, Buhari Campaign Organisation, on Monday described Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as a colossal failure when he was deputy to former President Olusegun Obasanjo, between 1999 and 2007. Keyamo, who appeared as a guest on Channels Television programme, Sunrise Daily, also urged Nigerians not to base Atiku’s pedigree on his achievements as a private businessman, but on his records as a government official. “I want everybody to get it clear that Atiku Abubakar cannot run on the promises on this whole thing about running a private business. He’s not Donald Trump that came all the way from private business straight into the presidency of America. He has been vice president. “He claimed those records because he keeps saying, ‘when we were in power’, so if he wants to take the credit of that period, he also has to take the liability of that period. “So, everybody should steer Atiku Abubakar and his team away from all those nebulous private jobs, private business kind of thing. He cannot run on those records. The books are not open to Nigeria; Nigerians don’t know what is happening in those companies. “We want to run on his public record. How did Atiku Abubakar create jobs when he was vice president? What we saw was a colossal failure in terms of management of public institutions. Under him, under the privatisation programme, NITEL became a disaster.” He also argued that President Buhari has done well in the area of revamping the economy of the country since coming to office in May 2015, adding that under his leadership Nigeria is the best-performing economy in Africa. Keyamo said among 11 countries that went into recession two years ago, Nigeria had exceeded all of them in terms of GDP growth. “I need to remind Nigerians about the GDP growth. Of the 11 countries that went into recession around the world, Nigeria has exceeded all of them in terms of GDP growth. None of them has crossed 1.4 to 1.5 percent. Nigeria is doing close to two percent GDP growth right now. Let us get that one clear,” he said. “Forbes Africa has rated Nigeria as the best-performing economy in Africa. The results came out two, three weeks ago; we are the best-performing economy in Africa,” he added. He also said President Muhammadu Buhari-led government was not paying subsidy like the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) did but acknowledged that the Buhari administration was only paying ‘premium’. His words: “What happened under the PDP government was that they were paying for products that did not land at all. That was the scam that was happening. It was fraud. The greatest stealing in the history of this country happened under them. “All the PDP bigwigs were all involved in this subsidy scam, then you saw that many of them refunded money. Like I said, they were paying for products that did not land at all. They will tell you they have brought product and you have to pay subsidy on those products. “The NNPC officials knew; everybody knew that the products did not come at all. What did Buhari do when he came? He said he wanted to cleanse that industry, he said NNPC should take complete charge of importation. “The government wanted to eliminate subsidy at that time, but as the price of crude went up, the price of production went up, the price of the bye-products also went up; it’s normal.” He said at the point when oil was $28 to $30, government was not paying subsidy, but “the difference occurred when oil prices went beyond $43 per barrel, because that was the benchmark, as it rose beyond $43, the delta started, not subsidy. We started to pull away from N145”. He added: “So, the landing cost came to N203/N205, and we are still selling for N145 and the president said, you cannot suffer the masses. Now how do they cover it? Not subsidy. “The NNPC Act allows the NNPC to make refunds to the Federation Account, in other words, they can spend money and return the balance to the Federation Account, by law.” When asked why the government was not appropriating this ‘premium’, Keyamo said: “It is now in the 2019 budget; despite the fact that it is backed by law, that premium has been put in the 2019 budget proposal.” However, in his response, Segun Sowunmi, Spokesperson of the Atiku Campaign Organisation, who also appeared alongside Keyamo, described the present administration under President Buhari as having zero-integrity which had failed to fulfil all its promises to Nigerians. He also lamented the failure of the present administration to rejig its cabinet in the last three and half years despite clear cases of non- performance on their part. Responding to Keyamo’s claims that the present administration had performed excellently compared to that of former president, Olusegun Obasanjo, and his vice, Atiku Abubakar, Sowunmi said: “I’m not exactly surprised when you asked them what they wanted to do for Nigeria, they had absolutely nothing to say. Whatever arguments they have now about fixing the economy is laughable. The economy ran into a slum because of the corruption under the Buhari-led administration. “Their administration has zero integrity. They say one thing in the morning, they do another. First, they said they don’t even know the meaning of subsidy. Right now, they can’t explain to us who is paying subsidy or who is appropriating it. Now we’re finding out that $35 billion is somewhere lost within NNPC. “Worse is that they go all over the world shaming the whole country, claiming that Nigeria is corrupt, even applauding other nations who call us ‘fantastically corrupt’. “There is no reason under earth for us in a democracy not to boot them out because they don’t even know what they’re doing. “What makes them totally incompetent and unacceptable is that in the past three years, none of their ministers has been due for a change. How can they rejig their cabinet when they don’t even know what they’re doing themselves?” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 