Increase Uche, National President, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), in this interview with ANDREW UTULU speaks on the need for the Federal Government to review the port concession agreement of 2006, and why stakeholders, including the freight forwarders, should be included in the review committee. Excerpts: You have called for inclusiveness, particularly the freight forwarders in the review of port concessionning agreement. What are your fears? It is no longer news that the issue of port concession, which was carried out in 2006 had generated concerns and reactions from almost every sub-sector of the nation’s economy and maritime industry sector, particularly, the freight forwarding sector. The major area of interest being that during the port concession exercise of 2006, which was effected by the Bureau of Public Enterprises, with the Nigerian Ports Authority and the concession agreement between the government and the private sector was carried out in a haste, whereas at Antwerp Port,   Belgium, it took them over 50 years to perfect theirs. By so doing, areas that had to do with regulations and planning were not considered by government and the consultants that carried out the process. During that period, the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders’ high command said that if at the end of the concession, the freight forwarders and other relevant bodies in the value chain were not carried along, there were bound to be mistakes, particularly in the areas of regulation. So, at the end of the day, we saw how the concession exercise was carried out, even to the extent that the concession agreement remained a secret. The documents were hidden from the port users. So when the terminal operators took over in 2007, those fears that were anticipated started to manifest. First was the issue of lack of equipment to handle cargoes. The reasons that were adduced then were that the equipment inherited by the concessionaires was obsolete and dilapidated; that gave rise to the delays that lasted for almost two years, from that 2006 and towards the end of 2008, congestion set in. Before then, people were made to understand that the purpose of the concessionning was to bring about revenue generation, port development and efficiency of the port system. Then to the other areas, that had to do with cargo clearance, we were assured that customs and local shipping charges would become less, meaning that the concessionaires would make use of what was initially paid as local shipping charges or rather that it would drop. Then that the efficiency would increase in the port system; that the ports would become user friendly and conducive. But at the end of the day, after about three years of the takeover of terminals, those things were still lacking. The arbitrary charges by both shipping companies and terminal operators set in, and what was referred to by terminal operators as progressive storage charges were set in place. So, delay in moving cargos from the ports to the hinterland was being experienced. In these periods, what port users were told was that the port concession actually increased cargo throughput; that turnaround time of vessels had improved. We were not seeing all these, or much improvement in cargo delivery. So, what actually played out was that on issue of cargo throughput, government gave out the terminal operators what they called guaranteed minimum tonnage, which they were struggling to meet. Then when cargos were brought in and discharged, they were not taken into the terminals properly but rather block stacked leading to the issues of delays in positioning containers for customs examination before the exit of the goods from the ports. All these were being experienced by the freight forwarders prompting us to infer that if we were there from the onset, we would have been able to contribute and give a proper advice on the way things would efficiently work out as to guard against some of those uncertainties that later played out in our ports. Port concession of 2006 like the man who was at the centre of the concession, Chief Adebayo Sarumi, former Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority in recent interview granted after one event, said that what later played out was that of public monopoly shifting to private monopoly and which is not good for the industry. So, stakeholders trying to manage the situation, incessant complaints from the freight forwarders were coming up. Lodging complaints with Nigerian Shippers’ Council, which is expected to protect the interest of the shippers, before the government eventually assigned the role of interim regulatory powers to the council. But because of the fact that terminal operators had already formed an association, it was then difficult for Nigerian Shippers’ Council to control them, coupled with the fact that there was no regulation. Government has not been able to bring about legislative reform. So, the whole thing continued to play out till now. The fact now is that critical stakeholders like the freight forwarders are now agitating that now that the government has seen reason to carry out a review of the port concession agreement, that there is the need to correct the initial mistakes done from the onset so that during the review, freight forwarders will be part of the committee for the review, and will be able to make contributions from our informed positions on what should be the corrections needed to be carried out. What has done so far? NAGAFF has written letters to NPA. Personally, I had a chat with the MD, Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman, last year. I reminded her last year October,  that the issue of port concession and the government plan to carry out review of the agreement, that there was need for the freight forwarders to be in that committee and she assured me they would be there. What has happened after the promise? Unfortunately on August 8 this year, we had a meeting and sent her a message to her, but maybe because of her tight schedule, she has not been able to reply. Two weeks ago, we had to do a reminder, pointing that area of constituting a committee to review the port concession agreement and that was the reason we wanted to meet with her, yet we have not gotten reply from her. What we are saying is that if the government goes ahead to constitute a committee without representatives of freight forwarders, who had been bearing the brunt on the entire value chain, that it will be improper, and problems that the government is trying to find the solution to will not receive the needed attention. That is why we have been worried, that even other government agencies that used to be part of the committee, all that are involved is cargo operations of the ports should be part of that review. What we are working as it is now is, port efficiency, and cost of doing business, they are interwoven. If the port is not efficient, if cargo delivery, or its speed is not carried out in such a way that inventories at  the terminals, delays and space maximisation is seen not to be addressed, cost of doing business will continue to rise. Government on their own, trying to increase revenue generation through port reforms, will not receive the required attention. Government, through the charges or the monies being collected from the ports, terminal operators may be relaxed, thinking it is collecting funds, but in the other way round, through the extortion and arbitrary charges going on by terminal operators and shipping companies, indirectly, the money government is making is being paid back by the shippers to the terminal operators, and that is why the economy has not changed. Port development with all these which are part of government objectives will not see the light of the day. The current model put in place for the port operations is the landlord model.  Landlord model in other developed countries is still being test run. It has not been fully adopted like it is being argued that government should hands off the ports, that is not the best from what we have been and read, for government to allow its maritime industry to be fully ceded to private operators. In Ghana, Ghana Harbour still retains back. If you go to countries like Thailand, freight forwarders even operate Inland Container Deports (ICD’s), so it is not entirely left in the hands of the multi-nationals to handle their entire aspect of the matrimony industry. Should NPA have ceded the ports without any form of control in the first place? NPA should not have ceded the entire ports without having control of the system. NPA is even now shifting attention from the ports to port access roads, which suppose to be the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing. We should not be talking about access roads at this point of our ports development; we should be looking at the connection of the ports to highway and railways, the water ways. How do we change the things you have identified? So for us to correct all these, we need go back to the drawing board. Government had an objective which was clearly spelt out. But because of non-monitoring of the activities of port concessionaires, those objectives are yet to be realized. We have not been port efficiency and transport efficiency, the way it was envisaged. Don’t you think that the poor transport system also contributes to the inefficiencies of the port system? The inland transport system, the rail, the highways, and the waterways, if they are not efficient, there is no way we will claim that the transport system is efficient, and that also affects the port efficiency. The port is not supposed to be a storage place for the cargos, because the cargoes need to move to the hinterlands, through the roads, the rails and waterways. So that inventories at the port terminals will be reduced. So what should be the ideal thing? In the triangle of the contract of carriage of cargo, the freight forwarders must be fully involved. The shippers, the owners of the cargo must be there. Then,  the carrier who is the owner of the vessel, the truck and others. The three parties are so critical. So likewise in formulating any policy in the agreement that must form the frame work in which the port must operate, we are calling for a holistic approach in constituting a committee. Both the committee that will review,  and the committee that will monitor the operation, so that at the end of the review, because at the end of the review, the port operation need to be monitored and look at the time frame of operations. This is to know the government target and to be able to assess what has been achieved within that time frame. This is because the current mode is BOT, the is Build, Operate and Transfer. We have seen how contract between customs and Cotecna in providing scanners was like. At the end of the tenure, what was transferred to customs could not be managed. Do you think this will be the real solution to the problems in the ports? That is part of the solution because right now we have seen how port arrangements fared. We in the freight forwarding sub-sector  who were there from the onset, what we should be targeting is to see or look at the agreement, planning stages, design stage of the ports, then the implementation as it affects ease of doing business. The space,  the usage of space and the application of port activities so that our ports will be competitive. We will be talking about the draught of the seas, so that we will  have deep sea ports. The terminals need not be too wide, but the efficiency must be there for quick clearance of cargo. The forecast is that in the next ten years, our ports will not be able to accommodate the kind of big vessels that will be coming in. So we need deep sea ports. Government needs to assemble expert who will give quality advice. How would you assess the relationship between the freight forwarders and the port police? The job of the police is to maintain order, protect lives and property. Recently, there was this issue of complaints by some groups who said the police disturbances were posing a threat to trade facilitation. Though, we know the police are carrying out their statutory functions, nobody will support anybody who impedes movement of cargos in the name of policing. But the fact remains that the police have the duty to protect lives. The way it is now, the maritime police command, under the AIG Maritime, is doing its best. But for the simple fact of the Nigerian system, so it is not surprising to some of us when they place some of the alerts, when they suspect foul play in some of the containers, the worst aspect of the scenario when they place such alert, delay occurs. So, what we have been advising our members is to ensure they conform to trade rules. This is because non-compliances to trade rules   give room to suspicion. Even at the port today, we know that the role of the police is to provide security, protect lives and property, observe cargo examination, not to take part in cargo examination. If at all an order is coming from above that a certain container is carrying what is offensive, to any sane professional freight forwarder, what to do is to submit yourself, not take start raising false or on unnecessary alarm because the police is to maintain law and order. It’s role there in the port is to assist the Customs, in an invent that there is an issue that has to involve customs, police will as well invite customs to take statements. It is very clear and we all know that under Section 8 of the Customs and Excise Management Act(CEMA), that an average customs officer has the duty to act like the police, but that of police is wider as a result of due investigation. What we are saying is that the maritime police command, when we made a case about two years ago,  that conventional police were interrupting cargo movement on the highways and roads, which we argued was not proper, they agreed with us, as at last year, they told us that any alert on the cargo or police intervention will only be handled by the maritime police. That if any police formation have any issue, observation on cargo, they should charnel it to the port police. That there is no other police command or formation apart from the maritime police that has such powers. So, if a port user is carrying out his legitimate business in the ports with no skeleton in his cupboard, no police will disturb him. What they are doing is to reduce insecurity in the country. We are not against the police, so if any group is saying what the police is doing is wrong; he should submit himself for scrutiny.