Olorogun Ovie Ughwanogho is the Delta Central Senatorial candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). In this interview with SUNDAY APAH, he spoke on his vision for Delta Central Senatorial District, and other political issues. Excerpts: Why do you want to contest the Delta Central Senatorial seat? Everything I have done is centred on making life better for the people. That is why the Ovie of Effurun-Otor honoured me with the title of ‘The Ejoyovwi of Effurun-Otor’ which means, ‘Let it be good for all’. The Orogun Kingdom conferred on me, ‘The Erukakpor’, because they saw what I have done for a lot of people. But, our good deeds are being frustrated because we see those who are entrusted with the common wealth of our people not performing as we expected. The elected officials, from the local government level to the Federal Government level, are disappointing us. They are there not for our interest, but for their personal gains. Their behaviour and utterances have shown that they are more interested in themselves instead of the people that gave them their mandates. This is the frustration some of us face and that is what led many of us into the race. We have a senator who is not in good relationship with the Senate President and the Senators. Unfortunately, the senator we are talking about is from Delta Central. Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege is at the centre of all the scenes, fighting the Senate President. I don’t think Sen. Bukola Saraki has offended the Urhobos in anyway. So, we wonder why our senator is dissipating his energy in trying to remove Saraki from office. We are not in the same page with Omo-Agege on that fight against Dr.  Bukola Saraki. What we expect was that when election is approaching, the senator representing us will tell us what he has done with the mandate given to him. He has been there for three and half years. We expected him to tell us what he will do if the mandate is giving to him again. We didn’t send Omo-Agege to senate to fight Saraki or to go there and become Buhari’s senior son. We sent him there to collaborate, associate with fellow senators and the Presidency to bring dividends of democracy to us. We have been watching him for the past three and half years. We are looking frustrated because he has not done what he was sent to do. Secondly, he has not given any report. He is standing for elections and is not discussing issues concerning the Urhobos. That is why some of us felt we have to go there and bring up issues concerning the Urhobos, the issues concerning Niger Delta and Nigeria as a nation. Let us take our electoral process back to issue-based campaigns rather than open display of rascality. What will be your major focus if you are given the mandate to represent Delta Central? My interest is Urhobo and the national interest. On the national interest, three key things l will underplay is electoral reform. The current electoral system does not work well for everybody, but for the political party in power. So, I will sponsor a bill that will mandate INEC to set up Election Management Committee for every election. If there is an election in Delta State, there will be Delta Electoral Management Committee. Membership of the committee should come from the political parties. The committee will vet every result submitted at the end of the day. As the results roll in, they will vet them. In a polling unit where you have 500 registered voters, you cannot tell us that 499 or 480 showed up and that 480 voted for a candidate. It is impossible. That result will be canceled. The committee at the end, will give go-ahead to announce results. Results cannot be announced or declared and later you ask other political parties to go to court. It is not done in a civilised country. The bill will take that power from them and give it to the committee, which will comprise all political parties duly represented. Candidates will not feel cheated and court issues will be reduced drastically. Again, every legal issue emanating from elections must be settled before swearing-in. In our case, we want it to be like that so that nobody uses public money to oppress his opponents. You win election, the case is in court and you are sworn in and you use the state’s money to fight the loser, who feel cheated. That should not happen. The kind of impunity in Nigeria where the ruling party decides what it wants in elections, how do you compare this to the practice in the United States of America? There is big difference. There, the ruling party does not have any sweeping power over the electoral process, because, the electoral process is decentralised to the extent that even the voting method in one area might not be the same in another area, voting methods differ. No single body like INEC that controls elections in the United States of America. When you have a presidential election, it is done transparently. That is why journalists can announce results. Have you ever seen anybody come on board on the television announcing resulting in the USA elections? It is the journalists. They add it up and say this one won. All those counting are independent. They have their own electoral system run by the political parties.  There is no permanent electoral body in the United States. But here, you have one INEC whose chairman is appointed by President. What do you expect? The president who appointed the INEC boss is an interested party in the election. How do you expect a free and fair election? If this man appoints me into power and he is contesting, how do you expect me to be the umpire? I wouldn’t. So, the Nigeria system is built to fail and it has failed. Let us go back to 2014 electoral reforms and restructuring that is already waiting for the president to append his signature as discussed in the National Conference. If the president refuses to sign it, let us move it in piece meal. There are too many resources in this country. Everybody must not depend on oil, but we have to do it wisely. Every year, we have to increase derivation to 15%. So, in the next 29 years, we would have increased it to 75%. That is my restructuring. Decentralisation of electoral process, mostly in the area of education, the Federal Government has no business with higher institutions. Rather, let the states run higher institutions, and the local governments run the primary and secondary education. People believe you are the only senatorial candidate that can withstand the incumbent, Senator Ovie  Omo-Agege. What is your take on this? We are taking our message to our people. This election will be about the people. We want the people to get the message. They should get that clear that Dr. Ovie Ughwanogho will not touch one naira of any proceed coming to the constituency projects. Politicians will lie to you that we don’t have money, we just award the contract. Rather, they influence which company gets the contract so as to get returns. Some of the companies pay some of them from back door. That is how they become billionaires, not from their salaries. They are not becoming billionaires from N800,000 salaries, but from these back dealings from constituency projects, plus all the allowances. I will not touch my furniture allowance or proceeds coming from constituency projects. Instead, all the benefits will be paid into what I will set up as Urhobo Development Foundation. It will serve as interventionist organisation where if government fails to do the needful, our people can draw from that purse to do it. For example, if the roof fell from a primary school and they wrote the governor severally and it is not fixed, you can go to the foundation. The board will look at the programme, approve it and disburse. It will be direct labour, no contract for anybody to become rich. Any Urhobo son or daughter who has first class from the university does not need to start carrying files everywhere looking for jobs. From the foundation, automatic scholarship for PhD has to be offered such child. I intend to use my constituency projects to build people that will be leaders tomorrow. So, I am presenting myself as a servant ready to be sent on errand and not a leader or a ruler like others claim when you give them your mandate. I will be responsible to them because they sent me there.