Lagos – Zenith Bank on Wednesday announced a sponsorship of N24.6 million for the 14th edition of the Women’s Basketball League that will tip off simultaneously in Abuja and Enugu on Sunday and ends November 2, 2018. While 11 Savannah Conference clubs will converge in Abuja, the 10 Atlantic Conference clubs will equally converge in Enugu for the week long round robbin games. However, the three top teams in each of the conferences will meet in Lagos for the Final Six that will determine the champions of the league. The Final Six starts on November 4 and ends November 7, 2018. While announcing the commencement of the league on Wednesday in Lagos, Peter Amangbo, Zenith Bank’s GMD/CEO, who was represented by Akin Ogunranti, the bank’s General Manager, Zonal Head, Ikeja, said that the bank has committed N24.6 million for the league. The sponsorship fee covers the team’s transportation, accommodation subsidies, referees indemnities, organization of the league among others. Ogunranti said that the bank was always supporting women’s basketball in the country, saying that their 14 years support was a testimony, adding that the bank was happy to announce their plans to throw their weight behind the league. “Over the past 13 years Zenith Bank Nig. Plc has sponsored NBBF/Zenith Bank Women’s National League as part of our contributions to the society and youth development. “This is our core Corporate Social Responsibility which also has come a long way with partnership with the NBBF since 2005, beginning with just four teams and now has grown to 21 teams. We are indeed delighted that our intervention which has continued to yield tremendous result in the areas of women youth development.” Ogunranti said that the sponsorship has raised the profile of women basketball in Nigeria and has contributed in no small measure to the discovery of talents many of whom have represented the country. Meanwhile, the Vice President, NBBF, Babatunde Ogunade, acknowledged the bank’s support for the 2017 Afrobasket winning team and also their financial support for the FIBA Women World Cup. “Our kudos goes to the Bank for doing all what they have been doing over the years; we appreciate them for what they have done. They have continued to support female basketball in Nigeria for the last 14 years and look forward to many more years of partnership”, Ogunade said. Winners and first runners up will represent Nigeria at the FIBA zone 3 Women’s Champions qualifiers.