Hon. Hamisu Santuraki is the National Chairman of Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke of the state of the party and its readiness for the 2019 general elections. He also spoke on the need for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure free, fair and credible election in 2019. Excerpt: What would you say is the state of your party? We learnt that the party has undergone some changes in recent time. Could you say some of these changes? The Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN) is now out from hibernation. We are set to clinch many seats in the coming 2019 general elections. Yes, changes! The party has undergone a lot of overhauling, which cumulated into changing its name from Mega Progressive Peoples Party (MPPP) that it used to bear to the Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN). The bad eggs, in terms of leadership, were shredded and trashed away by the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC). There is also a symbolic difference in the new logo, which bears a ram that speaks about service and progress. What really accounted for the changes? Would you say there was a crisis of confidence among the leaders since the illness and death of Chief Shitta Bey, the pioneer national chairman and leader? Many things accounted for the changes. You cannot have a bad leader as head of party affairs and expect service and progress. Our past leader was inexperienced, power drunk and acclaimed self-styled strategist who threw the party into mess to the level that aspirants who angrily left the party, contested and won elections under other party’s platforms. So the party’s NEC and the NWC lost confidence in that leadership. The then national Chairman was charged for gross misconduct that led to his removal and expulsion in 2015. How would react to the recent defection of the party’s former National Chairman, Hon. Dare Falade, to the APC in Lagos, which publicly announced the collapse of MPPP structure into APC? Point of correction, Dare Falade neither collapsed the structures of the Mega Progressive Peoples Party (MPPP), nor Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN) into APC. From what I read in the national dailies, he claimed to be the National Chairman of Mega Peoples Progressive Party (MPPP) and not Mega Progressive Peoples Party, which coincidentally has same acronyms of MPPP. It is possible that he now heads certain support group named Mega Peoples Progressive Party. But, I am surprised that the APC, as intelligent as they are, allowed a Dare Falade to play them 419. Mega Party of Nigeria, MPN, which I, Hamisu Santuraki, is the current National Chairman, did not collapse, has not thought about, and not planning to collapse any of the party’s structures into an APC. We are on ground with active structures in all the 36 states, including the FCT, warming up to win many seats in the coming 2019 general elections. I call on the APC leadership to arrest and ensure prosecution of Dare Falade for playing on their intelligence by using (I supposed) a mere support group name claiming it is a political party to defraud them. We strongly disassociate ourselves from his claims. As the 2019 general elections approach, what are the plans of your party for an impressive outing? Now you are talking! Our party’s manifesto contains the master plan for an impressive outing in any elections. But,  we almost lost that in 2015 to the self-centeredness and criminal activities of past bad leadership. Thank goodness, now the lacuna had been removed by expelling them from the party. Our four cardinal programmes are (but not limited to) Food for all, Electricity for all, Jobs for all and War against corruption. Would you say your party’s involvement in the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) will be to its advantages Yes. As the name implies, it is a coalition. It means running a unitary government among member political parties. It entails collapsing different parties manifestos together for a single goal. Our members at all levels will be carried along, get fully involved in making inputs in developing our dear country progressively. How would you describe President Muhamadu Buhari administration so far? I won’t just waste time on this glaring matter. Look, let me just categorise the President’s administration so far and base each on grade points of A – F. Under power generation, I score him        D, which is ordinary Pass. On  the fight against corruption     , I score him D, which also is ordinary Pass. On the economy, I score the administration  F, which is Fail. On the resolution of the Niger Delta crises, I score the administration C, which is  just Satisfactory. On youth unemployment, I score the administration  F, which is Faile. On governance and policies, I also score it F (Fail). On youth and women empowerment, it s also F (Fail). Anybody may calculate my summation to get an average. Do you think the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) can conduct free, fair and credible elections in 2019? Well, the electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, has repeatedly assured Nigerians of the commission’s readiness to conducting a free, credible, fair plus all-inclusive elections in the forthcoming general elections of 2019. If after the commission weighs the various scale of electoral aggression being recorded in Nigeria over the years, where a lot of violence were perpetrated and incited by influential politicians and their associates, can collaborate with stakeholders to map out and adopt a work plan for adequate punishments on one hand and on the other hand, ensure monitoring the implementation of such penalties to the perpetrators and sponsors of the various electoral aggression no matter how highly placed, I think the 2019 general elections will be conducted under free, fair and credible conditions. What is your view on the emerging trend of vote buying? There is no way we can talk about vote buying and exclude vote selling. While vote buying itself is a great offence, so is vote selling. The cause of vote buying and selling is poverty emanating from non-payment of salaries, unemployment, stagnant businesses, tribalism, religious sentiments and more. To put stop to vote buying and selling, INEC has a big role to play. Let the commission, in collaboration with security agencies, disallow and stop voters from using camera phones and any other camera gadgets to take photographs of their ballot paper in each polling unit. Because, voters have now deviced methodd of using cameras to take photographs of their ballot papers to show the picture to politicians or their agents to be paid for voting for them. But, INEC needs cooperation of all stakeholders and security agents to accomplish this. As the 2019 general elections approach, what are your advice for Nigerians generally? As the 2019 general elections approach, there is need for the aspirants to make out with a political party. All Nigerians of voting age should ensure the safety and proximity of their voter cards. Nigerians should interpret the ideologies of each candidate, who eventually emerges at various electoral levels, then vote according to their conscience. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 