Monitored and published by the Paris-based Choiseul Institute for International Politics and Geo-Economics, the Choiseul 100 takes into account nominees’ profiles, contribution to country’s socio-economic performance, and impact on their communities. Africa’s growth has increased measurably in recent years and is expected to continue its overall upward trend by over 4 percent in late 2018 and early 2019, Choiseul said in its introductory remarks, citing figures from the African Development Bank. In accordance with Africa’s expected positive movement towards economic development, the institute continued, the ranking particularly focused on young entrepreneurs and community leaders who understand the need for Africa to “face the challenges of its time to ensure the durability of its development and to pursue its rise in power in the global economic landscape.” “The purpose of Choiseul 100 Africa – the Economic Leaders for Tomorrow is to honor those exceptional profiles who contribute to the renewing of the African economic governance.” In addition to being responsible citizens and business leaders familiar with the challenges and prospects of tomorrow’s Africa, the chosen figures have shown signs of their ability of “carrying Africa.” Mostly in their mid-20s to late-30s, the young leaders Choiseul ranked come from across the continent and have already made their names in various sectors in their respective countries, making them “references nationally, regionally or continentally” and are “the reflection and engine of the successful Africa. The 10 Moroccans ranked this year mostly come from the banking and real estate sectors: Idriss Bensmail (8th), deputy manager at BMCI Bank
Badr Alioua (13th), managing director at Attijariwafa Bank
Sarah Kerroumi (16th), secretary general at Ynna Holding, a real estate company
Saad Sefrioui (29th), deputy managing director at Addoha group, a real estate and development company
Marouane Ameziane (33rd), chief of staff at OCP, the global leader in phosphates
Omar Belmamoun (43rd), cofounder and CEO at Platinum Power, a leading continental energy company with projects in Morocco, Cameroon, Congo, and Côte d’Ivoire
Mohamed Ben Ouda (71st), CEO at Palmeraie Development, a Casablanca-based luxury real estate company.
Kamil Senhaji (79th), Africa-Middle-East-Asia director at Galileo Global Education, working to diversify and promote access to higher education.
Moulay Mhamed Elalamy (86th), former CEO at Saham Assurance
Mohamed Alami Berrada (91st), ead of employment at the office of the prime minister of Morocco. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 