Jose Mourinho wasn’t very happy at the end of Manchester United’s draw with Chelsea, following Ross Barkley’s late equaliser, and his mood won’t be improved by former Manchester City forward Mario Balotelli. The pressure on Jose Mourinho’s job had been somewhat relieved in the comeback win against Newcastle United in the Red Devils’ previous Premier League game but United knew they needed a good performance against Chelsea at very least. They found themselves 1-0 down at half time through Antonio Rudiger’s first half header but a second half comeback and an excellent second 45 from the likes of Paul Pogba, Juan Mata and Anthony Martial saw the Red Devils take a 2-1 lead.
Mike Dean added six minutes of added on time and United faced a nervy end to the match as they tried to hold on. Finally, with seconds remaining, the pressure told with Ross Barkley scoring in the dying moments of the game. The goal kicked off a fracas near the touchline and the heat continued on the pitch too. Whilst the goal, and subsequent celebration by the Chelsea bench, might have annoyed Mourinho it clearly delighted one of his former players with Mario Balotelli jumping straight on social media: Balotelli has a past with both Mourinho and United. The Italian striker fell out with the former Inter Milan boss when the pair were at the San Siro together, although the forward didn’t leave till Mourinho had. When the forward left Inter he moved to Manchester City and had two famous moments related to United whilst there. He scored in the famous 6-1 game and revealed a t-shirt under his City kit that read ‘Why Always Me.’ The 28 year old also got his only league assist for the Premier League champions when he set up Sergio Aguero for the famous league winning goal in 2012. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 