AWKA – A lecturer at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University (NAU),  Awka,  Dr Chris Abakare, has dragged the university’s branch’s Academic Staff Union of University (ASUU) to court for excluding him from contesting in an election. Abakare, who was a chairmanship aspirant in the July 11 ASUU-NAU elections, accused the branch of unlawfully disqualifying him from contesting in the election and prayed the court to set aside the exercise. He listed as defendants in the matter Prof Okey Agu, Dr Okechukwu Nwafor, Prof. Dennis Aribodor (immediate past chairman), Dr Kinsley Ubaoji and Dr Stephen Ufoaroh (the branch chairman). In the suit No. A/295/2018 filed at an Anambra High Court sitting in Awka, the plaintiff prayed the court to restrain Ufoaroh, who was declared winner in the election from parading himself as chairman. Abakare said he met all the requirements to participate in the election but was wrongly disqualified based on a ‘proposed’ guideline introduced after the process of election had begun. Lead by his counsel, O. M. Madukaife, he argued that his disqualification was rescinded through a memo dated June 28 2018 signed by chairman and secretary of the electoral committee after he protested. He said he was surprisingly disqualified again in a document signed on June 29 2018 and signed by the chairman of the committee alone. He urged the court to consider the constitution and guidelines of ASUU-NAU branch and determine whether his disqualification and conduct of the election was not illegal unlawful and unconstitutional. Some of the reliefs sought included, “a declaration that his declaration by the 1st and 2nd defendants contrary to the provisions of ASUU constitution and supplementary rules on branch elections is illegal, unconstitutional and of no effect. “An order setting aside the purported election of ASUU-NAU held on July 11, 2018 in relation to the office of the chairperson and restraining the 5th defendant from parading himself pending the conduct of fresh election for the office of chairperson. “An order mandating the 1st and 2nd defendants to conduct fresh election for ASUU-NAU in accordance with its constitution and code of practice and supplementary rules on branch elections”. When the matter was called up, Justice C.A. Emembolu assigned the it to another court No date has been fixed for the hearing.