The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has assured that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration will not back down on its avowed commitment to complete all ongoing infrastructure projects within the specified time, regardless of what opposition parties say. The BMO gave the assurance in a statement by its Chairman, Mr Niyi Akinsiju, and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, on Saturday in Abuja. The statement was in reaction to claims by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that most of the projects recently commissioned by President Buhari were initiated by the Jonathan administration. The organisation dismissed claims by the PDP, especially on the Port Harcourt airport project as an attempt to water down the achievements of the President Buhari`s administration, describing them as laughable. “The opposition party had not only claimed credit for its completion, but said the project was conceptualised and financed by the Jonathan administration. “We wonder how the party could even claim that the PDP administration financed a project that the Chinese through the China EXIM bank provided a loan of $500m to cover three other airports in Lagos,Abuja and Kano. “It is not even a surprise, because here is a party that has no qualms about twisting tales to suit its false narratives,“ the organisation said. It noted that the project in question, was only 30 per cent completed at the time President Buhari assumed office in May 2015. It added that it was amusing that whenever President Buhari completed abandoned projects or those left at low level of completion, the PDP would rush to issue press statements deriding the adminstration’s effort. The BMO stressed that if this was a ploy to divert attention, the opposition party had only exposed itself to ridicule. This, it said, was especially so, because the APC-led administration of President Buhari would continue to complete all projects left at various stages of completion. “We are however, convinced that the President would not approve the completion of the long abandoned PDP headquarters project in the Abuja city centre,” the organisation said.