Dr. Joe Okei-Odumakin, a frontline human rights activist has traversed courageously where men fear to tread.  The President, Women Arise for Change Initiative in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI and SARAH JACK, speaks on several issues in the polity including the 2019 general elections. Excerpts: As one of the leading human rights activists in the country, there is this impression among some Nigerians that activists have been silent in recent times in voicing out against some anti-government policies. What is your take on that? I have often restated the fact, that activism is not a profession and most people, who have chosen to be engaged in activism, do such voluntarily and are often at liberty to get involved or speak on issues, as they may deem fit, without being compulsorily made to download. That nonetheless, we have people who till date, have remained consistent in voicing out their opinion, against any anti-people policies of government and it will be unfair, to classify the leading lights of the human rights community, as having gone silent. How has your organisation, Women Arise assisted in deepening women participation in politics? Women Arise (WA) has women political participation as one of her four major programme areas and through this has continually implemented projects to enhance Nigeria women participation in politics through consultative meetings with critical stakeholders; capacity building workshops; political parties’ leadership engagement; policy advocacy; research and documentation. For instance between 2012 and 2017 Women Arise implemented 4 Women Political Participation Enhancement Projects in the 6 South West States of Nigeria to enhance the capacity of women to participate in politics, and building their capacity to engage beyond political party membership and merry-making. WA worked with not less than 100 women groups across the 6 States through capacity enhancement programmes; engagement of political party leadership for inclusion; advocacy for the implementation of the National Gender Policy; and the identification of critical voices among the womenfolk. WA has also been working with other women advocacy groups to push for policy and legislation that would advance the women agenda in Nigeria such that will open up the space and create opportunity for more women participation in politics. One of such is the Gender Equal Opportunities Bill which is currently before the National Assembly and also in Lagos and some other States. Our organization has also been advocating for political party internal democracy such that will allow transparency and by extension enhance women nomination for elective positions. WA continually collaborates with the media to build consensus that enhance the participation of more women in politics. Do you think it’s possible for Nigeria to have a woman Governor, Vice President and President soon? I strongly believe it is possible for this to happen soon but not without concerted efforts and consistent positive actions. If we look at what we had in 2003 and compare it with what we got in 2007 in terms of women in elective positions, one will notice a significant improvement. Though this dropped a bit in 2011, again we moved up a little more in 2015 as regards elective and appointive positions. So, I believe that if we intensify efforts applying all the policies and legislations available to us and build consensus more, we would definitely see a Nigeria with a woman or women Governors and even a Vice President and a President soon, say as soon as 2023. Can you say the Buhari administration did well in fulfilling the 35 percent affirmative for women? The Buhari administration has tried but has not really fulfilled the 35% affirmative action. One would have expected this administration to perform better than past administrations through the fulfillment of the affirmative action or through appointive positions and engagement of women more proactively for the fact that it was part of his campaign promises. What are some of the major challenges the womenfolk who intend going into politics face and how can they overcome it? Some of these challenges are lack of internal democracy in the political parties, godfatherism, fraudulent political campaign financing, the patriarch nature of the political parties, unholy hours of political meetings, favouritism etc. The best way to overcome these challenges is for the political parties to practice internal democracy. The Political Parties should allow aspirants to emerge through genuine direct primaries; nepotism and favouritism should be discouraged at all levels and Political Parties’ leadership should assist women aspirants to raise political campaign finance through transparent resource mobilization strategies. Further more women aspiring for elective position must prepare well for the task and be ready to compete with the male aspirants. Women aspirants should not see themselves as inferior to their male counterparts and must be ready to contest from the point/position of strength. What are your perspectives on the anti corruption war of the FG? Do you believe it is lopsided as some Nigerians have claimed? The ultimate essence of the anti-corruption war is to ensure that our country is rid of all forms of corruption. While there is the perception, that the anti-corruption war has become lopsided, it is always important to ask ourselves, if those being prosecuted for acts of corruption, despite their political divide, have questions to answer or not. It is also important, for Nigerians to start seeing the war against corruption as their own, rather than being seen as the battle by the Federal government or the anti-corruption agencies alone. This is one reason, why we have continued to encourage the anti-corruption agencies, to actively engage the citizens, in order to ensure, that there is no partisan badge, tagged on its activities. What should Nigerians look out for as they elect a new President in 2019? Nigerians must look at where we are today as a country and what our aspirations are, in the years ahead. In electing a President in 2019, factors such as tribal and religious sentiments must be relegated, for merit, competence and programmes articulated by the various candidates before casting their ballots. Do you think 91 Political parties are healthy for the Nigerian political system? As long as it is allowed by our democracy, there is nothing wrong about it. It leaves the citizens with wider options of choosing their representatives without being unnecessarily restricted to two political parties. But most importantly, the smaller political parties should evolve a culture of working together for progressive reasons, in order to always checkmate the excesses of the dominant parties or whichever political party is in power, at a given period. In recent times, there has been incidents  of vote buying during elections, what is the implication of this to our democracy? Vote-buying is a growing threat to our democracy. It is an agenda by desperate politicians to take away the power to elect leaders from the people and hand same over to the highest bidder during the elections. It should therefore be seen by all as a national emergency that requires urgent intervention and strong measures that can prevent it in future elections. Otherwise, democracy will no longer be a government of the people by the people. Who do you think should be blamed for vote buying; the political gladiators or the electorate? The political gladiators are largely responsible, and one must understand that this is not an act only perfected on election days. Events have shown that these political gladiators have devised a conscious approach of pauperizing our people, thereby making them so poor that they can easily be hoodwinked with very little amount of money. We need to also remind those electorates that every time they choose to sell their votes for whatever amount of immediate cash, it invariably amounts to selling their future and rights to hold their leaders accountable. Some respondent have said ad-hoc staff of INEC are culpable in this act of vote buying. Do you share this perspective? The reality on the field clearly suggest that INEC and some ad-hoc staff played little or no role in this ugly scenarios of vote-buying, yet I believe the INEC has serious roles to play in imposing sanctions on elements who are gradually reducing the whole essence of our elections to trade by batter. As the civil society organisation, we have been involved in a lot of sensitization and public awareness, particularly on the role of citizens and stakeholders in the electoral process. This has also enjoyed the supports of INEC on several occasions. But as it is, we shall be refocusing our efforts on educating the citizens on the emerging danger of vote-buying and its implications on the future of our democracy. We shall also be engaging stakeholders in the electoral process towards pushing for legislations that will criminalise this ugly practice and empower INEC to sanction perpetrators. Many Nigerians are suffering humiliation abroad especially in places like South Africa. Do you think FG is doing enough in standing up for them? While one cannot deny some intervention by the Nigeria government on issues affecting our citizens in foreign countries, it is important to say that these interventions are not enough especially when one consider the manner of treatment and issues like xenophobic attacks on our citizens in South Africa. It is my view that our government, should begin to respond with tough sanctions, against any country that violates the right to life of our citizens, as this will be a major way of mitigating against such incidences and also getting these countries, to be alive, in protecting the lives of foreigners in their country. An aid worker, Hauwa Liman was executed by Boko Haram recently and Leah Sharibu is still in Boko Haram custody. Are you worried about the inability of the FG to tame the Boko Haram menace? It is such a sad incident, and our hearts are with the families of every aid workers, who have lost their lives, while rendering these selfless services, for our country. It is a major failure on the part of our government, that despite the number of months taken, we could not secure the release of Hauwa and others, before they were executed by these terrorist elements. While one cannot but acknowledge the commitment of the Federal Government, towards ending the Boko Haram insurgency, the truth remains that the war is still very far from being won. Let me salute our gallant troops who have continued to make the ultimate sacrifices of ensuring that our country is rid of all insurgencies, yet, the government needs to employ improved strategies, towards combating this deadly menace of Boko Haram. What is your take on the argument over the new Minimum wage? Every worker deserves not just a minimum wage, but a living wage. The minimum wage in Nigeria today cannot take our workers home and therefore we insist that there must be a reasonable upward review from this poverty wage, to a living wage. A county that spends so much to service a very few political elite at a huge expense cannot but ensure that its workers are treated in a decent manner and as such, must be well remunerated.