Dr. Umar Mantu, an aspirant to the Mangu/Bokkos Federal Constituency seat, has congratulated Sen. Jerry Useni for clinching the PDP ticket to contest the Plateau governorship seat in 2019. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Useni, senator representing Plateau South, clinched the ticket after defeating 12 other aspirants in the primary elections held in Jos on Sunday. According to the results announced Monday morning, Useni, former FCT minister and military governor of old Bendel State, garnered 1,018 votes to floor his closest opponent, Rep Johnbull Shekarau, who got 340 votes. Useni will slug it out with Gov. Simon Lalong of the APC, who emerged unopposed as the candidate of his party on Sunday. Mantu, in a statement on Monday in Jos, said that Useni’s leadership experience as military governor, FCT minister and Army General had made him the best material to govern the crisis-ridden north-central state. “Plateau needs someone who understands security, politics, economy and mutual co-existence. The state is facing some serious security challenges and the people want a peaceful atmosphere to forward. Useni will provide this,” he said. The statement signed by Mr Emmanuel Macham, on behalf of the Umar Mantu Campaign Organisation, said that Useni had proved a unifying force over the years and would deploy such unifying skills to steer Plateau through its trying times. Mantu urged the aspirants to unite around the winner and work toward victory in the 2019 general elections. “Since the ultimate dream is a united, prosperous and peaceful Plateau, we must all work for it. Useni is just the rallying point. So, we must rally round him to achieve the Plateau of our dream,” he said. The aspirant described the primary election that produced Useni as “the best ever, in Plateau”, and commended the State PDP Chairman, Chief Damishi Sango, for keeping to his promise to conduct a transparent and credible election. Mantu also commended the delegates for making the right choice, and equally hailed the aspirants’ maturity and calmness throughout the exercise. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 