Hon. Godwin Ogenyi is a one-time Commissioner for Human Capital Development and Poverty Reduction in Enugu State. In this interview with PATIENCE OGBODO-IWUAGWU, he spoke on the emergence of Atiku Abubakar as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential flag bearer, his nomination of Peter Obi as running mate, among other issues. Excerpt: What is your reaction to the emergence of the former Vice President Atiku Abubakar as the 2019 Peoples Democratic  Party (PDP) Presidential  flag bearer? The emergence of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as the PDP Presidential flag bearer is a very welcome development. Atiku is a man of vast experience, not only in politics, but also in business, the economy and the nation, having served as the nation’s Vice President at formative stage of the current political dispensation. I think his long stay in the politics, his knowledge of the terrain, his understanding of the suffering and the challenges confronting not only the nation, but by the people of Nigeria will be a very great advantage to us if he is elected as the President of this country. There has being a controversy over the nomination of Mr. Peter Obi, the former Anambra State Governor, as Atiku’s running mate. What is your take on that? Atiku in choosing his Vice President, made choice of Peter Obi. When Peter Obi was the governor of Anambra State,  there were positive things known about him. Though he is not a perfect man, every person has a fault. But, we are looking at the combination of two individuals. I will also describe Atiku as a political stalwart with human face and a very strong leader. Combining Atiku’s qualities as an astute businessman and democrat to the core with those of Obi, a man of proven integrity, will work for Nigeria. I want to advise Nigerians to look beyond personal gains, personal sentiments, regional sentiments and try to support a group that can bring this country up again. I believe that whatever anybody is looking for, or to gain profit from this nation, it is only possible if there is a nation. As the nation is going, if we continue like this and nothing is done to stop us from our downwards trends, very soon the nation itself will vanish and there will be no country for anybody to gain or get. Therefore, every hand should be on deck at this moment to support a team that can stabilise this country, turn around the economy and build a nation that we can all be proud of. I recall that few years before now, that is between  2012 and 2015, Nigeria was the best and fastest growing economy in Africa. But today, we are down there. We have countries like Ghana and Ethiopia growing at 8.1%, according to the World Bank statistics, where as we has Nigeria comes behind at 1.9, very far below even Niger Republic. I think that should give everybody a great concern. Secondly, we used to be the third fastest growing economy in the world. Today, we are on the 88th position. I’m not saying anybody is responsible, but there are so much that need to be done because we can no longer continue to blame that state of the oil market, or what the past government did. If they did well, we would not have needed a change. We brought this group because we believe the past did not perform as expected. So, the present administration should stop telling us about the past era. We already know that, hence we voted a new system. What we expected from them is that they have amended what was not good, Nigerians are now better. Things are now better, we have developed more airports, rail, roads, light than they did. If Nigerians are sensitive, they need to call people for questioning based on the promises made to deliver. Which of the promises have been fulfilled? For me, whether it is Buhari, Osinbajo or Atiku and Obi is not the matter. The issue is: who will deliver this country? Who will build a future for our country? Who will guarantee security so that we can move about from the South, to the North, East without being robbed, kidnapped, killed harassed and molested on the road? We need a leader that will  guarantee foreign investments to flow into the country, and have money and technology flow into this nation, expertise flows into this nation and feel at home and develop businesses, and our people can get jobs, industries can be revived, transportation can come back, our schools can be rebuild, children can go to school knowing that they are gaining knowledge. These are the things we should be agitating for. How can we be sure that drugs are available in the hospitals, that hospitals are functioning, that the doctors in the hospitals are not fake? Right now, we even have fake human beings in Nigeria. These are the things that should concern Nigerians and we should work had to ensure that these things are taken care of by whoever is in power. Still on the nomination of Peter Obi, what is your advice to the people of South East? On the nomination of Peter Obi, I will advise that we should give it a chance and look at what Obi has done in the South East. Whether he is a mainstream politicians or not, does he have the capacity to deliver? Can he be a good combination with Atiku? Can the two deliver this country and bring a new future, a new foundation for us? If these are guaranteed, they should be supported. I need to tell the world and Nigerians that Igbos love themselves. We are the only region that is always in good relationship with our brothers, Igbos are known to assist each other because when we discover a good place, we come to carry all our younger brothers and train them and show them the pathway of doing business and making money. That is love. Love can be described from various perspectives. We love ourselves. The only thing is that we are republican in nature. Because we are people who are truly individualistic, all of us want to be the Vice President. If they name me, it will be a great thing. I think everybody who are asking ‘Why Peter Obi?’ is indirectly saying ‘Why not me?’ That is human beings naturally. But, we will later come together and know that we love ourselves. So, let the world know that we love ourselves. The agitation is part of development, part of progress. People felt they should be consulted. Well, not everyone would be consulted. I wasn’t consulted as well. But, I love what is happening. I love the fact that progress is being made. That is the area we need to correct ourselves. In what areas did the past or current leaders go wrong that made things not to be working as expected? At each stage in this country, we have leaders. Things have not worked, not because there is a general policy for it not to work, because, each person has his shortcomings. In the past, we have had leaders who lacked vision. Without vision, the people perish. Because they do not have vision, they couldn’t articulate strategies and plans that can build a sustainable society, a sustainable economy and a good society that ensures a fulfilled nation. Secondly, we have leaders who are too myopic that select people only around themselves. These people may not be the best hands that Nigerians has. So, we have often done the mistake of putting wrong pegs in square holes and this have not worked. Thirdly, we have people who struggle for survival and have no knowledge or time for governance. So, when they leave office and allow it to drift so we don’t have a nation that is being built and being sustained. Lastly, we also have people who do not understand what modern governance is all about. So, they do not even understand the premise upon which nationhood is built. They do not have the adequate exposure and knowledge to understand politics, the economy and the dynamics of growth and people integration. They do not understand that the best resource any nation can have is the human resources. Therefore, they have not invested in developing these human resources. They have also failed in building the enabling environment that allow Nigerians who have desired skills, potentials and capacity to return back to Nigeria, hoping that they will be appreciated and their services will be welcome. These Nigerians often when they come are  not being welcomed  because those people who think others have come to take their place fight them without knowing that if these ones with skills and capacity are allowed to function, they will build for all us. So, it is lack of education. Lack of education is our greatest problem. We have a population that is  largely uninformed, uneducated, unexposed and so whatever they do is driven by the crude knowledge from the villages. So, the government that works must be the one that will look for the best hands in Nigeria, the one that will take education very seriously. I mean education at all levels, both formal and informal education. The one that have information available to the people and not false information, information that is credible, truthful and correct, so that people can work on correct statistics and information. A nation that is built on falsehood is like a pack of cards ready  to collapse. These are areas I think our leaders have got it wrong. They must jettison nepotism, jettison personal interests. They must jettison regional interests. They must look at a nation and they must look at what it takes to build one nation. With the ongoing intrigues in Nigerian politics, do you foreseen PDP returning to power in 2019? I am an activist, a youth advocate and I’m also a Christian. I believe in the power of God, power of prayers. I have being trying to educate young people to vote for the person their conscience leads them, the person that  will lead this country right, to look at all that has happened in Nigeria and to look at all they hope to see in the future and consider who best offers them that and vote for that candidate. Whether is PDP, or APC, they should work and vote for that leader that will deliver Nigeria because that is the Nigeria we desire. I think that whoever will guarantee us safety should be supported because we need security in Nigeria. Also, a leader that will guarantee us progress and prosperity should be voted, whether PDP or APC. But, I can tell you who Nigerians vote for, they have tried the President who claims he doesn’t know anything, who they ask every question and he says he is not aware. If they think that somebody that is not aware will provide for them what they want, let them vote for him. But, if that is what they want, who are we? We need president who is ready to take responsibilities for the demand of the office. They should think of who to vote for, the choice is theirs. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 