Lagos – The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) said it had partially lifted the suspension placed on the Approved Training Organisation (ATO) certificate of International Aviation College, Ilorin. A statement by Sam Adurogboye, on Sunday, said the decision was conveyed to the college in a letter dated October 8, 2018, and signed by Cletus Umeh, the Ag. Director of Licensing, NCAA, on behalf of Capt. Muhtar Usman, the Director-General of the agency. The statement hinted that the partial lifting of the suspension was as a result “of the closure of a good number of the findings and the remarkable commitment demonstrated in closing the remaining findings as verified during the recent re-certification audit of the college.” Adurogboye explained that the partial lifting of the suspension was only applicable to the fixed wing pilot (aeroplane) and flight dispatcher’s courses. He clarified that the helicopter flight training segment of the approved courses was still on suspension until the necessary corrective actions were undertaken. The statement added: “The College is therefore directed to take the necessary steps to close all open items after which the authority would carry out another round of re-certification exercise for total lifting or otherwise.” It would be recalled that the NCAA suspended the ATO of the college due to the deficiencies found during an audit of the institution. He noted that NCAA would continue to ensure total commitment to the enforcement of compliance to safety regulations at all times in order to continue to guarantee safer skies in Nigeria. The college also said, last week, that it would resume training of the flying school and dispatchers in the next few weeks, saying its capacity to train technical personnel had been enhanced. Engr. Benedict Adeyelika, the Rector of the college, made this known in an interview with aviation journalists in Lagos. He emphasised that the recertification was done as the college closed all the open items observed by NCAA. An ATO certificate is an authorisation from the NCAA giving approval for the college to operate. It is an equivalent of an Air Operators Certificate (AOC) and an Aircraft Maintenance Organisation (AMO), but for the intention of training. Adeyelika, who explained the benefits of the ATO and the college’s capacity to commence training, said: “The ATO is an authorisation from the NCAA to operate as a college; it’s an equivalent to an AOC, AMO. An ATO is on the category of an AOC and it has operations specifications like the former. “It tells us what we can do: train pilots, do Personal Pilots Licensing (PPL), some also do instrument rating and the likes and with our approval we can expand from there. “The certification means a lot; it would ensure the safety of training because safety in this business is paramount. We will be resuming training for the flying school and the dispatchers. However, we have not gotten the go ahead for helicopter training because we are waiting for our instructors to renew their licences. “As soon as we have this, we can start. But we start training for the fixed wings.” On equipment for training, Adeyelika said the college had three simulators, two for fixed wigs and one for rotary wings. “We have training aircraft revving to go. We have three Diamond Aircraft (DA-40), these are single engine aircraft and we also have Diamond Aircraft (DA-42) twin engine aircraft. “In total we have eight aircraft, six are fixed wings and two are rotary wing Bell-20 helicopters and we currently have four single engine and one twin engine and these are enough to commence training in the flying school,” he added. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 