Abuja – The Federal Government has expressed its unwavering commitment to ending hunger by 2030. Chief Audu Ogbeh, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, made the commitment in Abuja on Tuesday at the end of the sensitisation walk to raise awareness on the forthcoming World Food Day slated for October 16, 2018. Ogbeh, represented by Nasiru Adamu, Director of Policies, Planning and Coordination in the Ministry, said the target could be realised through the concerted efforts and collaboration of the government, organised private sector and development partners. The theme of this year’s celebration is, ‘Our Actions are our Future: A Zero Hunger World by 2030 is Possible.’ According to the minister, “It is a well-thought out theme at this period when the impact of climate change is very much devastating on food production and food security. “The theme can be actualised if government, the private sector, and development partners work in collaboration to fight hunger, extreme poverty, and malnutrition. “The principle of this administration is to treat agriculture as business. Before now a lot of people looked down on agriculture. “For us to unlock the full economic potentials that abound in the country, we have to map out our key constraints in the agricultural value chain from production to consumption. “The ministry is working vigorously towards the attainment of this objective. Agricultural productivity is being boosted through timely provision of fertilisers and other farm inputs.” Also speaking, Ambassador Suffyan Koroma, Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) Representative in Nigeria, pledged the support and commitment of the Organisation to fighting hunger and extreme poverty in Nigeria. “Nigeria should be free from hunger by 2030. But that does not just rest with agriculture. It goes beyond agriculture because if you look at the complimentary services that agriculture needs to thrive, they are as equally valuable as the products from the farm.” “And for food prices to be low, it does not just mean production; it means the value added product, services that we provide and how efficient they are. “Even effective legislation can contribute to zero hunger and knowledge as to what to produce for world market. “These are all the ingredients that we need, transportation, energy, education, legal framework. “These are all the things we need for agriculture to survive. We cannot just produce. If you produce without adding value, it is useless.” “How do control animal diseases and pests? How do we control emerging conflicts, climate change, flooding? All these are relevant to achieving zero hunger. “FAO has technically been working in Nigeria for more than 40 years. We set up an office since 40years ago but we have been working in Nigeria since 1955. “When you look at what we have been doing from crops, livestock, forestry and fishery. These are all issues that contribute to zero hunger. “We are happy with this year’s theme which we believe is possible by 2030,” he said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 