Parents of the abducted Chibok school girls on Tuesday disclosed that only six girls were sighted in Sambisa Forest against the 57 indicated in media reports. The spokesperson of the parents, Mr Ayuba Alamson, who told newsmen in Maiduguri added that the lady who escaped from the Boko Haram captivity claimed to have stayed with only six girls in the forest. Alamson, who identified the lady as Jummai Abouku, said she escaped from the Boko Haram insurgents and was released recently by the military to her family after profiling and screening. According to him, “Jummai, a mother of six was abducted together with her elder son by the insurgents at Askira Uba in 2014.” Alamson explained that the escapee told the parents that she stayed with six of the girls in Sambisa Forest, adding that she had also identified the girls and their parents. He added: “Jumai told us that six of the girls were married to the insurgents, one of them is pregnant with one child and another one has a baby, while the remaining four were married without children. “Few months before her escape, Jumai was also forced to marry one of the insurgents and she is now pregnant. “She escaped with her son and stayed in a camp in Bama, before they were released to their family in Chibok. “This is what she narrated to us and we do not know the source of the information about the 57 girls sighted in Cameroon. He added: “We are happy about the development as it rekindles our hope that the remaining girls in the insurgents’ captivity are alive and would be released”. He commended the Federal Government over the release of the over 100 abducted school girls. Alamson appealed to the government and international organisations to secure the release of the remaining girls including Leah Sharibu. It will be recalled that Mr Yakubu Nkenke, the Chairman, Parents of the Abducted School Girls, was quoted in a media report as saying that 57 of the girls were sighted in northern Cameroon. According to Nkenke the girls were seen by other female captives at Garin Magaji and Garin Mallam villages of Marwa district, Cameroon. Nkenke revealed that seven of the girls were at Garin Magaji, and 50 others stay with their husbands and children at Garin Mallam.