Barrister (Dr). Clarkson Aribogha, an Ijaw Opinion Leader, is worried over the deliberate neglect of the Niger Delta oil producing communities. In this interview with JOHN AMUDO, he explained how the Federal Government should take bold step and political will to transform the region that is producing over eighty percent of the nation’s resources. Excerpts: Sir the riverine dwellers, especially the Ijaws have been suffering from ecological degradation, can you offer solution to the hardship they have been encountering over the years? Yes, our people have been suffering from environmental degradation, especially the incidence of flood that is presently ravaging a lot of Ijaw communities. Firstly, both multi-national oil companies and various governments do complain that projects earmarked for the area are so cumbersome to handle. But, on the other way round, Ijaw communities contributes majorly to the sustenance of the nation’s economy. When they are going for oil exploration they will not complain, when they are spending millions and billions of dollars, they will not complain but to do projects that will benefit the people they will be complaining, yet the area feeds the nation, honestly Federal Government is not interested in the well-being of the Ijaws but to whom much have been given, much is expected. So, Ijaw area is prone to flood, presently devastating various communities. For example Odidi I, Odidi II and Egwa II down to Warri South-West, Burutu, Bomadi, Patani and other communities are in dire need of reclamation and pilling to save the communities from being washed away; after these things, we still need other facilities such as electricity. For example, gas flaring has been on for many years in Odidi and other oil producing communities and these communities can be electrified with constant light through the gas flaring and the people will be happy. Unfortunately, the oil companies and government are not willing to provide these facilities. In fact, I see their action as a deliberate act to punish the oil bearing communities, but they have forgotten that what they are exploring is God-given resources. Rather the oil companies prefer to flare the gas away without having a second thought that their host communities should benefit from the God’s given resources. Frankly speaking, God is not happy with both the government and oil producing companies, because they are wasting our resources provided for us by God Almighty. No doubt, if these amenities are provided, the forgotten and marginalised oil producing communities will be booming with socio-economic activities. At least government should buy dredging equipment for the reclamation on yearly basis, it is just a simple thing and government should have the political will to do this and the communities will be happy and there will be peace in everywhere. What other suggestion do you have to further reduce the situation? In short, when efforts in the right direction are regularly made, crime will reduce drastically in the riverine areas because there is upsurge of criminality in the rural areas. You are now blaming oil companies and the government; don’t you think leaders in the region should also share part of the blame? I am not only blaming the Federal Government, I believe that Ijaw leaders should also share part of the blame. For example, ecological fund or constituency projects given to our representatives at the National Assembly are not being used for the development of Ijaw areas; Infact nothing is being done and, if you call them today to identify the projects they have executed through the constituency fund given to them, you will see them fumbling. Majority of them have not only disappointed themselves, they have also disappointed the people they are representing. Both Federal and State government should be blamed because they don’t have the political will to do things for the benefit of their people. Apart from the constituency project coming from the Federal Government, there are other areas government should do their bit from the ecological fund which is meant to develop areas that are ecologically affected. Yes, both sides are faulty. Take Odidi Oil Producing Community as an example. I tell you that the area that produces both oil and gas has been badly neglected; in fact they can check records to prove me right or wrong. We are not saying that the non-oil producing communities should be abandoned but preference should be given to the core oil producing communities who are suffering the brunt of oil exploration and exploitation, both in award of projects, employment and any other consideration. Are You Insisting On Resource Control? Yes, resource control is part of fiscal federalism and this is practiced in all over the world where oil is being produce. Sadly, it is not being practiced in Nigeria. Ex-militants are threatening to go back to the creeks following federal government refusal to fulfill its promise to develop the area, what is your take on this? First, we should know who is at fault? I urge the Federal Government to fulfill its part of the bargain, when this is done things will normalise and there will be peace everywhere. It is dangerous for government to violate her agreement with the people, however, nobody is saying that the militants should go back to the creeks to cause mayhem but government should fulfill its part of the bargain. Ijaws are the fourth most populous ethnic nationality in Nigeria, can you recall what they have benefitted from the federal government both in present and in past? I might not be in position to say how much they have benefitted from the Federal Government. For instance, when Dr. Goodluck Jonathan was the President, I dare to ask how many Ijaws he appointed during and after his tenure. So, I cannot categorically say how many Ijaws benefitted from his government. I remember when Alhaji Rilwani Lukman who at several times was Minister for petroleum resources he employed a lot of his people and nobody complained. I also recalled how Prof. Tam David West was Minister of Petroleum Resources, he was removed unceremoniously; my people says when you want to kill a Dog who has not done anything you will give it a bad name; that was what happened to Dr. Tam David West. Just for drinking tea which is not a bribe. However, people should remember that history is a living thing, so I cannot categorically say that government favoured Ijaws in the offer of appointment. Going by your vast knowledge of history and level of your education, can you categorically tell the world the sin committed by the Ijaws that they are being marginalised? Of a truth, Ijaws did not commit sin against God; they did not commit sin against humanity; rather they are dying for humanity; they are suffering for humanity and these are the sins they are seen to be committing. Let me explain that the average Ijaw sacrifice for the benefit of Nigeria is that the Ijaws are the most truthful people as far as Nigeria is concerned, I stand to be challenged, and that is the connotation of the name which is being interpreted as truth, which the Ijaws are made of. And, to maintain this name from time immemorial, people use it as an advantage to oppress them. While Ijaws are being truthful, others are manipulating facts. In the past people call the Ijaws the blind people, the illiterate people, in fact, they call them all sorts of name; to the extent that when an Ijaw man is passing by they mock them, saying all sorts of derogatory statements but, gone are those days because the situation has changed drastically. The only crime Ijaw people committed is that they are not only truthful they abhor trouble and evil things; hence, other tribe become jealous of the Ijaws. What is your take on the abandoned EPZ project in Ogidigben located in Warri South –West council area? Well, I am not a committee member of EPZ project, all I know is that it is supposed to benefit both the Itsekiris and the Ijaws, who are the host communities and Nigerians. But people should ask the Federal Government why it has abandoned the gigantic project because Government should tell the world why the multi-billion Naira project is at a stand-still. It is my prayer that work on the project should commence without further delay; although, I don’t know the mind of Federal Government. Is the Warri water ways free for operations now? I can say without mincing words that the water way is the most safest means of transportation in the country; the oil companies are aware of that and can say also that those peddling such unfounded rumours are enemies of the Niger-Delta region. Are oil workers not doing their job uninterrupted? If I may ask again, where is the Federal Government getting most of the money they spend every year? Where is the money coming from? When vessels were coming into Warri port in the early 90s, fleet of cars were brought in by vessels. After the vessel brought the cars, they promised coming back to Warri Port, but up till date they did not come back. The reason for this is that there was a propaganda that Warri is not safe and this falsehood came from Lagos because the people there are indirectly controlling the federal government on which port to patronise. Consequently, they succeeded in the wicked propaganda, insisting that people should patronize the Lagos port instead of Warri port which they claim was not safe for business; whereas, the Warri port is hundred percent safe. How do we go back to the good old days when Warri, Koko, Burutu and Sapele Ports were beehive of activities? The problem is political and I can say categorically that there is nothing wrong with the four sea ports. It is all gimmicks and no political will to develop the ports because nothing is truly wrong with co-ports. I make reference to both Port-Harcourt and Calabar ports that should be booming with activities.  Sadly, no one is at the top to fight for the revival of the ports. As I speak with you now, Lagos port is congested, whereas, other ports mentioned earlier are lying fallow as they are not recording activities. In the two local governments in Isoko area; which are Isoko South and Isoko North, the flood took a large portion of farmlands and fish ponds as communities have also been displaced from their present locations. The situation is most pathetic at Uzere, Okpe-Isoko, Iyede-Ame, Aviara, Araya, Edihareand Ewhokpala. Others badly affected are Abaruo, Egbeme, Ase Aradhe, Uzere, Olomoro, Enwhe, Ada, Ivorogbo, Uro and other areas. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 