Lagos – With less than four months into his tenure as National Chairman of Nigeria’s ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC)  Comrade  Adams Oshiomhole is currently battling to keep his job as some governors who are the major stakeholders in the party are bent on ousting him from office following the outcome of the party’s primaries. To have their way, the  aggrieved governors, led by Governor Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State, who is the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF); Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State; Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State, and Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State have infiltrated the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) leading to an internal revolt against the embattled national chairman. It was also reported that some of the NWC members are preparing to pass a vote of no-confidence on Oshiomhole, who by virtue of his position is the leader of the NWC. Aside this, Oshiomhole has not been in the good books of some APC governors who were loyal to the immediate past national chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun. The arrowheads of this group are Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. Prior to this, there has been series of there had been series of protests on a daily basis at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. Yekini Nabena, the then party’s Acting National Publicity Secretary, had accused the aggrieved governors of sponsoring the protests. He said: “The problem in APC is also because the party chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has insisted that he will not tolerate any form of impunity from party members again, irrespective of their positions. He doesn’t want to rely on state governors for funds to run the party and that is why we got money from the sale of forms during the primaries. The era where governors will gather and impose their will on the party is gone. “This time, Oshiomhole has entrenched party supremacy and that is why the governors are complaining. An outgoing governor wants to bring a successor and at the same time wants to be a senator but people said they don’t want to vote for his candidate. It becomes a problem. Some of them are even threatening the party chairman. These governors shouldn’t think they have the rights to appoint successors as if they are appointing personal aides. “Let the people decide who will lead them in their states. Look at what the Niger State governor is doing: sending people to Abuja to come and protest. Is that how a governor should behave? This is the first time things are done the right way they should be done, not the way the governors wanted it. The governors are the ones sponsoring all these protests because the party is not doing their bidding.” Also speaking, another member of the NWC who is loyal to Oshiomhole listed some of the anti-Oshiomhole NWC members as Lawal Shaibu, the Deputy National Chairman (North); Emma Ibediro, the National Organising Secretary; Alhaji Mustapha Salihu, the National Vice-Chairman (North- East) and others. He claimed these members were at war with Oshiomhole for preventing them from having their way during the primaries. According to him, the NWC members allegedly collected money from some aspirants promising to ensure they got the ticket but were unable to do so due to Oshiomhole’s adherence to rule of law. “They are angry because Oshiomhole is not acting their script. Gone are the days when governors call the shots in the party and the national chairman only panders to their wishes like it happened under Chief John Oyegun. Now the party has been returned to the people and the governors are unhappy about this. That is why they have been blackmailing him and threatening him, but I believe their plot won’t work. “Unfortunately, even some members of the NWC who believe in the old way of doing things are conniving with the governors and are working against the reforms of the chairman. In fact, Oshiomhole has reported these NWC members to President Buhari that they are working against his interest. “I can mention their names. Someone like Lawal Shaibu, the Deputy National Chairman (North); Emma Ibediro, the National Organising Secretary who is Okorocha’s man; Alhaji Mustapha Salihu, the National Vice-Chairman (North-East), and few others. It is like a cartel. They are always trying to oppose Oshiomhole during NWC meetings. “These people collect money from these powerful politicians and give them structures. So, their pain now is that most of the people they wanted to plant into positions did not materialise because Oshiomhole blocked everything. “Oshiomhole ensures he personally signs all the forms going to INEC because if he leaves it to these NWC members, before you know it, they will substitute people’s names and put the names of people who didn’t win primaries after collecting money from them. As a result of this, many of these NWC members have strong hatred for him and we won’t be surprised if they pass a vote of no confidence in him tomorrow. “What has been happening is that they will go to the president to report him and blackmail him. But the president will tell them to go and iron out their differences with him because he is the national chairman of the party. When they come to Oshiomhole, he will tell them point blank they can’t have their way. However, Oshiomhole who enjoys the backing of President Muhammadu Buhari has promised not to succumb to pressure but continue with his reforms. In a statement by Simon Ebegbulem, his Chief Press Secretary, he enjoined all the aggrieved stakeholders to sheathe their sword and join hands with him in moving the party forward. While denying claims that he had been taking unilateral decisions without carrying other relevant stakeholders along, Oshiomhole said he was being hounded because he prevented the governors from circumventing due process in the conduct of the party’s primaries. The statement reads “These influential stakeholders, according to grapevine, have begun to mobilise to pass a no-confidence vote in the leadership of Oshiomhole, having failed to impose their preferred candidates on the party in the nomination process”. “Rather than resort to needless perfidy at the threshold of a general election, we call on them to imbibe the spirit of sportsmanship, bolstered by the fact that the Oshiomhole leadership is propelled more by its interest in propriety in which victory for the party could be grounded.  The crime committed by Comrade Oshiomhole’s leadership is its disdain for impunity and circumvention of due process perpetrated in some of the states at the pleasure of some influential stakeholders”. “Overall, Comrade Oshiomhole has not, since stepping in the saddle, taken any unilateral decision in the running of the party affairs.  All decisions, so far taken, passed through the mills of NWC deliberative sessions and enjoyed unanimous resolutions. The records are there. History will justify Comrade Oshiomhole and posterity will vindicate him”. “Therefore, with eyes firmly fixed on the general election, especially the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari in the scheduled February 16 poll, Comrade Oshiomhole assures all stakeholders in the APC of his respect for them. He assures them of his readiness to work with them for the good of the party”. “The comrade chairman also proposes a common front in the general election and believes that the APC, as a governing party, will do a commemorative post mortem next year to appraise and reappraise the political developments and decisions that presaged the election, which it would win emphatically”.