Uyo – Coordinators of Akwa Ibom Governor Udom Emmanuel’s campaign organisation have been directed to appear before Ibrahim Idris, the Inspector General of Police, for questioning on various alleged misdemeanours. The invitation, our correspondent gathered, was connected to a petition raised by Ini Okopido, the state Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Okopido had reportedly petitioned the state government to President Muhammadu Buhari, alleging the destruction of billboards of the APC candidates, including that of Mr. President. The president, Daily Independent gathered, immediately minuted same to his Chief of Staff who, in line with orders, minuted to IGP for immediate investigation. Our correspondent reports that destruction of billboards belonging to both the PDP and the APC in the state has become the order of the day. Speaking with correspondents in Uyo, on Thursday, Charles Udoh, the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, said all the persons invited by the Inspector General of Police were the key officers of Udom Emmanuel’s Divine Mandate Organisation, with Governor Udom Emmanuel leading the team. “Those invited to appear today are the Chairperson of Divine Mandate, Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga, a retired Nigerian Air Force personnel, former head of the Presidential Air Fleet, and former Military Administrator of Akwa Ibom State,” Udoh said. Also invited by the IGP for questioning, according to Udoh, is the Peoples Democratic Party’s chairman in the state, Paul Ekpo; the speaker of the state House of Assembly, Onofiok Luke; the Commissioner for Environment, Iniobong Essien; the Senior Special Assistant on Security, Fubara Duke; the Chairman of Uyo Local Government Council, and the Chairman of the Uyo Market Association. “A security agency established by law has invited us so we have to honour. We obey laws here. It started with the billboard issue and the IGP sent a team from Abuja that investigated and even detained the Commissioner for Environment for no just cause. “Is this their concept to intimidate and take over Akwa Ibom State that they have been orchestrating and boasting about? “Acceptability is at the polls. Let’s go there. We are ready,” a ranking government official in the state said before they boarded an aircraft to Abuja. He added: “The APC conducted their governorship primaries in this state and three persons were killed, no petitions, no investigations, no arrest, no prosecution. “As fallout from the primaries, a police station was burnt in Okobo Local Government Area, and other sundry issues but weighty infractions, yet the police looked at the left and ignored the incidences at the right even with photo evidence and outcries.”