Abuja – Prof Mahmood Yakubu,  Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said on Friday that the commission is limited in its powers to verify the certificates and other particulars submitted to it by candidates of the various political parties vying for positions it the 2019 general elections. Prof Yakubu made the clarification in Abuja while fielding questions on the published list of presidential and National Assembly candidates and attached personal particulars claimed by presidential and national assembly candidates, noting that the body has published the claims as required by law. Incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari had in the form CF001 he submitted to INEC referred the electoral body to the affidavit of claim he submitted in 2014 to the electoral body where he said his particulars are with the military authorities. According to the INEC chairman, the role of the commission is limited to the publishing of the particulars, as he challenged Nigerians to enhance the credibility of the process by perusing the particulars claimed and follow up action in court , if need be. He said: Each candidate nominated by a political party is required to personally complete the Form CF001 and to swear an affidavit at the Federal High Court, a High Court of a State or the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He said the commission in compliance with relevant provisions of the electoral act has published the claims made by the candidates within the seven days stipulated by law. “The general public has the opportunity to view the affidavit of personal particulars of those who aspire to represent them. Any person with reasonable ground to believe that any information on form CF001 submitted by the candidates contains incorrect or false claims is at liberty to file an action against the candidates in the court,” he said adding that same will apply to the governorship and state assembly candidates when they are published on November 2nd, 2019. “This is an opportunity for citizens to look at the forms submitted by candidates. Are there details in the forms that you think are inaccurate, citizens can initiate legal action. We have made it open. There’s nothing hidden in the processes leading to the nomination of candidates for the 2019 general elections.” He confirmed that that 79 political parties entered presidential candidates out of 89 political parties. In all 1803 senatorial candidates are contesting for 109 senatorial seats across the country while 4,548 candidates are vying for the 360 federal constituencies nationwide. The INEC boss also disclosed that governorship election will be conducted in 29 states while house of assemby elections will be contested in 991 state constituencies. On Zamfara, Prof Yakubu said that the All Progressives Congress did not submit any candidates for National Assembly elections as claimed by the party, while recognising that two or three cases have been filed by interested parties in Zamfara State.