Abuja – No fewer than one million followers of braheem El-Zakzaky will converge on Abuja on Sunday October 28, to embark on Arbaeen Symbolic Trek, to mark the tragic day that Yazid bn Mu’awiyyah killed Imam Hussain Ibn Ali and his family. A leader of the movement, Sidi Munir Sokoto who disclosed this at a  press conference in Abuja on Saturday, said the trek will commence on Sunday 28th October 2018  and end on 30th October 2018. He said the trek will go on concurrently with Free Zakzaky protest. Sokoto explained that the movement is expecting followers from all states of the federation and are to converge on the nation’s capital. He appealed to the residents of Abuja, Niger and Nasarawa states not to panic during the march as they will experience mammoth crowd of people on the road. “During the trek, millions of followers of Shaikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky will march in mass to Abuja. Although the trek will concurrently go with Free Zakzaky protest, we are appealing to the residents of concerned areas not to panic,” he said. He recalled the atrocity alleged committed against the group by the Nigerian Army in 2015 Zaria massacre where hundreds of disciples of El-Zakzaky were murdered. “The public should recall the grave atrocities committed by the Nigerian Army during December 2015 Zaria massacre where hundreds of children have been orphaned; many husbands and wives widowed; and scores of Shaikh Zakzaky’s disciples are still languishing in prisons. “I want to use use this opportunity to inform the Buhari and Nigerian government that the demand of the millions of followers of Zakzaky that will trek to Abuja is immediate and unconditional release of Ibraheem El-Zakzaky and his wife and the demand is non-negotiable,” Sokoto added. When asked if the group has taken permission from the Nigerian police, he said that the police is aware of the protest adding that it is just a religion exercise. He said that arrangement has been put in place to control both human and vehicular movement during the march. He urged Nigerian police to do its job professionally and not to disrupt the procession adding that the movement will not be violent. While assuring the residents that the protest will be peaceful saying that the movement has never involved in any violent protest unless is being attacked by the police.