Yenagoa – The Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA) has raised the alarm over what it termed the ridiculous financial service charges and deductions in Nigeria’s banking sector. HEDA said that there were numerous allegations of arbitrary, unauthorised and unfair charges or deductions on the savings and current accounts of customers by banks in the country. It, therefore, petitioned the Consumer Protection Department (CPD) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), urging it to investigate growing concerns of affected consumers over the alleged fraud. In the petition addressed to CPD’s director, Olanrewaju Suraju, the HEDA’s chairman, stated that “these arbitrary and unfair deductions also include reports of the imposition of charges that are not transparent and communicated in advance to customers.” According to him, some of the charges and deductions contravened the provisions of the 2017 CBN Guide on financial charges. Shedding more light on the allegations, Suraju said, “Particularly, the N50 stamp duty charge on all deposits made to current and savings accounts by banks comes to the fore, especially as there is a court decision in Standard Chartered Bank Limited v. Kasmal International Services Ltd, where it was held that based on the provisions of the Stamp Duties Act, there is no provision authorizing the deduction and remittance of the N50 stamp duty on deposits. “It is unfortunate that banks have continued to charge the said duty on customers’ deposits without any justification for same. “Another notorious charge introduced by banks to unjustly fleece Nigerians is the card maintenance fee which there is no obvious explanation for its introduction, where card holders are recorded to have paid a particular amount to get the card in the first place. “The banks still charge customers bank maintenance fee and account maintenance fee at the end of every month.” HEDA called on the CPD to urgently intervene in the development and ensure that hardworking Nigerians were not fleeced unjustly and unduly. It insisted that the activities of the banks amounted to “a flagrant exhibition of systemic corruption and a fundamental banking fraud aimed at impoverishing Nigerians.”