LAGOS – Leading provider of cyber-security solutions globally, Check Point Software Technologies has recognised Africa as an important region for growth and investment, particularly as African countries are increasingly a choice target for cybercriminals. Even though the continent’s internet penetration was only 35.2 per cent in December 2017, 19.2 per cent behind the world average, cybercrime is a serious threat to countries in Africa. One of the main challenges that the security industry in Africa, and globally, continuously fight against is mobile security. It’s hardly surprising given that sub-Saharan Africa alone currently has a unique mobile subscriber penetration of 44 per cent, expected to hit 52 per cent in 2025. “The sheer economy of scale offered by mobile devices is incredibly appealing to cybercriminals. They are using every available opportunity to attack individuals and organisations through their mobile devices, including Apps, particularly because these devices are so popular and people usually do not take as strict precautions when it comes to securing them as they would with their laptops for example,” explains Rick Rogers, Regional Director, Africa at Check Point. Check Point has discovered two major vulnerabilities related to mobile devices over the past month alone – Man-in-the-Disk which our researchers discovered a new attack surface for Android apps exploiting a shortcoming in the way that Android apps use storage resources and FakesApp which researchers discovered a vulnerability in WhatsApp that allows a threat actor to intercept and manipulate messages sent by those in a group or private conversation. Even though major malware like Ransomware, cryptominer, and banking trojans have had, and continue to have, a big impact, it is mobile attacks on Nigerian companies that are growing in prevalence. When comparing the impact of these attacks to the global market we find that Nigeria averaged 20 per cent – 35 per cent higher between January and August this year, which is not to be taken lightly. “These sophisticated attacks on mobile, cloud and various enterprise networks, easily bypass conventional defenses being used by most organizations today as they rely on older generations of security,” said Rogers. Seeing that Africa is increasingly under threat from cybercriminals, the need for local businesses to partner with security specialists that can help them remain one step ahead of the game is essential. With a team of over 40 members across Africa, Check Point can provide their clients across the continent with greater access to the Check Point team and direct services. Given the pace at which the cyber security industry operates, remaining future-focused is key. Check Point is already focused on the next wave of attacks and ensuring that our clients across Africa and the world can protect their organisations, their employees and their reputations in the ever-evolving space that is cyber security. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 