Lagos – When talking about textile industry, Nigeria literarily has none. It is one of the few largely populated countries in the world without a flourishing textile industry. Indonesia, China, India and other countries with large population are on the top of the list when rating textile giants. With over 200 million Nigerians, it is worrisome that the industry is almost nonexistent. There is, however, one step in the process line that Nigeria is not lacking. That is putting textiles to good use. While most developed countries patronise ready-made – production line clothes, Nigerians still prefer their clothes bespoke and this cuts across different demography, including income. “A Nigerian will rather get the best quality material, take to a good tailor to make a dress than walk into a Tommy Hilfiger store. That is why big clothing brands are finding it hard to penetrate the Nigerian market,” says Felicia Oguchi, a fashion blogger. Despite industrialisation, this trend in Nigeria is not slowing down; instead, it is becoming a big industry. An analysis of the recently held African Magic Viewer’s Choice Awards (AMVCA) generated some astounding figures that many other industries will be envious of, especially at this period that the country is just recovering from a recession. The analysis done by notable fashion writers and designers estimates that clothing worn on the red carpet of the AMVCAs is worth over N72m. This estimate does not include the cost of jewellery, makeup and shoes. It says over 95% of the clothes on the red carpet by women were made-in-Nigeria clothes, while the figure for men was 62%. This means, Nigerian fashion designers who clothed attendees to the award show, made well over N50m. This figure is only for a one-night event. It gets even better. A few weeks later, at another event, the premiere of the movie, ‘Yoruba Demons’, the number of Nigerian made clothes paraded on the red carpet was 100 per cent. Though this was required by the host of the night, one begins to understand the appreciation when looking at the numbers. According to figures by the same group, guests at the premiere wore clothes worth over N43m. Why this large figure? Well, Ugo Monye, clothed a few of the guests at the event and one of his ‘agbada’ costs N25,000 at the low end. With over 500 guests, the number adds up quickly. While the government is urged to take the music and movie industry very seriously, there seems to be a big neglect for the fashion industry, which is more tangible and has proven growth year in year out. Every year, fashion enthusiasts look forward to top events. At the beginning of each year, designers are already hopeful on how these events would shape their calendar. Events like African Magic Viewers Choice Award, AMVCA; Africa Movie Academy Awards, AMAA, Lagos Fashion and Design Week, Africa Fashion Week, GT Bank Fashion Weekend, Future Awards to name a few, have continued to crown A-list designers, encourage budding designers, create new job opportunities and also grow the economy in its own way. Kuddus Kolawole, Lagos State Coordinator of the Fashion Designers Association of Nigeria (FADAN), said that Nigeria fashion industry is worth about 10 billion dollars (N1.55 trillion) This explains the tremendous growth and acceptance of indigenous fashion items and designs. In November 2016, Guaranty Trust Bank joined the league of events that build and showcase the Nigerian fashion industry to the world. GT Bank fashion weekend, which is unveiled to promote enterprise in the fashion industry in its two editions have been able to bring top-class stakeholders in the world to have a master class session with budding fashion entrepreneurs. In this fashion show where celebrities once again patronise indigenous designers, a few talents are discovered and there their breakthrough blossoms to become one of the well recognised brands. Anticipating the third edition of the fashion weekend, young models from age 18 to 25 are auditioned. Models from Rwanda, Tanzania, Ethiopia have been auditioned and now Lagos model casting is next. New models Stand a chance to be chosen as one of Africa’s finest models who would walk on the runway, showcasing works of various designers at the event. According to an insider, these models are paid not less than $100 for every designer they model for. Dressing to impress that comes with these big shows is not just filling the social media with the latest trends and gossip, it is also putting money in the pockets of budding entrepreneurs. Like many events that drive traffic on the Island in Lagos, the fashion weekend, which is usually a two-day event, translates to busy and fully booked hotels on the island by guests. Not to mention the massive, world-class stage and backdrops set up as the spotlight. This way, the bellboy, the waiter, carpenters, electricians, the lighting men, the janitors and taxi companies have a share to gain in the big event either directly or indirectly. This win-win situation for every little artisan and apprentice is what some economists will describe as partially contributing to the economic boom of the society. As anxiety grips celebrities on how to meet up to expectations, designers are the ones that catch the actual fever. The burden is cast upon them to come up with a mind-blowing works of art. Dresses and suits at the end of the day may sum up to N1million because of the extra miles taken and luxury fabrics employed to meet the demand. After all the shining in the spotlight, these dresses are never to be worn again by the celebrities that unveiled it no matter the cost. “That is the show business for you. A celebrity sets a trend and any outfit you wear to the red carpet of big award shows are recorded. Anybody can easily point out that you have worn that outfit before and it becomes bad press for you. In show business, you don’t hold on to your last glory, you conquer new ones,” said a fashion critic who calls herself Olly Aganga. Speaking with a fashion designer whose designs have gained the trust of a few celebrities, Femi Adeyemi, creative director and founder of Femytoys affirmed that big events not only helps budding designers, it also gives them extra chills because designs that make the cut need thinking out the box creativity. “I’ll say it’s an open call opportunity for the designers to present their latest aesthetical offering using the celebrity as a muse. Talk of town events such as the AMVCA brings about high-end shoppers and fashion buyers who require bespoke and couture services. “As we all know, red carpet events enjoy massive media coverage with the lights, camera action paparazzi, live social media updates and a wide range of audience and fashion buyers all around the world. It plays host to a lot of celebrities, top dignitaries and important personalities, hence the need for a designer to create adorable mind-blowing pieces.” He said On how crazy the work schedule gets, he explained that it is expected that clients book an appointment six to eight weeks before the scheduled date for the event to avoid the usual rush and give enough time for fittings. “You don’t want to show up looking bad, too snugly or in rare cases, left hanging with no alternative. That said, our work schedule is well mapped out to eliminate perceived pressure(s),” he said. Explaining how bizarre demands can be, Adeyemi says “Of course, you don’t expect a regular piece to get you all the needed attention on the red carpet. You want to be extra, a bit colourful and at the same time, make a daring fashion statement.” The red carpet is like a closet show-off that brews competition amongst attendees. There is this melting desire to steal the show with well-tailored outfit radiating in all its glory. The designer is saddled with the responsibility of giving the best look for the night. Once a fashion designer is able to get one big celebrity to walk the red carpet in their dress, the designer is perceived to have dug a goldmine, because in showbiz, even negative press is seen as good. It is not only awards and fashion shows that cause the stir and style frenzy, celebrity weddings is another show on its own that spins money for designers. At Banky Wellington’s traditional marriage, Ugo Monye, the designer that made the Agbada outfit Big Brother Naija host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu wore, which ‘shut down’ social media, was discovered. According to Kayode, winner of Vlisco Fashion Fund 2017, he explained that Ugo Monye’s big breakthrough is one of the ways designers get to the top. “Monye’s designs have been there, that Ebuka’s agbada design had been worn several times before Ebuka did and no attention was drawn to it. But Ebuka wore it at the right time for the right occasion and boom! That agbada became epic,” he said From there on, agbada fever gripped fashion savvy men so much that Merry Men movie premiere used ‘Agbada Challenge’ to advertise the premiere to the public. If the top designers pegged their price tag at N250,000 maximum for a complete piece and the budding designers make their design at giveaway price of N60,000, which is among the least for the quality of agbada that made the cut at the premieres, designers with lesser amount who get to style about three to four customers would have had a fulfilled day from just one season of event. There was a time when tailors and fashion designers only looked forward to special seasons like Christmas, weddings or Easter to make special outfits, now the case is different. People now have personal stylists and fashion designers that they plan their red carpet outfits with ahead of time to achieve the desired look. Yomi Makun, owner of Yomi casual fashion line explained that the crazy schedule tailors get during Christmas season cannot be compared to the busy scheduled designers put up with when there is a big award show or celebrity wedding coming up. He said that during Christmas, designers and tailors try to push as much of their designs out in the market as possible, but for award shows, it’s a different case. “Yes, these events have been a great help to many fashion designers, especially for the very creative fashion designers. If you just end up copying others, I don’t think that will single you out. Events Like the AMVCA is a major award in Africa and the red carpet is the biggest platform to showcase your talent as a designer to the world because the pictures are seen everywhere. It’s on every tabloid, blog, and social media. With these kind of events, all a designer needs is one breakthrough and definitely, clients will line up to get the same services the next year,” he said. Top female designer, Maryam, Elisha owner of the fashion brand known as Rikaoto By Me shared the pressure having big events in sight, puts on her. She stated that though it is one of the most anticipated times of the year to break new records, but it is also a time for designers to be more creative not to repeat what they have done for other celebrities. The designer who styled the current Miss Earth representing Nigeria in the Philippines agreed that most dresses ordered for big shows are not cheap. Though, Elisha was not specific on the amount her dresses cost, she explained that depending on the look a client wants to achieve and how detailed or unique the fabric is, some dresses range from N100, 000 to N500,000. Regardless of the excitement, many designers feel when these events are approaching, Kayode, whose fashion brand is ‘Skentelebyetti’, said the business boom does trickle down to every designer. “In reality, it doesn’t necessarily bring immediate customers but it creates awareness about your fashion brand and also an avenue to showcase your creativity to the fan base of the celebrity and also get more acceptance from the same fan base. Most times, the chances are slim but there are rare occasions where it’s just divine and you get to be so busy due to demands after a certain celebrity has been spotted wearing your outfit,” he said. The busy schedule translates to more money for some of the designers while unknown designers may still be on the hunt for a celebrity who would be magnanimous enough to walk the red carpet in their design. Most of those kinds of unknown designers sometimes make a little above their capital because it’s their first outing. They have to beg the celebrity to wear the design with the hope that it will become a hit. Some who cannot afford to pay a celebrity to wear their design may have to give them one outfit as an incentive. Those are some of the sacrifices they have to make to get a breakthrough. With such enthusiasm, customer base and money to spend on clothes, it is high time government takes the textile industry seriously by engaging the private sector. If Nigeria can produce their own fabrics, this coupled with the design talents we have, the sky will be the limit for the industry. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 