ENUGU – Following the crisis trailing the last primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State, the party has appointed former Enugu State Governor, Sullivan Chime, as the chairman of its reconciliation committee. The committee, which was inaugurated at the APC office in Enugu on Tuesday, was saddled with the responsibility of reconciling all the members of the party. Speaking at the brief inauguration ceremony, Dr Ben Nwoye, the state chairman, mandated the committee to reach out to all those who lost in the primaries, their aides and supporters, so that they would join hands and take over Enugu State to ensure that the party produces the overnor, senators, House of Representatives and state House of Assembly members in 2019. Nwoye said his executive had searched and sought out Chime to lead a reconciliation committee so that they could as quickly as possible reconcile their members. According to the party chairman, other members of the reconciliation committee are Okechukwu Ezea (secretary), Tony Igboji (member), Dr Mrs. Nwamaka Adonu (member), Professor Emeka Igwe (member) and Dr Mrs. Vivian Chukwuani (member). Responding on behalf of the committee, Chime thanked the party for the honour and privilege to serve in this capacity. The former Governor noted that Nigeria being a Third World country, it was difficult for political parties to hold primaries without having issues. “We saw commitment. We saw enthusiasm. We saw people wanting to serve. I am happy the way things went all through. I am happy that we have one set of candidates, no parallel. Their names have been submitted to INEC. It was not easy for the party to decide the candidates. At the end of the day, not everybody was expected to win,” Chime said. He, however, made it clear that as members of the party, they were obliged to play according to the rules, noting that a constitution was in place before they joined the party. Chime urged all aggrieved party members to avail themselves of the opportunity created by the party, since the primaries had come and gone. Chime noted that APC has a good team and was going into the 2019 elections from a position of strength. He congratulated other members of his committee for their appointment and urged them to go around and meet their friends and plead with them to find a way of rejoining the party.