It may seem strange to be getting acting advice from Vector, Nigerian rapper and Hip hop artiste, but since his sojourn into Nollywood on the boat of Biola Alabi Media’s ‘Lara and the Beat’, Vector does have a few insights. Speaking with Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade, Olanrewaju Ogunmefun, better known by his stage name, Vector tha Viper explains the intrigue of switching roles in the entertainment industry, and the possibility of a romance with his co-actor, songstress, Seyi Shay. What was the most important lesson you learnt working as an actor for the first time? It was a total experience for me. But most importantly, I learnt that it is not all about me. The moment we as human beings understand that it is not about us as individuals, we are fine. So I took away that valuable lesson whilst I was working as an actor, and even from the movie. Just as Lara Giwa realised that it was not all about her, I also understood that it is not about just me, but us. That is very key. What was it like working with veterans in the film industry; these are people you had watched on screen over the years, now you were acting alongside them? Veterans have a way of making you look like crap, because these are people you have been watching on TV way before you became a singer. At the same time though, we had scheduled shoots that were different, so I didn’t necessarily encounter all of them. But Aunty Chioma and I had our moments. There was a time I was just frustrated and she was pissed that I didn’t consider every other person on set, which like I said, is one of the lessons I learnt that it is not just about me, but about us. Also, if I don’t make the director happy, I will look like a fool. Were you star struck seeing so many artistes on set? It was a set that felt more like a friendship over anything else. Even people that would have been ‘Vector star struck’, before you knew it, we were all playing and laughing. It just felt like family. Tell us about the scary part of working on the film. You rode a power bike? My experience on the set of ‘Lara and the Beat’ was an amazing one. I had to learn how to ride a power bike because of the movie. It was a crash course so I had to learn how to ride the power bike in less than a week. I had nursed some fears while I was learning how to ride a bike. The truth is that I learned how to swim when I realised that the amount of water it takes for you to drown in the ocean is the same amount it takes for you to choke while eating. So yes, I might be scared about riding a bike, but that is just it, fear. I had to conquer that and move forward. You and Seyi Shay seemed to have a lot of chemistry in the movie. Some of your scenes were pretty romantic. Did you have that chemistry before or was it all just acting? Seyi Shay and I had been friends even before we starred in ‘Lara and the beat’. But was it not awkward kissing her since you are friends? It’s not something friends traditionally do? No. But it takes a level of expertise to kiss someone and try so much to not feel anything while you do it, especially with a girl like Seyi. You are certain to feel it, but it’s all about the control. You have to control yourself. I mean, it’s Seyi ‘na’, she’s beautiful. There have been cases where such screen relationships transcend movie sets. Is there a chance of that happening? You never know! We are not trying to predict the future here, are we? Lara and the beat was an awesome project, so let’s just leave it at that for now. Would you have taken the script of ‘Lara and the Beat’ if it did not have the music undertones and theme? Of course, yes. If God has empowered you with a skill set, or sets of skills, there is nothing wrong with pursuing them. I don’t want to be boxed. That’s why today I can be in agbada, tomorrow I can be in a biker jacket, the next day I can wear a T-shirt and shorts. Nobody should box anyone into anything. So yes, if it appeals to me, depending on how I feel at that moment, I would do it. Are we expecting more films from you? Yes, I would definitely do a film of my own. But then, I am open to scripts that make sense and that can affect my generation positively. Don’t you think you deserve more credit than you get for being able to take movie roles and still do music? The fact that you think I deserve more credit is satisfactory for me and I am excited about that. People hardly tell artistes the truth; they tell them what they want to hear. When the reality hits these artistes and they know they’ve been told lies, it may be too late. I am content with what God has given me. At least, I am certain I don’t need to introduce myself before people recognise me. Do you think the future of rap music is bright in Nigeria? I am not in a position to tell you the future of rap music in Nigeria, but I think it is very bright. Many years ago, nobody thought we would be getting endorsements as we are getting now. In the past, they used artistes from the western world to sell Nigerian products and services. Right now, the story is very different, and brands have become confident that a Nigerian can sell their products, even beyond the country. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 