XAVIER NDAH The United States Consulate in Nigeria on Monday in Lagos commenced a three- day workshop for defense journalists on national security and military reporting. Mr Russell Brooks, the US Public Affairs Officer, during his remarks at the opening of the three-day seminar, holding at the Shoregate Hotel in Ikeja, said the aim was to widen the knowledge of journalists covering the military. The workshop with the theme:“Defense and National Security Reporting.” has twenty five journalists from different media organisation across the country. According to Brooks, the training is to boost the reporters knowledge on reporting security issues, for them to have a better understanding about national security. He said the US, based on its relationship with Nigeria, deemed it fit to be of importance to the Nigerian journalists on how to better report the military so that they will know what to tell and how to educate members of the public on military affairs and national security. Brooks said the seminar was designed to help the media further appreciate their huge responsibility of reporting accurately on national security and the defense beat. He emphasised how that the US was passionate about Nigeria’s democracy, adding that it would always support the country’s democracy and its democratic institution. Facilitators of the workshop are Otto Kreiser and Christopher Olukolade (rtd). Kreiser is an independent defense reporter who writes regularly for Seapower, Semper Fi, Leatherneck, Naval Force and Air Force magazine, as well as other web based news outlet. In addition to covering state and national politics and legislation, he has focused on national defense, including covering US combat operations in Grenada, Panama, Kuwait, Somalia and Haiti as well as aboard an aircraft carrier during operation Iraqi Freedom. He is a co-founder of the US Military Reporters and Editors Association where he currently serves as the treasurer. He is a former enlisted Marine and Naval Flight Officer. Christopher Olukolade is a retired Major General of the Nigeria Army and former director of Defense Information. Prior to his retirement, in 2015, he doubled as the Chairman of Forum of spokesperson on Security and Response Agencies (FOSSRA) in Nigeria. He is an Alumnus of the United States Defense Information school, Indianapolos USA. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 