Abuja – Day two of the protest march embarked upon by members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), also known as Shiites, became bloody as over 16 members of the sect were allegedly shot dead by security operatives at a checkpoint in Nyanya and elsewhere in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. The march, which ends today, Tuesday, began on Sunday in protest against the continued detention of their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, by the Federal Government. Five members of the sect allegedly lost their lives on Sunday, while three died on Saturday. The protesters had massed through the Mararaba/Nasarawa corridor surmounting police blockade as they made for the city gate that bordered the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Nasarawa State. Eyewitness account said the march was largely peaceful. Trouble, however, ensued when the group approached another checkpoint located at Nyanya. It was gathered that the security operatives on duty who were drafted to mount a blockade asked them to stop, a directive the group rebuffed as they continued their march to the city. This open confrontation was met with equal force as the police allegedly opened fire on the protesters at a close range, killing many of them and injuring others. Some others lost their lives allegedly due to suffocation from the teargas which was freely used by the operatives. Eyewitnesses claimed some of the group’s members threw petrol bombs at the police and soldiers. Abdullahi Muhammadu Musa, Spokesperson of the group, who reacted to the event of Monday, said the group was in possession of 16 bodies of their dead members, adding that the soldiers took away unspecified number of corpses in their trucks. He said the group was unrelenting and would continue their protest to demand justice from the Federal Government. He accused President Muhammadu Buhari of ordering the Guards Brigade to kill their members, adding that one of the soldiers had earlier confirmed to them that they had orders from above to shoot them. Members of the group, who were coming from Kubwa axis, were able to advance to Tipper Garage, near Aso Radio where a detachment of armed policemen and soldiers laid ambush to dislodge them from gaining access into the city. The protesters decided to stay put on the road a few metres away from the security operatives who were battle ready to engage them. They occupied the express road, chanting anti-government songs and waving their flags. Most of the protesters, who were clad in black dress, were seen lying on the road, causing traffic snarl in the area. Motorists were forced to divert to safer routes. Efforts to get the reaction of the police was unsuccessful as Jimoh Moshood, the force Spokesman, did not pick his calls nor respond to messages sent to him. But Guards Brigade Spokesman, Captain Tagwai, said the Brigade would come out with a statement on the development but up till at the time of going to press he did not come up with a statement.