LOKOJA – The hope of over 10,000 final year junior Secondary school students of furthering their education may hit a brick wall as the Kogi state government has failed to release the Basic Education Certificate Examinations (BECE) after two months of resumption of new academic session. Some of the affected students, who wrote and passed the entrance examinations into some schools in the Federal Capital Territory Abuja and some neighboring states , said they were on the verge of being denied admission due  to non-release of their transitional examination results. Over 300 students who protested to the state Secretariat of NUJ Lokoja, last week said the nonchalant attitude of the state government to their plight constitutes a threat to the academic growth of the state. They charged Governor Yahaya Bello to direct the relevant agencies to release their results immediately to avert truncation of their academic dreams. Speaking on behalf of the protesting pupils, Julius Onimisi  criticised the  state government for being insensitive to the plight of the citizenry, alleging that  corruption in the ministry of education was responsible for their woes. Onimisi alleged that the government through the ministry of education had collected N7, 750.00 from each student for the conduct of the transitional examinations three months ago as a requirement to proceed to Senior Secondary school but wondered why the government has failed to release the results after two months of resumption. He noted that the state government having known their inadequacies in conducting the examinations would have contracted either WAEC or NECO to conduct the examinations as it is done by the federal government and some specialised institutions for their students. He warned the government to release results of the students without further delays to avert the breakdown of law and order, adding that they would not fold their arms watching the government truncate their academic progression. “We have worked hard to pass common entrance to government Science and Technical schools in Abuja and of course Federal Government Colleges. We can’t register because we dont have the requirement of BECE certificate. “We have cried to the State Ministry of Education to help us to release the results to avoid us losing the hard earned admission. Everyone is aware of the deplorable state of education in Kogi state and that is why we decided to seek for better place in the neighboring states, but corruption in the state is hindering us from achieving our desires. “We are confused as to where our problems lie as the commissioner for Education Mrs. Rosemary Osikoya kept shifting blames on the civil servants. We are helpless and we are using this medium to call on Governor Yahaya Bello to wade into the crisis to avert dislocation of our educational pursuits” He appealed. DAILY INDEPENDENT  checks,  revealed that the  current commissioner of Education, Mrs Rosemary Osikoya, on assumption of duty in  the ministry revoked the consultancy services of one Roller consulting firm hitherto handling the BECE  and   replaced   same with  one  CIN firm which  allegedly lacked technical know-how to handle the task. It was also  gathered that the commissioner allegedly gave the contract to her crony for  the quantum financial proceeds involved  whose inefficiencies  is responsible  for the  non-release of the result. But, the commissioner noted that her action in appointing a consultant was to stem massive corruption in the system. The commissioner, who alleged that for the past three years the ministry didn’t not released the BECE certificates, stressing that she took a holistic approach at correcting the anomalies. The commissioner, however assured the students and their parents that the examination results would be released been released However, a principal of a private school in Lokoja who did not want his name in print alleged that the commissioner was just economical with the truth. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 