XAVIER NDAH and ANDREW UTULU LAGOS – The Federal High Court, sitting in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, has ordered the Police Service Commission not to demote the personnel of the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT), previously promoted for gallantry and outstanding performance. The officers were those who arrested Evans, the notorious kidnap kingpin, Vampire and Boko-Haram terrorists who kidnapped the Chibok school girls in Borno State. The names of all officers in IRT, TIU promoted as a result of gallantry and outstanding operations which led to the arrest of Nigeria’s most wanted, notorious and sophisticated kidnap kingpin billionaire,  Evans and his gang members, arrest of Nigeria’s most deadly kidnapper- Vampire and his gang, arrest of the Boko Haram terrorist responsible for the kidnapping of Chibok school girls in Borno State, kidnappers of the Ikorodu Turkish school girls in Lagos and Ogun States, arrest  of hundreds of kidnappers terrorizing Abuja-Kaduna-Kano express way among others were initially exempted from the current demotion list compiled by the new Police Service Commission Chairman Musiliu Smith, IGP, Rtd. It was gathered that the names were later added because an aggrieved persons from the North West, who had never served in the Nigeria Police insisted that the IRT personnel who arrested Evans, Vampire and the Boko Haram Chibok school girl’s kidnappers must  also be demoted because they have not done anything outstanding. Notwithstanding the promotion which was based on superlative performance and gallantry which followed all the due processes prescribed by the laws of the land. Following this the police officers affected approached the court seeking for an order restraining the police service commission from demoting them explaining that their promotion was based on gallantry and outstanding performance. On the Strength of that, The Federal High Court, Abuja gave an injunction restraining the Police Service Commission from demoting and demoralizing these outstanding police officers who have sacrificed a lot and saved the country from several embarrassing crime situations and by extension, decorated with multiple IGP’s medals  for courage and Presidential medals for courage during the tenures of several IGPs spanning many years of outstanding performances. Details of the court order’s certified true copy signed by the Registrar Prince Babatunde Adejoro Ashada,   made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT states: In the Federal High Court Holden at Abuja, Nigeria between Igbodo David, Abba Kyari, Abdulraman Mohammed, Abraham Godwin, Ahmed Monday and Akadu Godwin, suing for themselves and on behalf of all police officers promoted by the Police Service Commission on the special recommendation of the Inspector –General of Police between 2016 and 2018 as plaintiffs/applicants and the Police Service Commission as defendant. “Upon this motion ex-parte dated the 3rd of October, 2018 and filed on the 4th day of October, 2018 praying the court for the following orders: An order granting leave to the plaintiffs to sue for themselves and on behalf of all Police officers promoted by the defendants on the special recommendation of the Inspector- General of Police between 2016 and 2018. “An order of interim injunction restraining the defendant, their agent, servant and privies from demoting the  plaintiffs and several other police officers duly promoted by the Inspector-General of Police between 2016and 2018pending the determination of the Motion on Notice filed before this Honourable Court.“And for such further or other orders as this Honourable Court may deem fit to make in the circumstances. “And upon reading through the Affidavit in Support and Affidavit of Urgency both sworn to by Deputy Commissioner of Police,DCP, Abba Kyari, attached to the Intelligence Response Team of the Nigeria Police Force Headquarter, Abuja, Exhibits and written address attached thereto all dated and filed at the Court Registry, Abuja. “And after hearing Mr. B.K.Abu of counsel to the plaintiffs/applicants moves in term of motion paper. “It is hereby ordered as follows: That the application is granted as prayed, that an order for leave is granted to the plaintiffs to sue for themselves and on behalf of all police officers promoted by the defendant on the Special Recommendation of the Inspector General of Police between 2016 and 2018. That an Order of Interim Injunction is granted restraining the Defendants, their agents, servant and privies from demoting the plaintiffs and several other police officers duly promoted by the Inspector-General of Police between 2016 and 2018 pending the determination of the Motion on Notice filed before the Honourable Court. That the case stand adjourned to the 16th day of October, 2018 for hearing of the motion. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 