ABUJA – The Federal Government has pledged to provide credit facilities to artisans to enable them to buy necessary tools and expand their trades. Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science and Technology made the pledge while fielding questions from journalists at the 16th National Council on Science and Technical (NCST) in Lafia, Nasarawa State at the weekend. Onu, also called on the private sector to assist the Federal Government in providing facilities for the artisans to create jobs and generate wealth in the country. Speaking on the theme of the conference, “Enhancing Nigeria’s Competitiveness in all sectors of the economy through effective Development of Science, Technology and Innovation”, he said that Science, Technology and Innovation play critical roles in the industrialisation and sustainable economic development of any nation. According to him, “It does not only influence the country’s level of development, but also determine its international competitiveness and ranking in the world economy.” The minister further pledged to assist the Nasarawa state government in the area of Science, Technology and Innovation by enhancing its solar-powered ICT laboratory which would assist in the teaching and learning of technical education in the state. He assured that a committee will be set up between the Nasarawa state government and the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology to take a critical look at all the possible areas of technical assistance and collaboration. Earlier, Governor of Nasarawa State, Tanko Al-makura appealed to the Federal Government to add value to the technical component on the solar –powered ICT laboratory with assorted computer system for the training of special (disabled) children. The Governor, who was represented by his Deputy, Silas Aliyu Agara, also appealed to participants at the meeting to passionately brainstorm   on critical issues affecting the growth and development of science, technology and innovation in order to identify challenges and prospects and recommend to government appropriate measures to address them.