LAGOS – The voice of Social Democratic Party (SDP) has always been resonant on its stand on restructuring, even when other parties were not committed to the issue. To assert its readiness to make good its promise, the party has again reiterated its readiness to usher in true democrats, who have the capacity to restore hope for the citizens of the Nigeria, if the people will partner with it through their votes come The party, which had on many occasions, said it was the third force, especially during  the  period Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), was thrown into crisis, suddenly went into oblivion as soon as the dust settled in the camp of the major opposition party. Only recently, at a colloquium to mark the 80th birthday of the chairman and founder of the party, Chief Olu Falae, some of the party’s leaders made remarks that suggested that it had not yet done with its message of restructuring the country and offering a better and alternative leadership to the good people of Nigeria. Sill very hopeful on the possibility of wrestling power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the party’s leaders had maintained that they had the best platform as true democrats to take the nation to the Promised Land. They were banking on the credibility, competence and vast administrative experience of Chief Olu Falae, the party’s founder and national chairman, and some other great men and women of integrity, being paraded by the party, to lead the nation out of trouble waters. Numerous reasons had been given by the party chieftains as to why SDP was better positioned to take over leadership from APC. One of such reasons had been that the nation would not remain a united Nigeria if there was no restructuring and all the citizens given opportunity to decide on how they would want to co-exist as a united nation, and since the party had been in the forefront of restructuring, it would only be wise for Nigerians to support it. At a press conference in Lagos recently, Senator Ebenezer Ikeyina, the party’s Vice National Chairman South East, said that a look at the nation’s leadership had shown signs of failure, leadership that was self-serving, lacked a world view of economic transformation, surrounded by a group of people whose interest in good governance was highly questionable, a government that was sectional, with ethnic and religious bias. He noted that the country at 58 had not been able to determine the kind of nation it really wanted for its citizens, especially the three and half year’s leadership of the APC, which according to him, had been marked by hardship, killings, gross insecurity of lives and property of Nigerians. “Since the inauguration of the APC administration on May 29, 2015, Nigeria’s journey for freedom, equity, justice and prosperity seems to have hit a brick wall, with the administration unable to strike the right balance for continuing the progress of our great country.” Ikeyina stressed: “It appears that the current government is overwhelmed with the complex responsibility of leading a multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multi-ideological Nigeria. Progressively, APC has shown gross incompetence in sustaining Nigeria’s progress in helping to move the nation forward, especially in the areas of security of lives and property.” It would be recalled that the SDP became very popular during the period that the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lost election as the ruling party in 2015 and was later engulfed in leadership tussle that threatened its very foundation, with some founding members like Prof Jerry Gana dumping it for SDP. He maintained that a progressing nation was one whose leadership had a good understanding of its political, economic and social dynamics, noting that the inability of the current leadership to address emerging political, economic and social challenges, their seeming silence over the killing of Nigerians across the nation, had shown their incompetence to stand by the citizens in times of adversity, which had portrayed the leader as a symbol of the office it occupied and not a reliable ally that could defend the oppressed. Berating the administration of APC, which Ikeyina said was lacking in ideas and hinged on the lopsided anti-corruption war, which according to him, was targeted at perceived enemies or political opponents, he advised that a progressive nation should be driven by ideas. As he put it: “Ideas are very important to shaping a society. They are more powerful than barrels of guns because they have capacity to spread without limitation. They can transform a nation in ways that governments and armies cannot, which is why the saying that ‘idea rules the world’, noting that administering government with ideas would make more sense than ongoing lopsided anti-corruption war og the President Muhammadu Buhari. “This administration has failed to deliver a message of hope, healing and reconciliation in a much-needed effort to unify the people of Nigeria. Never in the history of this country have the people of this great country been so divided. Today, the nation’s progress is greatly threatened by a systematic and massive progression of terrorism, increasing herdsmen strife, killings and destruction of communities, growing inequality in many parts of the country.” He said the SDP, as a credible political party, had got good ideas on how to return Nigeria on the path of progress. These, he said, were clearly contained in the party’s manifesto, pointing out that SDP had stood for so long watching helplessly as Nigerians grappled with the challenges and task of ineffective and incompetent leadership, insecurity, lawlessness, insurgency, anarchy, widespread corruption, nepotism, poverty, among others, adding that SDP was prepared to bring the nation out of the mess that the people had found themselves. “As social democrats, our focus is on the people; our business is to return Nigeria on the wheel of progress. Our promise is to make things right and improve lives. We are driven by courage and strength as we remain steadfast in our fight for fairness and equity. He said: “We are fundamentally determined to work together in partnership with the Nigerian people, ensure the emergence of a new, credible and stable political order, designed to harvest democracy, offer good governance, and produce genuine development, rooted in social justice, peace and human security.” The former legislator, who commended Chief Falae, the party’s national chairman and Afenifere chieftain, said the life style of the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) had shown that he would not be involved in any business that was questionable. He maintained that at 80, Falae was still ready to give selfless services to the nation, as he still had the energy and mental capacity. He described Falae as “A man who still goes to farm at 80, supervises what is done there, has the energy and mental capability to add value to the leadership of this great nation. “People like us are very much involved in the party because we know that Falae is a man of integrity, someone who believes in the Nigeria project, a selfless citizen who is ready to use his wealth of experience to deepen our democracy so that we can have a nation that our generation will be proud of.” Ikeyina said that all the meetings they had had were centred on deliberations on way forward for Nigeria, because, they had been around for awhile as elders and had watched with nostalgia the activities of the crop of leaders Nigeria has now, which if juxtaposed with what the founding fathers represented, they had come to a conclusion that there would be need for change of leadership so that the upcoming generation would not end up as slaves in their own land. He passionately appealed to all Nigerians to support the SDP to give the people quality leadership, restructure the country, end the killings across the nation by Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen, give every region the opportunity to contribute to the running of the nation and a sense of belonging. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 