Sokoto – The Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN), on Friday sealed up 343  pharmacies , Patent and Proprietary Medicine Vendors (PPMVS) that violated the council’s laws and regulations in Kebbi State. Mrs. Anthonia O. Aruya, Director, Inspection and Monitoring of the Council, confirmed this to our correspondent, after five days of their inspection of 498 pharmacies and PPMVs. Aruya stated that most of the sealed pharmacies were found guilty of improper handling of controlled substances, unhygienic environment, poor documentation and dispensing of ethical-prescription drugs among others. “This is the 34th outing of the Council covering about 29 states. In Kebbi state, various parts of the state were visited during this period. At the end of the exercise, a total of 518 premises were visited comprising of 20 pharmacies and 498 Patent and Proprietary Medicine Vendors. 343 premises were sealed comprising of five pharmacies and 338 PPMVs. “22 compliance directives were issued comprising of three pharmacies and 19 PPMVs for various offences ranging from improper handling of controlled substances, unhygienic environment, poor documentation and dispensing of ethical- prescription drugs without the presence of a pharmacist.” The council also observed that, “the more wearisome is the fact that some of the vendors could not communicate in English or even read and write in English language. One would therefore imagine how they are able to handle medicines in their facilities and the attendant serious public health implications.” The council however warned affected pharmacies and PPMVS to adhere to the rules and regulations of the PCN, stressing that the council is the only body backed by law to regulate sales of medicines in Nigeria. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 