Lagos – Some former staff of the defunct national carrier, Nigeria Airways, have received payments barely few days after the completion of their verification and data processes. Engr. Lookman Animashaun, President, Aviation Union Grand Alliance (AUGA), commended President Muhammadu Buhari for ensuring that the staff of the former national airline were paid as promised. Animashaun also lauded Sen. Hadi Sirika, Minister of State for Aviation, for walking the talk with the presentation of Nigeria Airways Limited (NAL) documents to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for approval. One of the retirees, Mr. Chris Owamagbe, confirmed to our correspondent on Wednesday that some of his former colleagues in the airline received payment running into millions of naira Wednesday night. Owamagbe was yet to finish his processes, but expressed optimism that once he was through with the verification, he would receive his payment. Investigations carried out by our correspondent revealed that the few that had received payment were those verified and captured on Monday by the officials of the Ministry of Finance, President Initiative on Continuous Audit (PICA) Department, while the majority of the staff who were cleared late last week were yet to receive payment. When our correspondent visited the Lagos centre on Wednesday at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, unlike in the past where thousands of retirees besieged the venue, only few beneficiaries were at the centre and went through the stages with less hassle. Owamagbe lauded Buhari for fulfilling one of his campaign promises and appealed to the government to pay the remaining 50 percent, which is N22.5 billion. He said: “I can confirm to you that some of our colleagues have started receiving (payment) alerts. One of my friends in the admin staff of the airline called me this morning (Wednesday) to inform me that he had received payment alert. “I believe once I am through with the processes, I will receive my own (payment) alert within few days. We are all anxious to receive the payments. “We worked for it, but unfortunately someone used his political fiat to liquidate the airline. That singular decision pushed us to where we are today. But I want to appreciate President Buhari for what he has done.” Animashaun, in an interview with our correspondent at the centre, explained that apart from the hiccups on the first day, the exercise had been going on smoothly. On the average, he said 800 retirees were attended to nationwide daily, assuring that with the achievements so far recorded, the exercise would be rounded off by Friday. The exercise was originally scheduled to end on Monday, October 22, 2018, but because of the rigours of the verification and data processes, the closing date was extended. He maintained that 5,968 retirees were beneficiaries of the exercise and assured that anyone captured and cleared by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) would be paid his due sum. He said: “After the first day hiccups, everything has progressed and the number of people that are trooping in will definitely have an effect on the whole exercise, but then, for the past two days, you can see that all the gates are opened and people are coming in. By tomorrow (today), we should be able to round off, but they will be here till Friday. “5,968 people were divided into six days nationwide; Lagos, Kano, and Enugu. The same list you have here, you have in any other centres. So, anywhere you find yourself that is closer to you or more convenient, you are expected to go there, but the issue is that most people prefer to come to Lagos for the reason best known to them. “I have seen someone coming from Sokoto to Lagos, rather than Kano and some also come from the East and were expected to go to Enugu. All these people add to the crowd we have here. “I don’t have the exact number of people being attended to in Lagos, but on a daily basis till Sunday, we have been attending to an average of 800 retirees, but from Monday, it has reduced to about 300. Today (Wednesday), I don’t think it has been up to 50 people.” He also confirmed that some of the retirees had begun to receive payment alerts from their banks after verification. “People have started receiving the alerts from Tuesday night and this morning (Wednesday),” he said. He also lauded Buhai for fulfilling his promise on the payment of the workers, lamenting that former President Goodluck Jonathan, despite being a member of the late Umaru Yar’Adua’s government that paid five years benefits to the workers, showed apathy to the plight of the former national carrier for six years.