There is no denying the fact that one of the hazards inherent in road transportation as a means of movement of people and goods in Nigeria is road traffic accident. This, no doubt, usually places untold huge financial burden not only on families of victims, but also on society at large. Against the foregoing background, it is obvious that road traffic accidents affect economic growth in Nigeria. In this report, our correspondents, MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, JUSTUS ADEJUMOH and ISAAC ASABOR, write on the economic implications of road accidents which have constituted Frankenstein monsters to the well-being of Nigerians. A recent World Bank/Bloomberg report said while there is general recognition of road traffic injuries and fatalities, little is known about the link between road traffic injuries and economic growth. It quantifies how investments in road safety are also an investment in human capital. A public affairs analyst, Bayo Adetunji, told DAILY INDEPENDENT that the frequency of road accidents in the country robs on the economy as well as investment in infrastructure to stem the vices. “The numbers of lives that are daily lost in road accidents are no doubt severe human and economic losses to Nigeria’s that is still gasping for breath in sustainable capital development. Besides, the volume of investment which ought to be a fulcrum for economic growth is also affected due to the frequency of avoidable accidents on our roads. Frightening Figures More worrisome is the latest report on road traffic accident released in the month of August which discloses that a total of 12,797 Nigerians were killed in road traffic crashes in 30 months. The data from the bureau showed that in 2016, a total of 5,053 Nigerians died in road accidents while in 2017, a total of 5,121 Nigerians died in road accidents. The data further showed that in the first six months of this year, 2,623 Nigerians have perished on road traffic accidents across Nigeria. The second quarter 2018 road transport data released by the NBS reflected that road traffic accidents killed a total of 1,331 Nigerians in the second quarter of 2018, up from the 1,292 Nigerians killed in the second quarter of the year. The NBS had before its latest release reported that a total of 1,306 Nigerians were killed by road traffic crashes in the final quarter of 2017. The report showed that 2,608 road crashes occurred within the second quarter of 2018. Speed violation is reported as the major cause of road crashes in the second quarter of 2018 and it accounted for 50.65 per cent of the total road crashes reported. Tyre burst and dangerous driving followed closely as they both accounted for 8.59 per cent and 8.40 per cent of the total road crashes recorded. The report also showed that a total of 8,437 Nigerians got injured in the road traffic crashes recorded, out of which, 7,946, representing 94 per cent, were adults while the remaining 491 Nigerians, representing 6 per cent were children. Further breakdown showed that 6,415 male Nigerians, representing 76 per cent, got injured in road crashes in the second quarter of 2018 while 2,022 female Nigerians, representing 24 per cent got injured. In the same vein, the newly adopted 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development has set an ambitious target of mitigating the global number of deaths and injuries from road traffic crashes by 2020, positing that without sustained action, road traffic crashes are predicted to become the seventh leading cause of death by 2030. It added that road traffic crashes cost most countries 3% of their gross domestic product, adding that nearly half of those dying on the world’s roads are “vulnerable road users”: pedestrians, cyclists, and motorcyclists. 90% of the world’s fatalities on the roads occur in low- and middle-income countries, even though these countries have approximately 54% of the world’s vehicles. It also posited that road traffic injuries are the leading cause of death among people aged between 15 and 29 years. More than 1.25 million people die each year as a result of road traffic crashes. Mr. Monday Iyasere, a senior staff of Great Nigeria Insurance Company, in his opinion on the burden which road accident is exerting on the economy, said: “traffic crashes kill many people who are no doubt productive around the country each year, and that they also take a huge economic toll, with so much human potential being lost.” He advised that investments in road safety should be encouraged as they pay for themselves many times over. As widely known, accidents happen in a fraction of a second but their consequences may last for a lifetime. A large number of road users involved in traffic crashes recover from their injuries, but some of them never recover fully and suffer from some kind of permanent disability. It would be recalled that permanent disabilities have a negative effect on the economy, particularly when viewed from the fact that those who survived a road crash must be treated in hospitals as in-patients. While those that are civil servants or work in public sector of the economy  are forced to take sick leave from work of between one and three months; depending  on the gravity of injuries sustained, but in some cases accident victims can be out of work  for more than three months. In addition to loss of life or reduced quality of life, road accidents carry many other consequences to the survivors such as legal implications, economic burden, home and vehicle adaptations as well as psychological consequences. There are, however, reasons to believe that an increasing number of people live with lasting impairments as a result of traffic injury. The burden of accidents is borne not only by those directly involved in traffic accidents. The burdens are also borne by their families, and by extension negatively affect the level of their productivity to the economy. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 