Piqued by the gross misconduct allegation against Prof. Usman Yusuf, the Executive Secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), the organised labour under the auspices of Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN) yesterday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to relieve him of his appointment. The association said this was necessary in order to avoid sending the wrong signal to the outside world as regards the anti-corruption war of the current administration. Comrade Alade Lawal, the ASCSN Secretary-General, in a statement made available to our correspondent, said that the impunity with which Yusuf bull-dozed his way to resume office with armed security details after he was suspended by the Governing Council of the Scheme for financial impropriety showed that he was not remorseful of his conducts while in office. “Professor Yusuf may think that his primordial affinity with the President because they hail from Katsina State is a license for him to be lawless,” the union stated. Yusuf was suspended last week by the Governing Council of the Scheme for alleged financial scams, including carting away of office equipment of the NHIS to his residence, padding of the budget of the scheme, attempt to illegally invest N30bn in Federal Government bonds, and placing his relatives in strategic offices for purposes of siphoning funds through dubious contract awards. Other infractions were alleged inflation of biometric capturing machines, punitive posting out of Union officials from the NHIS headquarters to create fertile grounds for his financial malpractices, insubordination and contempt for the Minister of Health and members of the Governing Council of the scheme. The union recalled that last year, Yusuf was also suspended by Prof. Isaac Adewole, Minister of Health, after an Administrative Panel of Enquiry found him guilty of fraud, but was also reinstated by Buhari while the ongoing investigation into the matter was immediately suspended. “This unfortunate action of the Presidency fuelled the audacity of Professor Yusuf who now sees himself as a demigod who cannot be subjected to Public Service Rules and corporate best practices. “This is why the Katsina born Professor continues to tell those who care to listen that he cannot report to the Health Minister or the NHIS Governing Council but deals directly with President Buhari. This is very unfortunate in a democratic society which is supposed to be governed by rules and due process,” the union regretted. The ASCSN, therefore, called on President Buhari to immediately terminate the appointment of Yusuf in order to restore sanity to the National Health Insurance Scheme in the interest of the Nigerian project.