Bauchi – Two major political parties in Bauchi state have concluded their governorship primaries, but the intrigues that heralded the elections has continued to generate interests and dominate political discourses in the state. Only recently, the Peoples Democractic Party (PDP) produced  Bala Mohammed the former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, who contested alongside two other aspirants to emerge the flagbearer of the party ahead of the 2019 general election. The election which was void of controversies drew delegates from all over the 20 local government areas of the state to Zaranda hotel to cast their votes for the candidate of their choice, amidst tight security. Mohammed polled a total of 1,335 votes to defeat his closest contender and former House of Representatives leader, Abdul Ahmed Ningi who polled a total of 802 votes while the third contender, Senator Adamu Ibrahim Gumba polled 15 votes in the primaries. For the gubernatorial primaries of the All Progressive Congress (APC)  , the incumbent Governor, Mohammed Abubakar emerged the winner of the governorship primaries through direct electoral process. The Governor is the flagbearer of party ahead of the 2019 general election. Governor Abubakar polled a total of 75,086 votes to defeat his closest contender, Dr Yakubu Lame, former minister of police affairs who polled 3,988 votes while the third contender Professor Ali Pate, former Minister of state for health who polled 2,886 votes and  Captain Bala Jibril,former Bauchi state commissioner for higher education, polled a total of 2,539 votes at the end. However, there were controversies that trailed the conduct of the exercise in the sense that there were calls for cancellation of the primaries due to alleged cases of electoral irregularities, alleged cases of violence and lack of transparency of the electoral process, cases of party members being disenfranchised amongst other accusations of foul play during the election. The first day of the election, 30th of September, 2018 was first greeted with anxiety as the electoral committee from the national headquarters of the party saddled with responsibility of conducting the election did not arrived the state early. The development did not augur well for some of the  other APC governorship  aspirants who were threatened by alleged reports that the election held and the winner was already declared. The following day when the committee finally arrived the state, there were allegations that the election did not hold in some units in some parts of the state. In places like Baba Sidi and Bakari Duku polling units in the state metropolis for instance, it was alleged that election did not hold in those places as political hoodlums of supporters frightened party members who came to cast their votes. According to reports, even journalists covering the election  had their version of their experience on the first day the election was scheduled to take place. It was said that they were nearly attacked at Bakari Dukku Primary and Secondary school along Bank road, one of the venue of the APC governorship election of Hardo Danlya ward in Bauchi. The journalists who were at the venue to monitor the election claimed that supporters of the three APC aspirants contesting against Governor Mohammed Abubakar, surrounded them and alleged that the government printed fake ballot papers which was given to people to vote the governor. A supporter of one of the aspirant who gave his name as Danjuma , lamented that he had been at the venue for 7 hours, but the election was yet to commence, adding that voters were not verified. “The commissioner of police addressed us outside and promised us that we will be verified so as to authenticate the cards but nothing like that was done, the gate was just opened for everyone to go in” “Many of the cards the voters here are carrying  fake APC membership cards. If you check these two cards i am holding in my hands, you will notice that the APC logo on the one on my right does not look clear at all because it is a fake one as compared to the one on my left which we were given since 2014” “Most of the people told us outside that they were given the APC membership cards just this morning which they use for the election. I have been here since 8am, but this is almost 3pm and there is nothing happening yet” The controversy took another twist when three APC governorship aspirants called for the cancellation of the primaries and suspension of Governor Mohammed Abubakar for what they described as war on simple civic issue. The aspirants, former minister, Ali Pate, Dr Ibrahim Yakubu Lame and Captain Bala Mohammed, alleged that the governor in connivance with the state executive have corrupted the National electoral executive committee sent to the state, adding that security agents were used to intimidate members of the party with opposing views. According to Pate and Lame, “We are calling on all our members across the state to boycott this exercise that has turned out to be a sham. Ballot papers that were released did not get to their destinations. In Bauchi local government, only half of the released ballot papers got to the polling centres” “Just now we received a report from our supporters in Boi ward of Bogoro local government that one of our supporters has been killed with two others hospitalized” “We are calling on the national leadership of our party to cancel this primaries and reschedule another one at their convenient time. Also, we request that the national officers should send more officials to boost the confidence of our members” they said The three governorship aspirants alleged that the whole process was not transparent and marred by violence in many areas across the state. The development was further compounded at Azare, Katagum local government area of Bauchi state following a protest by hundreds youths over the disappearance of APC registration booklets for the governorship primaries. The Leader of the protest group, Hassan Mohammed demanded for the immediate expulsion of the APC local government Chairman and Council Chairman, Aminu Chinade and Aminu Umar for allegedly trying to impose thier preferred candidates through the registration booklets.It took the intervention of security agents to bring the situation under control. On his part, the State Governor, Mohammed however refuted allegation made by his opponents who alleged that he used state apparatus to manipulate the governorship primaries to his favour. Abubakar said the election was conducted in line with electoral laws and a principle, pointing out APC in the state was a party that does not believe in intimidation to score political points. “ If you have followed developments, the state executive committee of the party met while I was in China with Mr President. They took a decision with the National executive committee that they wanted indirect primaries. This same people crying foul now, were the ones that opposed indirect. Now that the direct primaries have been conducted and they lost, they are still crying foul” The Governor said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 