A woman who knows what she brings to the table is not afraid to eat alone. That’s because she is not looking for handouts or unmerited favour. It is women like this who rise above challenges in their paths that become worthy role models in our society, and Ibinabo is one of such women, leading the charge against slothful women. She is beauty, grace and class; she is a mother, an entrepreneur and one of Nigeria’s leading ambassadors of the earth. Unapologetically honest, Ibinabo Fiberesima, in this interview with Saturday INDEPENDENT’s Tomi Falade and Ifeoma Ononye shares her 17 year journey of being the National Director of the Miss Earth Nigeria pageant and how she has stayed true to the earth’s cause. You are the National director of a major international pageant, Miss Earth. How did you feel when you made the decision to go into the business of pageant? Oh! It felt good. First because I am a woman and at the point I started I was the only woman. There are three top three pageants in Nigeria that are recognised internationally; Miss Nigeria, Miss Earth Nigeria and MBGN, and the others were all run by men. So me joining was a welcome development and I decided that I would give them a run for their money and prove to them that I can do this. MBGN, Ben Bruce and Guy Bruce, supported me wholeheartedly. They welcomed me. You know I had done both MBGN and Miss Nigeria, so they were excited that I had joined in. I can understand and appreciate now that it is quite difficult, especially when you don’t have sponsorship and you have to squeeze everything. And these girls that come to camp do not realise that there is no one giving money for this. For example, this year’s pageant, I practically did it on my own with my money. But I still believed in it and I still believe others would key into it knowing what we are doing. So, it was difficult starting, and it is still difficult without sponsorship. But I thank God Over the years, many misconceptions are have been held on pageants. Was it like that with Miss Earth Nigeria? A lot of young girls come in thinking you are going to introduce them to men and it’s a networking thing. Miss Earth is not like that; it is specifically for the environment. So when they come into camp, first of all they have a notion about me, which is not very good and I do not know why. But after staying in camp for a couple of days they begin to re-adjust and realise that I am all about the earth and the environment. They realised I was serious about it from the get go. So by the time they leave camp, their psyche has changed. If I can achieve that with the girls that I take to camp, then I am blessed. You said earlier that you did everything yourself. Was it that people disappointed you? People did not disappoint me as such. For instance, you tell someone to man the social media pages for the pageant, like the Instagram account dedicated to the pageant, and then they tell you to pay N2million Naira. What for? So when I offer what I can pay and they say no, I move on. To decorate the stage for the pageant vendors can give you a bill of over N5 million. When I tell them I don’t have sponsorship they don’t see it that way. By the end of this year’s pageant, I was practically doing everything on my own. Many organisers try to cover up the challenges they faced in putting together an event, but you don’t. Why is that? That’s because I did not have sponsors so there is no one I am making excuses for. I did it all on my own. How come you held the final event in Rivers State, why not Lagos or Abuja? I did it in Port Harcourt this year basically because there is a bad notion about my state. Some of the girls were even going to back out. In fact, some did. But those that braved it came and had a good time. Port Harcourt is not what people hear about and that was why I went there. The place is so beautiful now; we are back to our garden city. There is nothing that happens in Lagos that does not happen in Port Harcourt or Abuja, it is only what they decide to talk about. Port Harcourt is generally safe, and it is such a beautiful place. Secondly, I couldn’t afford Lagos. If I was going to do it on my own, I did not want to keep up appearances that I cannot afford. That is not who I am, so I would rather go where I know I am safe, where I know I can pay when I have the means. In Port Harcourt, I am known, they know my village and there are no issues. That way, I can run my show. Looking back, did you ever consider backing out when things got really hard? No, I don’t know how to. I never back out. I won’t sleep well if I back out, and that is the way God made me. If my heart is set on something, I must achieve it, there must be success in that thing because I believe that is why God is still keeping me in it. You must have given up a lot of things to actualise this dream, movie locations over the years and other paying jobs likes? What was it like turning down paying jobs to build a pageant? Plenty, I turned down so many. But it was easy to do. There are some things that just mean a lot to you, which your heart is just set on. Over the years, we have seen Ibinabo in several lights. You have been a beauty queen, an actress, a mother, a politician, a stakeholder in the entertainment industry, among many other roles. What do you know now that you wished you had known when you were younger and new to the industry? Back then I was afraid. I was very afraid. I used to be afraid of people, I don’t know why. But thank God I have gone past that now. I have lost fear completely. I used to be so afraid and worried about offending people. I used to beat myself up inside for that. It was all fear, but thank God I am where I am today. You starred in a movie a very long time ago where you were the leaders of a gang of armed robbers. You seemed fearless at the time; can you still act such a role? Yes, ‘Most Wanted’. If I act it now, you will think I am really an armed robber. I think they even want to redo the film with Regina Askia. The reason I would do it even better now is because I am actually more confident in myself now. I used to have so much fear, but God has taken it all away and I am a new person. I have become so confident that I can t see anything shaking me anymore. I try to live my life like Christ, and if I hurt you along the way, sorry, I really don’t mean to. It just means what you are doing is not good because my heart is clean. You have managed to maintain a shape that many women would die for, it cannot have been easy maintaining your figure, so what has been the secret? I’m a single mother, and it is no joke. I have to keep looking good. But the truth is that I work out a lot. I don’t eat healthy, I don’t even know how to. I have a friend that is a lunatic for working out, and he is really passionate about it. So he tries to beat my body into shape, though we are on break now. I had a few surgeries, so I’m just getting back. It has not all been a bed of roses, but I know how to put on a smile and look beautiful. What’s the one fashion item you would never be caught without? Jeans. Shoes too, but jeans first. For everything you have been through, what would you say is the secret to weathering life’s storms? The grace of God. Knowing Christ basically. I just healed. I was going through depression, reading about me and things that had happened and people not knowing the truth, I was breaking down and dying, but God picked me out from the dirt and raised me up. What has been your most memorable, annoying or funny experience with a fan? None of my fans annoy me. I feel good when they want to take pictures with me, especially when I go to the market. I am a champion in Balogun, so I enter the shops with the women and take pictures. Then again, it’s not like I’m the regular actor who is on screen every other day, but they still recognise me especially because of the accident debacle. A lot of people have sympathy for me and they pray for me. Sometimes when I go to the market, they would gather to pray for me. It has happened severally in Balogun market and I was amazed. I just keep giving glory to God. Any plans to star in a movie soon? I am working with someone now, Dede, and we are doing a lot of work together. We fight a lot, but we will be coming out with a lot soon. At this point in your career, are there some roles you cannot take? I can do anything. My children are quite exposed, so now I can do anything required of me as an actor. Before, I couldn’t because my children were pretty young. But now they are older and they are wiser so they know what is going on. So I can act any role. Your daughter seems to be taking after you in many regards, are you grooming her for a pageant? Even if I was not grooming her, the present Miss Earth Nigeria is grooming her. Maristella dresses her and picks out attires for her. In her mind, she is ‘Princess Bae’ and I am ‘Queen Bae’. A lot of people are now buying into the discourse of the environment, what can be done to get even more people involved? Well, this year’s queen would do a lot of environmental talk on TV and Radio. She would also create a lot more attention for the environment, especially in her state of origin, Anambra State, because they have a lot of erosion problems there. The third runner up, Miss Earth Fire is also from Anambra, so both of them will be working a lot in Anambra on erosion and teaching people how to plant trees. We intend to be a lot in the media in order to sensitise more people. It’s not something we can do alone though. There have been flooding and erosion problems in several parts of the nation like Abuja, Kaduna. Global warming is the whole world, not just in one place or what we see on CNN. The queen is representing Nigeria in the Philippines, are there still opportunities for people who want to be part of it? Yes, we still need sponsorship. In all honesty, environmental companies should sponsor. We also tried to reach the Governor of Anambra State and the commissioner told us that the governor doesn’t want to hear anything about beauty pageants anymore because of the cucumber saga. She is representing Nigeria internationally, and I think the government should be proud of that. Even the international media already sees her as tops. But we here are not taking note of that. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 