Abuja – The House of Representatives Committee on Capital Market and Institutions on Tuesday hinted that it was ready to incorporate the recent takeover of Skye Bank by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) into its scheduled probe of the companies quoted on the capital market. This was as the committee also said it would commence investigation into allegations of corporate mis-governance by some publicly quoted companies, saying that it was out to protect investors’ interests and boost confidence in the market. Recall that the CBN, a fortnight ago, announced the liquidation of Skye Bank, and directed the capital market to suspend its shares forthwith to enable the new company, Polaris, to reposition the embattled financial entity. Briefing journalists on Tuesday, the chairman of the subcommittee, Tony Nwulu (PDP, Lagos), assured the public of the committee’s determination to probe into the circumstances surrounding the crash of Skye Bank and the role of the CBN. “Absolutely! We are going to invite them to shed more light on the circumstances surrounding the change of ownership, because if an investor is to put money into a company, you have to be sure that the company is healthy. “And what we are doing will benefit both the companies more because, at the end of the day, more businesses will come the way of any firm that’s found to be healthy and more competitive, and at the same time safeguarding the Nigerian economy. “So it’s always better when you are aware that with company XYZ, your funds are there and your equity interests are safe. So I believe that when someone sets out to buy shares in your company it’s a sign of confidence because he/she doesn’t know what you use his/her money for – but the reposition of confidence in the growth and the future of such organisation so we do not want a repeat of what happened in the past where several shareholders got their fingers burnt. On why the earlier scheduled hearing on erring companies could not hold, Nwulu pointed out that lawmakers just got back from a three-month recess. “And as you also know, we lost a colleague of ours which is why we have asked that the companies and other invited government agencies appear before the committee on Wednesday next week for investigative hearing,” he said. Asked what led to the investigation, Nwulu said: “There have been several public outcry by shareholders over corporate mis-governance by most companies. “This is an industry-wide exercise we’re trying to carry out in order to wipe off all of that and also restore and boost confidence so that when investors are investing, they would have to be sure that yes, they are investing in a company that’s healthy. “Not a company that over time has issues where people don’t even know what happens to their shares anymore, and you find out that the CEO is living large while investors lose money,” he said. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 