The nation’s political parties are currently engaged in primaries to select those who will fly their flags in the 2019 general elections. However, special attention is being given to who will emerge as the presidential candidates of the political parties. While the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) seems to have settled for incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari, the other political parties are in the process of choosing their presidential flag bearers. As the aspirants have been going round to woo delegates to their parties’ primaries, they have been making promises of what they intend to do. Most of the aspirants understandably, do not have kind words for the incumbent administration as they blame the APC government for all the woes of the nation and the suffering in the land. However, it is worthy to note that most of their promises centre on the major problems presently confronting the nation. They range from the demand for restructuring, improvement of the economy, insecurity, industrialisation, shifting emphasis from mono-oil economy to agro-based one and solid minerals, among others. With what is happening and bearing in mind what the citizens have been passing through under severe hardship in the land, the question arises: What should be the major focus of the next President of Nigeria? Next President Should Sustain legacies Of Buhari Administration – Lecturer Tope Abiola, a lecturer with the Mass Communication Department of the Osun State Polytechnic, Iree, maintained that the next President of Nigeria, must be ready to sustain the legacies of the current administration by continuing with the anti-corruption crusade and fight the menace to stand still. He also advised the next President to grow and develop the economy and restructure Nigerian along regional and political lines. He added: “He must also ensure that there is mass employment to take care of teaming youths who are graduating from various higher institutions without jog. “The next President of Nigeria must also improve on the social infrastructural facilities across the country and let Nigerians feel the essence of belonging in the scheme of things across the country.” Next President Should Pay Special Attention To Security – Engineer Nelson Idemudia Oghagbon, a Benin-based industrial engineer, stated; “The major focus of the next president should be security of lives and properties of all Nigerians. This is because, if there is no security, you cannot be talking about the economy, education, roads, health care, employment or calling for investors. “With adequate security for all Nigerians wherever they live, all these other things will follow without asking for them. Presently, the investors do not want to come to Nigeria because their personal lives are not secured, let alone their investments. And without investment, nothing can be done by any country. “So, security is the key to all. Once there is security and free movement is guaranteed, every other things will follow.” Nigeria’s Unity Crucial For National Survival – Business Woman Mrs. Ebere Okafor, a business woman stated: “If you are talking about what will be the major focus of the next President of Nigeria, are you sure that the current President Muhammadu Buhari and his All Progressives Congress (APC) are ready to go, or handover to another person? I will be very happy though if that will happen. “But, as a business woman, I will want the next President to focus on bringing Nigerians back together as one family because this Buhari’s APC government did not do well in this area. “But, instead they created more hatred among the different tribes in Nigeria. Government policies are favouring some tribes and a particular region against the others. Also, there is too much attention on the Fulani herdsmen now than before, maybe, because President Buhari is a Fulani. They are killing people, yet they are being provided cover by the powers-that-be. “Therefore, the in-coming President should ensure that politicics of thugs and using dangerous weapons are a thing of the past. Any politician found to be using thugs and arming them with dangerous weapons should be disqualified from contesting elections and things should be made easy for Nigerians. “Things are really very hard and I will not support any government that will be promising Nigerians certain thing things, but does different things all together, it is not good. “Our children now cannot go to school because of hard times. There are foods, but there is no money to buy them. Yet, they tell us that the government has recovered billions of dollars of loots. Where did they keep the money and why are they not using it to equip hospitals so that we will not be paying too much money on drugs? “Why is President Buhari and his family not using Nigerian hospitals? After promising to stop medical tourism, he was the first to break the order. Why are they still fighting Boko Haram till today after they have told us that the insurgents had been defeated? “I can go on and on to mention many things this government said that are lies and they are deceiving Nigerians. “So, I want an incoming President, if Buhari will agree to go, to start by mending fences among Nigerians, change the economy to favour poor people like us and end politics of bitterness which this APC administration is using to cause chaos in Nigeria. Where are we heading to with this kind of divide-and-rule?” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 