Abuja – Senator Bukar Abba Ibrahim, an All Progressives Congress (APC) lawmaker representing Yobe East, came against his own party at the weekend, warning that it should not assume it could win the 2019 election even with massive rigging. The lawmaker said his dreams and hopes for a progressive nation under APC had been dashed, and warned that the APC should not take it for granted that the North-East would support the ruling party in 2019. The three-term serving senator and former governor of Yobe State dropped the bombshell against his party and President Muhammadu Buhari’s candidature during his 70th birthday celebration and the launch of his book, ‘Poorlitics’, in Abuja. He recalled the role he played to bring the North-East under the APC, noting that the ruling party had not done what it promised to do. He said the reality on the ground indicated that the APC was not better than the PDP which it displaced in 2015. The lawmaker further advised the APC-led government to ensure it was not targeting only members of the opposition for corruption prosecution. Narrating the history of the APC and how things had gone bad for the ruling party, Senator Ibrahim said, “The politics of the North-East has always been different from the politics of the North-West and it was under the APC that we all united for the first time. “I began that first move for unity. My co-author, Sam Agha Egwu, kept nagging me about the need to build a progressive coalition against the then very corrupt PDP. “I took the matter to my friend, Dr. Onu, who was then Chairman of ANPP, the party of the North-East. We now reached out to the ACN, CPC, and APGA. This finally led to the incredible merger called the APC that went on to defeat the PDP. “When I began this process, I had in mind that progressives will be in power and will show Nigeria how to run a progressive nation. “Without mincing words, as an elder statesman, I must say that my dreams and hopes have been dashed. We have certainly not done what I dreamed we will do, and in many ways, we are not better than the PDP that we sought to displace. “As we move towards the elections, I have to give a dire warning to the APC. Things are no longer the way they were in 2015 when we rode to power on a cloud of euphoria believing that things will change. “Simply put, things have not changed and many things are worse and the people are bitter. We should not assume that we can win even with massive rigging. “There are just certain things that progressive parties do, and must be seen to do. We must be seen to obey the rule of law. If the courts rule, we must obey. We must respect the separation of powers and let the legislature make its independent decisions. “The economy has gone down because of our actions and we are blaming the past too much rather than solving the present problems. “I am going to give a dire warning. Let the North-East not be taken for granted that we must support APC. Our interest in the North-East has always been progressive and I will personally be watching for improvements in the APC. “Improvements that will guarantee us victory such as respecting the rule of law and releasing political prisoners. “If we are fighting corruption, let us fight every corrupt person and not select people in what may be seen as a one-sided witch-hunt. “I shall sit back and continue encouraging my party to do the right thing, but if we don’t, I still reserve the capacity to ask my people to go our separate ways, and do what must be done for good governance to reign in Nigeria.” The Yobe senator said he was not running for elective position, and encouraged the youths to read his book, ‘Poorlitics’, as the contents would guide them to take power from the analogue old politicians. He warned the young people to note that the elders would not give way for them. “You must go out there and take power in the way I did at the age of 42, when I first ran for governor,” he said. He added, “I have given you the book, ‘Poorlitics’, to tell you how I did it and to encourage you to use the force of people politics, to dialogue those who believe in money politics and the old ways. “Those of us who are now analogue statesmen can, and must, be displaced by those of you who are digital youngsters and the book, ‘Poorlitics’, shows you how.”