The President, Association of Senior Staff of Bank, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI), Comrade Oyinkan Olasanoye yesterday reiterated the commitment of the association to fight for the right of Nigeria workers to ensure conducive work environment and respect for core labour standards. Olasanoye, who made the call, while presenting her speech during the 2018 World Decent Day workshop with the theme: ‘Change the Rules’, organised by the association in Lagos, said that freedom of association, right to organise and bargain collectively, meaningful remuneration and non-discrimination in employment are important in workplace. According to the labour leader, work could only be decent, when workers were valued to create value jobs. She noted that the struggle to continually alert the employers on decent work place was most essential despite the ratification of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Conventions that dealt with right of workers. “We are still witnessing all manner of indecent treatment in the workplace. More and more demands are placed on workers while simultaneously facing ever growing threats to their pay, condition of work and safety, “she said. Comrade Olasanoye explained that it was high time organisations stopped believing that lack of decent job was as a result of globalisation or modern economy, rather indecent job were decisions some made for their benefits at the expense of the vast majority of the workers. She said that few conglomerates and individuals continued to amass the riches to appear the general populace. “This is why as noted by the ITUC General Secretary, Sharan Borrow, ‘the rules are stacked against working people and we have unprecedented and destructive levels of economic inequality and insecurity,’” she said. She said that decent work must be at the centre of the workplace and for workers to bring back the economy and build a financial sector that would be the pride of the country. The ASSBIFI President, however, disclosed that workers cried for minimum wage must be that wage that was enough to ensure a decent standard of living and that all workers must have right to join the union voice at workplace, recourse when the rights are trampled and be able to bargain collectively. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 