ABEOKUTA – Hotel owners in the country have appealed to the Federal Government to urgently address various challenges facing the hospitality industry in the country to save the sector from imminent collapse. Segun Timi, President of Hoteliers’ Association of Nigeria (HAN), Ogun State chapter, who made the appeal in Abeokuta, listed the challenges as epileptic power supply, multiple taxation as well as lack of conducive environment. Timi, who spoke at the official commissioning of the association’s secretariat and inauguration of new executive members in Abeokuta, maintained that if the Federal Government failed to address the challenges, the sector would totally collapse. Disclosing that that it is the major reason both foreign and local investors did not invest in the sector, Timi noted that majority of his members have pulled out of the business due to the challenges. The association’s president said many stakeholders in the sector have converted their hotels to schools, boarding houses as well as rented apartments. “We cannot survive without power supply. Epileptic power supply is crippling our business. We spend enormous amount on diesel and petrol to manage our business. “Also, the rate of tax on us is too much; the operational cost of our business is killing. “Yet, the government has not yielded to our demands, they are always telling us to be calm and till now, nothing concrete is done,” he lamented. He added, “Well, we are waiting for the new government both in state and national level to heed to our complaints.” While proffering solutions to the challenges, he therefore, suggested that the Federal Government should create Hospitality Ministry and Hospitality Banks. He believed that it would help the sector to grow and automatically have effect on the country’s economy, insisting that since there is Bank of Industry and Bank of Agriculture, nothing stops the creation of Bank of Hospitality. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 