Sheik (Dr.) Muhammad Gumi, in this interview with Juliet Oyoyo,  gave clarifications on his visit amongst other clerics, to former president Olusegun Obasanjo’s home in Abeokuta and many more issues. Excerpts: There is this general belief here in the north that you have so much hatred for President Muhammadu Buhari even before he became the President and, that this is responsible for your constant criticism of whatever he does.How true is this? No! This is not true. In fact, it is somebody who tells you the truth; the absolute truth is the one who actually loves you. It is not sycophants who tell you what you want to hear and when you run into problems, he runs away. So, I don’t hate him. In fact, I like him and that is why I give him good advice. Your recent visit to former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s country home in Abeokuta, in Ogun state, alongside other Christian clerics have come under a lot of attack. Many are asking; why now? why is that you and the other clerics have not made any attempt to settle the problems between the two bigwigs, recalling that, there have not been any of such attempts prior to now that Atiku Abubakar has emerged the PDP flag bearer? The move to reconcile these two leaders, have been on for a long time now. I can say it has been on now for around two years now and he has been seeking for the forgiveness of Obasanjo for whatever transpired during the era of his Vice President under Obasanjo. So, it is not a one day affair but a long time one. However, it materialised this time that we went there. Everything depends on the former President to agree to reconcile with him. How true is it that you have been compromised? From this situation, when you are working or trying to assist people who are not in power, how can you be compromised? You can only be compromised if you are working for those in power. So, those making such comments are the ones compromised. Who controls the Central Bank, is it not the President? And, don’t tell me that they do not have power because all the people that rushed back to their party, were very rich men. When they run to their party, they are declared clean but when they run to other party, they are declared corrupt. Even this Atiku that you are talking about is an APC man. Just because he left APC, they are castigating him now. What kind of injustice is that? What are the things that the President, under this administration is not doing well that you feel they should change? All what they are doing; number one, they are talking about fighting corruption. It is a rhetoric because, when the corruption is with their associate, they keep quiet. We heard that the Aide de Camp to the First Lady is presently under incarceration for diverting funds meant for her. Where are the funds coming from; we need to hear? Why is he been kept in detention? A policeman came and implicated the Chief of Staff, publicly; silence. There are so many cases there. So, what kind of integrity is he talking about? Not everybody is a fool in Nigeria. It is just rhetoric. It is just campaign slogan and nothing else. Nothing! The North has come under a lot of attack because there is this strong notion that the region has not been able to present a good candidate that can indeed, move the country forward. Well, if you cannot run, walk. If you cannot walk, crawl. It is better than lying down. Am I not correct? Do you understand what I mean? You make do with what you have. That is it. Before now, there was this Bill for the “Not Too Young To Run” which would see the younger generation of Nigerians taking charge of government including many of the organisations in the country. What has happened to that? Is it that the northern region is lacking of such young minds to do this? You see, generally, the youths, whether in the North or South, are not serious. They are not ready at all. Look at some of the youths who are presidential aspirants that came to me. I advised them to unite and present one strong presidential candidate that can have support. When they left, they became divided and they are still divided. You know them. I don’t think I have to mention them. So, even the youths are in this bad shape. What is the problem is that, leaders; the old ones should groom new leadership. They are not grooming the youths but, this time around, I hope they will be involved and be groomed to be leaders. Leadership is to accept others and accept differences and, if somebody is in front of you, you should respect him. And, if there is a consensus on somebody, you should all rally around and help him. They are not trained for leadership but are just looking for positions. There have been a lot of security problems in the country especially here in Kaduna state where we all reside. What are the clerics doing to ensure that this is brought under control? The government here does not respect clerics here in this state. Nobody respects clerics here. It is only their followers that respect them. Government does not respect or even listen to what they say. They do not consult clerics when it comes to matters that are of such importance. Nobody should blame the clerics. But, we hope a new dispensation will come that will respect and the people are given their due respect. Just recently, the Presidency published the names of some politicians that cannot travel outside the country. What is your opinion on this? They have rights except if they are stopped by courts of law and not by the President. It is an infringement of the constitution and it is not the first time that they are infringing on the constitution. In fact, the president presides over national security issues that circumvent on the constitution. That is criminality. I have been saying it. These are some of the dangers Nigeria is facing. And, moreover, if there is a list, it should be comprehensive. Did you not see the video of the Governor of Kano state stuffing his “babanriga with dollars”? He should be on the list there. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 