Lagos – Five-time Federation Cup winner, Rangers International and Kano Pillars will play the 73rd edition of the competition at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba today, even as the game will kick off at 6pm. To reach the final, Rangers fought from two goals down to berat Nasarawa United 4-2 in the semifinal, while Kano Pillars on the other hand grabbed the ticket to the final in a similar dramatic note. Pillars beat Katsina United 4-1 in penalty shoot out, after their game ended 2-2. There is no doubt that this final is what can easily be called the strongest match-up of a Nigerian Cup final in almost three decades. Pillars, four-time league champions in the past 10 years would not want to give up easily on the trophy while Rangers would also be seeking to redeem their image in the competition. Both teams have different background as far as the Federationl Cup is concerned. Pillars are getting to the final for the second time since 1991 when they lost to El Kanemi in the first all-northern cup final. Rangers have had four other shots at the title but failed in 1990, losing on penalties to Super Stores; losing 0-1 through a self-inflicted goal to Niger Tornadoes in 2000; the defunct Dolphin in 2004 and 2007. In terms of playing the final match, Rangers tower higher than other clubs in the country having featured in 11 final matches and won five times. Rangers, who have not won the cup since beating DIC Bees of Kaduna on penalties inside the National Stadium, Lagos 35 years ago, will be led by defender Okey Odita, and there are also Semiu Liadi and Isaac Loute, as well as Ugochukwu Ugwuoke, Bright Silas, Ifeanyi George and Ugonna Uzochukwu. It will be recalled that Rangers won the League two years ago after waiting for 32 years. Yet, Kano Pillars would not be push –over. As Pillars, they would be aiming to take home the title for the first time, after losing to El-Kanemi Warriors 2-3 in the 1991 final playedin Lagos. Though, Kano XI became the first team from the northern part of the country to win the Cup after defeating Lagos Dynamos 2-1 at the Association Ground 65 years ago. It would then take another 36 years for another team from the northern sector to triumph, when BCC Lions – coached by Amodu Shaibu of blessed memory – shocked Iwuanyanwu Nationale by the odd goal at the Tafawa Balewa Stadium, Bauchi in 1989. Pillars’ biggest name on the sheet on Wednesday could be Junior Lokosa, the 2017 NPFL goal king who came close to making the cut for Nigeria’s 2018 FIFA World Cup final squad. However, there are also equally dangerous customers. Odita will be confronted by midfield ace Rabiu Ali, likely to lead out Pillars, and artistes like Nyima Nwagua, Emmanuel Anyanwu, Nzube Anaezemba and Hillary Ikenna are match winners on their day. Rangers must also watch out for Joel Djoundang and Ibrahim Alhassan.