LAGOS – The founder, Tony Elumedu Foundation, Mr. Tony Elumedu has decried the dwindling power generation in the country, saying that Nigeria required improved energy supply to improve industrialisation. Elumedu in an interview with the CNN monitored by our correspondent in Lagos yesterday noted that the Federal Government had actually made efforts in improving power situation, but more has to be done in the sector. He noted that Nigeria needed more investment into the economy to create jobs for young people, adding that his conglomerate had invested over $2.5bn into oil and gas sector in recent time. According to him, investment in African continent should be able to create job opportunities for the teaming population. He urged investors to invest more in the continent’s economy. In a separate development, African Development Bank has approved $50m facility to support SMEs and Women Owned enterprises in Nigeria. The line of credit was routed to Nigeria’s Fidelity Bank Plc to support small and medium sized and women-owned enterprises in selected transformative sectors, including close to a hundred SMEs in manufacturing, health and education. Approved by the Bank’s Board on October 10, 2018, the facility was fully dedicated to financing micro, small and medium sized enterprises (MSMEs), with a minimum of 30 per cent going to women-owned enterprises. The loan would enhance Fidelity Bank’s liquidity and help meet the demand for medium-term funding to players in the target sectors, contributing to improved quality of lives, job and wealth creation and tax-revenue generation. The facility complements the Government of Nigeria’s long-term development strategy, as espoused in its Vision 20:2020 agenda. Aligned with Nigeria’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan 2017-2020 (ERPG), the funding would ultimately boost enterprise competitiveness and expand Nigeria’s economic base. The ERPG seeks to stimulate Nigeria’s economic growth, catalyse macroeconomic stability, foster diversification of the economy, and enhance social inclusion as well as governance. SMEs account for 30 per cent of Fidelity Bank’s loan portfolio. The selection of the tier 2 Nigerian bank for this seven-year credit facility (with a grace period of two years) is based on its strong niche presence in the SME and mid-sized corporates space. It is also in recognition of the bank’s credit management and strong track record with the African Development Bank. The Nigerian lender has previously received US$18 million and $75 million lines of credit from the development finance institution in 2001 and 2013, respectively. “Fidelity Bank is a niche player, focused on the SME space and this US$50m credit line will contribute to strengthening its presence in its key market segments,” said Ebrima Faal, Senior Director, Nigeria Country Office at the African Development Bank.