Lagos – 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying series leading goal scorer, Odion Ighalo, is talking tough a head of the tournament’s qualifying game against South Africa in Johannesburg on November 17, 2018. The Super Eagles striker, who has scored six goals in the qualifying series, believes that beating South Africa next month was the only panacea for the 2-0 loss the team suffered last year’s June in Uyo. The players including Coach Gernot Rohr have made it clear that the game is more than just one point; it is revenging the June 2017 2-0 loss to Bafana Bafana in Uyo. According to the Ighalo, every Super Eagles player wants to play the game, because they want to repay South Africa with what they did to Nigeria. “We know it will not be easy, but everybody wants to play this game because we want to go there and win after they beat us in our home,” he said in an interview with online medium. However, Wilfred Ndidi, who has been ruled out of the game for having received two yellow cards, is regretting missing the game. Ndidi said that he really regretted his second yellow that ruled him out of the South Africa game. “I am feeling really, really bad because the South Africa game. I really want it because of the way we lost the first game. “It would have been a way to give a comeback. I really don’t know what to say but I believe the team will do well,” he told ESPN. Meanwhile, former Super Eagles defender, Godwin Okpara, has advised the players to concentrate more during games, to avoid conceding useless goals the way they did against Libya. “It’s true that such can happen to even some big teams. Yes, I remember that even Spain conceded two goals after leading in a match. But that is not to say we should allow it happen to us. “What I want is that our players should not lose concentration the way they did on Tuesday. They should stay focused till the final whistle.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 