ADO- EKITI – Dr Kayode Fayemi was on Tuesday sworn in for the second term as  Ekiti State governor, having governed the state  between 2010 and 2014 . Critical stakeholders, who spoke shortly after his inauguration, tasked the new governor to get prepared  to contend with a number of issues. First is how to meet the demands of the various interest and political blocs within his party, All Progressives Congress (APC). The second is how to assuage the feelings of the state’s force which had been badly managed  under the immediate past administration of Ayo Fayose of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) due to irregular payment of salaries and other emoluments. Not less important is how to achieve all these in the face the huge debt profile and dwindling state economy. In his first official reaction, Fayose admonished Fayemi to face the task of governance and stop his alleged usual grandstanding. “The Federal Government deliberately refused to release legitimate funds belonging to Ekiti State to the Fayose administration and for this reason, the arrears of salary could not be cleared as promised. “We are aware that in a matter days, the withheld fund of over N30 billion is to be released to the state by the Federal Government as refund on federal roads construction, arrears of Budget Support and Paris Club refund. “Our plea is that Governor Fayemi should stop making excuses and use the over N30 billion to pay workers salary.” Prince Niyi Adedipe, former State Coordinator of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) in Ekiti State admonished Governor Fayemi against being complacent. He opined that the governor and his party, APC should not assume that Ekiti has been captured ,warning that the rival PDP could still spring surprises in the future elections . “Fayemi must ensure that those who have grassroots appeal are appointed into positions of authority .Yes,we cannot dispute the fact that APC that APC won the July 14 governorship election. But, the 2019, general elections are just by the corner and only a fool would say PDP is totally dead in Ekiti. But, once Fayemi hits the ground running and makes people happy through his people-oriented programme, I can assure you that he would run a successive government.” Dimeji Daniels, former Media Aide to Senator  Babafemi Ojudu, urged Fayemi not over-promise and should only promise what he can fulfill. Unfulfilled promises, he added, bring many enemies. According to him, the governor should not say one thing to one person and another thing behind his back. He said: “He should not be pretentious by saying one thing and acting out another and behaving as though he knows nothing about it. People will always find out and this way, he makes enemies for himself. He may say he doesn’t care whether he makes enemies because he only has one term to go, but he should remember that Fayose also had one term to go…Ekiti people can make your life miserable if they want.” He said: “I read a newspaper interview where he said his government would do more of cheap populism now. But, what works with the people eventually is populism and not cheap populism. Using that term ‘cheap populism’ is even insulting to Ekiti people. Words like this riled Ekiti people in 2014. Who says they can’t be riled again?” Daniels admonished Fayemi to  ensure that his aides and people, including family members, embrace the best of decency in actions and words. He maintained that if there is a state where people know how to read between the lines, it is Ekiti “So, no subtle insults on Ekiti people – not even in private, for what is spoken in private sometimes finds its way to the public. Let them all, including Dr. Fayemi himself, show respect to Ekiti people, not just by word of mouth, but in action as well. No talking down on Ekiti people, even on social media. “I know there is Ayoba Radio now, plus Radio Nigeria (Progress FM), Ekiti Radio and TV and Voice FM. All these are either APC-led government-run, or owned by APC members. It would do the governor a whole world of good to let Ayoba Radio be truly independent. When the people discover that the media space has been seized, they will turn to rumour. Fayemi of all people should know the danger of this.” Mr Dayo Famisa, a civil servant, said that Fayemi administration should encourage people to go into agriculture. He said that as parts of incentives to encourage people to go into farming, loans should be given to farmers. He urged the incoming government to make payment of workers salary as at when due a priority. Famisa said that the training and retraining of the work force is very essential so that they could perform optimally. As for Mr Alabi Taofeek,  a staff of the Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti, and tourism expert, Ekiti State is endowed with abundant mineral deposits of value such clay, Kaolin, Columbite, Cassiterite, Foundry Sand, Bauxite, Clarcomite and Charcoalnite Granite. “Tourism is another aspect which will become a veritable source of income for the state. Notable among the state tourist attractions is the Ikogosi tourist centre, which is referred to as the haven of tourism in Nigeria. There are two of such in the world. I am aware that under Fayemi administration in the first term, facilities such as a modest non-chemical pools, standard conference hall, opulent chalets, and a  restaurant were part of the facilities provided to cater for the various needs of tourists. “The incoming government can also develop other tourist potentials such as Arinta Waterfall at Ipole-Iloro, Ero Dam at Iyin-Ekiti, Fajuyi Memorial Park at Ado-Ekiti just to mention a few. “ The Conference of Nigerian Political Party (CNPP) posited that the priority of the new administration is to tell Ekiti people the true state of the state’s finances. The body also wants Fayemi to swing into action by ensuring that the out-gone administration of  Ayo Fayose accounts for over N100 billion loans and others funds allegedly collected in the last four years. These were contained in a release by the CNPP state’s Publicity Secretary, Deacon Olu Akomolafe. The CNPP, however, enjoined Dr. Fayemi to revisit some of laudable policies and programmes embarked upon during his first term, including stipends for aged citizens, volunteer scheme and youths in agriculture, among others aimed at banishing poverty in the state. According to the group, the re-introduction of such peoples’ oriented programmes and policies which governor Fayose had killed since his inception in 2014 would serve as a great succour to the people of the state. It expressed optimism in the ability and readiness of Fayemi’s administration at ensuring an all-inclusiveness administration to ensure everyone feels a sense of belonging in the scheme of things at running the affairs of the state. “One of the priorities of Dr. Kayode Fayemi is to look into records of all transactions of his predecessor and ascertain the level of both domestic and foreign loans obtained under the review to set the records straight for the people of the state to know the true position of state’s finance,” the statement reads in part. It added: “It is regrettable that what has happened under Fayose’s administration could only be best described as an aberration and taboo of a road side trading where everything goes due to lack of law and regulation in an uncivillised society. “Various funds including budget support, Paris Club, loans, allocation and bailout collected by Fayose were reportedly to have been diverted by him to personal use at the expense of hapless civil servants and Ekiti masses. “It is on records that, Mr. Fayose in the last four years through family and cronies have executed and still executing not less than 40 personal projects across various location in Ado Ekiti alone, whereas the number of projects executed on behalf of Ekiti government by Fayose are said to be lesser than that in reality.” The group, however, called on the people of the state to continue to support Dr. Fayemi whom they voted for, during the July 14 governorship election. Fayemi, in his inauguration speech, had promised to reactivate some lofty programme introduced during his first tenure. The governor intended to realise these objectives under a four cardinal policy framework, which he listed as Social Investments, Knowledge Economy, Infrastructure and Industrial Developments and Agriculture and Rural Development. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 