Paschal Njoku and Daniel Abia Abuja / P/Harcourt – The Supreme Court on Monday overturned the ruling of the Court of Appeal, Port Harcourt Division, which had earlier granted the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State the nod to conduct ward, local government and state-wide congresses. It would be recalled that on June 21, the Court of Appeal had granted the nod, overriding the ruling of a Rivers State High Court, presided over by Justice Chinwendu Nwaogu, which had granted an interim order restraining the APC from going on to conduct the said congresses pending the determination of a motion challenging the planned primaries. Abdullahi Omar, an APC chieftain in Rivers State and 22 other aggrieved members of the party, had approached the court on the grounds that they were unlawfully and wrongfully excluded from participating in the congresses. While the restraining order was subsisting, the APC headed to the appellate court to challenge it. Having filed two interlocutory appeals, one for stay of execution and the other, stay of proceedings, the party went ahead and conducted its primaries on May 19, 20 and 21. Miffed by the action of the APC and the determination of Court of Appeal, the aggrieved party men further appealed at the Supreme Court, seeking the setting aside of the lower court’s decision on grounds that APC was in contempt of the trial court’s ruling. Delivering judgment on the appeal filed by Omar and others, Justice Centus Chima Nweze held that the Court of Appeal ought not to have vacated the injunctive order issued against the APC by the Rivers State High Court on the conduct of the congresses. Nweze held that the court below acted in bad faith. The apex court took umbrage with the lower court for vacating the injunctive order made against the APC when there was abundant evidence that the party was in contempt of court. Justice Nweze opined that the Appeal Court was duty bound to protect a subsisting lawful order and ought not to have granted favourable judicial discretion to a party that willfully disobeyed a valid court order. It was the decision of Nweze that the Court of Appeal ought not to have granted its discretion in favour of APC because the party was in grave violation of the order of the High Court. “It is unfortunate and wrongful for the Court of Appeal to have entertained a party in contempt of a valid court order to the extent of granting judicial favour by way of staying of execution of an injunctive order when the party at the centre of the dispute was in gross contempt of court,” the apex court held. “It is a serious matter for anyone to flout a court order and in the instant case, it is clear that the respondent (APC) was in grave disobedience to two lawful court orders. “It is sacrilegious, ill-fated and a suicide mission for the Court of Appeal to have departed from various decisions of the Supreme Court that any party in contempt of court ought not to be granted judicial discretion and in this matter, the Appeal Court is bound to follow Supreme Court’s final decision. “What is more, refusal of the Court of Appeal to be bound by final decision of Supreme Court amounts to gross insubordination.” Consequently, the court nullified and set aside the decision of the Appeal Court delivered on June 21. Meanwhile, the governorship candidate of APC and the senator representing Rivers South-East, Magnus Abe, on Monday hailed the judgment of the Supreme Court that set aside all congresses hitherto conducted by the Ojukaye Flag-Amachree executive council in Rivers State. Abe argued that after the Supreme Court’s ruling anybody that continues to parade himself as the candidate of the APC in the state that originated from the indirect primaries is just a case of “political rascality. “The defect in the constitution of the defunct Ojukaye exco and the primaries they conducted are not curable. “We conducted a direct primary against their own which was indirect and was against the order of the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party which recommended a direct process. This is flagrant disobedience to the law and has dragged Rivers APC to the pit.” Meanwhile, Senator Abe reiterated that at no point in time did he envisage dumping the APC as was widely speculated in the social media last week, adding that he could not have been with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in the Niger Delta and defect from the party.