La Liga Santander returns from the international break with a bang this weekend, with the highlight being the battle between league leaders Sevilla and second-placed champions Barcelona on Saturday evening. Six different teams go into this round of games separated by just two points at the top of a tight early LaLiga table, as recent weeks provided numerous shocks and fantastic entertainment in one of the most exciting starts to a season in many years. Surprise package Sevilla have jumped to the top of the standings with a run of four consecutive victories, helped along the way by Portuguese striker Andre Silva’s seven goals. Meanwhile Barça have slipped to second after taking just three points from their last four LaLiga games. The Catalans will expect to return to winning ways at the Camp Nou, however, where the Andalusians have not taken a point in the league since 2010/11. Third-placed Atletico Madrid have been moving impressively up through the gears in recent weeks, but Diego Simeone’s men face a tricky trip to Villarreal, who have come out on top in this fixture in each of the last three seasons, on Saturday evening. The games start Friday evening, with fourth-placed Alaves aiming to continue their historic start to the campaign when they visit Celta Vigo, who need a victory themselves after some recent setbacks. Saturday’s action begins with Julen Lopetegui’s fifth-placed Real Madrid looking for a first win in four LaLiga games at home to Levante, who will be optimistic of causing an upset with last season’s draw at the Santiago Bernabeu fresh in their minds. Espanyol are the sixth team going into the weekend with a chance to end it top of the pile, although that would require a big victory on Sunday afternoon away at Huesca, who will be highly motivated following the appointment of new manager Francisco Rodriguez. Saturday afternoon also sees Valencia hoping to continue their recent upturn in form at Mestalla against Leganes, who won two of their last three LaLiga games prior to the international break. Sunday kicks off with a Madrid derby as Rayo Vallecano host Getafe, with both teams having used the last fortnight to work on some issues from the opening weeks. The action then moves to the Basque country, as Eibar host local rivals Athletic Bilbao at Ipurua in another clash of sides who have had inconsistent starts to the new campaign. Sunday’s late game sees in-form Real Valladolid, flying after three straight wins, visit Real Betis, whose own run of excellent results was ended by Atletico just before the break. The weekend concludes Monday evening with Real Sociedad looking for a first victory at their newly-renovated Anoeta stadium. The visitors this time around are Girona, who boast the league’s top scorer in Cristhian Stuani (8 goals) and an unbeaten record away from home so far in 2018/19. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 