While the question still remains, “Is tenancy law effective in Lagos?”; but to several tenants engaged by DAILY INDEPENDENT in series of media parley, they were unanimous in their views that the law which was at first applauded and described as one of the finest people-oriented efforts in the state has made little or no impact on the lives of those who do not own properties while privileged property owners have continued to exploit the desperation of the property seekers to their advantage. Osita Ugwu, noted that “In spite of the law, tenants are still made to pay two to three years advance rents; tenants are still being forcefully ejected; yet no one seems to be ready to bell the cat to seek redress in the law court. Even the state that promulgated this law seems not to be doing enough to enforce the law. Quite a lot of people had thought that with the law coming into effect, the excesses of property owners would be nipped in the bud.” Against the foregoing background, not a few people, particularly Lagosians are asking, “Why is it so difficult for the government to enforce the law while landlords flout the law brazenly as desperate tenants remain helpless?” Some of those engaged in a media parley bared their minds on why Lagos State Government has failed to implement the law despite the fact that the provision of shelter in an affordable way for a growing urban city-state likes Lagos cannot be contested. They reasoned that with a large population, that housing should be a major priority of the state government. Some of them opined that the state government has not shown a clear direction of its readiness to implement the law hinging their arguments on the premise that other laws like the crash helmet law and Okada riders have been observed in the breach noting that they died soon after government promulgated the laws. They unanimously reasoned that it is one thing to promulgate a law; it is another thing to ensure that such law literarily bites to achieve what informed its promulgation in the first place. They also reasoned that the government had not put in place measures to monitor compliance as well as apprehending and punishing offenders which could have served as deterrents to others; just as others cite the over bloated bureaucracy and the cumbersome nature of the process of seeking redress as part of the problems that make implementation of such laws unachievable in the state. The law under Section 4, as earlier cited states, ‘It shall be unlawful for a landlord or his agent to demand or receive from a sitting tenant, rent that is in excess of 6months (in case of a monthly tenant) or one year in the case of a yearly tenant just as it also provided that it shall be unlawful for a sitting tenant to offer or pay rent in excess of one year for a yearly tenant and six months for a monthly tenant. The law provides that any landlord that collects more than a year’s rent from new tenants would be liable to three months imprisonment with the option of a N100, 000 fines if convicted. Also, landlords, who impose and collect more than six months rents from their “sitting tenants” will, if convicted, go to jail for six months. Furthermore, any landlord who forcibly or illegally ejects tenants from his abode will go to jail for six months when convicted, or pay a fine of N250, 000. A property owner informed DAILY INDEPENDENT that government does not have the morality to enact law on tenancy on a house he struggled to build with his own savings. He urged the government to improve in its housing policy as a way of building more low-cost houses for residents in the state as Alhaji Lateef Jakande did in his time as the governor of the state. He blamed the government for the present housing problem in Lagos, saying that “They drove people from Maroko, Ajah, Orile and other places without providing a place for them. He said, if the government had built enough houses in the state that things would not have become as bad as they are today. On why the tenancy law is obviously not working or rather being observed in the breach, Mr. Leon Mbakwe, founder and current coordinator of Tenancy Watch Centre, TEWAC, said it is weak. He said despite the self-explanatory nature of the purpose the law was set to achieve that some Landlords still ask prospective tenants to pay rent of a higher amount in advance. He added that the amount usually equals to or slightly less than two years rent or for one year if the tenant pleads for one year. He said in some cases that prospective tenants, who are desperate to have accommodations of their own, pay unrealistic, rent for two years and take receipts for one year to circumvent the prohibitive provision of the law. While stressing on how weak the law is, he said, “Furthermore, there is no Government Agency to monitor compliance and to prosecute offenders. So, the law was made for the sake of making a law that would suit the emerging bourgeois and property owners. He continued: “Curiously the law is not of general application in the whole of Lagos. This puts a question mark on why different laws should apply to different citizens and residents of Lagos.” It would be recalled that the law does not have general application throughout the State as stipulated in Section 1 subsection (1)-(3), Tenancy Law, 2011. It applies to all premises within Lagos State, including business and residential premises unless otherwise specified. However, it does not apply to Residential premises owned or operated by an educational institution for its staff and students, Residential premises provided for emergency shelter and Residential premises in a care or hospice facility, in a public or private hospital or a mental health facility; and that is made available in the course of providing rehabilitative or therapeutic treatment. In the same vein, areas such as Apapa, Ikeja GRA, Ikoyi and Victoria Island are exempted from the application of the law. However, Mr. Michael Ugboko, an estate agent, who also doubles as a pastor in one of the Pentecostal churches in Lagos, said the law seems to be working within the Ikotun axis in Lagos as Landlords in the area collects one year rent from prospective tenants. He said the reason why the law is working in Ikotun is that some Landlords and tenants that violated the law had been convicted in the past. He reasoned that the convictions may have created fears in the minds of Landlords and Tenants in the area.