Lagos – The Dangote ’s Group Executive Director, Mr. Devakumar Edwin, yesterday said that the planned 650,000 barrel capacity petrochemical refinery per day project, would transform and diversify the Nigerian economy when completed. Edwin ,who  spoke  in a panel session on ‘Promoting Efficiency and Clean Fuels in African Refining and Petrochemicals Market at the Oil Trading and Logistics (OTL)’ conference in Lagos, described the refinery as one of the most strategic socio-economic projects in Nigeria, features the largest single train petroleum refinery in the globe (650,000 bpd). Edwin was represented at the conference by Mr Srinivas Rachakonda, the Director Business Strategy and Optimisation, Dangote Refinery. He said that Dangote Oil Refinery Company (DORC) had been designed to process a variety of light and medium grades of crude and produce extremely clean fuels that meet Euro V specification. Edwin noted the Sulphur in petroleum fuels results in vehicle exhaust emissions that had negative impact on health and environment. He said that Dangote Refinery was investing in most advanced units to produce Euro V fuel due to help Nigeria meet the European Standard of gasoline. Edwin added that the construction of the refinery would provide thousands of direct and indirect jobs and add value to the Nigeria’s economic development. He noted that the refinery would lead to significant skills transfer and technology acquisition opportunities in the country. He said that the Group had embarked on a landmark integrated Refinery and Petrochemical project, regarded as the largest industrial complex in the history of Africa, which is expected to take Nigeria to new heights through transformation of the economy. Also speaking during the session, Mr Reginald Stanly, former Executive Secretary of the Petroleum Product Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA), said Dangote Refinery would be a game changer for the entire African downstream industry. Stanley said that the refinery would attract global attention and market when completed, adding that the initiative had raised hope for other African countries on the viability of investing in a huge refinery. He said the refinery would open a sub-regional market with a West African price index for countries in the sub-region. In his welcome address, Mr. Emeka Akabogu, Chairman, OTL Africa Downstream, said recent market tendencies had shown appetite for some categories of investment in the downstream value chain. He noted that there had been considerable investments in retail outlet development, marine logistics platforms and storage facilities across the country, while several refinery projects that aim to balance the discrepancy caused by inadequate refining capacity on the continent are currently underway. “This year’s event will further empower African oil and gas companies to harness the economic potential of the downstream sector in areas ranging from crude oil value addition to refining, to development of critical supply infrastructure across African States. “Issues to be discussed include prospects for refining in Africa, finance for downstream trading and infrastructure projects, regional cooperation, mergers, takeovers and lots more. We will also see discussions on the sector’s disruptive influences, the rising profile and application of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) across the continent, as well as renewable energy”, he said