Lagos – Billionaire kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike, otherwise known as Evans, on Friday told a Lagos High Court, Ikeja how members of Inspector General of Police (IGP) Intelligence Response Team and the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), tortured him and killed 30 people in his presence. Giving graphic details of what he went through while in detention, during the continuation of a trial-within-trial, Evans revealed that the security agents killed the victims by suffocating them with nylon (plastic bags). The alleged kidnap kingpin is standing trial alongside Uche Amadi, Ogechi Uchechukwu, Chilaka Ifeanyi, Okwuchukwu Nwachukwu and Victor Aduba, on a two-count charge of conspiracy and kidnapping. Led in evidence by his counsel, Olanrewaju Ajanaku, Evans described himself as a businessman dealing in haulage and ornaments resident at No. 3, Fred Soyebode Street, Magodo Lagos. “Inspector Idowu Haruna (member of IGP Intelligence Response Team) took me to Abuja and brought me back to Lagos where I was at the Inspector General (IG) Guest House at Obalende, Lagos. “Sunny the 2 I/C (second in command) to Abba Kyari, Mr Christian Ugu, Mr Phillip and other police officers working with them were there. “Idowu Haruna brought about 25 sheets of paper and asked me to sign, that day, my mind told me not to sign because it might be my death warrant. “One of them, one Mr Phillip put his hand in his pocket and brought out a brown hospital card, he showed it to me and told me to sign it while saying do you think that we are joking here. He said if anything happens to me here this card covers everything. “Mr Phillip said the police will not be held responsible and before I knew what was happening, Mr Christian slapped me and that was how they started beating me,” Evans told the court. “Mr Christian Ugu was smoking; he quenched the cigarette in my hand, My Lord look at my head where they beat me, My Lord look at my hand. “They took me to the backyard of the IG’s guesthouse, I sustained injuries on my head and body and Mr Phillip asked the policemen to walk on me and when I started bleeding, he said you think we are joking here. “At the backyard, I saw some people that I was paraded with, they were wearing leg chains, some of them had bullet wounds on their legs and Mr Phillip ordered Idowu Haruna to bring a big brown cellotape, handkerchief and polybags. “Idowu Haruna forced a handkerchief into the mouth of one of them, he used the cellotape to tightly tape his mouth and face and put a polybag over his head and cellotaped it and used another poly bag and cellotaped it for the second time and they left the man on the ground. “The man on the ground was shaking, he pissed (urinated) on his body, he poo pooed (defecated) on his body and after a while he went quiet. “Idowu Haruna went to the man and stepped on his body and he was unresponsive and he told me can you see I have ‘traveled’ him.” Evans further told the court that four more persons were executed in the same manner by the police officers in his presence.