UYO – Etim Ukpong, Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Teachers, (NUT), Akwa Ibom State chapter, has said that Nigeria at her current level of decay needs a very competent president. Ukpong said that for the nation to break out of its current economic situation, whoever must be voted into office as president during the 2019 general elections must be above board, and full-blooded Nigerian, above religious and ethnic sentiments. Speaking with newsmen in Uyo on Monday as part of activities to mark the 2018 World Teachers’ Day, Ukpong stressed that only a president with such leadership qualities would be able to govern and solve the problems currently affecting the country. He pointed out that a country as big as Nigeria does not need a president who would demonstrate sentiments and partisanship if the country must develop and grow its economy. He recalled that the set-back the Nigerian education sector suffered in the past years in terms of classroom performance and development of infrastructure, especially in public schools, was as a result of the leadership that was in place then. “Nigeria is a big country, so anybody who should lead a country like Nigeria should be above board. He should have integrity and the ability to lead. Such a person must not attach importance to a section of the country, and to his immediate family. The president should be a person who is Nigerian in and out; somebody who understands the problems of every sector of the economy.” “A Nigerian president should be somebody who loves the development of the society. And the teacher is at the centre of the development of the society. There was a time school was at the forefront of the attention of the Nigerian government and the only instrument for the measurement of the progress of our society. “But there was a time too that all that collapsed, and education was no longer the priority of government, the teacher was pushed to the background; salaries were owed for months and nobody was talking about building infrastructure and equipping laboratories in schools.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 