Abuja – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has extolled its former National Publicity Secretary and former Minister of Environment, Mr. John Odey, describing his death as shocking and devastating loss, both for the party and the nation at large. The party further described the late Odey as a highly resourceful Nigerian, an excellent administrator, outstanding democrat, a loyal party man and a man of faith, who dedicated his life for the service of the nation and humanity at large. PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, who led members of the National Working Committee  (NWC) and other leaders of the party to pay a condolence visit to the family of late former spokesperson of the party, said Nigeria has lost one of her finest, adding that the PDP is very pained by his death, which came at a time the nation needed him most. Secondus described Odey as a, “jolly good fellow”, who performed all assignments given to him with unequaled dedication and commitment to the admiration of all both at the party and the federal cabinet. He said, “Odey was a jolly good fellow; his death was shocking to us. We had prayed with him in hope that he will recover; his death is so painful that I have no words to describe the agony in our hearts. “Odey was a brother. We believe he is with the Lord and that one-day, we shall be with him. This death is too heavy to bear but we pray that God grant us all the strength to bear the pain.” Speaking during the visit, the representative of the Odey family, Mr. Anthony Odey, thanked the leadership of the party, noting that the family was very encouraged by the visit. The PDP has been in mourning since the news of the death came to it at its National Convention in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, where the party also held a minute silence in honour of the deceased. Also, a condolence register, in honor of this great Nigerian, has since been opened at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 