Abuja – Yekini Nabena, Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that former President Olusegun Obasanjo and Atiku Abubakar, his then deputy, and current presidential candidate of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are no match for President Muhammadu Buhari in integrity test. The issue of integrity of the Nigerian leader had again surfaced following the recent release by the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) of form CF001 submitted by candidates for the 2019 general election. President Buhari had in his submission referred the electoral body to the Nigerian Army. But raising questions on the endorsements of Atiku by Obasanjo, Nabena said “Muhammadu Buhari is definitely different from the double-faced candidates seeking election.” He said the fact that Obasanjo is making a volte face after once describing Atiku Abubakar as a “corrupt, disloyal and unpatriotic leader who was not fit and proper to handle the mantle of Nigerian leadership”, is enough to rubbish any sudden endorsement from him. He said the reversal by Obasanjo also casts serious doubt on the integrity of the person making the endorsement. In a statement he issued in Abuja last night, the APC deputy publicity secretary stated that Obasanjo contradicted himself when he claimed that he had forgiven Abubakar. “Throughout their second tenure in office, (2003-2007) and until last fortnight former President Olusegun Obasanjo had described Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as a corrupt, disloyal and unpatriotic leader who was not fit and proper to handle the mantle of Nigerian leadership. Only recently, Obasanjo vowed that God would not forgive him if he supported the Presidential aspiration of Atiku as “it would amount to handing Nigeria over to sharks and looters,” Nabena said. Questioning Obasanjo’s volteface and much publicized forgiveness of his former deputy soon after he emerged the PDP standard bearer, Nabena wondered when the former President has become the moral compass of the nation. According to him, “Obasanjo’s message to Nigerians therefore was that his former deputy, whom he had accused of various acts of corruption, had suddenly become clean, credible and prepared to lead Nigeria. What a contradiction! “It is this tendency towards indecision, insincerity, double talk and deception that has ridiculed Nigeria in the eyes of the international community. A statesman is known for his principles, and his statements are based on the strength of his convictions. “When a supposed national leader makes declarations that are subject to change at any time based on his mood, such a leader loses his integrity and reliability,” he said. Nabena also questioned the integrity and nationalistic image heaped on Peter Obi, Atiku’s running mate in the 2019 general election, wondering if it is not pretentious. According to  him many world-class shopping malls owned by Mr. Peter Obi has been springing up in various cities in Nigeria soon after he left office as Anambra State Governor.