Lagos – For a football league where players’ welfare has been relegated to the background due to paucity of funds, one could imagine what N456,875,000.00 million ($1,250,000)will do to a club. But this is the amount Enyimba Football Club of Aba lost on Wednesday following their ouster from this year’s CAF Confederation Cup at the semi-final stage. Enyimba, the only Nigerian club competing for continental club honours, lost 2-1 to Raja Casablanca of Morocco and failed to upturn their first leg 1-0 loss to the same club in Aba and thus failed qualify for the final. CAF, in its upward review of monetary prizes for its competitions, the winner of the CAF Cup will win $1,250,000, while the second placed team get $625,000. It is believed that, if Enyimba had been more tactical in the semi-final games, they would have beaten Raja Casablanca, to whom they have a better head-to-head record. Analysts are of the view that Enyimba would have stood a huge chance against Vita Club of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the final since they (Enyimba) have proven good against oppositions outside North Africa in this year’s competition. But just like in the first leg, where Coach Usman Abdallah failed to assert any tactical discipline in the team, leading to the lone goal defeat, they were highly undone by defensive errors in Casablanca on Wednesday in a match they ought to have made sure that every loophole were plugged. Zakaria Hadraf capitalised on an error by Enyimba’s defence and rounded up goalkeeper, Theophilus Afelokhai, before tapping into an empty net on 45 minutes. It went from bad to worse in the second half when Enyimba defender, Isiaka Oladuntoye, turned a cross past Afelokhai for an own goal. Abdulrahman Bashir pulled a consolation goal back for Enyimba but they were unable to muster a comeback. Recall that in the first leg, the coach showed that Enyimba’s match so far in the CAF Cup was largely dependent on determination, individual brilliance without any serious tactical or technical input from the bench. They rarely cut the image of a tactically drilled side. He failed to do a ground work in preparation for Raja match. His continued deployment of 4-4-2 formation with little or no creativity in the middle, as well as no effective forward cost him the first leg because the visitors ceased the middle completely. Even playing at home, Enyimba failed to pose any threat to Raja, even as midfield pair of Austin Oladapo and Dare Ojo – two holding midfielders – failed to provide penetrative passes to the full-backs and wingers, which ultimately led to both Sunday Adetunji and Ibrahim Mustapha lacking service.