Lagos – The killing of  Hauwa Liman, 24-year-old nurse and student of Health Education at the University of Maiduguri) has elicited widespread condemnations worldwide and also cast a serious dent on the Federal Government’s repeated claim that it has recorded huge success in the fight against insurgency, especially the Boko Haram menace since coming into office more than three years ago. Liman, an aide worker with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) was among the three aid workers abducted by the insurgents in an attack on a heavily-guarded military facility in the small town of Rann, Borno State on March 1, 2018. She was forced to kneel down, with her hands tied inside a white hijab, and then shot at a close range. In a short statement, ISWAP said: “We have kept our word exactly as we said, by killing another humanitarian worker, Hauwa Leman, who is working with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) that were abducted during a raid on a military facility in Rann, Kala Balge in March 2018. “Saifura and Hauwa were killed because they are considered as Murtads (apostates) by the group because they were once Muslims that have abandoned their Islam, the moment they chose to work with the Red Cross, and for us, there is no difference between Red Cross and UNICEF. “If we see them, we will kill the apostates among them, men or women, and chose to kill or keep the infidels as slaves, men or women” the group said. Another health worker, Saifura Ahmed, who was abducted alongside Liman was killed nearly a month ago by the insurgents over alleged failure of the Nigerian authorities to meet their demands. The militant group also said they would keep Leah Sharibu, one of the 110 Dapchi schoolgirls in their captivity as “a slave for life, while adding that  Alice Ngaddah, a Christian who works with UNICEF before she was captured would also be kept as a slave. The Federal Government in its response  said it is shocked and saddened at the killing of another aid worker by Boko Haram on Monday, despite the actions taken by the government and the widespread appeal to save the young woman. In a statement issued in London, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, described the killing as dastardly, inhuman and ungodly, saying nothing can justify the shedding of the blood of innocent people. He commiserated with the family of the aid worker, and said the Federal Government did all within its powers to save her life. ‘’It is very unfortunate that it has come to this. Before and after the deadline issued by her abductors, the Federal Government did everything any responsible government should do to save the aid worker. ‘’As we have been doing since these young women were abducted, we kept the line of negotiations open all through. In all the negotiations, we acted in the best interest of the women and the country as a whole. ‘’We are deeply pained by this killing, just like we were by the recent killing of the first aid worker. However, we will keep the negotiations open and continue to work to free the innocent women who remain in the custody of their abductors,’’ the Minister said. President Muhammadu Buhari shortly after the gruesome murder spoke with the father of the late Hauwa urging him to take solace in God. The President commiserated with the family in a telephone call, a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr Garba Shehu, revealed. He assured Hauwa’s father that the Nigerian government did everything possible to save his daughter’s life, lamenting that all the efforts turned out unsuccessful. President Buhari regretted that her commitment to helping victims of the Boko Haram insurgency in the northeastern part of the country ended in such a brutal way. He also spoke with the President of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), Mr Peter Maurer, and extended condolences on the loss of the aid worker. The President commended the ICRC for the great work they had been doing in Nigeria by providing healthcare services to victims of insurgency in some of the most affected areas. He appealed to the organisation to continue its services in the country, and not give up, despite the unfortunate and painful loss of their staff. Buhari who said Nigeria needs the ICRC and the government will continue to do all it can to protect the staff of the organisation added that the government would continue to ensure the safety of other aid workers that are providing much-needed humanitarian services in the North East region, which had been affected by almost a decade-long conflict. A statement posted on the president’s official twitter handle page reads “Today I spoke with Mohammed Liman, father of Hauwa, the ICRC midwife killed by Boko Haram. It is not the kind of telephone call anyone prays to make. The Federal Govt did everything possible to save Hauwa’s life; it is tragic & regrettable that all our efforts were unsuccessful. “Hauwa dedicated herself to serving the victims of Boko Haram’s insurgency, and it is extremely sad that her life ended the way it did, at the hands of the terrorists. I expressed our deepest condolences to her father, on behalf of the Government and all the people of Nigeria. “I also spoke with @PMaurerICRC, the President of the ICRC, to extend our condolences on the death of Hauwa. The ICRC has been doing a great job in Nigeria, providing healthcare services to people in the areas most affected by the insurgency. We salute their courage and service. “We fervently hope that these series of sad events, leading to the painful loss of their staff, will not discourage the ICRC from working in Nigeria. We hope that they will continue to offer their services, and not give up, inspite of what has happened. “I am reassuring everyone that the Fed Govt will continue to do all within our power to protect not just humanitarian workers, but also everyone working or living in the North East. I salute our military, who continue to fight and strive hard to permanently neutralize Boko Haram.” BBOG,  UN, AI, Red Cross React To register their agony and grievances over the killing of Liman, members of the Bring Back Our Girls group, with family members of Liman and friends held an unusual protest, as they wept uncontrollably while quietly marching to the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Former Education Minister and prime mover of the BBOG, Oby Ezekwesili, who was among the protesters, also shed tears. To register their agony and grievances over the killing of Liman, members of the Bring Back Our Girls group led by Oby  Ezekwesili, former Education Minister  and presidential candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), with family members of Liman and friends held an unusual protest, as they wept uncontrollably while quietly marching to the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Speaking to security operatives at the precincts of the Presidential Villa, coordinator of the group, Edith Yassin, accused the Federal Government of failure to protect the country’s citizens. She said with the killing of Liman, the government had proved that it was not ready to end the Boko Haram menace. Also, the group in a statement signed by Yassin and other leaders, such as Nifemi Onifade and Gapani Tanya, expressed worry over what it described as government’s obvious neglect of the remaining 112 Chibok girls kidnaped since 2014, and called for their safe release as well as Leah Sharibu. It said: “Today is yet another dark day in our nation. The heart-breaking news of the death of Hauwa Leman comes as an extreme shock, which leaves us devastated by the deeply regrettable consequences of the Government’s failure. “Hauwa was a nurse working to save lives of the vulnerable in the North-East. She was a young lady who selflessly dedicated her life to serving humanity, as a staff member of the International Committee of the Red Cross. “However, she, along with her colleagues – Alice Ngaddah of UNICEF and Saifura Ahmed of ICRC – were captured during an attack on Rann on the 1st of March 2018. “This is how they have come to be referred to as the #RannWomen. The attack in Rann left a number of casualties in its wake – including the loss of security forces stationed to secure them. “In regrettably similar circumstances to her colleague, Saifura, Hauwa has also been brutally murdered following a threat by the terrorists and the failure of a government that has a constitutional duty to protect her. She was a 24 years old Nigerian citizen who has had her hopes, dreams and life snatched away. Hauwa, Saifura and Alice should never have been targets. This loss is a loss for every Nigerian. Saifura is gone. Hauwa is gone. How long before the tragedy ends for others who remain in captivity?” Also reacting to the unfortunate incident, the International Committee for the Red Cross (ICRC) said the murder of was a despicable act of cruelty. According to Patricia Danzi, ICRC’s regional director for Africa, “the news of Hauwa’s death has broken our hearts. We appealed for mercy and an end to such senseless murders. How can it be that two female health care workers were killed back-to-back? Nothing can justify this. “Hauwa and Saifura’s deaths are not only a tragedy for their families, but they will also be felt by thousands of people in Rann and other conflict-affected areas of north-east Nigeria, where accessing health care remains a challenge. We urge the group holding Alice and Leah to release them safely.” On his part, UN Secretary-General António Guterres said  those responsible for the killing of Liman should  be brought to justice. Guterres, in a statement issued in New York by his spokesperson, Stéphane Dujarric, said he was appalled and strongly condemned the killing of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) aid worker in North-east. “The Secretary-General expresses his deepest condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of Ms. Liman and expresses his solidarity with the President and staff of the ICRC. Those responsible for this killing must be brought to justice” “The Secretary-General expresses his concern for the safety and well-being of the remaining hostages and calls for their immediate release. “The Secretary-General emphasizes that all parties to the conflict must protect aid workers who provide life-saving humanitarian assistance to the millions of people in need in north-east Nigeria.” Amnesty International on its part expressed deep concerns over Hauwa’s “horrific execution” and called on the relevant authorities to ensure that the perpetrators do not go unpunished. AI in a statement by Osai Ojigho, Director of Amnesty International Nigeria said  “With yet another horrific killing of a humanitarian worker, Boko Haram has again demonstrated its brazen disregard for life” . “Hauwa Liman was providing desperately-needed humanitarian services to people affected by the conflict in the northeast of Nigeria. Her killing is a war crime. Under international humanitarian law, all aid workers must be protected from attack. “Boko Haram must immediately and unconditionally release the remaining health worker, Alice Loksha. As news of these grizzly killings emerges, the Nigerian authorities must re-double their efforts to rescue the hundreds of civilians still detained by Boko Haram, including 15-year-old Leah Sharibu, who was abducted from her school in Dapchi town, and the remaining Chibok girls. “All those responsible for war crimes and other human rights violations and abuses in Nigeria must be brought to justice in a fair trial.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 