Road accidents induce costs in terms of both human costs and socio-economic costs. Socio-economic costs include hospitalisation, long-term care, material damage, production and welfare loss. From a welfare point of view, investigating loss in disposable income due to road injuries is of interest. Drivers who are involved in accidents may suffer a number of adverse consequences even if they are not injured. For example, a driver may be prosecuted for negligence or even manslaughter as a result of an accident. Road crashes are becoming a global crisis and, as such, require comprehensive measures to prevent them, including a better understanding of the social impacts of road-related deaths and injuries. Road crashes can bring about a lot of difficulties on households, both in developed and developing countries. The seriousness of those difficulties will vary considerably because laws, policies and safety nets are country-specific. This is why it is relevant and desirable to better understand the social impacts of road crashes in Nigeria. And it is equally important to ensure an improvement on road safety as a way of mitigating its negative effects on poverty reduction and economic growth. Desmond Omereonye said: “Road accidents are having a destructive impact on our country’s growing economy, as they usually take the lives of economically active citizens.” Mr. Titus Onabanjo, a human resource expert, in a parley with SUNDAY INDEPENDENCE on the issue said: “The economic losses caused by road accidents are significant not only in terms of pensions for incapacity for work and treatment costs, but also in terms of loss of production, disruptions in production schedules and damage to vehicles involved, especially when such vehicle belongs to either a private or public organisation. However, the only asset that cannot be substituted is human life and the pain suffered as a result of accidents at work. He explained that as a result of such accidents, other factors like workers having to help the injured and the involvement of observing personnel and administrators, all lead to a waste of labour and time, and therefore slow down production. Accidents negatively affect the mood and motivation levels of workers, which leads to qualitative and quantitative decreases in production. Furthermore, replacing an injured worker with a new worker who requires training in the desired skills brings additional costs to the company. He noted that “As one of the factors decreasing a country’s productive capacity, work accidents play an extremely negative role in national progress and welfare.” According to a World Bank Report funded by Bloomberg Philanthropies earlier in the year, cutting road traffic deaths and injuries by half could boost the economy and result in substantial long-term income gains in developing countries, potentially adding 7 to 22 per cent to GDP per capita over 24 years in some  as well as greatly improve social welfare benefits. The report, ‘The High Toll of Traffic Injuries: Unacceptable and Preventable’, quantifies how investments in road safety are also investments in human capital. The report indicated that countries that do not invest in road safety could miss out on potential economic boost. The cost of inaction, it said, “is diminished productivity and reduced growth prospects.” “Traffic crashes kill more than 1.25 million people around the world each year and they also take a huge economic toll, with so much human potential being lost,” Michael R. Bloomberg, the philanthropist and former three-term mayor of New York City, said in a statement. Checks by DAILY INDEPENDENT, revealed that road traffic accident is becoming one of the pressing human security threats. It is claiming the lives of millions of people, and caused destruction of property leading to social and economic crisis of households. The impact it caused on human, physical and financial capital is huge. It is also a challenge to national development efforts as it directly or indirectly affects the national economy of countries and households because it caused loss of the economic active population. The economic cost due to road traffic accident is the loss of income and the burden placed on families to care for their injured relatives. The human cost and the pain, grief and suffering it leaves are immense. And, the pain, grief and suffering have adverse effects on the quality of life of the individual victims and their families. It also affects the social lives of all sectors of society including individuals, families, communities and countries. This means, the increasing number of road traffic accidents means increase of damage on human security. Road traffic accident is a serious threat to the human security components. It causes economic insecurity by causing disability (physical loss) or might be illness and has a negative economic impact on individual, family, and national income. “All the consequences, according to Mrs. Ephraim Ogiewonyi, “impinge on economic growth.” It is also a threat of food security which affects access to basic food at all times. This is because it affects the capacity and ability of victims not to produce enough food to ensure their food security. It is a serious health security threat which could lead to high mortality rate, illness and disability. The major health problems that make threat to their health security include: death and being disabled, illness (pain and grief and suffer). It is also one of the community security threats which seriously affect the family treatment to the victims. This is because it can lead families to stigma of the illness and are more vulnerable to malnutrition. It is also a serious personal security threat, which caused physical and psychological violence such as death and injuries of millions of people.  Above all, according to economists and the watchers of the economy alike, it puts a heavy toll or burden on the economy, and by extension impede economy growth. Heart-Rending Economic Losses Considering the fact that road traffic accidents in Nigeria represent a serious problem, where several productive lives have been wasted, according to NBS statistics, not a few watchers of the economy are of the view that efforts should be intensified in the bid to stem the tide. Traffic accidents, according to them, incur a large social and economic loses to the nation, families and individuals.  Road crashes recently became one other major problem in the country. As gathered in the media parleys conducted by SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, there were unanimity of views that road traffic accidents, more often than not, subject families and communities to bearing funeral cost while organisations bear vehicle repair cost, vehicle detention cost, police work cost and travel time delay, and all the costs impinge on the economic growth as they cumulatively lead to slow economic growth. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 