Governor Mohammed Abubakar in the wake of his victory as the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bauchi state speaks in this interview with newsmen on the controversies that trailed the governorship primaries, his emergence as governor of the state during the 2015 elections, efforts in reuniting the party in the state amongst other sensitive issues. SUSAN EDEH brings the excerpts: Your Excellency, the battle for the APC governorship primaries has been won and lost, what steps are you going to take in order to have a repeat of what happened during the primaries in the 2019 general elections? Let me begin by thanking Allah for his mercies that he has always bestowed on me from the time I was a little boy up to this moment which has turned me into a very strong believer in the will of the almighty. I must also thank the good people of Bauchi state for reposing confidence in me for repeating what they did in 2015. In 2015, as the political soothsayers said, I came from the blues, so to speak, and everybody saw me coming, but I did and Allah in his infinite mercies gave me the victory as the candidate and ultimately, the victory as a governor. People failed to realize the kind of fight I had to fight in 2015. I had the sitting national chairman of the People Democratic Party (PDP) which is the government in power from Bauchi state, I had the minister of the federal capital territory from Bauchi state, and I had the sitting governor of PDP in Bauchi, yet Allah in his infinite mercy gave me the victory. I had strived to remain true to the oath I swore on the Holy Koran to work for the good people of Bauchi state and to be fair to all manner of people in Bauchi state without showing any preference to anybody. Ours has been a very difficult task, people need to understand the basis upon which we were operating before they understand whether or not we are doing very well. Take for example, our wage bill which is a resulted effect of the bloated civil service that we were said to have inherited. We have a total of 105,000 people on the payroll. The payroll is N5.7 billion every month, so you can imagine that some months, we will go to Abuja and we will be unable to get the amount needed to pays salaries. Yet, for close to two years, salaries have been a thing of the past in Bauchi state. They are history, and they are no longer an issue. You are witnesses to the fact that any period there is a celebration of any religious festival in the state, I pay salaries before the end of the month. So, I have conquered that problem, but what that means is that at the end of the day, I have little or nothing to  take care of other aspects of the work for the people of Bauchi state, but that notwithstanding ,we have strived to work for the good people of Bauchi state. I say without any fear of contradiction that our three years plus of the APC government is better than the 16 years of the PDP and anybody who has lived in this state will tell you that. I thank God that I am at peace with the good people of Bauchi state, I am at peace with all the traditional institutions, I am at peace with the youths, I am at peace with the students, I am at peace with everybody because I am striving to do the right thing and I am sure that is why the good people of Bauchi state have ventured to now repose their confidence in me once again. I think it is important that I am meeting with you, that the true story of Bauchi state should be told. I hope somebody, someone amongst you will be brave enough to tell the true story of Bauchi state, so that you stop the detractors of Bauchi who go to Abuja and tell stories. They tell lies against the people and the government of Bauchi state. The same people who after the state executive committee of the APC in line with the resolution of the national executive committee of the APC, sat and decided that they wanted indirect primaries. Those people said that if you do indirect, it is the governor that controls the delegates, so they will elect the governor, but if you do indirect, the governor will not be able to go to the polling station and vote. None of them have been able to go to their polling stations, but I went to mine and look at the number of people that received me in my polling station. People wanted to escort me on foot from my polling area back to the government house, but because I was fasting, I needed to come and break my fast. I was already late and I had to manoeuvre through Ileila (a street in Bauchi) street and escape from the people so that I could come back home and break my fast. The story must be told. It is incumbent on us that we should tell the story of the true happenings in this state. The people are happy with their government and the government does not have anything, but is still working for the good people of Bauchi state. You can go to Azare, they will tell you that am working for them. I am building roads for them, go to Jama’re, Itas-Gadua, Giade, Toro, Dass, Ganjua and Bauchi, they will all tell you the same thing. In Bauchi, you will see the work I am doing. The reason why work on some of the roads in Bauchi has slowed down is that during the rainy season, nobody constructs roads. You have to suspend construction. Wait and see in the next two weeks when the rain seizes, you will see that all the contractors doing these work will resume. Isa Allah, we will finish all the roads we have started before the time of election. So I thank you for coming around to chat with me and I can assure you and the people of Bauchi state that we will continue to deliver the dividends of democracy. There have been widespread allegations that you used the state apparatus to manipulate the governorship primary election, how true is this? I don’t know anything about that. In the first place I did not conduct this election. If you have followed developments, the state executive committee of the party met while I was in china with Mr President. They took a decision in line with the decision of the national executive committee of the APC, that they wanted indirect primaries. This same people that are crying foul now, were the ones who said that if an indirect primaries is conducted, all the delegates belong to the governor, so the delegates will elect the governor and not them, but if a direct primaries is conducted for them, the governor is not popular with the people, so they will elect them and not the governor. Now that the direct primaries have been conducted, they are still crying foul. So I don’t know what we will now do to appease them. Maybe, we will ask the almighty God to send angels from above to conduct the election before they can accept the result. We have done everything within our power, the national headquarters sent a powerful committee, comprising of two professors as chairman and secretary and very eminent personalities as members of that committee. We sat with all the contestants in the morning before any activity commenced, they asked all the questions, they gave all their complaints, and all their questions were answered. They accepted and consented to what the committee planned to do. The rest they say is now history. When they realised that they were losing the election, they went out to address the press and cried foul. They said we were intimidating them, intimidating how? This is a contest within the APC; some of them claimed that they were the owners of APC. It is a contest in their homes, so why are they crying foul? They said that I am the outsider, they own APC, they did merger, they did everything before I even joined and it is a contest within the APC. I think the committees sent from the national headquarters of the party have conducted themselves very well. They were even celebrating when the chairman of the committee said that he was not going to follow tradition, and that he was not going to pay me a courtesy visit as governor of the state. I told the chairman, not to worry, that I understood, and he does not have to. The first day they said the election was going to take place, we used officials and members of the party to conduct the election, but when the chairman heard of the cries of these other contestants, right from Abuja, he contacted the NLC and asked them to have members of the NUT to conduct the election and I did not object. So there is no truth in the allegations they are making. They are just losers. They did the same thing when I was a new entrant in the party. They went up to the Supreme court of Nigeria and took their case. Each time they were going for the case at the Supreme Court, they will tell the people of Bauchi state, that when they go, it was going to be victory. They said when they return they will kick the governor out and swear in one of them. It did not come to pass. So, I am not losing sleep, I will do my best to live in peace within the rank and file of the APC. What first came to your mind when you got the news that you have been declared winner of the governorship primaries? What came to my mind was to thank the almighty Allah because I am a complete believer in the will of the almighty and that is what keeps me going. You can ask my aides, they will be worried and killing themselves with worry, they will come to me and see me hale and hearty, doing things normally, going out in the night to play my games. They asked me why I was looking so happy while they were worried. I always tell them that I have put everything in the hands of him that gives power, and that is how I am going to continue living my life. What steps are you taking to bring harmony in the APC in the state, and reconcile with the aggrieved aspirants? In 2015 when I won the governorship primaries of the APC, I visited each and every contestant in his home to solicit for his support and back the APC during the elections. Some agreed while some did not. Some that agreed, later on changed their minds. I give you an example, Dr Ibrahim Yakubu Lame, whom I visited twice. The first time I visited him, he said that he would consider. Later on, he invited me to come and meet with his campaign organization. I went back, met with them, and we reached an agreement.  Today, the chairman of Giade local government who was Dr Lame Director General of campaign is my appointee. The deputy director general of the campaign organization was my commissioner of information, now ambassador of Switzerland. Another director on publicity and strategy of Dr Lame campaign organization, Comrade Sabo Mohammed has been my special adviser on education and public enlightenment. Another director, Chindo Adu is chairman of Bauchi local government. Another director, Mamud Kare is the secretary of SUBEB, State Universal Basic Education Board. I have shown good faith in every respect and I am going to attempt the same thing. I have already spoken to the elder brother of one of the aspirants to speak to him, and I want to build on that because my aim is to as much as possible have harmony in the APC. Concerning the prolonged disagreement between the members of the national assembly and myself, a lot of people choose to report bad news; they don’t care about good news. When we started, out of the 12 members of the national assembly, there were only three with me. Today, nine of them are with me and I think that is a great achievement and a giant stride at peace making. Right now, all of them are here. In fact, they thought I was going to go out for the rally for them to join me. All the members of the national assembly are with us. We have ran  the most harmonious  relationship between the legislative, executive and judiciary arm of government in Bauchi state in the last three years plus and that attest to the fact that I am a peace maker. I am willing to withstand quite a lot so that I can bring harmony. People forget the fact that I am the number one stakeholder in Bauchi state. If Bauchi is peaceful, I am the number one stakeholder and God forbid, if the opposite happens, I will still remain the number one stakeholder.   So, it is incumbent on me to make peace as we progress. Did you initially object to indirect primary election? Like I said, that is not correct. There was a meeting of a national executive committee of the APC in which the president and the Vice-President were present. A decision was taken at the meeting that the presidential primaries will be done directly, while for states, their state executive committees should meet and determine for themselves the mode that they preferred. In my own state, I was not even there when the state executive committee met at Zaranda hotel. I was in faraway China with Mr President. They were the ones who decided on indirect election, but the national headquarters of the party turned that decision to direct. So naturally, I went to the national headquarters of the party and drew their attention because when I first saw it, I thought it was a typographical error. I went and told them that the state executive committee chose indirect and you have said direct. When they insisted, I agreed for the direct primaries to be conducted. The direct primaries were conducted, but my opponents were not satisfied. So, I don’t know which one they want us to do. Maybe, we have to invent another mode of primaries before they would accept. What efforts is your administration putting towards improving the internally generated revenue of the state? I assure you that we are making progress slowly, and I have a very good reason for saying that. Our IGR have improved and by the end of the year, the report will be given out and you will see the improvement. I have appointed a new chairman of the revenue board. What I did was that, I took away all the big shots of that revenue board away from the board. I told them to report to the office of the head of service, so that I could give the new chairman a free hand to operate. The chairman can select from those I have removed after his assessment, that is, if he thinks any of them can be able to work with him, he can take them back. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 