Abuja – Defence Headquarters (DHQ) said on Thursday that it had suffered casualties in its ‘Operation 777’ newly introduced two weeks ago to consolidate on the achievements of existing military operations. Briefing newsmen in Abuja on the operation, Brig-Gen. John Agim, Director of Defence Information (DDI), disclosed that in the last two weeks, two soldiers had died in action, two were wounded, and two were missing. He said the military had also lost weapons during the operation. He, however, disclosed that the new operation recorded huge successes, having dislodged a notorious criminal called “Gana”, in Benue State, and neutralised 15 of his gang members, including his wife. The DDI said in the last two weeks that the DHQ had embarked on ‘Operation 777’, across the various operations, large number of arms, ammunition and other dangerous weapons were recovered. Many suspects were arrested in the process and many neutralised in armed encounters with troops. Agim said: “In Benue State, for instance, ‘Operation 777’ has located the camp of one notorious criminal and cult leader by name, Gana. We were able to neutralise more than 15 of his gang members including his wife. “Gana managed to escape, but our troops are on his trail. Sequel to this, many of the internally displaced persons (IDPs) have started returning home. “The Chairman, Logo Local Government Area, confirmed that 27,000 out of 34,000 IDPs at Anyiin IDP Camp have returned home. “During the period under review, our gallant troops neutralised 35 criminals and a total of 98 suspected bandits/criminals were arrested, and they are undergoing investigation and shall be handed over to the police for prosecution. “The weapons seized include quantity 5 AK47 rifles, 20 bow and arrows, 113 quantities of 7.62mm live ammunition, 20 live cartridges and 4 rifle magazines. “Within the period also, 419 rustled cattle were recovered, 405 sheep and 101 goats were recovered and handed over to the various states’ committees established to return the animals to the rightful owners. “In the operation around the maritime areas, a total of 398 metric tons of stolen crude oil was recovered, 67, 000 litres of illegally refined AGO, 126 reservoirs, 34 illegal refineries, 27 wooden boats and 101 of 100 litres drums of premium motor spirit were recovered and destroyed. “Regrettably, during these operations, the military suffered some casualties. Two soldiers were killed in action (KIA), two wounded in action. Equally, 2 soldiers were missing in action while one AK47 rifle missed in action.” Agim stressed that the activities of troops were being conducted simultaneously in all the operations areas, adding that the ‘Operation 777’ was focused on identifying and destroying armed bandits and other persons bearing arms against the Nigerian state.