Senator Godswill Akpabio, former governor of Akwa Ibom state under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and presently a chieftain  of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in this interview, explained why he defected to the APC, among other issues. Sam Ogidan brings the excerpts: Why did you leave PDP for APC? My move from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is a very good movement, I think I have much better opportunity to be hearing directly from the government and also my voice could be heard from a partisan point of view. Because been part and parcel of the ruling party whatever advise or contributions I will make will be looked upon with sufficient angle. They will now know that I said it from the patriotic point of view and for the fact that I want things better in the country. And I will also contribute my quota towards the success of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. I think that is the most important part of the movement from the PDP to APC. I don’t believe that we should bring a government into being, without supporting that government to succeed. Because if the administration fails to succeed, it’s our children that will suffer, we will not be able to build a better future for our children. So I moved in other to stabilise the polity and I also move taking cognisance of the number of appointment this administration has given to indigenes of Akwa Ibom state. And also the kinds of programmes and activities lined up that will benefit the South South people in the Niger Delta. For instance, in 16 years of the administration of PDP in Nigeria, I do not see one kilometer of road that was done in my state, Akwa Ibom state, because of every politics is local. But this government decided to dualise the road traverses Akwa Ibom to Calabar, I knew I need to move to support the government so that we can become part of history. You can imagine that road was constructed in 1975 and was supposed to be reconstructed seven years after, but for over 45 years that road has remained that way and the result was continuous struggle. So I want to thank this administration, because not only have they given out the contract, but the contractor have been mobilized and as I speak now work has started on that road. I moved also to attract dividends of democracy to my people and to support a government that has decided to look at the South South, not just in rhetorics, but with physical evidence of action. So from a national perspective and from the local perspective, there was need for me to as a leader support such administration. Today, Mr President has pledged to ensure that in the 2019 budget, Aba road that have been tormenting us for years will be dualized. Aba is the commercial hob of the South South and South East, and because of that road most industries in Aba and some entrepreneurship have been affected. So my people could not access Aba, even governors find their movement to Aba difficult and that has been there for 40 years. That is why I say in 2019, it will be very difficult for any political party to control the South South, because they have seen an administration that is determined to bring about infrastructural development for the good people of the South South. He has already pledged to extend railways from Port Harcourt to Calabar through Akwa Ibom. Something we have never seen before. Some of the things I am telling you, for some of you who have these facilities in your own area will not understand, some of us will be very excited to see railways in our lives in our state. So it was easy for me as a leader to move from PDP to APC, to a government that I believe will not only intervene in federal infrastructure but will give meaning to what we may call Nigerianess, because our people felt totally marginalized in the past. Today, look at some of the appointments that we have in my state, am not afraid to say it that under the PDP even when I was a governor we couldn’t even have a personal assistant from Akwa Ibom state in the Presidency, not even a special assistant despite my massive support for the then PDP. But today, you can see we have the Minister of Budget and National Planning, we even have a Senior Special Assistant to the President in terms of Senate matters, Managing Director of NDDC and many more, so I believe that to whom much is given, much is expected. If this government can recognized my people and do all these for my people, as a leader I have seen the need to support that government. Some of you may not understand, I want to repeat myself, I move in national interests. Every politics is local, so I believe it’s important for us to stabilized Nigeria, I believe it’s important for us to support the federal government to succeed. So,  when government wants to work, allow it to work, support the government irrespective of political affiliation and that is why I moved from PDP to APC to make sure that this government work before election. It shouldn’t be all about election it should be about the interest of Nigeria. On the floor, a Senator from your state, Bassey Akpan raised allegations that your party plan to use federal might in Akwa Ibom to disrupt governorship election in that state. What is your reaction to this. I know the press will be nice to me, because you will ask questions on what he meant by federal might. What evidence does he have that there is a plan on the part of APC to disrupt election in Akwa Ibom? What is happening here is the situation of the aggressor, trying to play the role of a victim. Since my defection to APC Akwa Ibom people have moved in their thousands into the APC. So I can tell you today, that by the grace of God the next government in the state will be an APC government, because voters in Akwa Ibom in APC are about 80 percent as at today. Because the reasons I enumerated our people are aware of that, our people are very exposed politically. It is actually the PDP that is causing a lot of security issues in the state. A lot of people have resigned from this government to join APC. A day after I joined the APC, over eight miscreants came to the front of my house and shot bullets into my compound. And when I asked they said they are armed robbers. Then in Nsima Ekere  house, while people were jubilating, bullet penetrated his roof, through the POP and enters his bed room. The commissioner of police in Akwa Ibom state and the Director of DSS, examined the place. It was worrisome to know that that bullet was fired directly from on top of the roof to assassinate the governorship candidate of the APC. One of my Senior Assistant wrote a critical article against the Akwa Ibom government, if you see bullet in his house he had to hide under the bed. And then somebody came to the Senate to say that APC in Akwa Ibom is planning to disrupt the election. I believe that there must be evidence to substantiate what you alleged. So the Senate is a place where we discuss national issues, not a place for any of us to localise things that we have no proof for. But that allegation is no problem, my people will answer with a resounding victory for the APC in 2019 general election. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 