Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), who had been missing since the military’s ‘Operation Python Dance’ in South East last year, was reportedly sighted praying in Jerusalem, Israel. In a broadcast attributed to him, he was quoted as saying that his group would avenge the killing of its members by the military during the operation. Since then, Nigerians have been wondering if his threat could be taken seriously. Kanu Made To Be Bigger Than He Is – Unionist Comrade Augustine Okosodo Aigbokhan, a Benin-based trade unionist, said that Kanu is being given a name bigger than him by the Federal Government and the Press. According to him, “This has given him the belief that he is now one of the leaders in Nigeria to be reckoned with. The earlier we stopped giving him undue recognition and publicity, the better for the IPOB members, the people of the South Eastern Nigeria in particular and the country as a whole. “There is no doubt that some people may be sponsoring him and his group, but the more he is given undeserved attention, the more he will continue to see himself as a warlord. I don’t think Nnamdi Kanu was born before the 30-month Nigeria civil war and I believe those who witnessed that civil war will not behave the way he is behaving now. “I blame all those people who are allowing their children to be used or killed for a cause that is unnecessary. Agitation for a sovereign state of Biafra, if at all it will ever materialise, will not be through violence, but by a referendum. It will sail through without a single blood being shed. But, it will not happen now. “It will take a long time because presently, if a referendum is called now, majority of the Igbo will vote against it, let alone other Nigerians. “Nnamdi Kanu’s threat to avenge the death of his slain members will lead to the killing of more of his members. I will advise my Eastern brothers and sisters to call their children to order because the IPOB leader and his family are not in Nigeria to participate in the fight to avenge the slain members. “This advice and call has become necessary because history had it that those who called for war never participated in it and if they happen to participate, it may be by accident. They never lose their lives. “They are the same people who will come out to write the history of the war while those who fought and died will be forgotten forever. On whether the threat should be taken seriously, I will say ‘no’ because the threat is inconsequential and of no effect. “If they attack any military location they are endangering their lives and the lives of their innocent kinsmen and women which might result to the massacre of more of their members.” Kanu’s Threat Should Be Disregarded – APC Chief Dr Ben Nwoye, chairman, Enugu State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the threat by the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kalu, as an empty one which should be disregarded. He described Kanu as a man with selfish motive, whose only interest is to deceive the youths. He said: “Why did he run away after causing the death of so many innocent youths? Keanu’s threat is inconsequential and should not be disregarded, because he is only after his selfish interests. “I want to call on Nigerians, especially the Igbos, not to take any statement coming from Kanu serious as he is bent on deceiving young and innocent citizens. “He has even gone further to tell the Igbos not to participate in the 2019 elections. How could he make such call? I want to advise that we should disregard such call and ensure we all exercise our franchise,” he said. Nigeria Too Big For One Man To Trample Upon – Activist Comrade Prince Kehinde Taiga, Chairman Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, CDHR, Delta State Chapter, declared that the threat by Nnamdi Kalu to avenge his followers should be disregarded. He stated that Nigeria is too big for an individual to try to trample upon with use of words. He stated that Nnamdi Kalu has no power whatsoever to carry out such threats, as he even flee after trouble erupted during his agitation for Biafra. Taiga said: “How can an individual threaten a country and we take it as if the person has power to do such. He cannot do anything. We are talking about a whole country and an individual.” He urged Nigerians to be calm as justice would soon be meted upon individuals who seek to divide Nigeria. “Nigeria has fought a civil war and they did not defeat the country. Then a common man, who has nothing to do, would threaten a country.” Nigeria’s Security Should Be On Red Alert – Entrepreneur Abimelech Ogar, a Minna-based entrepreneur, said: “I am not a security expert. But, as a Nigerian citizen, I see the threat by Mazi Nnamdi Kanu as only natural considering what he (Kanu) believes in and invested so much in. On whether or not the possibility of his group avenging the death of slain members be taken seriously, that is the work of the nation’s security apparatus to weigh the options and act accordingly. For a man of Kanu’s calibre to make such threats, it should not be taken lightly. “It is now left for the Federal Government to put security apparatus on red alert and not wait until the attack comes before they know what to do. “The tone of the threat will certainly determine what is going to happen in the coming days or months as we move towards transition to another dispensation. “It may not be that serious, but being human, it is always better not to take things for granted especially threat to human life, when it is coming as vengeance for the loss of loved one or someone you value so much. “But, I don’t think Nnamdi Kanu and the IPOB are so daring to be classified as terror group compared to the Boko Haram terrorist that have been killing Nigerians over the past years. I am not an Igbo man. So, I may not know how viable or how seriously committed the Igbos are attached to the group. But, it is only human for anyone who believes in the threats as being justifiable, to act in same manner as Kanu has done or is about to do as contained in his statement.” FG Should Watch IPOB -Lawyer Olorunfemi Ajibade, an Osogbo-based lawyer, has advised the government to treat the threat by Nnamdi Kanu, to avenge the death of slain members of his group seriously, but with a proviso that much attention should not be devoted to it. This is because there are other numerous national issues seeking for government’s attention. Ajibade said the government must taken precautionary steps to ensure that the activities of the group do not affect the unity of the country. He said that once the security agencies have been put on red alert, they should curtail any unforseen circumstances, especially as regards IPOB and its elements within and outside the country. Ajibade said it is the duty of security agencies to deal decisively with anybody trying to disrupt the peace in the country. He said: “The security agencies must boost their intelligence gathering and act fast on any negative movement or action from the group. The threat is a product of diverse nature of the country. But it is not enough reason to put the country in fresh crisis.” He further advised the government and the security agencies to try and identify some politicians, individuals and influential Nigerians who are sponsoring the group to bring them to book, stressing that intelligence gathering can reveal this.