ENUGU – As protests continued to trail the October 3 controversial senatorial primary elections of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu-West Senatorial District, Osita Okechukwu, the Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), has asked the declared winner, Juliet Ibekaku Nwagwu, to stop dropping the name of Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka in a bid to justify a stolen mandate. Nwagwu had said in a media report that Mbaka, the founder of Adoration Ministries Enugu, prayed for her victory against Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the forthcoming senatorial election in Enugu-West. But in statement on Monday, Okechukwu said he has great respect for Mbaka and does not think that the Mbaka he knows would pray for the stolen mandate, which Nwagwu was branding. He said that Nwagwu did not earn the results allocated to her in the primaries in a desperate bid to declare her as the winner of the Enugu-West senatorial primary election. Consequently, Okechukwu, an aspirant for the primaries, said he had protested to the appeal panel in Abuja over the alleged allocation of unearned votes to Nwagwu in the primaries. The VON DG said he was following the due process of filing petition accordingly to the appeal panel, in a bid to recover his mandate from Nwagwu. In a petition to the Appeal Panel for Enugu-West sitting in Abuja, Okechukwu submitted that the allocation of the results was not only brazen, utter imposition of candidate and without tact, but also clearly demonstrated the complicity of the Primary Election Panel led by Professor Moses Momoh. In the petition entitled, “Protest over allocation of votes to Juliet Ibekaku Nwagwu in Enugu-West Senatorial District Primary Election,” Okechukwu stated that the votes were wrongfully allocated inter alia: Juliet Ibekaku Nwagwu – 5,750, Gbazuagu Nweke Gbazuagu – 4,015, Osita Okechukwu – 2, 344 and Pius Eze – 600, thus making a total of 12, 709 votes. Part of the petition read, “The allocation of the results were not only brazen, utter imposition of candidate and without tact, but clearly demonstrated the complicity of the Primary Election Panel led by Professor Moses Momoh, for I polled a total of 7,919 votes in Awgu, one of the five local government areas of the senatorial district. Evidence attached as Annex 1. Annex 11 is also attached. It is my candid view that the signatures be subjected to Forensic Test, if in doubt, to clear the air. “I humbly further submit that the results from the 81 Wards were in my favour, as I led other three contestants with over 15,000 votes, Chief Gbazuagu Nweke Gbazuagu coming second and Juliet Ibekaku Nwagwu distant third. I am ready to furnish more evidences, if requested.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 