Hon. Adaora Onyechere, ace broadcaster cum politician, is the Action Alliance (AA) candidate for the Okigwe State Constituency seat in Imo State. In a chat with EJIKEME OMENAZU after her party’s primaries, she spoke on post-primary crises in some political parties as well as her agenda for her constituency, among other issues. How do you see the party primaries of some of the major political parties in Imo State and the crises that followed them? First, I wish to congratulate the parties which had had some free, fair and transparent primaries. They have given hope to our democracy. On the post primary crises that followed, especially in the major parties like APGA and APC, not only in Imo State, but elsewhere, the development did not come as a surprise to many, especially the political stakeholders in the states had already predicted an implosion, a fallout or downright disenfranchisement of party faithful within the calculation of the rankings. What was really not foreseen was the violence that took place and the killing of some persons during the processes. It dampened the spirit of true sportsmanship of many. In case of my state, it further created doubts in the minds of Imo people on the process through which these parties give their Certificates of Return. I think the consideration of Independent Candidacy will in future gradually resolve these issues if we have the political will in Nigeria to see it pass through. How do you feel emerging the candidate of Action Alliance (AA) for your state constituency? I didn’t see it coming. I did not really foresee that I would be given the ticket. Our party primaries went smoothly without any rancor and rivalry. It was an overwhelming feeling because a lot of work had gone into it. Having got the ticket, it also means more work has to be done and continuous consultations with critical mass, our people because they are the voters and also the stakeholders across board. How prepared are you for the campaigns since you will be facing candidates of major political parties in the state, like the APC, PDP and APGA, who may have very strong financial backing? In politics, you can never be prepared enough. You consistently have to reinvent the will and keep an open mind, re-strategising, because there will be some unforeseen situations. The issue on finance has come up a lot of times. That is why I am reassuring my people of Okigwe that only if they are able to vote for good leadership and not the purse, the ideas and the future of our state, starting from the constituency, will have the development that they need. The cheaper elections are the more determined those in office will focus on the issues and really work and it will become unattractive to those who are not in it to serve, as some see it as a means to an end. What are your plans for your people if you emerge their representative at the Imo House of Assembly? If I become their representative, I will work assiduously for a fairer funding for our public schools and quality education in our public primary schools. I plan to sponsor and develop bills towards Technical Education to enhance the skills and literacy of our budding youth population of artisans, to create apprenticeship opportunities, thereby building the experience of our work force. I hope to enhance private, public partnerships with corporate organisations’, investors and liaisons with business communities to increase internally generated revenue and create employment. Also, I plan to birth the realisation of a just and equitable environment through social and mental reorientation of the youths, to create a future of more positively oriented youths with discipline and value for bothering their lives and as brands for the constituency. I will help to implement policies that will enable my mothers and sisters in Okigwe have a more enabling environment that opens up the space for trade to thrive, like properly managed market centre, with shops for the sales of their goods, Mills for food production and training in skills development and sustainable intervention through partnerships with technical support providers to enhance ways to earn a living from those skills. Also, I hope to drive the restructuring of our health sector, in consultations and implementation with the leaders at the centre and federal level through reforms, implementation and refurbishment of the public health system in the constituency. I will also see to the revamping of our public hospitals, while the establishment of new ones is of essence. For example, there is no public hospital fully functional in Okigwe, neither is the one available equipped maximally as we speak. Some of the largest communities do not have hospitals within the proximity and it is a risk, because it exposes women and pregnant women to ill qualified auxiliary medical practitioners or quacks, thereby increasing infant mortality and birth complications. What are the main issues that will dominate campaigns among candidates in Imo State? Well, the main issues include poverty eradication, provision of employment opportunities, checking insecurity, provision of quality education, improvement of the health sector, health and mental health education. We expect the coming Imo State governor to focus on these, no matter the party he or she will come from as they are the basic needs of the people. What agenda would you proffer for whoever would emerge the nation’s President in 2019? Mainstreaming women into governance is the only way Nigeria can truly develop. There are key areas that women should be able to help make decisions, develop policies and also look at the existing ones and how they can be implemented.  The whole world is looking at global diversity. The Scandinavian countries have shown great strides in their general development because they intentionally adopted measures that include women in key offices and economic modelling of their system. For example, Sweden is a leading example in gender equality. The Swedish government teaches gender diversity and equity in their curriculum for children in schools and also mandates equal opportunities, equal pay and equal access to education. Also there, female board membership is as high as 35 percent. Half of their parliament is women. We must develop an innovative approach on mainstreaming gender, not the reactionary and emotional approach often solicited for. We are a country imbedded in our cultural differences and our religions. We must develop models that can work within the accommodation or a review of these practices for the interventions to remain sustainable and progressive. Another area would be to look at the branding of Nigeria to the rest of the world, beginning from here in Africa. The repositioning of our image and our value system will increase our economic output, whether we agree or not, especially through our foreign direct investment, the level of acceptability and respect. Citizens’ reorientation, consistent dialogues, creative comparative studies of our international partners and consulate engagements will help develop a stronger and independent approach towards our relationship with the outside world. Other areas I would recommend are what I see as an emergency are in the areas of our policy development and implementation review. These should include the  Tourism sector, Media and Information management, Public Education, Primary and Tertiary institution standards, as well as the  Technical and Skill development curriculum, Refugee and Displaced Persons access review, ICT and Teacher Remuneration review/ Training, Research mechanism and institutions and our Health sector – Mental Health and Disabled Persons’ access to equal opportunities. Even our building plans do not accommodate the disabled persons. This should be reviewed. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 