Abuja – The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the promotion of three Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) to the next rank of Deputy Inspectors General (DIGs). The Commission also approved the promotion of four Commissioners of Police (CPs) to Assistant Inspectors General, AIGs of Police. According to the Spokesman of the Commission, Ikechukwu Ani, “The promotions were one of the highlights of the first Plenary Meeting of the newly inaugurated Management of the Commission held in Abuja on September 26, 2018, and between October 9 – 11, 2018.” The new DIGs are Musa Katsina Muhammed, presently at the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, Jos; Mohammed Sani Usman, Commandant, Police Academy, Wudil, Kano, and Peace Ibekwe Abdallah, Office of the National Security Adviser. Investigations by Daily Independent revealed that Peace Ibekwe had been the most senior police officer from the South-East for a long time, but that she was not promoted DIG due to lack of vacancy, while her peers and some of her juniors were promoted DIG before her. The new AIG’s are Godwin C. Nwobodo, currently, CP Courses at the Police Academy, Wudil, Kano; Adeyemi O. Samuel Ogunjemilusi, CP, Akwa Ibom State Command; Augustine Iornongu Iwar, CP, Bayelsa State Command, and Adekunle J. Oladunjoye, CP, Research and Planning, Force Headquarters, Abuja. The Chairman of the Commission Alhaji Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector-General of Police, who presided over the meetings, urged the newly promoted senior officers to rededicate themselves to the service of their fatherland. Alhaji Smith said their new ranks imposed on them more challenging responsibilities that called for more hard work. He assured that henceforth, the Commission was committed to promotions in the Nigeria Police Force, but that promotions would be based on seniority, merit, and passing the relevant official courses. Ani disclosed that the Commission’s approval of the officers had been conveyed to the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, for implementation in a letter signed by Mr. Musa Istifanus, Permanent Secretary/Secretary to the Commission. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 