ADO-EKITI – The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Ekiti State chapter, has decried the menace of quackery in the profession, which it identified as a great danger to the lives of those seeking medical services. The medical body also lamented the spate of child, maternal mortality and reduced life expectancy in Nigeria. The association attributed this to the disparity in access to quality healthcare delivery, calling for full implementation of National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) for the actualization of the universal health coverage of the Federal Government. The NMA, therefore, called for the collaboration of police and other security agencies in combating the menace. Dr. Tunji Omotayo, the Ekiti State branch chairman, made these known at a press conference reviewing a week-long 2018 Physicians’ Week. Omotayo revealed that the main thrust of this year’s event centred around medical quackery and litigation, closing the gap in polio eradication and universal health coverage. He said: “Quackery is the bane of development of any society or profession, not medical practice alone. It is a danger to the society. Patients always commit their lives in the hands of doctors and once they are not saved, then we are all endangered. “The police must help us in this regard, because we have identified some people parading themselves as qualified medical practitioners but after found to be quacks. We reported their cases to the police but surprisingly, they were let off the hook. “We plead that the police should do more, they must partner us in this regard because it affects everybody”, he said. Reading the communiqué of the annual event, the NMA boss appealed to Ekiti government to implement the State Insurance Health Scheme (SHIS) without further delay to ameliorate the sufferings of the masses. “The SHIS Bill was signed into law under former Governor Ayodele Fayose, but we have to go beyond this and move to the level of implementation. “We also frowned at the lingering crisis rocking the NHIS and we urge the Federal Government to intervene appropriately to restore peace and stability to the agency for it to deliver on its mandate. “We congratulate the Governor, Kayode Fayemi on his victory at the election and we assure him that NMA will partner his government to reposition the health sector and take it to enviable height”.