Lagos – The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Gas Resources, Hon. Fred Agbedi, yesterday commended the Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMoU), the Community engagement strategy adopted by the NNPC/Chevron Joint Venture as a panacea for peace in the Niger Delta region. He spoke during a panel session at the 2018 Nigerian Gas Association’s (NGA) Conference and exhibition organised at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja, according to a statement issued by the multinational oil company. The lawmaker, who was represented by Hon. Ayebide Fatiede noted that through the GMoU model, Chevron has proved to the whole world that peace and harmonious relations with Niger Delta communities is possible and practicable. Speaking on the impact of oil pipeline vandalism on oil and gas infrastructure development in Nigeria, he insisted that the cause of restiveness among the youths in the area is anger occasioned by neglect and insensitivity of the government to the plights of the people. According to him, Chevron has instituted an effective system of engaging with the communities in a profitable manner, which has continued to enhance cordial relationship between the communities and the company. He said: “The GMoU by Chevron has created the desired enabling environment for oil and gas operations in the Niger Delta. What Chevron is doing is to bring the communities together and work with them for sustainable socio-economic development in a transparent and genuine way. I urge other organizations to emulate the NNPC/Chevron Joint Venture for steady development in the Niger Delta region.” Commenting on the GMoU, Mr. Esimaje Brikinn, General Manager, Policy Government and Public Affairs (PGPA), Chevron Nigeria Limited, stated that since 2005 when the GMoU was established, the GMoU has recorded significant achievements especially in areas of education, health, and economic development. He said that the NNPC/CNL Joint Venture has contributed over NGN20.6billion to the RDCs to implement projects and programmes for about 600,000 beneficiaries in more than 400 communities. “In terms of managing conflict and enhancing peace in communities, the GMoU story is one we are very proud to tell and has resulted in very impressive footprints in various communities and the model has helped improve CNL’s relationship with its neighboring communities, as it created a clearer and more predictable channel for dialogue,” he noted. He commended the commitment of the traditional institutions, the Government security forces, the community and leaders of the Regional Development Committees (RDC) for driving the multi-stakeholder collaboration for asset protection and stressed that CNL continues to work to strengthen relationship with these stakeholders. “The community leaders have shown great commitment to this process,  and has seen the connection between CNL’s operations and their livelihood. They understand that an enabling environment for our operations translates to continuous benefits to the communities in terms of our contributions to their socio-economic development,” he explained. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 