Lagos – Despite several postponements by MTN Nigeria to list on the local bourse, the telecoms giant has vowed to hit the Nigerian Stock Exchange floor very soon. This is coming despite the lingering regulatory crisis the operator is facing after the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) ordered the South African telecoms giant to hand over $8.1 billion allegedly repatriated illegally. MTN’s decision, which was made known by its Group Chief Executive Officer, Rob Shuter, was bolstered by the company’s third quarter positive report announced on Monday. According to the telecoms giant, MTN Nigeria’s plans to list “have been challenged” by the CBN and AGF allegations. Officials at MTN complained the company’s IPO timelines and key events could be affected since it indicated that the IPO prospectus that had been prepared would have to be altered. In a statement, MTN Group’s CEO, Rob Shuter, admitted that the implementation of the company’s IPO was subject to satisfactory market conditions and this event would potentially make it complicated for MTN to conclude the process. “Despite this, we have instructed our advisors and our teams on the ground to continue at full pace,” he said. Shuter further said the company was going ahead with plans to list in Nigeria in spite of the dispute. The decision to sell shares was part of negotiations relating to a $5.2bn fine for unregistered SIM cards. The company’s agreement to list its IPO on the Nigerian Stock Exchange was part of the settlement of reducing N1.04 trillion fine imposed by local regulators in 2015 for failure to register some subscribers’ Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) cards infraction to N330 billion. The reduced fine is expected to be paid in a staggered form within a time limit of three years, with a condition that it would be listed on the Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE) as soon as it was commercially and legally possible to do so. Since the company reached an agreement with the Federal Government to list in 2016, prospective shareholders of MTN Nigeria have continued to wait for the listing date of Initial Public Offer (IPO) on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The dream had been delayed as the telecoms giant was alleged to be negotiating with relevant agencies to allow the Initial Public Offer listing to be dollar-denominated instead of naira-denominated. It was gathered that MTN Nigeria had been resisting the IPO listing in the capital market on Nigerian naira currency but negotiating the process to be dollar-denominated. MTN Nigeria IPO listing has been characterised by serial postponement of dates by the company since it announced the plan for IPO in June 2016. Last year, it was gathered that the company would list in May, 2018. As the date approached, a new date of June, 2018 was fixed. No sooner the announced June date passed than July 15, 2018 became the new expected deal date for many potential Nigerians and the capital market. While many people were in high expectation, August, 2018 was cited as a veritable date for the IPO listing. In the face of all these postponements, it was gathered that an indefinite date before the end of the year was being peddled for the listing. MTN Group yesterday boosted sales ahead of targets in the third quarter, showing its ability to grow the business even with a major regulatory spat that’s rocked shares of Africa’s largest wireless carrier. The company increased sales by 10 percent from a year earlier — above a medium-term target of upper-single-digit growth and added 2.5 million subscribers, to reach 225.4 million. “These results were delivered in challenging operating and currency conditions,” MTN Group CEO said in a statement.