Ayuba Izang, one of PGA of Nigeria’s prolific golfers says he would be mentally and physically prepared for the forthcoming Plateau State Governor’s Cup in December at the Lamingo Golf Club Jos. Izang a student/golfer who will be completing his HND in management at the Plateau State Polytechnic this weekend believes that academic activities has caused him some setbacks and needs to bounce back. The 2015 Plateau State Governor’s Cup champion in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT said, “It has not been easy combining academics with sport; but my joy is that for now, I’m almost done with school; my final examination will end this weekend and I can concentrate on my games. “The Governor’s Cup is about two months ahead and I believe there’s enough time for me to prepare very well for it; the fact that I was once a champion means I have to up my game to justify that victory. Incidentally, Izang from Lamingo Golf Club Jos also won the 2016 Air Assault Championship in Port Harcourt and placed second in the 2018 Jigawa State Governor’s Cup which held in Dutse. Sunday Odegha of Minna Cantonment Golf Club in Niger State,  who is also a Plateau State Governor’s Cup champion, has his mind set for the December championship; he said that there has been tournament drought and would need to get back to action. ”For long now there has been no major tournament due to circumstances beyond the control of PGAN, although there are lineup of tournaments, but Plateau State Governor’s Cup is the one we are very sure will hold,” Odegha said. Similar view of “tournament drought and hunger for action” was posited by Igyem Samuel who was the only golfer that turned a professional from the 2017/2018 PGA of Nigeria Qualifying School of about 80 candidates. “Since the Jigawa State Governor’s Cup in June/July there has been no major tournament and I’m itching for action – I’m eyeing a good performance in the coming Governor’s Cup which I know will present a very strong field,” Samuel said. Samson Lawal, the Director of Professional Golfers’ Association of Nigeria has earlier revealed that the political situation in the country has been responsible for the lack of tournaments even as he remained certain all remaining tournaments will be played before the year runs out. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 