Barrister Roland Oweilaemi Pereotubo is the President of Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) Worldwide and the President General of All Ethnic Nationalities in the Niger Delta. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the recently concluded party primaries, the controversial Executive Order 6 and the likely direction of the South South in the 2019 general elections. Excerpt: How do you see the recent party primaries of the various political parties? Though IYC was not an observer to the parties’ primaries, from what I transpired, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) conducted the best primaries virtually in all elective positions. Its national convention alone has testified the credible processes the party conducted its elections. Nigerians are so happy with the manner the PDP conducted itself during the event. Perhaps, that must have been why Nigerians from across political, ethnic and religious divides are yearning for the party’s presidential candidate, His Excellency, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. What we been reading about some other parties, especially the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) fall short of expectations. The ruling party allowed impunity to reign supreme in its elections. It barely engenders internal democracy, thereby eroding the faith Nigerians have in the party in 2015. The APC ought to have learnt a lesson from the bitter experiences of its major rival, the PDP, in time past. Would you say the likely direction of the Niger Delta or South South in the 2019 general elections? Our position is loud and clear. We will support someone who will implement restructuring. Our support for any of the presidential candidates in the 2019 general elections is anchored on restructuring. We have been used and dumped in time past. It is not going to be business as usual. It is either restructuring or never. We are going to screen all the presidential candidates and we shall come up with a decision based on our findings. As far as restructuring is concerned, four out of the six geo-political zones are in agreement with the South South people. This, therefore, means that the agenda for restructuring is a must and we will stop at nothing to achieve it. Bearing in mind the performance of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, would you say the Niger Delta will support the APC administration in the coming elections? Niger Delta people are more concerned about restructuring. If our votes should go to President Buhari in 2019, then it must be anchored on what he has done to address the clamour for True Federalism and Resource Control. No government can adequately address the years of neglect and marginalisation of the Niger Delta people. Our only saviour is Resource Control. That is the suer path to peace and stability as well as even development in the region. Between Adams Oshiomhole and Uche Secondus, who will you say have performed better as a party chairman? Honestly, as a non-partisan person, I would not want to dabble into internal political affairs of the various political parties. However, the leaderships of the two leading parties have some leadership traits that may make or mar the chances of the two parties in the 2019 general elections. Without fear or favour, I can confidently say that Uche Secondus engender unity and political stability to his party. But, that is not the case with Adams Oshiomhole. I think the latter’s actions are becoming the greatest undoing of his party. As chairmen of the two parties, Secondus has earned the trust and reputation of Nigerians for providing qualitative leadership to his party. Oshiomhole’s iron cast style has rather polarised his party. I think that he needs to change his style of leadership. What is your view on the Executive Order 6 through which the FG banned 50 prominent Nigerians from travelling overseas? The Executive Order 6 itself is unconstitutional. Validating it to ban 50 Nigerians from travelling abroad because of the recent court judgment is the greatest abuse of office. That is an exercise of judicial function. Chapter 4 of the Nigerian Constitution is very clear. Right to property, freedom of movement and right to fair hearing are inalienable rights. No legislation can abrogate them, not to talk of one unconstitutional Executive Order. President Buhari should know that Nigeria is practising constitutional democracy. Executive Order cannot override an Act of National Assembly neither can it take the place of the place of the judiciary. There is a clear Separation of Powers in the constitution. But, the purported Executive Order 6 is performing both legislative and judicial functions. What is your take on the emergence of several young presidential candidates in the coming election? Would you say that any of them is capable of handling this nation? I am very sure that the youths have the same capacity as the elders to rule this country. What anybody clamouring to rule this country required is leadership experience. That does not necessarily mean by age. I have strong belief that the youths of today have the experience to rule the country. After all, in the 60s those on saddle of the nation’s leaderships at all levels were all youths. I wonder why youths of today cannot do the same. Thank God, even advanced countries have come to appreciate the youths’ leadership potentials. If a country like France has a young president, then Nigeria’s case cannot be an isolation. I believe strongly that the young presidential aspirants contesting for Presidency in 2019 have the leadership charisma to rule the country. Mind you, most of them have proven technical knowhow gleaned from previous offices they held. As far as I am concerned, Nigerian youths are qualified to rule the country. What agenda would you proffer for the next President of Nigeria? It is simple. The agenda is Resource Control and True Federalism. Our choice President in 2019 is the one who will implement the 2014 National Conference Report, or better still, restructure this country to accommodate all varying interests. We want a President that will unite the country through the implementation of Fiscal Federalism. How do you see Atiku Abubakar’s promise to start the process of restructuring within the first six months of his administration if he wins the 2019 election? We have not taken decision on any candidate yet. We are still watching the manifestoes and political brinkmanship of the various presidential candidates. On the other hand, we hope that Atiku should make good with his promise. Anyway, we are studying the various campaign promises this time around. I can only comfortably answer this question the moment we take decision on any of the presidential candidates.