The President of African Export-Import Bank (AFRIEXIM), Prof. Benedict Oramah yesterday said the bank has over $3.2b worth of investments in Nigeria. Oramah, who made the disclosure while fielding questions from Nigerian journalists after a meeting with the country’s delegation on the sidelines of the ongoing International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank Group (WBG) Annual Meetings in Bali, Indonesia, said that although Nigeria was a dominant shareholder in the bank, the country had fallen back in its shareholding position to third, after being overtaken by Egypt and Zimbabwe. “That is why we have had these discussions with the Minister of Finance to see how Nigeria can return to the level it occupied in the past. “We have got assurances that the Nigerian government will look at it and we hope that Nigeria’s shareholding will rise to the level that reflects the size of its economy,’’ he said. Besides, Oramah said that the Federal Government had indicated interest in participating in the first Intra-African Trade Fair, organised by the African Union (AU) and AFRIEXIM, which would be hosted by Egypt from December 11- 17, 2018. He said that the fair would provide an opportunity for African countries and businesses to showcase their programmes and opportunities for trade in the intra-African direction. He also said that AFRIEXIM was supporting Nigeria in terms of lines of credit to commercial banks to enable the country to carry out the importation and exportation of goods, while supporting Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). “We are also supporting many private businesses that are into manufacturing and all that. “Beyond that, we are pursuing other impactful initiatives and we are finalising arrangements to develop a centre of excellence for health care because we want to see how we can begin to promote medical tourism in Nigeria. “We want to develop a centre that will make it possible for Nigeria to have facilities to take care of complex diseases such as oncology, hematology, cardiovascular and complex diseases,’’ he said. Mrs Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance said that the meeting with the Oramah was to discuss the possibility of increasing Nigeria’s shares in the bank, adding that the nation’s equity holdings in the bank currently stood at 40 per cent. Ahmed said that the Federal Government was considering signing up for the AFRIEXIM trade policy, adding that it was consulting closely with the private sector to get its input before finalising it. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 