LAGOS – Mr. Emmanuel Dania, the Chairman of the Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), one of Nigeria’s new parties, has declared Fela Durotoye, the presidential candidate of the party, adding that the news report that there was a crisis in the party was false. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos on Monday, he said that the party followed its constitution in the conduct of the primary election and fulfilled all requirements and guidelines, adding that officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) observed the election. The chairman of ANN said the only issue the party has was that one of its presidential aspirants in the person of Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, requested for a shift in the date fixed for the party’s primary and was turned down. Olawepo-Hashim wrote the party to say that he had withdrawn from the race. He also copied INEC. He said the party was surprised to read that the aspirant who had earlier withdrawn was planning to hold another primary and asked Nigerians to discountenance the news. “I do not see any reason why anyone would want to conduct another primary; I am and I remain the chairman of ANN. My executives and BOT were all on board in the primary; Fela Durotoye is the chosen candidate of the party and there is no other,” he stated. Dania said that the party was built on transparency, integrity and excellence, adding that the party was poised to produce leaders that would give Nigeria and Nigerians the leadership they need to deliver them from poverty, disease and underdevelopment. He said the leaders of other political parties in the country were incapable of producing leaders that can take Nigeria to the level of development they desired. “We are united in the quest to deliver to Nigeria and Nigerians the type of leadership that will take them out of poverty, penury and disease,” he stated. Giving his take on vote-buying, the ANN chairman said if a politician paid people to vote for him, he would not be responsible to the people and they would not be in the position to question his performance in office. He, however, said that that ANN is doing things differently to make Nigerians active participants in the grand scheme of the nation’s politics. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 