The Nigeria police have asked Senators Dino Melaye and Ben Murray-Bruce to report to the Commissioner of Police, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Command today, October 8, 2018, and not to the IGP Monitoring Unit. The duo was summoned due to what the force called unruly and violent protest of some stalwarts of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) last week over Osun gubernatorial election. The police alleged that the two lawmakers were captured on camera indicating their involvement in the disturbances and unlawful blockade of some roads in Abuja, including alleged attack on policemen posted to maintain order at the force headquarters. According to a statement on Sunday by Jimoh Moshood, a Deputy Commissioner of Police and the Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja, the two lawmakers are to report at the FCT Command for further questioning on the matter. “Senator Dino Melaye and Senator Ben Murray-Bruce are to report to the Commissioner of Police, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Command, Garki, Abuja, by 1000hrs on Monday, October 8, 2018 for investigation and not at the IGP Monitoring Unit as earlier stated in the press release from the Force Headquarters on October 5, 2018.” According to the statement, “Preliminary investigation carried out so far by the police into the above mentioned incident reveals that Melaye and Murray-Bruce were captured on camera for their active involvement in the disturbance of public peace and public safety, unlawful blockade of Shehu Shagari Way for several hours preventing motorists, road users and other members of the public from having access and passage on the highway. “Melaye and Murray-Bruce, thereby, disturbed public peace and public safety and causing innocent people to scamper for safety and violent attack on policemen posted to ensure security of the Force Headquarters, pushing and hitting the policemen to forcefully enter the Force Headquarters to cause damage to police equipment and government properties, have case to answer. “However, further investigation is ongoing to determine the level of involvement and culpability of other individuals and personalities who were seen at the scene of the crime on the date of the incident. “Police invitation letters to Senator Dino Melaye and Senator Ben Murray-Bruce for them to report to the Commissioner of Police, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Command, Garki, Abuja, have been sent to them for compliance. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command has the statutory jurisdiction to investigate the matter,” the statement noted. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 