Lagos – Justice Mohammed Yunusa, former Federal High Court Judge, on Tuesday admitted before a Lagos Special Offences Court, Ikeja, that collecting bribe from lawyers with pending cases was wrong and unethical. The embattled judge is standing trial for allegedly receiving bribes from former Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Joseph Nwobike, who has been convicted and stripped of his SAN status for bribing judges and Rickey Tarfa, who is also undergoing trial over similar offence. In his statement to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), which was tendered before the court, Justice Yunusa admitted receiving N750, 000 for the purposes of paying for his sick mother’s kidney dialysis. The statement, which was read in court by an EFCC investigator, Moses Awolusi, reads in part: “I know it is unethical to accept money from counsel when he has a pending matter before the court. “I have been shown my UBA account where I received N750,000 from Joseph Nwobike. “I reached out to him as a personal friend. I shared my problems with him, in the light of my mother’s diabetic condition which required dialysis.” While being led in evidence by EFCC prosecutor, Wahab Shittu, the witness told the court that investigations further revealed that there was constant communication between the defendant and the two Senior Advocates. “Investigations on the defendant’s MTN line revealed that there was constant communication between the defendant and Rickey Tarfa, SAN. “We discovered that before certain matters being handled by the counsel were filed, there was constant communication between them as regards those matters. “They even kept communicating even while the matter was going on even to the point of judgment,” he said. “On the 19th of March 2015, Dr. Nwobike paid N750, 000 into Yunusa’s UBA account. “By October 10 that same year, judgment was delivered in favour of Dr. Nwobike in suit number FHC/L/ CS/1471/2015. “We also wrote to the National Judicial Commission (NJC) to furnish us with information in relation to allegations. “It was observed that the defendant violated the code of conduct by relating with counsel with pending matters before him; he was therefore recommended by the NJC for sanctions,” Awolusi said. During cross examination by Yunusa’s counsel, Robert Clarke (SAN), Awolusi said he did not know what the monies paid into Yunusa’s account was meant for. He added that the commission investigated Yunusa based on the multiple communications he had with the SANs who had cases before him. The presiding judge, Justice Sherifat Solebo, thereafter adjourned the matter till November 14 for continuation of trial. Yunusa is standing trial alongside Esther Agbo, a staff of the law chambers of Rickey Tarfa (SAN). Yunusa faces a four-count charge of attempted perversion of the course of justice and corruption by a public official, while Agbo is facing a charge of offering gratification to a public official. According to the EFCC, Yunusa had constant and confidential communications with Tarfa, who was handling three lawsuits marked FHC/L/CS/714/2015, FHC/L/CS/715/2015, and FHC/L/CS/716/2015 before him. It also alleged that Yunusa received N1.5 million bribe from Tarfa for the purpose of giving favourable ruling and judgment in the cases.