ENUGU – A political pressure group, the Alaigbo Development Foundation (ADF) on Tuesday, urged Igbo political class to support the choice of former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi as the running-mate of the People Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. The group appealed to the Igbo political class not to allow their interests and ambitions to override the fundamental interest of the Igbo. Prof. Uzodinma Nwala, ADF President, who addressed a press conference in Enugu, described Obi as one of the most authentic, trusted and capable Igbo leaders through whom the continued membership of Alaigbo in the affairs of Nigeria could be negotiated. Nwala recalled that the administration of Obi in Anambra State developed extensive industrial complex in Onitsha and Nnewi axis, including the Innoson Motor Manufacturing Complex, Nnewi. “We were also informed that when one of our business gurus had his goods seized at the International Airport in Lagos. Obi flew to Abuja and got with President Goodluck Jonathan’s intervention and had the goods released,” Nwala stressed. He said as Anambra governor, Obi cared for old veteran political leaders, such as the late Chike Obi, the great mathematician and Mbazuluike Amaechi. On why they were supporting Atiku – a Fulani and Muslim, Nwala noted that the former vice president “is a liberal Muslim Fulani whose main allies were southerners.” “His liberal outlook pitched him against the late Sani Abacha as well as the most conservative elements among the forces of hegemony,” he said. On whether the Atiku/Obi ticket could win in the “light of the fact that the result of the election has been programmed to return Buhari”, Nwala declared that Buhari could only win if security agencies and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) were used to rig the election. He, however, noted that there are well-meaning personnel of these security agencies whose conscience would resist this evil and who were already wondering what would happen at the end of the day, if the election outcome favours Atiku. He said all efforts must be geared towards ensuring “that the regime of python dance, jihad, ethnic and religious cleansing be overthrown while the struggle for freedom must be sustained very vigorously.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 