Lagos – Nigeria’s Oto Joseph, the reigning African Boxing Union (ABU) lightweight champion, has vowed to mess up the face of his Ghanaian challenger, Anama Dotse, when they clash in the international lightweight challenge bout at GOtv Boxing Night 16 on October 14, at the Indoor Sports Hall of the of the Teslim Balogun, Lagos. The bout is one of the two international contests scheduled for the event. Speaking in Lagos at the weekend, the hard-hitting ABU champion said he is in good shape for the fight and was ready to make his opponent suffer. “I am in the best shape possible. This is a bad omen for Dotse, who should know that Nigeria is superior to Ghana in every way. I will prove that superiority by messing up his face. His face remains smooth because he has been meeting soft opponents. That will end at GOtv Boxing Night 16,” bragged Joe Boy. GOtv Boxing Night 16 will feature nine bouts across different weight divisions, the highest number since the show began in November 2014. The headline fight is the West African Boxing Union (WABU) lightweight title clash between Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu of Nigeria and Ghana’s Benjamin Lamptey. Also scheduled is the national light heavyweight title bout between Kabiru “KB Godson” Towolawi and Adewale “Masevex” Masebinu. In the featherweight class, Waidi “Skoro” Usman will have a rematch with Chibuzor “T Boy” Obi. The event will equally feature alumni of the last two editions of GOtv Boxing NextGen Search. Leading the pack is Opeyemi “Sense” Elijah, best boxer at GOtv Boxing NextGen 4, who will take on Sheriff “Oshe” Ogunbanjo in a super bantamweight duel. Taiwo “Esepo” Agbaje will take on Tope “TP Rock” Musa in a lightweight clash; while Azeez “Who Say So” Tijani will square up with Waheed “Showmax” Shogbanmu. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 