Chief Emeka Kalu, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain and Director General of Atikulated Agenda 2019, was one of those who persuaded former Vice President Atiku Abubakar to run for the 2019 election. Kalu, a former governorship candidate of Abia State under the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on Atiku’s emergence as the PDP presidential candidate, among other issues. Excerpt: As one of those who were behind Atiku Abubakar’s declaration for the 2019 Presidency, how would you react to his recent emergence as the PDP candidate at the party’s primaries involving about 12 formidable aspirants? It is by God’s grace and hard work that played out there. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar at first did not want to get involved when I and few other people approached him to run for the Presidency. He simply said ‘I am not interested. I have tried it before and it never went well’. But, we kept on begging him to come and save Nigeria, being someone with the interest of this nation. After much pressure, he accepted to do it and told us to go and make sure that the political elite do not use this opportunity for their own private gains. Atiku, the Waziri Adamawa, focused on the Rescue Nigeria project and we as a support base mobilised across the nation to actualise the New Nigeria dream. Today, here we are one down, one more to go. This is because it is a national rescue project. Atiku went from city to city declaring his intentions before elders of our great party and Nigerians. No one else did anything close to what he did. So, he deserves the ticket because of hard work. I would also say that God’s grace found him worthy to lead us out of the current government that is killing us. How do you see the attitude of Atiku’s opponents since after his victory at the primary? I would describe them as perfect at sportsmanship. These are worthy gentlemen who are committed to the national rescue project. Nigeria needs such men who would stand by their worlds and even work for their opponent’s success because it simply means that they understand the sacrifice required of each Nigerian in this enormous task ahead. What is your take of his choice of a running mate from South East, and specifically Peter Obi former Anambra State governor? Wow! I have always believed that our incoming president, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, is a great strategist. But, he proved it to the whole world that day Mr. Peter Obi was announced. Obi is the most strategic individual for the position of the Vice President. He is young, experienced in governance and politics, and even was the best governor in his time. Till date, no other person has been able to meet his records. Peter Obi is an economist per excellence. He has no baggage to weigh him down as he left over N50 billion in the state’s accounts before he handed over. He is not just an economic manager, but also managed APGA all through to ensure that power was not snatched from the party. Pater Obi is also a dogged fighter who always wins. Remember, among all the APGA governorship candidates of the South East who went to court in 2003, only Peter Obi fought his way to Government House and continued fighting till he completed his eight years. The South East Governors’ Forum and the Ohanaeze Ndigbo reportedly complained that Atiku did not consult them before appointing Peter Obi as his running mate. How do you see their complaints? Point of correction; South East political leaders of the PDP, not Governors Forum, neither did Ohanaeze complain.  Having said that, I don’t think the complain was in order at all. This is because the presidential candidate can only choose who he feels he can work with comfortably. The position has not been zoned to the South East. Even it was, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar’s own experience under Obasanjo is enough to teach him that he must work very carefully to avoid a tepid relationship with his deputy. Therefore, the South East PDP didn’t act well in releasing that Press Statement. How do you see ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo’s endorsement of Atiku and the backing he received from the Northern ex-Generals at the primary? It is a step in the right direction and a very positive one. The impact of Atiku’s efforts began to tell on everyone once he won. It was a wildfire effect it had and Atikulated has become the password for Nigerians. In fact, let me even ask you: Are you OBILIGATED and ATIKULATED for a new Nigeria? I am sure you are. Nigeria was on the verge of chaos, but the victory of Atiku was a great ray of hope for everyone and Obasanjo saw this instantly and keyed into the mantra. Obasanjo, the northern governors and all of us have become Atikulated and Obiligated. Soon, even APC leaders will begin to get Atikulated. With the popularity of both Atiku Abubakar and President Muhammadu Buhari in the North and the zones where their running mates come from, to what extent would the outcome of 2019 presidential election be determined by the Niger Delta and the Middle Belt in terms of voting patterns? It is clear to you and all that President Muhammadu Buhari has not been the best of Presidents. Instead of garnering popularity across the country, he has become notorious and Nigerians are alarmed. Despite being the incumbent, Nigerians will vote him out. The Niger Delta will support Atiku knowing that a PDP government will favour them more. The Middle Belt on its part is the most hit in the herdsmen attacks. So, do you truly think they will vote for anyone other than Atiku? How do you see the travel ban placed on some people said to be corrupt by President Buhari through Executive Order 6? Where was the EO6 all these while? Why did it bare its fangs and teeth immediately Atiku won his primaries? The truth is that no one knew that Atiku would win the primaries and they felt it was going to be an easy victory against anyone who would emerge. But, once he won, they knew it was time for war. But, it won’t work. Buhari unfortunately thinks he is a military dictator. Nigerians will teach him that there is no space for dictators at Aso Rock. How do you see the crises arising from the primaries of some of the political parties, especially the APC? Simple, APC is on its way out. It is a party of confusion. Despite its struggle to keep being relevant, it keeps failing. Everyone in APC is desperate, unhappy and afraid. They are simply trying to tell the world that the party is an avenue to win elections because it is currently in control of the Federal Government, nothing else. But, all that will be history come May 29, 2019.. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 