Asaba – As members of Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) brainstorm on how to achieve credible general elections in 2019, President of the Guild, Mrs Funke Egbemode in a welcome speech stated that all Nigerians must be actively involved in making the right choice about those who will lead the country in 2019. Also the chairman of the occasion, Mr Tonie Iredia urged the media to make everyone accountable for what he does, stating, “as journalists, we should stand in the forefront and do what the journalists are supposed to do – setting the agenda, we should engage in developmental journalism.” Nigeria’s Vice-President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo  on his part, charged the Editors to act fast, make personal sacrifices to save the profession from bad eggs in the interest of practitioners. Osinbajo spoke at the 14th All Nigeria Editors’ Conference with theme:”Credible Elections, Sustainable Democracy and the Nigerian Media” drew media professionals from across the country, saying a threat that is existential needs a radical response. According to him, the duty of the leaders of the profession is to make the personal sacrifices that would save the profession. He said although the advances in technology poses a grave threat to many professions including law, journalism and accounting, stressing that journalism practitioners are more complicit, saying many professions have lost the trust of their respective public’s due to the actions of a few bad eggs. He said the Guild of Editors is a society of gatekeepers to whom belong the “enormous task of defining the ethics, morals, and ethos of your profession and the burden of setting the acceptable rules, the conventions and practices of the profession”. He said it is the duty of the leaders of the profession to ensure that rules are enforced and kept. Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa also advocated for change in the funding of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure that the commission is truly independent. Okowa  also warned All Progressives Congress, APC, led Federal Government to allow opposition to exist and play its role without hindrance, disclosing that where this is needlessly trampled upon or violated with impunity, the result is lack of legitimacy. He cautioned APC to resist the temptation to repress the opposition and militarize the electoral process as he believe it would have terrible repercussions on the democracy Nigerians fought and died for. While calling on the ruling party to emulate the solid foundation laid for sustainable democracy by the PDP in 2015 when it conducted an election, lost and handed to APC, a scenario previously thought impossible, but laid a solid foundation for sustainable democracy in Nigeria. The Governor pointed out that the process of choosing candidates to represent political parties in any election must be one that guarantees and upholds the fundamental right of the citizens. According to him, the illegitimacy affects government political office holders, political instability, conflict leading to violence and general apathy, all of which pose serious threats to sustainable democracy. According to the Governor, “INEC is supposed to be an unbiased body, so, how can they truly be unbiased? How will they get their source of funding? How will they work on their process of appointments? These and more questions are what we are supposed to address and they have to be dealt with in such a manner that we can give them enough power, make them truly independent in such a manner that they do not walk cap in hand to the executive to ask for funding, because when you know that somebody controls the funds, you will definitely not be in a position to be truly independent.” “It will be hard to say, no when such individuals in charge of the funds make certain request, and I believe that INEC is gradually moving, I still believe that there is a lot to be done which means that our legislations must be in such a manner that will truly make INEC independent and if they are going to be answerable to anybody at all, they should be answerable to the legislature and not any other arm of government which will be better,” Governor Okowa said. In its response, INEC disclosed that not all the political parties that registered with the commission will participate in the 2019 general elections. Chairman of the commission, Prof. Yakubu Mahmud raised the fear in a keynote  address disclosing that the voting population for 2019 is projected at over 80 million comprising of the existing 67 million voters as at 2015 and the fresh registrants. According to him, there are 91 registered political parties but that the commission will disclose the number of parties that will be participating in the 2019 general election at the end of submission of candidates by the various parties. Represented by the Resident Electoral Commissioner for Akwa Ibom State, Mike Igini, stated that the election will be conducted in 119,973 units across 8,809 Registration Areas (wards) of the 774 local government area of the country. “Elections will be held in 1,558 constituencies in 2019, made up of one presidential constituency, 109 senatorial districts, 360 federal constituencies, 991 state constituencies and 68 area councils in the FCT. On the preparation for the elections in 2019, Prof. Mahmud said the commission “has improved on the deployment of personnel for elections, addressed some of the intractable challenges to the functionality of new technological innovations for elections and able to collate, transmit and declare results of elections more accurately and speedily.” He raised an alarm that the do or die mentality of politicians to win elections at all costs is a serious threat to the 2019 general election. He said in 2019, INEC will consolidate on technological innovations in the electoral process, noting that the current electronic register of voters “is the most robust so far.”The electronic accreditation of voters using the machine-readable and chip-based Permanent Voters Card (PVC) complemented by the Smart Card Reader (SCR) introduced in 2015 has brought integrity to number of accredited voters and total number of votes cast in elections. Besides, the commission said the growing epidemic of vote buying, incendiary speeches by contestants and the atmosphere of mistrust resulting in security challenges were threatening the credibility of the forthcoming poll. Mahmud said the do or die mentality remains a major source of concern and worry ahead of the 2019 elections, adding that vote buying constitute violations of various of provisions of the laws. He said hate speeches had already charged the political atmosphere, noting that stakeholders must avoid actions that would bring about breakdown of law and order. “The general election is more complex. The commission has been engaging various security agencies under the auspices of ICCES for cooperation in securing the election environment and for absolute neutrality in the 2019 elections,” he stated. He therefore charged the media as the watchdog of the society, to protect public interest against abuse by those entrusted with power and resources of state, as well as hold election manager to account to ensure that electoral rules are obeyed. Mahmud tasked the media to educate voters on their democratic rights; report development on campaigns; provide platform for political parties and candidates; provide platform for the public to communicate their concerns; report election results; and scrutinize the electoral process. “It should be noted that the FCT is the only part of the country where INEC is constitutionally empowered to conduct local government elections. The end of the tenure of the council chairmen and councilors coincides with the 2019 general elections.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 