The former Managing Director of Virgin Nigeria decried that the infrastructure was yet to improve in the past 30 years despite the attendant increase in the number of air travellers and airlines within the period. Capt. Olumide specifically mentioned that aircraft are still being fuelled on the tarmac through petroleum tankers while other developed aviation countries have connected pipelines to link their tarmac. He said: “Flight delays in most cases are due to infrastructure. A lot has been said about our airport infrastructure, but we are yet to improve much in the past 30 years except installation of more air conditioners and tiles at the Lagos Airport.” Besides, Capt. Edward Boyo, the Chief Executive Officer of Overland Airways, explained that no airline set out to delay or cancel flights, but the operating environment made this unavoidable. According to him, inadequate fuel supply, especially outside Lagos, Very Important Persons (VIPs) in some airports and single runways in busy airports in the country, made flight delays and cancellations inevitable. He lamented that despite the obvious shortcomings, stakeholders and government agencies in the country are still “unnecessarily” hostile to the airlines, maintaining that rather than condemning the airlines, they need encouragements from the public. He said: “The agencies and stakeholders are so hostile to the airlines; we talk them down at every given opportunity. Nigerian airlines need the right atmosphere and environment to operate profitably. But, at every opportunity we have, rather than encourage the airlines, we talk them down without respect. “Airlines are not set out to delay passengers, but the environment is hostile to our operations. Nigerians want cheap flights and top service. We can’t have the best service until an hour flight is about $200. Age of aircraft does not matter inasmuch as the aircraft is airworthy.” Grp. Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd), the CEO of Centurion Security Services, observed that the high numbers of flight delays and cancellations in Nigeria have over the years, become too incessant in the operations of the Nigeria domestic carriers and has remained unresolved. Ojikutu explained that rather than find an efficient resolution to the real causes of the challenge, the operators and industry regulator have continued to pass bulk on the cause of flight delays and cancellations. He recalled that at a meeting with some stakeholders in the second quarter of 2018, NCAA had released a report on the domestic airline flight operations performance for the first quarters of 2018, saying that data on the numbers of flight delays and cancellations showed that there were 6,799 delays and 314 cancellations out of 10,366 domestic flights in the first quarter of 2018. He, however, said that several factors, which were not in the control of the airlines, were responsible for flight delays and cancellations. He added: “There are many factors that do and could contribute to flight delays and are generally beyond the controls of the airlines. Most of them are and can be attributed to other operators, service providers, including the airport authority infrastructure, especially the passenger facilitation services. “These include passenger access control; passenger and carry-on-baggage, check-point screening; hold baggage screening and sorting; the number of boarding gates and the boarding screening. All these are not within the control of the airlines as they often delay passenger facilitation and flight departure time, especially at the single terminal airport, with a single passenger screening, checkpoints and single boarding gate. “For instance, at Lagos Airports where there are two domestic terminals; MMA2 and GAT, there is only one screening point and boarding gate at GAT where Air Peace and Arik with more flights operate from, whereas, the MMA2 most times has about two passengers screening checkpoints and about six boarding gates. Ojikutu advised stakeholders and NCAA to assist operating airlines in the area of efficiency of the process of passenger checkpoint screening facilitation and the screening machines, stressing that there was sufficient skilled manpower at these screening points to increase efficiency. Emphasised that periodic maintenance of screening machines was essential, he recalled that about the same period a report on flight delays and cancellations was released, three out of four screening machines at the international wing of Lagos Airport had reportedly broke down. Ojikutu also adduced inadequate aircraft parking space and distance to the passenger terminal as another factor responsible for flight delays in the country, especially if the passenger transiting buses had to make several trips between the terminal and the aircraft to connect the passenger for boarding. He explained further that non-availability of aircraft by operators also lead to flight cancellation, especially in Nigeria where some of the operators still fly with just two or three aircrafts, adding that insufficient passenger or load factor for a scheduled flight routes could cause airlines to result to delaying flights and combine them for the same routes, or combine them with others on another route. He posited that the standard time for processing a passenger through the checkpoint screening in the industry is about 15 to 20 seconds if the machine were in good condition. Ojikutu added: “Inclement weather which is a natural factor, can be the cause of flight delays and sometimes, outright cancellation; there were many of these recorded in 2016 and 2017, especially during the harmattan season; can the airlines be blamed or warned for these? “Collision between aircraft and others, especially ground handling services equipment caused by inadequate parking areas can delay. There were quite a number of these in 2017 particularly at the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) of the Murtala Muhammed Airport as some Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) reports had shown collisions between vehicle and aircraft are sometimes result of being in a hurry to meet flight schedule. “Most of the airports’ aprons have no adequate capacities to accommodate the number of the operating aircraft. There is a serious need to design regulations for the number of aircraft that must be parked on standard marked apron if there is none for our airports. If there are, are airline and airport operators adhering to these regulations and the Standards? If they are not, are there no sufficient or efficient oversight of these regulations and standards?” He further stated that ground handlers like the Nigeria Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) Plc and the Skyway Aviation Handling Company Limited (SAHCOL) also add to flight delays in the sector. In addition, Mr. Bamidele Richard (not real names), a flight dispatcher with a major local airline, observed that instrument Landing Systems (ILSs) in smaller airports were not as precise as some of the major airports in the country. Richard noted that the aids were meant to guide pilots when visibility is low, but because the instruments were not as advanced as they should be, pilots could not rely on them in more severe weather, causing flight delays. “Since we don’t have the appropriate landing aid, the pilot has to rely on his eyes to see very far when landing. Considering that this is risky, airlines would rather not fly until the weather becomes bearable,” he said. Also, Mr. Ahmed Kuru, the Managing Director of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) stated that most airlines in Nigeria today accumulate a minimum of 20 hours delays at various airports without attendant sanction from the regulatory body. He stated that less than 10 per cent of the nation’s airlines takeoff as advertised in their tickets, stressing that this singular act could not make them in outside the country where on-time performance is key. He said: “No Nigerian airline is reliable when we talk of on-time performance. I know of a particular airline in the industry today that has accumulated 20 hours delays in its flight daily. Such an airline wants to operate to international routes. I don’t know how the airline is going to cope on the international route. “Nigerian airlines need to take punctuality more seriously. We can only be taken as serious operators if we take the passengers very seriously.” “Why on earth will an airline cancel a flight without informing the passengers? Most of us were already on the ground, hoping to board the plane to Enugu, but were shocked at the turn of event.” “Most of the airports’ aprons have no adequate capacities to accommodate the number of the operating aircraft. There is a serious need to design regulations for the number of aircraft that must be parked on standard marked apron if there is none for our airports.” “If your flight is delayed for over one hour, cancelled or you are denied boarding, you have a right to compensation. You have a duty to be courteous to staff and agents of airline operators.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 