Eden Global Business and Entrepreneurship College (EGBEC) in Conjunction with University of Ibadan Consultancy Services Unit (UICSU) will be graduating over 200 students on Saturday 6th October, 2018 at Osun Hall, Lagos Airport Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos. According to “Tunji Adepoju, President / Director General of the College, the event is to reposition Eden Global Business and Entrepreneurship College (EGBEC), an Intellectual Capital Development Institution (ICDI) with a vision of “raising and releasing excellent and strategic businessmen and entrepreneurs”, as a leading provider of world class strategic business and entrepreneurship training, education and professional certification solutions and showcase the strategic capabilities of the college as a global business and entrepreneurship supermarket of excellence. He said through his Media and Marketing Manager, Akindele Davies that Eden Global Business School in collaboration with partner institutions will be releasing over 200 graduates of various Certificate, Diploma, Advanced Diploma, Professional Postgraduate Certificate and Postgraduate Diploma programmes to boost the Intellectual Capital Base (ICB) of the Country, having equipped them, with required knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA) crucial for excellent business and entrepreneurship management during the period of their training. Expected at the epoch making event are Bishop Olusola Ore, Lagos State Chairman, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, (PFN), Dr. Rotimi Oladele, Executive Secretary, Institute of Entrepreneurs,IOE; Mrs. Adun Akinyemiju , President .ACSI (WA, Anglophone), Alhaji Wasiu Adumadehin, President, NAPPS and Mr. Opene Onyebuchukwu, Registrar / CEO , Chartered Institute of Public Management (CIPM). Others are Professor Olumide Longe, Dean, Caleb Business School, Professor M.N Oyewo, Mrs. Funke Egbemode, President, Nigerian Guild of Editors and Professor Gbenga Dare. New professional programmes would be launched during the graduation ceremony while over 50 new students would be matriculated into various professional education, training and certification programmes. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 