Ross Barkley struck a 96th-minute equaliser for Chelsea against Manchester United to spark a chaotic ending to this 2-2 draw at Stamford Bridge. United had looked set to claim their first Premier League win at Chelsea since 2012 after Anthony Martial struck twice in the second half following Antonio Rudiger’s 21st-minute opener. But Barkley’s leveller, after Rudiger’s shot following David Luiz’s header against the post was saved, was enough to extend Chelsea’s unbeaten start to the season under Maurizio Sarri. The celebrations of Barkley’s goal led to a tunnel confrontation involving Jose Mourinho, who reacted to Marco Ianni, one of Chelsea’s coaching staff, appearing to taunt the United bench by running into the technical area. The incident led to a delay in the game restarting, but the game was over seconds later, with United having gone so close to claiming a crucial win. United’s first-half performance was so poor that they could not have complained had they gone in two or three goals down. But Mourinho’s team were transformed after the interval, and they arguably deserved to come away with the three points. Barkley’s goal denied them the win, though, and led to the scenes at the end of the game that will almost certainly prompt an investigation by the Football Association. Quality is the most important ingredient for any team hoping to win a league title, but fighting spirit is not far behind, and Chelsea showed it in huge amounts to snatch a point from this game. The ability to score so late in games was a hallmark of Sir Alex Ferguson’s great Manchester United teams. It was something that Manchester City also displayed on numerous occasions on their way to winning last season’s Premier League, so Chelsea will not underestimate the value of Ross Barkley’s late, late strike. There was less than 40 seconds remaining of the six minutes of added time when Barkley scored. SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 