Lagos – The Chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the National Association of Small-scale Industrialists (NASSI), Mr Segun Kuti-George, has accused the Federal Ministry of Trade and Investment of stalling the development and growth of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the country. The World Bank had given Nigeria a grant of $160m to be pumped into about 4,000 small businesses to generate employment and reduce poverty. But, Kuti-George, accused the government of holding to the fund and giving a paltry sum to 18 businesses, adding the bulk of the sum was paid to consultants, who were training MSMEs. He called on the government to read the state of the economy and come up with pragmatic solutions, adding that the Nigerian situation required injection of fund into it. “Some of the news and information that we get in recent time is surprising. Not long ago, we leant that the World Bank granted Nigeria $160m to pump into about 4,000 MSMEs so that they will generate employment, but the Ministry of Trade and Investment held on to it and gave a paltry sum to 18 businesses. The bulk of it was paid to consultants, who were training MSMEs. “We have refused to spend our own money on our people and we still could not spend free fund given to us as grant on our people. This is criminal. Now when the time given for disbursement of the grant expired, they discovered that only little had been spent in spite of the fact that they spent it on consultants and end when the country asked for an extension of time to disburse remaining 50 per cent, the World Bank said no. “Why are wicked to ourselves. We are not spending our own fund and we are not taking risks with our own money. They gave us money to spend on our people and we are not taking risks with it. Can’t we for once believe in our own people who are running businesses with their blood and can’t we take risks on our own people? He queried. However, when DAILY INDEPENDENT contacted the ministry, an official, who pleaded anonymity, said that he was not aware of the grant SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 