Abuja – Yakubu Dogara, Speaker, House of Representatives, waived a House resolution on Wednesday by appointing Abdulmumin Jibrin (APC, Kano) as Chairman of the House Committee on Land Transport. Similarly, the speaker, after announcing some changes to the leadership of committees, adjourned plenary session for two weeks to enable members conduct oversight functions to assess the level of implementation of the 2018 budget. Jibrin, a former Chairman of the House Appropriation Committee, was relieved of his position after falling out with Speaker Yakubu Dogara following contentious budgetary process in 2016. He, thereafter, accused the speaker, his deputy, Lasun Yusuff, and some members of the body of principal officers of padding the budget to the tune of N284 billion, using fictitious constituency projects. He also accused the House leadership of diverting N20 billion from the House statutory allocation for zonal intervention projects of N100 billion against all reasonable interventions. Controversies generated by allegations led to a probe by the Ossai Nicholas Ossai-led Committee on Ethics and Privileges which found Jibrin guilty of ethical misconduct. The committee, therefore, recommended his suspension for 180 legislative days, after which he would tender a written apology to the House before he could be readmitted. The recommendations also urged the House to disqualify Jibrin from holding any chairmanship position of a committee of the House in the life of the 8th National Assembly. Jibrin, having felt cheated by the decision, went to court to challenge it and eventually got judgment in his favour. But despite serving beyond the 180 days suspension, it wasn’t until party elders and highly placed government functionaries, as well as some principal officers of the House, intervened that Speaker Dogara agreed to readmit him to the House on March 14, 2018. Jibrin, again stoke another fire when he, alongside his colleague from Jigawa State, Muhammad Gudaji Kazaure, raised the alarm that the House was planning to commence impeachment proceedings against President Muhammad Buhari. The allegation led to another House resolution which ordered the ethics committee to launch another probe into it. The said probe never took place. However, announcing his committee reshuffle on Wednesday, Dogara named his former archenemy as the new chairman of the committee on land transport which was hitherto chaired by Aminu Sani Isah from Sokoto. In other changes as announced by Dogara, senatorial hopeful and Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Business, Emmanuel Orker-Jev, has been moved to head the Committee on the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), while Edward Pwajok was named as new Chairman of the Rules and Business Committee. Erstwhile chairman of the Committee on Police Affairs, Haliru Jika, has been moved to head the Committee on Privatisation and Commercialisation, while Lawal Garba takes over at the Police Affairs. New Chairman of the Committee on FCT Judiciary is Hon. Dandutse Mutari, Human Rights Committee now has Hon. Sadiq Abubakar as Chairman, while Hon. Tajudeen Abbas is now to head the Committee on Solid Minerals. The Constituency Outreach Committee now has Hon. Yerima Ahmad, as head; Hon. Mahmood Mohammed is head of the Committee on Housing, and Hon. Aminu Sani is new Chairman of the Committee on National Population. Appointed as new deputy heads of committees were Hon. Ayo Joseph (Special Duties), Hon. Tope Olayenu (Army), and Hon. Ayo Omidiran (FCT Judiciary).