Facts have emerged that today’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers reverse fixture between Libya and Nigeria in Sfax, Tunisia will favour ‘visiting’ Super Eagles than the hosts, Libya, as checks have revealed that there are more Nigerians in the city than Libyans. Located 270 km southeast of Tunis, the city of Sfax, founded in AD 849 on the ruins of Taparura and Thaenae, had about 955,421 inhabitants as at 2014 estimates. Owing to its location on the Mediterranean Sea, Sfax receives half the rainfall of Tunis and less than the major cities of Libya, Tripoli and Benghazi. Further checks revealed that, being the two neighboring Maghreb nations with Arabic and Berber heritages, the relationship between Tunisia and Libya is sometimes rocky. Tunisia is known to have some issues with Libya including political differences. With Tunisia known to be more aligned to Algeria than Libya, the Mediterranean Knights are set to be away-from-home in this fixture of their AFCON qualifiers against their visitors from Nigeria. Super Eagles’ coach, Gernot Rohr, said he was aware of the Nigerian tilt in Sfax, and was already expecting it to work in favour of his team. The tactician noted that though the venue of the return leg was close to the border that separates Libya from Tunisia, tension between both countries would prevent their supporters from making the trip in droves. As Rohr believes there would be restrictions of any mass movement of Libyans across the border to watch the match, he reckons the squad will not have a much support as they would have loved to get. “Sfax is not far from the Libyan border. The fans can come but I don’t envisage a big crowd for Libya. “It may be perhaps a slight advantage for us and I hope it will enable my players to play with relaxed minds. “The Libyans are used to playing like that for some years now because of their political situation back home.” SHOCKING STORY!!! After 9 Years Of Suffering From Weak Erection & Premature Ejaculation, 43 Year Old Man Finally Discovers The Solution That Mysteriously Jerk His Dead Manhood Back To Life, Increased His "Rod" Size, And Now Last 32 Minutes In Bed. Click HERE! 